FIRST ANNUAL REPORT TO THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(An of September 20, 1946)
This first annual report of the Executive Directors comes at the threshold of the Bank's operations. During the few months which have passed since the Executive Directors held their first meeting in May, substantial progress has been made in establishing the Bank's structure, securing staff personnel, and developing working procedures and relationships. The policy and operational questions which lie ahead have been examined and preparations have been made to meet them when they arise. As the Board of Governors' meeting convenes, the Bank stands ready to play the important role in reconstruction and development which has been assigned to it by its 38 member Governments.
Establishment of the Bank
Under the By-Laws adopted at Savannah by the Board of Governors, the principal office of the Bank has been established in Washington. In accordance with a resolution adopted by the Board of Governors, the first meeting of the Executive Directors was held on May 7. The Executive Director representing the United States acted as Temporary Chairman and continued so to act until the election of the President.
The seven Executive Directors elected by the Board of Governors at the Savannah meeting took office on May 7, as did four of the appointed Executive directors. The fifth appointed Executive Director, representing the United Kingdom, served in a temporary capacity until the hrrival of the permanent Executive Director for the United Kihgdom on May 29. The only subsequent change in the memberslvip of the Executive Directors was caused by the resignation of Mr. Camille Gutt, of Belgium, to become Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund. Mr. Gutt was succeeded as Executive Director by Mr. Hubert Ansiaux, who was elected on June 14 by votes of the Governors representing Belgium, Iceland, Luxembourg and Norway. Ten permanent Alternate Directors have been appointed and two vacancies exist.
A list of the Governors and their Alternates appears as Appendix "A", and a list of the Executive Directors and their Alternates appears as Appendix "B".
Election of the President
On the agenda of the first meeting of the Executive Directors was the election of a President of the Bank, but consideration of this item was postponed until June 4, when Mr. Eugene Meyer was nominated and unanimously ejected. Mr. Meyer took office on June 18.
Formal Commencement of Operation^ and Calls of Capital
The Executive Directors fixed June 25, 1946 as the date upon which the Bank would formally begin operations. The member Governments were advised that such date had been fixed and that, under the Articles of Agreement, the balance of the first 2% of their capital subscriptions, payable in gold or United States dollars, would be due within sixty days. The members also were advised of an additional call of 3% of their capital subscriptions, payable on or before November 25, 1946, in their local currencies. They were notified at the same time that the Bank would make another call, as of September 25, for a further 5% of their subscriptions, payable in their respective currencies, by November 25. This further call has now been authorized. At the time this September 25 call is made, notice will be given of the Bank's intention to make two more calls, each for an additional 5% of the subscriptions payable in the local currencies of the members by February 25, 1947, and May 26, 1947, respectively.
In response to the call for the balance of the first 2% of the capital subscriptions of members, the Bank received $143,786,883.70" of a total of $153,400,000. The unpaid amount is accounted for as follows:
(1) Payment of %% of the subscriptions of China, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Greece, Norway, Poland and Yugoslavia was
'This figure includes the payment of fiie 1/100 of 1% of the subscription of each member made at the time of its acceptance of the Articles of Agreement, but it does not include that portion ($1,989,616.30) of the payment of $1,990,000 due from the Union of South Africa, represented by gold which was reported to have been shipped on August 24, 1946 and to he in transit to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at the time of tire preparation of this report.
postponed for a period of five years under Article II, Section 8 (a) (i) of the Articles of Agreement, which provides for such postponement in the case of a member whose metropolitan territory suffered from enemy occupation or hostilities during the war.  These postponements amount to $5,165,000.
(2) Czechoslovakia and Yugoslovia have requested a postponement with respect to the remaining 1%% of their subscriptions, amounting to $1,862,500 and $596,000 respectively, under Article II, Section 8 (a) (ii) of the Articles of Agreement, which provides that an original member which cannot make payment of the 2% of its subscription, payable in gold or United States dollars, because it has not recovered possession of its gold reserves which are still seized or immobilized as a result of the war, may postpone all payment of such 2% until such date as the Bank may decide. These two requests are under consideration by the Executive Directors.
In addition to the amount received by the Bank from payments of 2% of the members' subscriptions, the United States has paid the call for 3% of its subscription, amounting to $95,250,000, and payments have been made by Chile and Costa Rica of the calls for 3% and 5% of their subscriptions, amounting to $2,800,000 and $160,000, respectively. These payments, made in the local currencies of the members, aggregate $98,210,000 in value, making the total amount received by the Bank to date equivalent to $241,996,883.70 at the time of payment.
Of the total, $14,072,258.62 was received in gold, of which $9,395,758.64 is held by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and $4,676,499.98 is held by the Bank of England. A list of the depositories of the Bank, designated by the members, appears in Appendix "C".
Investment of Funds Received by the Bank in Payment of the First 2% of the Subscriptions
The question of the investment of the Bank's funds has been under consideration by the Executive Directors for some time. They have recently authorized the President or the Vice President to invest, at current market prices, in bills, notes and certificates of the United States Treasury, maturing not more than twelve months after the date of purchase, the United States dollars received by the Bank in payment of the first 2% of the Bank's subscribed capital.
The Scope of the Banfc's Lending Operations
The purposes of the Bank are clearly set out in Article I of the Articles of Agreement as follows:
"(i) To assist in the reconstruction and development of i territories of members by facilitating the investment of capi- ! tal for productive purposes, including the restoration of econ- j omies destroyed or disrupted by war, the reconversion of I productive facilities to peacetime needs and the encourage- 1 ment of the development of productive facilities and resources in less developed countries.
"(ii) To promote private foreign investment by means j of guarantees or participations in loans and other investments j made by private investors; and when private capital is not I available on reasonable terms, to supplement private investment by providing, on suitable conditions, finance for productive purposes out of its owri capital, funds raised by it and its other resources.
"(hi) To promote the long-range balanced growth of international trade and the maintenance of equilibrium in balances of payments by encouraging international investment for the development of the productive resources of members, thereby assisting in raising productivity, the standard of living and conditions of labor in their territories.
"(iv) To arrange the loans made or guaranteed by it in relation to international loans through other channels so that the more useful and urgent projects, large and small alike, will be dealt with first.
"(v) To conduct its operations with due regard to the effect of international investment on business conditions in the territories of members and, in the immediate post-war years, to assist in bringing about a smooth transition from a wartime to a peacetime economy."
It might have been expected that with the formal commencement of operations on the 25th of June, applications for ! loans would have been presented to the Bank in large numbers. j Nevertheless, tire Bank has so far received only two letters from [ its members requesting loans. It is expected that these letters j will soon be followed by properly documented loan applica- ( tions, and in the meantime preliminary discussions are taking ' place.
The absence of loan applications may be surprising at first sight. But a little reflection will indicate some of the reasons why applications have not been received in larger numbers.
When the tide of war ebbs, the physical devastation and other physical changes caused by the war are there for all to see. What is not so obvious are changes in economic and social structure as well as the destruction of administrative systems and of the necessary mechanisms of commerce and industry. On the one hand, this makes it more difficult to devise plans for a long-run reconstruction of the countries concerned; on the other hand, it leads inevitably to whole peoples having to preoccupy themselves with the mechanics of avoiding starvation. It is not surprising, then, that there has been in so many countries a period during which relief on a large scale has been necessary before there could be any thought of preparing major programs of reconstruction. In this sphere UNBRA provided magnificent assistance and prevented serious disasters. But the period of relief must come to an end, and it is vital that well articulated and productive programs of reconstruction and development should be ready against that time. Such programs are the raw material of the Bank's business. The Bank is equipped now to consider applications for loans to cover such programs and to investigate them with reasonable dispatch. Indeed, the Bank is prepared to consider furnishing technical assistance in the preparation of loan applications. The Articles of Agreement of the Bank prescribe the standards which it must apply in the consideration of such applications. It is obvious, therefore, that in order to avoid unnecessary delay in tire consideration of applications for loans, they must be supported by adequate data which will enable the Bank to determine whether or not they conform to the prescribed standards.
Organisation of the Executive Directors
By action of the Executive Directors, the respective functions and duties of the Executive Directors and the officers of the Bank have been determined and the pattern of the Bank's operations has been outlined.
Matters of policy determination are the responsibility of the Executive Directors, while operational, administrative, and organizational questions are the responsibility of the President, subject to the general direction and control of the Executive Directors. The President is the presiding officer of the Executive Directors and is entitled to a deciding vote in the case of an equal division.
The Executive Directors are constantly available for consultation with the administration of the Bank. Formal meetings of the Executive Directors are held frequently, and they also meet with the senior members of the staff for informal discussions concerning the Bank's operations.
The Executive Directors established a number of committees even before the selection of the President, and valuable discussions on various aspects of the Bank's structure and work took place in the early months of the Bank's existence. In the sphere of policy the deliberations of the Executive Directors have been carried to the point where provisional conclusions now need to be checked and developed by reference to specific and detailed loan applications.
The committees of the Bank have been consolidated into standing committees on membership, financial policy, interpretation, information and liaison. These committees are composed solely of Executive Directors, but the President has designated members of the staff to meet with each of them. The membership of the existing standing committees appears in Appendix "D". The Bank and the Fund have also agreed that there shall be a joint standing committee to consider matters of common concern to the two institutions. Ad hoc committees have been and will be established from time to time to consider and make recommendations to the Executive Directors on specific matters referred to them.
Rules of procedure defining and regulating meetings of the Executive Directors, the agenda for meetings, voting, committees, minutes, notices, publicity and amendments, have been adopted by the Executive Directors. The text of these rules of procedure is being submitted separately to the Board of Governors for review pursuant to Section 16 of the By-Laws of the Bank.
Proposed Amendments to the By-Laws of the Bank
Certain amendments to the By-Laws' of the Bank will be proposed to the Board of Governors for their approval. These are being submitted separately for consideration.
Organization of Bank's Staff
Although the organizational pattern of the staff must necessarily remain to a large extent flexible in the present formative stage of the Bank's development, the following offices and departments have been established on a tentative basis to carry on the work of the Bank:
Office of the President Office of the Secretary Office of the Treasurer Legal Department Loan Department Research Department Personnel Office Office Services
(1) Office of the President-In addition to the President, this Office consists of the Vice President and two Assistants to the President. The Vice President is Mr. Harold D. Smith, formerly Director of the Bureau of the Budget of the United States Government.
(2) Office of the Secretary.—Mr. Morton M. Mendels, of Canada, has been appointed Secretary of the Bank. In addition to his duties as such staff member, he acts as Secretary of the Executive Directors and of the Board of Governors. He is also responsible for providing secretariat service for the committees of the Executive Directors.
Prior to the appointment of Mr. Mendels, Mr. John S. Hooker, of Chevy Chase, Maryland, acted for several months as Temporary Secretary.
(3) Office of the Treasurer—Mr. D. Crena de Iongh, of the Nedierlands, now an Alternate Executive Director, has been appointed Treasurer.
The Bank was fortunate in receiving the temporary assistance during July and August of representatives of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States, who developed, in conjunction with members of the Bank's staff, a chart of accounts for the Bank.
(4) Legal Department.—This Department is headed by the General Counsel, Mr. Chester A. McLain, of New York, who is responsible for the legal staff of the Bank,
(5) Loan Department.-Pending the appointment of a permanent Loan Director, Mr. J. W. Beyen, of the Netherlands, has been acting as Temporary Loan Director in addition to his duties as Executive Director.
For the time being, it is contemplated that the engineering and technical staff of the Loan Department will he kept to a minimum and that, to the maximum extent practicable, the technical services required by the Bank will be secured on a consulting basis. To this end, discussions have been held with various technical groups for the purpose of enabling the Bank to be in a position to call upon technical experts in the United States and elsewhere to advise on loan applications which may be presented.
(6) Research Department.-The Research Department is responsible for economic, statistical and other research required in connection with the operations of the Bank. Mr. Leonard B. Rist, of France, formerly an Alternate Executive Director, has been appointed Research Director.
Discussions have been conducted with the research departments of the International Monetary Fund and of the United Nations with the view of arranging for cooperation in the exchange of statistical and other information and research services. As a result it is hoped to keep the research staff of the Bank confined to a small group of highly qualified economists and statisticians.
(7) Personnel Office—The Personnel Office is responsible for personnel matters in connection with the Bank's staff. Mr. William Howell, of Washington, D. C, formerly PersonnehDirec-tor of UNRRA, is serving as Acting Director of Personnel.
(8) Office Seroices.-Office Services is responsible for all supply, space, housekeeping, transportation and similar administrative services.
The Bank has been fortunate in receiving, during the past few months, the assistance of representatives of the Bureau of the Budget of the United States Government in connection with the development of its administrative procedures.
Recruitment Policies
Pending the receipt of loan applications, the Bank has not attempted to build up its organization beyond its needs, but the
Bank is in a position to assemble additional personnel as soon as it is required.
In recruiting the Bank's staff, two principles have been consistently followed: first, that appointees shall have a high order of competence; and second, that the staff be recruited with due regard to geographical representation.
The success of the Bank's operations depends to a large extent on tire character of its personnel, and it is believed that the policy of careful selection will, in the long run, pay large dividends in the form of efficient and sound operation. Where necessary, positions have been filled on a temporary basis pending permanent appointments. By care in the selection of competent personnel and by the use of expert consultants in connection with special problems as they arise, the regular staff will be smaller than otherwise would be necessary, with resulting benefits in both efficiency and economy.
Procedure on Loan Application*
The Executive Directors and the staff have been engaged in continuous study of the loan policies to be pursued by the Bank. These studies have necessarily been preliminary in nature, since development of definitive policies in substantial detail can only be intelligently undertaken in the fight of loan applications which shall be received.
The Executive Directors have agreed as to the method of handling loan applications. The procedure will consist of three stages.
After preliminary conversations with the applicant, the President will bring the application before the Executive Directors, so that they may decide whether the Bank should proceed with the negotiations. If the Executive Directors determine diat the Bank should continue the negotiations, they will authorize the President so to proceed and a Loan Committee will be appointed ad hoc for the study of the particular application in accordance with the Articles of Agreement.
Each Loan Committee will include an expert selected by the member in whose territory the project to be financed is located and one or more members of the technical staff of the Bank.
The Loan Committee will study the proposal and submit a written report to the President with its recommendations con-
cerning the merits of the proposal. The Loan Committee will not participate in the actual negotiations, but it will maintain close touch with the negotiators in order that they may coordinate the negotiations with the findings of the Loan Committee.
Throughout the procedure the Executive Directors will be kept continuously informed about the progress of the negotiations.
The ultimate proposal of the President, together with the accompanying report of the Loan Committee, will be brought before the Executive Directors for their final decision.
Marketing Policies
Preliminary investigation has indicated that most of the funds required by the Bank in addition to its capital must, for the present, be obtained in the United States. Informal discussions have accordingly been held with representatives of leading investment bankers, commercial banks, savings banks and insurance companies in order to familiarize them with the nature of the Bank's operations and to obtain their views.
In most important states, legislative action will be required before the Bank's securities can legally be purchased by insurance companies or savings banks, or by trustees who are limited to investments which are legal for savings banks. Measures have been taken by the United States authorities and by representatives of institutional investors looking toward the introduction of the requisite legislation to permit such purchases, but most of the Slate legislatures are now in recess and will not meet again until after January 1, 1947. An encouraging first step was taken by the New York State Legislature at its last session, when it authorized savings banks in the State of New York to purchase securities issued or guaranteed by the Bank.
Preliminary study of the marketing possibilities in Canada has also been undertaken, and studies will be made, as circumstances develop, of tire possibilities of selling in markets, other than the United States and Canada, securities issued or guaranteed by the Bank.
Cooperation with other International Organizations
The Executive Directors recognize that the Bank must maintain close relations with the International Monetary Fund,
and that cooperation widi the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, as well as with other specialized agencies of the United Nations, is necessary in the fight of die problems of mutual concern which arise.
A joint standing committee of the Executive Directors of tire Bank with the Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund is being created to consider matters of common interest. This will serve as a bridge between die two institutions in those respects in which they should complement each other. The Secretaries of die Bank and the Fund have also been charged with the responsibility of informing each other of new subjects of mutual interest to be considered by the Executive Directors of each institution, and they have been authorized to exchange documents pertinent to matters of joint concern. The Chairman of the Executive Directors of each of the two institutions will invite a representative of the other to attend meetings at which matters of common interest are to be discussed, and the two Chairmen will maintain close touch with each other and will propose to the respective Executive Directors additional measures necessary to insure close cooperation.
The Bank has had representatives in attendance at meetings of the Food and Agriculture Organization in Washington during the spring and in Copenhagen during the summer, and a representative from the Bank attended meetings in London of the Sub-Commission of the Economic and Social Council on Economic Reconstruction of Devastated Areas. Observers from the Bank were also in attendance at meetings of the Economic and Social Council during June and September.
Pursuant to the instructions bf the Board of Governors at their Savannah meeting, a number of discussions have been held with representatives of the United Nations concerning arrangements for cooperation, particularly with the Economic and Social Council. The Executive Directors have felt diat, pending further development of the Bank's activities, it would be premature to attempt to define the exact scope and nature of such cooperation in a written agreement. They believe that the development of practical working relationships will be facilitated rather than delayed by the absence of a formal agreement.
Membership
Recommendations with respect to the admission of countries which have applied for membership in the Bank are being submitted separately to the Board of Governors in accordance with Section 20 of the By-Laws of the Bank.
Interpretations
By Resolution No. 6, adopted on March 18, 1946, the Board I of Governors referred to the Executive Directors the request of the Governor for the United States, pursuant to Section 12 of I the Bretton Woods Agreement Act, for an interpretation of the Articles of Agreement with regard to the authority of the Bank to make or guarantee loans for programs of economic reconstruction and the reconstruction of monetary systems, including long-term stabilization loans. As has been set out in a separate report to the Board of Governors, to which reference should be made, the Executive Directors have agreed that such loans are within the authority of the Bank. This separate report appears as Appendix "E".
The Executive Directors have also rendered two other decisions with regard to the interpretation of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, as follows:
(1) In accordance with Resolution No. 7, adopted by the Board of Governors on March 18, 1946, the Executive Directors, at their meeting on May 9, 1946, decided that, under Article V, Sections 4 (b) (i) and 4 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, any member of the Bank, having one of the five largest subscriptions to the capital of the Bank at the date of a regular election of Executive Directors or at any date between regular elections of Executive Directors, shall be entitled to appoint an Executive Director who shall hold office until the next regular election of Executive Directors, without prejudice to the right of
a subsequently admitted member of the Bank to appoint an Ex- « ecutive Director if it has one of the five largest subscriptions to the capital of the Bank.
(2) At their meeting on June 20,1946, the Executive Directors decided that, under Article IV, Section 2 (a) of the Articles of Agreement, the United States does not have power to control the use of United States dollars paid to the Bank in lieu of gold pursuant to Article II, Section 7 (i) of the Articles of Agreement.
Advisory Council
Recommendations in respect of the Advisory Council are being submitted separately to the Board of Governors in accordance with Resolution No. 5 of the Board of Governors.
Financial Statement
The accounts of the Bank have been audited as of June 30, 1946, by Price, Waterhouse & Co. in accordance with Resolution No. 19 adopted by the Board of Directors on September 10, 1946. The Auditors' Report appears as Appendix "F". Financial statements, as of August 31, 1946, prepared by Office of the Treasurer of the Bank, appear as Appendix "G".
Summary information relating to the Bank's financial condition as of August 31, 1946, is given below.
Total assets were $385,157,513.64. Gold amounted to $14,072,258.62, of which $9,395,758.64 was held by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and $4,676,499.98 by the Bank of England. Deposits with banks totalled $227,729,955.32, of which $224,730,887.11 was on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and $39,068.21 with the American Security and Trust Co., Washington, D. C. The account at the American Security and Trust Company is used for the payment of the Bank's operating expenses. $2,960,000, the U. S. dollar equivalent at exchange rates in effect at the date of deposit, was in the Central Banks of Chile and Costa Rica. These deposits in Chile and Costa Rica represent payments of the 3% stock subscription call made as of June 25, 1946 and due on or before November 25, 1946, and the 5% call made as of September 25, 1946, also due on or before November 25, 1946.
Calls on subscriptions to Capital stock outstanding as of August 31, 1946 amounted to $143,353,116.30, including outstanding balances of $9,613,116.30 on the 2% call payable on or before August 24, 1946, and of $133,740,000 on the 3% call payable on or before November 25, 1946. The subscription calls and payments thereon are discussed in detail in the section of this Report entitled "Formal Commencement of Operations and Calls of Capital".
Miscellaneous assets of $2,183.40 include travel and other advances and service deposits.
Total liabilities of $1,939,676.77 include accounts payable of $73,948.35, a reserve of $15,728.42 for estimated liability for income taxes on salaries paid through August 31, 1946, and deferred credits of $1,850,000, the last item representing the advance payments by Chile and Costa Rica of the 5% stock subscription call which was not actually made until after August 31, 1946.
Capital stock of $383,500,000 represents the 2% call of $153,400,000 and the 3% call of $230,100,000.
The deficit of $282,163.13 is the total of the operating expenses of the Bank to August 31,1946.
The accounting system that has been established will reflect at all times the various member currencies held by the Bank, as well as the sources of the funds.
Statement on Administrative Budget
Paragraph 4 of Resolution No. 2, adopted by the Board of Governors on March 16, 1946, authorized the Temporary Secretary of the Bank, until permanent procedures should be established, to expend up to $200,000 to meet salaries and other administrative expenses of the Bank, including transportation expenses of Governors and their Alternates. The Temporary Secretary made disbursements under such authority until July 15, 1946. Thereafter, disbursements were made by the President or Vice President of the Bank. Total disbursements through July 15, 1946 amounted to $75,703.40.
The expenses of the Bank to August 31, 1946 totaled $282,163.13, including accrued expenses and provision for estimated liability for income taxes on salaries and expenses of Executive Directors, their Alternates and the staff. Of the total, $33,086.50 represented expenses of the Governors and their Alternates in attending the meeting at Savannah, Georgia, and $8,407.73 represented expenses of the Executive Directors and their Alternates in moving to Washington.
At the date of this Report, in addition to the Executive Directors and Alternates, the staff and secretarial force of the Bank totaled 72. Operating expenses, on the basis of the present staff and office space, are accruing at a rate of approximately $100,000 a month, or at an annual rate of $1,200,000.  However, the Bank
is still in the process of developing its organization and this rate of expenditure will necessarily increase.
Small staffs have been recruited for the offices of the Executive Directors and their Alternates, the offices of die President, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the General Counsel, the Personnel Office and Office Services. The Director of the Loan Department is serving in that capacity on a temporary basis, and the Director of the "Research Department only recently assumed the duties of his office. The staffs for these departments will be developed in the light of their requirements. All the operational units will have to be expanded substantially when the Bank begins to make loans and undertake financing.
Consideration is being given to the development of a retirement system and the provision of various provident funds for employees, consistent with actions being taken by other international organizations. These, if adopted and put into effect, will add a further undetermined amount to the cost of operations.
It would not be difficult to develop an administrative budget, based on numerous arbitrary assumptions, which would present a forecast purporting to reflect the anticipated expense of operations of the Bank for a given period. However, the many assumptions which would have to be made would result in figures that could not be accepted as having any foundation in fact. There is no indication as to the number or complexity of the loan applications which will have to be considered, or as to the rapidity with which they will develop. There is no experience on which to estimate the extent of the staff work which will be required, either in Washington or in die field, before loans can be approved. Work-load information is completely lacking, both as to lending and financing activities, and there is no similar public or private financing institution with which comparison can be made. Any assumptions which might be made, at this stage, therefore, would be extremely speculative.
The minimum function of budgetary planning should be to furnish to management an intelligent control over operations. To be useful a budget must be based on anticipations that can be reasonably justified. A budget prepared on any other basis would be useless.
Under existing circumstances, it would not be possible to prepare an estimate of operating costs that would be useful.
i
However, within a few months sufficient operating experience will have accumulated to justify the development of an adequate budgetary control well in advance of the next fiscal year.
Conclusion
During the three months since its formal commencement of operation, the Bank has attempted to prepare the ground for those tasks of reconstruction and development which will be its responsibility in the years ahead. If we build skillfully and well an international organization to perform those tasks, the Bank will be able to contribute, as the Member Governments of the Bank intended it should, to the structure of a secure peace.