-B y june 30, 1960, the total of the Bank's loans for reconstruction and development had risen above $5,000 million. New loans during the fiscal year amounted to $659 million, slightly below the total of the previous year. Later sections of this report note high levels of activity in other aspects of the Bank's operations; of particular significance was the record volume of sales to private investors of parts of the Bank's loans. These sales greatly reduced the need for the Bank to borrow new funds from the market, and as a result the funded debt of the Bank rose by only $168 million, the smallest increase for several years.
For international economic relationships 1960 clearly marks the beginning of a period of change, in which new needs are emerging and new institutions and new techniques to meet them are in process of taking definite shape. In large part this is due to heightened international awareness of the magnitude of the financial requirements of the less developed countries, whose efforts to achieve a high rate of economic growth continue to impose strains on their resources available for development.
It is true that the external accounts of these countries benefited during the past year from a substantial increase in the volume of their exports, but their terms of trade did not show a similar recovery. Also, in a number of countries better economic management brought benefits both to investment programming and to the balance of payments. But the structural problems remain serious. Burdensome surpluses continue to depress the market for several commodities on which many less developed countries rely for their earnings of foreign exchange. Some countries face heavy debt schedules on earlier borrowing. And the demand for external long term capital remains at least as strong as ever.
As a result of these and other factors, there has been a further increase in the external public debt of the
low-income countries. Between 1955 and 1958 the aggregate foreign debt of these countries increased by more than 60% and the indications are that a further sharp rise took place in 1959 in the debt of several of the Bank's member countries in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America. (A study of this subject, entitled Debt Servicing Problems of Low-Income Countries, 1956-1958, by Dragoslav Avramovic and Ravi Gulhati, was published for the Bank in July, 1960, by the Johns Hopkins Press.) Although most of these countries still possess a margin for further borrowing on conventional terms, there is a growing realization in the industrial countries of the need to export development capital on terms which will not bear as heavily on the balance of payments of the poorer countries. Fortunately, there are signs that some of the industrial countries will be able to export capital on an increasing scale. The Western European countries as a whole generated a sizeable trade surplus during 1959, enabling them to reduce their outstanding debt to the United States and to the International Monetary Fund at an accelerated rate; some of these countries, as is discussed below, also began to explore new ways of increasing their contribution to the flow of capital to low-income areas, and thereby supporting Western Europe's traditional role as an important supplier of development capital. Also, notwithstanding pressures on its balance of payments and a further out-flow of gold from its reserves, the United States continued to be the largest single source both of capital and technical assistance for the less developed countries, disbursing approximately the same amount of financial assistance during 1959 as in the preceding year.
The past year has seen several new initiatives on the part of the industrial countries, not only to increase the flow of development funds but also to seek better coordination of their assistance to the less
developed areas of the world. Some of these initiatives have been along traditional lines, increasing the resources available to existing national and international financing organizations; others have been novel, involving new international groupings. What effect these developments will have on the Bank's own operations cannot at present be foreseen, but the Bank stands ready to do everything in its power to assist the common objective of all those endeavors — an increased supply of investment capital for worthwhile programs of economic improvement in the less developed countries.
The bank was directly affected by two of these developments. The first was the increase in its own capital, which was approved in September, 1959, and became effective during the fiscal year. As a result, at the end of June, 1960, the subscribed capital of the Bank was $19,308 million, more than double the figure of a year earlier. About 90%, or $17,300 million, of this subscribed capital remains on call and reinforces the Bank's capacity to borrow in the money markets of the world.
The second development was the proposal for the establishment of a new International Development Association (ida) as an affiliate of the Bank, ida was proposed as an instrument to promote economic development by providing finance on terms more flexible and bearing less heavily on the balance of payments of the recipient countries than those of conventional loans, thereby furthering the development objectives and supplementing the activities of the Bank.
In response to a resolution put forward by the United States and adopted by the Bank's Board of Governors at the Annual Meeting in Washington in October, 1959, the Executive Directors drafted Articles of Agreement for ida, and these were transmitted to the Bank's member governments in February, 1960. Many governments thereafter began the legislative action necessary to enable them to accept membership in ida, and at the end of the fiscal year this process was sufficiently advanced to make it appear likely that ida might come into being in the fall of 1960.
If all members of the Bank join ida, its initial
resources will be the equivalent of $1,000 million, of which the equivalent of $787 million will be available on a fully convertible basis, ida will provide development finance to the less developed areas of the world included within its membership. A considerable degree of flexibility is given to ida by its Articles of Agreement, both in the purposes for which it may provide finance and in the terms on which it may make loans, ida will be administered by the Bank and will have the same management; although it will finance a wider range of projects than the Bank, it is to be expected that ida's methods of project appraisal will be similar to those of the Bank.
A unique feature of ida is the division of member countries into two groups for purposes of subscription of funds. Subscriptions will be payable over a five-year period, and the countries in both groups will pay 10% of their initial subscriptions in gold or freely convertible currencies. One group, however, the 17 more industrialized member countries of the Bank, will pay the remaining 90% in five equal installments in gold or freely convertible currencies; the other group, the 51 less developed countries, will pay their 90% in their national currencies, which ida will not be free to convert into other currencies or to use to finance exports from the country concerned without its consent.
ida is to keep the adequacy of its resources under regular review. It is contemplated that the first review will take place before the end of the first five-year period, and subsequent examinations at intervals of approximately five years thereafter. General or individual increases in subscriptions, however, may be authorized at any time.
Other international initiatives sprang from the increasing interest of the industrial countries, particularly those of Western Europe, in providing development finance and a consequent recognition of the need to coordinate their efforts. Opportunity was taken to discuss these problems at a series of meetings in Europe and in Washington early in 1960.
These meetings considered various proposals to amend the functions and membership of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation (oeec) to
bring them into line with current requirements. Having been founded as a central instrument of the European nations which were participating in the Marshall Plan, oeec created special machinery for the liberalization of European trade and payments, and played a considerable part in European economic recovery. Now that many of its initial tasks have been discharged, it has been suggested that oeec should embark on new activities, including work in the field of development financing, and that its membership should include the United States and Canada.
In the meantime, pending decisions on general economic organization, eight principal creditor nations of the world took action to establish the Development Assistance Group, which held its first meeting in Washington in February, 1960. The objectives of the Group are to consider ways of increasing and coordinating economic assistance to the less developed countries. At the invitation of the Group, the Bank is participating in its meetings and has submitted material based on its own experience.
In the past year also, the new Inter-American Development Bank (iadb) has come into being, and has set up its headquarters organization in Washington. The iadb is a new international agency which will finance economic development in Latin America, and its management is now engaged in its first task of spreading knowledge of its policies and objectives both in the countries of Latin America and in the United States, to which it must look for financial support. The Bank was able to provide the iadb with assistance during its organizational stage, and looks forward to future opportunities for cooperation.
Yet another example of international cooperation in development financing concerns the proposed Indus Basin Settlement Plan.
The Plan would be based on a division of the Indus Waters on the lines of the Proposal made by the Bank to the two Governments in February, 1954. Under this Proposal the three Eastern Rivers of the Indus system (Sutlej, Beas and Ravi) would be for the use of India, and the three Western Rivers (Indus, Jhelum and Chenab) would be for the use of Pakistan.
This division of the waters necessitates the construction in Pakistan of works to replace, by transfer from the three Western Rivers, supplies to meet the irrigation uses in those areas of Pakistan which have hitherto depended on supplies from the three Eastern Rivers. The effect of this transfer would be to release the whole flow of the three Eastern Rivers for irrigation development in India, and, as part of a settlement, India would agree to contribute towards the costs of these works. The system of works to be constructed would, however, provide further substantial additional irrigation development both in India and Pakistan and would develop important hydroelectric potential in both countries. It would also make an important contribution to soil reclamation and drainage in Pakistan, and provide a measure of flood protection in both countries.
The Bank has evolved a Plan to finance the required expenditure of about $1,050 million equivalent, partly in foreign exchange and partly in local currencies. Of this amount approximately $850 million equivalent would be spent on replacement and development works to be constructed in Pakistan, and approximately $200 million on development works to be constructed in India.
The Governments of Australia, Canada, Germany, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States have made commitments, subject to legislative authorization, to contribute approximately $650 million equivalent toward the total cost; these contributions would be in grants, or, in the case of the United States, partly in grants and partly in dollar loans repayable in local currency, and would be usable for purchases anywhere in accordance with the Bank's general practice relating to international competition. Part of the United States contribution would be in Pakistan rupees, either in loan or grant form, to meet part of the local expenditures in Pakistan.
In addition, the President of the Bank has been prepared to recommend to the Bank's Directors that the Bank should participate with loans to India and Pakistan of the order of $103 million.
The implementation of the financial plan, and the participation in it of the Governments concerned and
In Mexico a Bank loan is helping to finance the Temaxcal project. The generators will be powered by water from an irrigation and flood control reservoir on the Tonto River.
By lending $1,600 million for electric power
the Bank has helped to finance
11 million kilowatts of new generating capacity,
thousands of miles of transmission lines
and many large-scale new or expanded
power distribution systems.
Above is the Kurobe hydroelectric project
in a remote gorge of the Japanese Alps.
A vital need for Pakistan's economic development is a greater supply of electric power. The Bank has made three power loans in Pakistan, totaling over $30 million. On the right men and women are laboring on the foundations of a new diesel power station which will bring new power to the rapidly growing industries of Karachi.
of the Bank, would be contingent on the ratification of the Water Treaty now under negotiation.
The Treaty negotiations between India and Pakistan, with the good offices of the Bank, were accelerated in the summer of 1959, following agreement by both Governments on the general principles on which a Water Treaty should be based. The detailed drafting of the Treaty began in Washington in October and was still continuing as the fiscal year came to an end.
The Bank took other action in connection with India and Pakistan during the year. An interim meeting was held in March, 1960, of the group of industrial countries providing large scale development assistance to India, a group which had first been called together by the Bank in 1958. The meeting reviewed developments in India's balance of payments in the past year, and progress made in providing assistance. Plans were discussed for holding the next full meeting of this group later in the year to undertake a preliminary review of the foreign exchange requirements of the Indian Third Five Year Plan. Another initiative aimed at securing well informed consideration of the economic problems of India and Pakistan was taken by the President of the Bank, who suggested to three internationally known bankers that they visit the subcontinent to gain first-hand impressions of the current situation and prospects there. As a result Mr. Hermann Abs of the Deutsche Bank of Frankfurt, Sir Oliver Franks of Lloyds Bank of London and Mr. Allan Sproul, formerly of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, visited India and Pakistan for six weeks early in 1960. In recording their general impressions in a joint letter to the President of the Bank, the three bankers praised the efforts of both countries and urged support for their development plans. The bankers - also warned of the many difficulties that would arise in both countries as a result of the strain imposed on their economies by development expenditures. There would also be problems calling for cooperation between the two countries and the industrialized countries in a position to supply the finance required.
The membership of the Bank remained unchanged at 68 countries during the year. The applications for membership of Laos and Portugal have been approved by the Bank's Board of Governors and await action by the two Governments. Nepal has applied for membership, and Nigeria has notified the Bank of its wish to become a member after becoming independent in October, 1960. Appendix D lists the capital subscriptions of Bank members at the end of the fiscal year.
During the fiscal year the regular staff of the Bank rose from 605 to 650; the continued increase in the Bank's activities, together with the assumption of new responsibilities, has meant a continuous program of recruitment. The number of nationalities represented on the staff showed a further increase, from 48 to 53. This continues a long term trend toward a greater variety of representation, which has had the effect of making the composition of the staff more representative of the Bank's membership. For example, in 1950 United States citizens made up over 65% of the total staff. This year the proportion was 43%. Approximately the same figures also apply to the composition of the professional staff of the Bank.
There were two changes during the year in the principal officers of the Bank. Mr. Davidson Sommers, Vice President, resigned to join the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Mr. Sommers had been with the Bank since its earliest days and was General Counsel for ten years, up to 1959. His broad experience and his qualities of judgement and wisdom enabled him to make a unique contribution to the work of the Bank. The Bank suffered another serious loss by the death in September, 1959, of Mr. Henry W. Riley, who joined the Bank in 1947 and had been Treasurer since 1953. Mr. Riley brought outstanding abilities to the service of the Bank, and commanded the deep respect and affection of all who dealt with him. Mr. Robert W. Cavanaugh, formerly Chief of the Finance Division, succeeded to the post of Treasurer in October, 1959.
THE YEAR'S LENDING
New loans made during the fiscal year totaled S658.7 million, slightly below the rate of each of the previous two years. There were 31 loans in all, one more than in 1958-59. The total number of the Bank's loans rose to 265 in 53 member countries and territories.
For the fifth year in succession Asia and the Middle East received the largest part of the year's loans, a total of $273 million. Africa accounted for $183 million. Latin America received $134 million, raising the Bank's loans in that region above the $1,000 million mark. Lending in Europe continued to fall as a reflection of the ability of most European countries to finance their own needs or borrow in the market; the total lent by the Bank in Europe in the last twelve months was only $69 million. Two of the year's loans — in Mauritania and the United Arab Republic — were made in countries where the Bank had not previously invested.
The purposes for which Bank loans were made showed the usual concentration on basic facilities. The largest category was transportation, totaling $245 million. Included were an oil pipeline loan for the new Sahara oil field, a loan for the improvement of the Suez Canal, another for the first expressway in Japan, and loans for transport improvement in the Belgian Congo, in India and in Pakistan.
Electric power loans totaled $208 million, and will help to add a total of more than one million kilowatts of electrical generating capacity in member countries. Most of these loans were supplementary operations in countries which had previously borrowed for power: Honduras, Italy, Norway, Chile, Colombia, Nicaragua and Pakistan. The loan to Italy was the Bank's first investment in nuclear power. Iran and Peru were new borrowers for electric power development.
Loans for industry aggregated $146 million, the largest being one of $66 million for iron mining in Mauritania. Most of the other industrial loans were follow-up operations, designed to provide further foreign exchange to development banks fostering the growth of private industry in Austria, Costa Rica, India and Pakistan. A first loan was also made to a
list of loans
Expressed in United States Dollars
new privately owned industrial development bank in Iran. The Japanese steel industry benefited by two further loans totaling $44 million.
More was lent for agriculture than for some years past, the total being almost $60 million. Of particular interest in this sector were the Bank's first three loans for African agriculture, in Southern Rhodesia, Kenya and the Belgian Congo. In the Sudan a loan was made to assist a large-scale extension of the Gezira irrigation scheme. The remaining loans consisted of one for the Dez irrigation and power project in Iran, another for livestock improvement in Uruguay and a third for agricultural development in Peru.
FINANCIAL OPERATIONS
The year's new loan commitments brought the cumulative total of Bank loans, net of cancellations and refundings, to $5,068 million. Of this total, $1,149 million has been repaid or sold to other investors. At June 30, 1960, the effective loans held by the Bank stood at $3,664 million, of which $2,807 million had been disbursed.
Net earnings (exclusive of receipts from loan commissions) were $59.5 million, an increase of $13 million over the previous highest figure. Disbursements were $544 million, compared with $583 million last year. Sales of parts of Bank loans amounted to $243 million, compared with the previous high of $148 million of the year before. These sales of loans are equivalent to repayments to the Bank before maturity, bringing immediate replenishment of the Bank's lending resources. As a result, the Bank's need to go to the market for new finance is correspondingly reduced; new Bank borrowing during the fiscal year totaled the equivalent of $375 million, compared with $432 million the year before; allowing for redemptions, funded debt rose by $168 million, compared with $247 million in 1958/59 and $625 million in 1957/58.
reserves, income, repayments and interest rate
At June 30,1960, the Bank's total reserves had reached $506.5 million, an increase of $86.5 million during the year. The reserves consist of two parts. One, the Supplemental Reserve accumulated from net earnings, stood at $341.5 million at the end of the fiscal year, compared with $282 million a year earlier. The other, a Special Reserve to which are credited receipts from the commission of 1% charged on the outstanding balance of all loans, increased by $27 million to a total of $165 million.
Gross income for the year, excluding loan commissions, was $151 million compared with $122 million a year before, an increase of 25%. Interest and issue costs rose to $77 million, compared with $66 million the previous year. Administrative costs were $10 million, a small increase over 1958 /59. About $1
million of administrative expenditures were for special services to member countries, including general survey missions, costs of mediation, training programs and other advisory services.
Repayments to the Bank amounted to $74 million and repayments to other investors were $84 million, reflecting the extent to which investors had bought maturing portions of loans from the Bank. Total principal repayments were $158 million compared with $109 million a year before.
Long-term money rates remained high in most money markets during the fiscal year. For example, the only bond issue sold by the Bank in the United States during the year carried annual interest of 5%, a higher rate than any previous Bank issue in that market. As a result of these conditions, the Bank's interest rate had to be raised from 6% to 6%% early in 1960. Subsequent changes in market conditions made it possible to return to 6%.
sales of loans and national currency capital subscriptions
Mention has already been made of the high figure — $243 million — of sales of parts of the Bank's loans. About one-third of these sales took the form of participations by other financial institutions in Bank loans at the time they were made. For example, participations in the loan of $50 million for the oil pipeline in Algeria, principally by insurance companies, totaled $25 million. Most participations take the form of purchases of the early maturities of Bank loans, but an interesting feature in the pipeline loan was the purchase by financial institutions of portions of all the maturities, running until 1971. In two loans aggregating $33 million made to the Belgian Congo at the end of March 1960, commercial banks from four countries — Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United States — took almost $10 million of participations in different currencies. The $20 million Norwegian power loan of July 1959 attracted a participation of almost $7 million by one German bank, and $5.5 million of the early maturities of the
Suez Canal loan of December 1959 were bought by commercial banks in the United States, Japan and the Middle East. There were participations, all without the guarantee of the Bank, in 25 of the 31 loans made during the year.
But the majority of the sales of loans were from the Bank's portfolio and reflected increasing interest by banks, insurance companies, and other institutional investors in maturities of Bank loans made in earlier years. Unlike participations, which are taken mainly by United States investors, almost all sales of older loans are made to European financial institutions. This has been the case for several years, as shown in the chart above.
Participations and sales from portfolio are of twofold importance to the Bank. In the first place, they are an important source of funds — this year they were equal to more than 44% of cash disbursements. Secondly, they help toward the Bank's objective to promote private investment in development financing.
The Bank's funds were also augmented during the
year by further effective releases by member governments of their subscriptions to the Bank's capital in their national currencies; these additional releases were equivalent to $116 million, and raised to over $1,600 million the total of members' subscriptions (including the small portion subscribed in gold or dollars) which have been used or are available for the Bank's lending.
DISBURSEMENTS
In the year's disbursements of $544 million, the trend continued toward the use of more non-dollar currencies, reflecting the increased availability of these currencies to the Bank; in the past year non-dollar currencies made up half of disbursements. A summary of the currencies repayable to the Bank as of June 30, 1960 is given in Appendix E.
The following table shows the distribution by countries of the orders placed by Bank borrowers using Bank loan funds. The normal procedure is for borrowers to place their orders on the basis of international competition, and the table illustrates the wide distribution of orders which results.
Loan Expenditures in Individual Countries
(Estimates rounded to equivalent in millions of United States dollars)
Disbursements by Cumulative       Fiscal Cumulative
borrowers for total to Year total to
imports from: June 30, 1959    1959-60   June 30, 1960
Belgium..... $   94.7 $ 10.7 $ 105.4
Canada..... 129.0 2.8 131.8
France..... 83.7 17.9 101.6
Germany    .... 270.5 50.6 321.1
Italy...... 72.7 16.4 89.1
Japan..... 60.7 9.6 70.3
Sweden..... 33.5 7.7 41.2
Switzerland .... 58.0 8.6 66.6
United Kingdom   .   . 383.3 75.8 459.1
United States   .   .   . 1,476.5 93.8 1,570.3
All other countries .   . 136.1 29.1 165.2
Total..... $2,798.7 $323.0 $3,121.7
Other disbursements* 578.6 220.9 799.5
Grand Total   .   . $3,377.3 $543.9 $3,921.2
* These include disbursements on loans in which the funds are used for local expenditures or for broad development programs where the source of the items imported with Bank funds is not specified.
THE YEAR S BORROWING
New borrowing during the year totaled $375 million. Only one new bond issue was sold in the United States market; two-thirds of the total was borrowed from investors in many other countries. New issues included the Bank's eleventh borrowing in Switzerland, further borrowing from Germany, and a return, after five years, to the London market.
The first borrowing of the fiscal year was on July 11, 1959, when the Bank borrowed $30 million in U.S. dollars from the Deutsche Bundesbank, the central bank of Germany, for three years at 4Y2%. This borrowing replaced one of the same amount maturing on that day.
Then, on August 31, 1959, the Bank announced the sale, entirely outside the United States, of a $100 million issue of United States dollar bonds. These were two-year bonds, placed at par and with an interest rate of 4%%. The sale was made by private placement with 63 institutional investors in 35 countries, marking a further broadening of the international market for Bank bonds. Subscriptions received were more than double the amount of bonds available. Requests were received from many institutions which had not previously bought obligations and from buyers in eight countries where Bank bonds had not been held before. Purchasers included central banks, government special accounts, commercial banks, insurance companies and corporations.
In October the Bank borrowed $2.5 million and DM 10 million at 4J/i% for two years from a European financial institution.
On December 16, 1959, the Bank returned to the London market for the first time since 1954, selling an issue of £10 million ($28 million) of 5% Stock 1977-1982. The stock was sold at 96%% and the offer was oversubscribed. The underwriters were headed by Baring Brothers & Co., Ltd., and also included Ham-bros Bank Ltd., Lazard Brothers & Co., Ltd., Morgan Grenfell & Co., Ltd., N. M. Rothschild & Sons, and J. Henry Schroder & Co., Ltd.
The first borrowing of 1960 was once again from the Deutsche Bundesbank, making the Bank's ninth borrowing from that institution. On January 20 the
Disbursements in U.S. Dollars and Other Currencies
By Fiscal Years
(In Millions of U.S. Dollars Equivalents)
Bank arranged to borrow DM 200 million ($48 million), drawings to be made from time to time over 12 months beginning January 31, 1960 in installments of DM 5 million or multiples thereof. On the occasion of each drawing the Bank arranged to deliver a 4%% three-year note in the amount drawn. At the end of the fiscal year DM 100 million ($24 million) remained undrawn from this borrowing.
On January 29, 1960, the Bank offered publicly at par Sw F 60 million ($14 million) of 4y2% 12-year bonds on the Swiss market. As with previous Bank offerings there, the Swiss Credit Bank, the Swiss Bank Corporation and the Union Bank of Switzerland headed the underwriting group. The bonds will have no sinking fund, and will be non-callable for eight years. The issue is listed on the stock exchanges of Zurich, Basle, Berne, Geneva and Lausanne.
The only borrowing in the United States during the year took place on February 9, 1960, when an underwriting group of 181 investment and commercial banks headed jointly by Morgan Stanley and Co. and
The First Boston Corporation sold at par a new issue of $125 million of Bank 5% bonds maturing in 1985. The amount of the issue originally had been announced as $100 million but was increased to meet heavy demand, particularly from institutions which had not previously bought Bank bonds. These institutions numbered 70 in all, and accounted for $25 million of the total bonds sold. More than one-fifth of the issue was sold with delayed delivery, which has been a feature of all Bank issues in the United States since 1957. This feature enabled investors to take delivery and make payments for the bonds on one or more quarterly dates through February 15, 1962. By the end of the fiscal year, $3 million of these bonds had been delivered by the Bank and the Bank also received $16 million in delayed delivery payments for bonds sold in previous fiscal years, and $13 million equivalent of a Deutsche mark borrowing arranged in July, 1958.
The final borrowing transaction of the year was of $25 million from the Deutsche Bundesbank, to replace
a loan of the same amount maturing on June 20. The new borrowing was for 2% years, at 4%. It was announced on the same occasion that the Bundesbank had agreed to renew a note for $30 million, maturing on July 11, 1960, for a further three years at 4%.
The acquisition by the Bank of its bonds to meet purchase and sinking fund requirements during the year totaled the equivalent of $21 million in United States dollars, Canadian dollars, Netherlands guilders and pounds sterling. The Bank also retired $166 million of its bonds and notes at maturity. The net result of all these transactions was an increase of $168 million in the Bank's funded debt, bringing the total outstanding on June 30 to the equivalent of $2,073 million (See Appendix F). Although the greater part of this total is denominated in United States dollars, the holdings of the Bank's bonds and notes are widely dispersed throughout the world. Indeed, it was estimated on June 30, 1960, that about 53% of the Bank's funded debt is held outside the United States.
TECHNICAL
Of particular note in the past year has been the increase of the Bank's technical assistance activities in connection with surveys financed by the United Nations Special Fund. The Bank has maintained a very close relationship with the Special Fund, many of whose projects give promise of helping substantially to fill the gap between the initial conception of major productive undertakings and their preparation in a form suitable for financing. The President of the Bank is a member of the Special Fund's three-man Consultative Board, and the experience of the first full year of the Fund's operations provides a good foundation for continued and expanded cooperation between the two agencies.
The first Special Fund project for which the Bank was Executing Agency was a survey of the electric power needs and potential of Argentina. This survey
ASSISTANCE
began in September 1959, and was conducted by consulting engineering firms under the supervision of a two-man Steering Committee composed of representatives of the Argentine Government and the Bank. The final report of the consultants was expected to be submitted to the Government in July 1960.
The other projects for which the Bank is acting as Executing Agency are in different stages. In Nigeria, the Niger Dam Survey is being conducted to ascertain the merits of constructing a dam for electric power generation, navigation, flood control and irrigation on Nigeria's principal river. In British Guiana, a Plan of Operation had been agreed, engineering contracts awarded and on-the-spot investigations started by the end of the fiscal year in a study of methods for improving access to the harbor of Georgetown. Another project in Argentina is a comprehensive survey of
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The Bank has lent over $1,500 million to improve transportation by road, rail, water and air. One of the world's largest railroad modernization and expansion programs is that of the Indian Railways {above), where new electric locomotives, bought with Bank loans, are taking over from older equipment.
Port improvements have been financed in many countries. A completely new port is rising to replace the out-of-date facilities now in use at Guayaquil, the principal port of Ecuador.
A new highway, above,
in the mountains of Iran,
where new highways are being built
to meet modern needs.
The Bank lent $72 million for this program.
transportation needs and the preparation of a long-range transportation program; the first phase of this project is due to begin in July. A minerals survey in Surinam had been approved; field operations are expected to start early in 1961, following completion of the necessary mapping and determination of the most appropriate aerial survey techniques. Finally, a survey of the siltation in the Port of Bangkok and of possible remedial measures is under consideration and is being discussed between the Thailand Government, the Special Fund and the Bank.
Three general survey mission reports, intended to serve as the basis for drawing up long-term development programs, were in process during the fiscal year. The report of the mission to Libya had been submitted to the Government in April and was soon to be published. The report of the mission to Tanganyika was nearing completion and had been discussed with the Tanganyikan authorities. The mission to Venezuela was completing the first full draft of its report. It had already given the Government informal advice on urgent investment problems. The Bank has agreed to undertake its 20th general economic survey, in Uganda, starting in September.
In a more specialized field, at the request of the Government, the Bank is undertaking a study of the agricultural economy of Ireland, and particularly of the pig and milk-processing industries, fao aided in the organization and briefing of the mission, which began its work in mid-June. The Bank and fao also cooperated in providing two members and supporting staff for the Food and Agriculture Commission in Pakistan, and in sending an expert to study and recommend measures for improvement of the meat marketing system in Paraguay. At the request of the United Kingdom, the Bank nominated the leader and helped to recruit other members of a survey team to study the economies of the High Commission Territories of Basutoland, Bechuanaland Protectorate and Swaziland, and to make recommendations for their further development. In April/June, 1960, a Bank mission visited Saudi Arabia at the request of the Government to advise on economic development plans and needs.
The assignment of Bank staff members to advise on development planning and assist with other problems of economic development was continued in several member countries. The Bank's resident representative in Honduras remained until the end of 1959, and the two-man mission in Peru until March 1960. The advisory mission to Pakistan continued its work, as did the Bank's resident representative in India. A resident representative of the Bank, whose duties include advice and assistance to the Government when requested, continued his assignment in Thailand; he is also a member of the Advisory Board to the Committee (representing Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and VietNam) for the Coordination of Investigations of the Lower Mekong Basin. A resident representative was stationed in Ethiopia. An adviser was furnished to the Planning Department of the Government of Colombia for six months in 1959-60. The arrangement whereby the Bank and the United Nations provided an expert to serve as Director of the Ceylon Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research terminated at the end of 1959. The Bank continued to grant a staff member leave to serve as the head of the Technical Bureau of the Plan Organization in Iran until June 1960.
During the year the Bank also organized a special unit within the staff to study the development of the capital markets of various member countries, with a view to increasing the Bank's knowledge of this important subject and of determining whether and how the Bank might provide further technical assistance in the creation and expansion of such markets. Several country studies have been undertaken and others are in prospect.
Help was furnished to member countries in the organization and operation of industrial financing institutions. The organization of a new development bank in Thailand was based on earlier recommendations by the Bank. The possibility of forming a privately-owned regional development bank in Central America was investigated, and tentative proposals were formulated by the Bank for consideration by the governments and private investors in that region. A Bank staff member served as adviser to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India until the
end of 1959; and another staff member was assigned for one year, starting in April 1960, to advise the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation. Development banks in Ethiopia, Pakistan and Thailand were aided in recruiting management and technical personnel. During the year The Johns Hopkins Press published Problems and Practices of Development Banks by Shirley Boskey, a member of the staff of the Bank. The book is based on the Bank's experience with development banking operations and on discussions at the conference of development bank managers which was sponsored by the Bank in 1958.
The Economic Development Institute, administered by the Bank to improve the management of economic affairs in less developed countries, held its fifth course from October 1959 to April 1960. There were 22 participants, of whom nine were officials from Asia, five from Africa, two from Latin America, five from
Europe and one from the staff of the Bank. During the summer of 1959, at the invitation of the Government and University authorities concerned, the Institute conducted a short course on economic development at the University College of the West Indies in Jamaica; 19 officials from the Caribbean region, including seven from countries outside the West Indies Federation, participated.
The training program for junior officials from the Bank's member countries was continued, ten trainees from as many countries taking part in 1960. More than 100 trainees from 58 countries have now participated in the General Training Program. In addition, four senior officials of member countries received individual training during the year, under the Public Finance and Special Training Programs. Since the Bank started these Programs 55 senior officials from 30 countries have received specialist training.
annex
The information in this Annex describes loans and other Bank activities during the year. Loans to borrowers other than member governments carry the guarantee of the governments concerned. Interest rates shown include the 1% commission which is allocated to the Bank's Special Reserve. The participations of financial institutions in loans of the year were all without the Bank's guarantee.
AFRICA
ALGERIA AND SAHARA
pipeline loan $50 million 12-year 6% loan of December 10,1959
borrower . Societe Petroliere de Gerance
Societe Petroliere de Gerance is a corporation owned jointly by two companies producing oil in the Sahara: Compagnie Francaise des Petroles (Algerie), a subsidiary of the Compagnie Francaise des Petroles, the largest French oil company, and Societe Nationale de Recherche et d'Exploitation des Petroles en Algerie, which is largely owned by the French Government.
The loan is guaranteed by the French Government and was used to finance part of the cost of a 410-mile pipeline bringing crude oil from the new Hassi Messaoud oilfield in the Sahara to the Algerian port of Bougie on the Mediterranean. The pipeline came into limited operation in December, 1959, and additional pumps and pumping stations will be installed in successive stages.
The complete project is estimated to cost the equivalent of $105 million and should enable the French franc area as a whole to save or earn the equivalent of about $200 million to $250 million a year in foreign exchange. In addition, the development of petroleum resources will provide Algeria and the Sahara with low-cost fuel and power for industry, as well as important budget revenues from royalties and taxes. participation . A number of United States Insurance Companies, Pension Funds and Commercial Banks (with one German Bank) are participating for a total equivalent to $25 million.
BELGIAN CONGO
agricultural loan $7 million 12-year 6% loan of March 30,1960
borrower • The Belgian Congo
This loan aims at speeding up the transformation of African farming from subsistence agriculture to the cultivation of crops for the market. The loan will finance part of the cost of a $15.5 million program designed to raise agricultural productivity, develop production of cash crops and cattle, and expand facilities for the processing of agricultural products. The program, which follows a pattern already developed in the Congo, consists of soil classification, the establishment, within the existing tribal organization and under the supervision of an extension service, of over 50,000 Congolese farmers in permanent settlements on agricultural land, the introduction of improved farm management, the planting of about 75,000 acres with oil palms, rubber, coffee, cocoa and tea, the establishment and improvement of cattle breeding farms, and the construction of tea processing and compost plants. Considerable benefits in terms of increased farm incomes and export earnings should be apparent in the late 'sixties.
transport loans $28 million 12-year 6% loan of March 30,1960
borrower • The Belgian Congo
This loan is helping to develop the roads and waterways in the Congo which are the direct responsibility of the Government. Transportation in the Congo was
¦19-
Improvements //; living standards
in the less developed countries
depend directly on more efficient farming.
More than $375 million of Bank loans
have financed agricultural improvements
in every region of the world.
With the aid of a Bank loan to Kenya
new settlers are being shown how to create
individually-owned smallholdings
to replace obsolete and wasteful
tribal systems of cultivation.
Modern agricultural equipment is the key
to increased farm production;
the Bank's loans of foreign exchange have assisted
many countries to import modern tractors and implements.
On the left is one
of thousands of tractors
imported into Peru with Bank loan funds.
Economic development in the Sudan is based on the use of Nile water for irrigation. The well-known Gezira irrigation scheme brings water to a million acres of fertile land. The Managil project, partly financed by the Bank, is an extension of Gezira and will irrigate 800,000 additional acres. Below, work has begun on a regulator on the Managil main canal.
originally geared to the needs of foreign trade and still depends primarily on the rail and river network.
The proceeds of the loan are being used for the construction and reconstruction of about 445 miles of paved and gravel highways, the improvement of about 775 miles of roads, the provision of bridges and ferries, and the construction of about 1,765 miles of surfaced single lane roads in African farming areas containing the settlement and cattle breeding farms financed under the agricultural loan described above. The loan will also be used to improve and expand several ocean, river and lake ports and to import equipment to deepen and maintain navigable channels and to facilitate navigation.
$5 million 10-year 6% loan of March 30, 1960 borrower • Office d'Exploitation des Transports Coloniaux (otraco)
otraco is a government agency which operates rail and water transport services in the Congo, including the seaport of Matadi. About half the Congo's foreign trade is handled by otraco, as well as substantial local traffic, otraco is using the loan for the further modernization and improvement of its facilities which have been expanded in the 'fifties, partly with the aid of previous Bank loans for the Congo's development program. The total cost of the present otraco program is estimated at the equivalent of $20 million, about half of which is being spent on imports of rolling stock, river craft, port and other equipment and various materials.
% % %
All three loans are guaranteed by Belgium; the Belgium Congo also guaranteed the otraco loan. participation . Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschap-pij, N.V. (Amsterdam), De Twentsche Bank (Amsterdam), The Chase Manhattan Bank, United States Trust Company of New York, Banque Lambert (Brussels), Banque de Bruxelles (Brussels), Krediet-bank (Brussels), Banque d'Investissements Prives (Geneva), Central National Bank of Cleveland (Cleveland, Ohio) and Banca Nazionale del Lavoro (Rome) are participating in the two transport loans for a total equivalent to $9,721,000.
ETHIOPIA
At the request of the Government, the Bank has stationed a resident representative in Addis Ababa; his assignment began in November 1959.
KENYA
agricultural loan $5.6 million 10-year 6% loan of May 27, 1960 borrower • The Colony and Protectorate of Kenya
The loan will help to finance a government program, known as the Swynnerton Plan, to improve and develop African agriculture and raise the living standards of African farmers; loan funds will also be applied to the improvement of feeder roads. The Swynnerton Plan was begun in 1955 and has had such encouraging results that it is being accelerated and extended beyond the initially planned period of five years. The loan is guaranteed by the United Kingdom.
There are African agricultural areas in Kenya with good soil and adequate rainfall, but where inefficient use of land and the tribal system of tenure have prevented production potentials from being realized.
Under the program, settled communities of African farmers are established on individually allocated land. The farmers are helped to produce crops and cattle more efficiently, and to market their produce. During the next three years the program will concentrate on areas of high agricultural potential. Expanded extension services, schools, demonstration farms and farm loans will help to modernize farms, develop cash crops, and establish small herds of milk cows and beef cattle. Water supplies will be provided and cooperatives for marketing and processing will be organized and expanded. Part of the loan will also be used to improve 23 roads of a total length of 564 miles to connect African agricultural areas with marketing points and the main road network.
participation • Barclay's Bank D.C.O. of London and Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij, N.V. (Amsterdam) are participating for a total equivalent to $664,600, the former in sterling and the latter in Netherlands guilders.
MAURITANIA
mining loan $66 million 15-year 6^% loan of March 17,1960 borrower • Societe Anonyme des Mines de Fer de Mauritanie (miferma)
This loan is helping to finance the development of high grade iron ore deposits in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania in northwest Africa. The project will open up completely new opportunities for economic growth in Mauritania, where the severity of natural conditions narrowly limits development. Revenue from taxes and royalties should enable the Government to reverse the present budget deficits and enable the state to become self-supporting. The Bank loan is guaranteed both by France and by Mauritania.
The loan will finance equipment and services to mine the rich ore deposits near Fort Gouraud, to construct a 420-mile railway to the coast, and to build a new port, with ore-handling equipment, at Port Etienne on the Atlantic. About 2,000 people will be employed by the company when the mine, railway, port and auxiliary services are in full operation. Housing, community facilities, workshops, water and power supplies will be provided both at Fort Gouraud and the port. The cost of the complete project is estimated at the equivalent of $190 million.
Over half the shares in miferma are held by French, British, German and Italian consumers of iron ore or their representatives. The remaining shares are held by French financial interests (20%) and by an agency of the French Government (27%).
FEDERATION OF RHODESIA AND NYASALAND
agricultural loan $5.6 million 10-year 6% loan of April 1,1960 borrower • Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland The loan is guaranteed by the United Kingdom. It will assist a program of the Southern Rhodesia Government to improve the standard of living of African farmers through increasing their output of crops and livestock. Under the traditional system of agricul-
ture, lands allocated to farmers by tribal chiefs are cropped for a few years without regard to preserving soil fertility; when yields begin to decrease, the farmers move to new plots. Growth of population in recent decades has made for more intensive cultivation and grazing of lands, resulting in loss of soil fertility and serious erosion. Since 1956 the Government has sought to convert this system to one of permanent holdings with individual ownership of land and these efforts are already producing results in the form of settled communities with improved living standards.
Under the Government's program, lands are surveyed and allocated, water supplies are provided and farm-to-market roads constructed. Soil conservation is taught and auxiliary services, such as agricultural research, credit and marketing are provided. The result should be a doubling of food output over a period of ten years. Most of the extra production would be consumed domestically but prospects are good for increased exports of beef and tobacco.
The Bank loan will cover part of the cost of the second half of this program to the end of 1963. The local costs, about $27 million, will be met by the Southern Rhodesia Government and the Native Development Fund to which both the Government and the farmers themselves contribute. participation • The Chase Manhattan Bank, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and The Northern Trust Company are participating for a total equivalent to $2,347,000.
SUDAN
agricultural loan $15.5 million 20-year 6% loan of June 17,1960 borrower • Republic of the Sudan
The loan will help to finance completion of the Managil Irrigation Scheme between the Blue Nile and White Nile south of Khartoum. The project is an extension of, and is patterned on the 1,000,000-acre Gezira Scheme, one of the best known and most successful irrigation projects in the world. Since 1957 the Government of the Sudan has financed, from its own resources, the development of some 585,000 acres
and the settlement of nearly 28,000 farmers under the Managil Scheme. The Bank loan will be used to finance most of the foreign exchange cost of developing a further 241,000 acres, on which about 22,000 more farmers and their families will be settled. The production of cotton, grain and other crops on the newly irrigated lands is expected to result in a 10% annual increase in the value of Sudan's agricultural output.
The main works consist of about 160 miles of major canals and a distribution system of minor canals and laterals covering several thousand miles. A network of dirt roads and about 140 miles of light railway branch lines will be built to serve the newly irrigated
INDIA
railway loan $50 million 20-year 6% loan of July 15,1959
borrower • India
This loan assisted the further expansion and modernization of the Indian Railways, the fourth largest railway system in the world. The railway program is a central part of India's Second Five-Year Plan (1957-61), and accounts for about one-quarter of all public expenditures under the Plan.
Between 1957 and 1961, the Railways planned to raise freight capacity from 114 million to 162 million tons annually and to increase passenger capacity by 15%, the total expenditures involved being estimated at the equivalent of about $2,355 million. By March 31, 1959, three-fifths of these expenditures had been made. In 1958 the volume of railway freight traffic originating in India had reached a total of 135 million tons; for the first time in many years the Railways were able to handle all the freight offered. The Bank has now lent $225 million toward the current railway program; the new loan was applied mainly to expenditures for imported equipment, materials and services during the program's fourth year, which ended on March 31, 1960.
area, and 60 diesel locomotives and 900 freight cars will be added to rolling stock. Cotton ginning capacity in the area is to be increased by about 30%. The total cost will be the equivalent of about $49 million. participation • The Chase Manhattan Bank, Irving Trust Company and Bank of America are participating for a total of $700,000.
TANGANYIKA
The General Survey Mission to Tanganyika has completed a draft of its Report, which has already been discussed with the Government.
participation • Lloyds Bank Ltd., London, The Chase Manhattan Bank, The Chartered Bank, New York Agency, Bank of America, Irving Trust Company, The Hanover Bank, and The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D. C. are participating for a total equivalent to $3,762,000.
industrial loan S10 million 10-year loan of July 15,1959
borrower • Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd. (icici).
icici was established in January 1955 by private investors of India, the United Kingdom and the United States to assist the growth of private industry in India. Up to May 1960 the Corporation had approved investments and underwritings amounting to the equivalent of $52 million. The principal sectors assisted by the Corporation have been the mechanical, electrical and automotive industries, paper, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, sugar and shipping. The foreign exchange provided by an earlier Bank loan of $10 million was of particular value to private industry in 1958-59, when India's foreign exchange resources were under severe strain. The new Bank loan should meet the Corporation's foreign exchange requirements through most of 1961. The Bank will charge interest on each
ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
portion of the loan allocated to a particular project at the Bank's current rate of interest when the project is approved for financing.
participation • Bank of America is participating to the extent of $200,000.
IRAN
industrial loan $5.2 million 15-year loan of November 23, 1959
borrower • The Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran (imdbi).
This new development bank, which came into operation at the end of 1959, was established by private investors in Iran, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Holland and Belgium. imdbi will stimulate private industrial development by making medium and long term loans and by investing in share capital. In addition, it will seek to promote and develop a capital market, guarantee loans and commitments of other investors, and provide technical and managerial assistance to Iranian industry.
While the Iranian economy depends mainly on agriculture and oil, industry has also been developing rapidly in recent years. Iran manufactures most of its cotton textiles and a large portion of its cement, glass, wood products and sugar. The processing of other indigenous products, the manufacture of many articles now imported, the exploitation of the country's minerals, and the development of the petrochemical industry all offer opportunities for private enterprise.
The initial resources available to imdbi were equivalent to $42.4 million, made up of share capital of 400 million rials ($5.3 million) subscribed by Iranian and foreign investors; an advance of 600 million rials ($8 million) from the Iranian Government; an existing loan portfolio of 1,400 million rials ($18.7 million) turned over by the Government to imdbi for management; a loan of $5.2 million from the U. S. Development Loan Fund; and $5.2 million from the Bank. The Bank will charge interest on each portion of its loan allocated to a project at the Bank's current rate of interest when the project is approved for financing.
multipurpose loan $42 million 25-year 6Vi% loan of February 20, 1960
borrower • Iran
The loan will assist a multipurpose project for electric power generation, irrigation and flood control in Khuzestan in southwestern Iran. A concrete dam 620 feet high is being constructed in a precipitous gorge of the Dez River, thus harnessing the water to drive turbines which will be installed in an underground power station. The station will have a capacity of 130,000 kilowatts, and power will be transmitted to the principal towns of Khuzestan, which include Abadan, one of the world's largest oil refineries.
The Dez Dam will create a reservoir of 2.7 million acre feet of water for irrigation and flood control. Khuzestan was once a highly productive agricultural area, and its many river valleys hold good possibilities for future development. The fertility of the soils, now depleted by centuries of cultivation, can be restored and its rivers can provide irrigation water for wider areas. The present project includes the excavation of about 32 miles of main and branch canals to bring water to a pilot area of 50,000 acres. If the pilot scheme succeeds, an additional 225,000 acres can be irrigated from the Dez reservoir. The pilot project also includes various public works and services for the regeneration of the area—roads, agricultural research and training centers, farm extension services, education and health. The Dam will also obviate the periodic flooding of the downstream areas of the Dez Valley.
participation • The First National City Bank of New York and Irving Trust Company are participating for a total of $600,000.
ISRAEL
Two Bank missions visited Israel during the year, to review the economy and discuss possible Bank lending. In the course of discussions of a loan for ports in Israel, the Bank arranged for the Executive Director of the Port of New York Authority to examine the problems pertaining to the establishment of an autonomous Israeli Port Authority.
One result of worldwide economic growth
is rapidly rising demand for more iron and steel.
The Bank has made loans totaling $338 million
to expand iron and steel capacity,
particularly in India and in Japan.
On the left are the integrated steel works
of the Yawata Iron & Steel Company,
Japan's largest steel producer,
whose facilities are being greatly extended
with the help of Bank loan funds.
Below are new blast furnaces and converters
at the Bumpur works
of the Indian Iron and Steel Company,
another privately owned corporation
whose expansion has been assisted by the Bank.
JAPAN
STEEL LOANS
Two 15-year 6% loans of November 12,1959 to be re-lent as follows: $24 million to the Fuji Iron and Steel Co., Limited, $20 million to the Yawata Iron and Steel Co., Limited
borrower • Japan Development Bank
The Japanese iron and steel industry is engaged in a program to expand crude steel capacity from 11.1 million to 20.5 million tons in the period 1956-1962, with the object of producing a higher quality and a wider range of steel products, and reducing operating costs by means of modern techniques. The Yawata and Fuji companies are Japan's two largest producers, and account for important parts of the program.
The $20 million loan was re-lent to the Yawata Iron and Steel Co., Limited, to assist the transformation of its Tobata plant in northern Kyushu into a fully integrated steel plant, a project estimated to cost the equivalent of $117.6 million, and to result in large increases in iron and steel production capacity.
The $24 million loan was re-lent to the Fuji Iron and Steel Co., Limited, for the construction of works at the company's plant at Hirohata in Honshu on the inland sea. The new facilities will enable Fuji to increase its production of plates and sheets; and, by permitting a fuller utilization of existing rolling mills, will increase the company's earning power. participation • Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, The First National Bank of Chicago, The Northern Trust Company, Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Manufacturers Trust Company, The Chase Manhattan Bank, The Philadelphia National Bank, Grace National Bank of New York, Irving Trust Company and The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D. C. are participating in the Fuji loan for a total of $2,566,000.
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, The First National Bank of Chicago, The Northern Trust Company, Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, Manufacturers Trust Company, The Chase Manhattan Bank, The Philadelphia National Bank and National Bank of Commerce of Seattle are participating in the Yawata loan for a total of $2,055,000.
highway loan $40 million 23-year 6y4% loan of March 17, 1960 borrower . Japan Highway Public Corporation
The growth of industry and population in Japan has far outstripped the existing transport system. The provision of modern roads is essential for further development and Japan has now embarked on a $2.8 billion program for the improvement and reconstruction of existing roads and the building of expressways.
The Bank loan is being used in the construction of the first expressway, from Amagasaki to Ritto, a distance of 45 miles between the Osaka metropolitan area and that of Kyoto. The area traversed is thickly populated and contains about 57,000 factories and workshops whose output covers the whole range of Japanese production. Traffic in the area at present is heavily congested. The new expressway will be a four-lane divided highway with tunnels, bridges, viaducts and overpasses. Design speeds range from 50 to 74 miles per hour, reducing the average travel time between Amagasaki and Ritto from three hours to one. participation • The Northern Trust Company, Manufacturers Trust Company, Dresdner Bank A.G. of Frankfurt am Main, Commerzbank-Aktiengesell-schaft of Dusseldorf, Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. and Grace National Bank of New York are participating for a total amount equivalent to $1,631,000.
other activities
Both parties to a dispute concerning the French Tranche of the 5% 1912 loan of the City of Tokyo asked the President of the Bank, in his personal capacity, to draft a plan for settlement of the dispute, which has existed since 1928. On April 1, 1960, Mr. Black delivered to the Metropolis of Tokyo and to the representatives of the bondholders a settlement plan as the recommended basis for agreement.
LIBYA
The Report of the General Economic Survey Mission to Libya was presented to the Government in April 1960. The Report will be published by The Johns Hopkins Press in September.
MALAYA
At the request of the Government, a Bank mission visited Malaya in May-June 1960, to assist in a review of plans for economic development.
PAKISTAN
industrial loan S10 million 10-year loan of September 25, 1959
borrower • The Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (picic)
The loan, like an earlier Bank loan of $4.2 million, is being used by picic to finance the foreign exchange requirements of private industrial projects, picic was established in September 1957 by Pakistani investors, together with British, Canadian, United States and Japanese private interests, to promote growth of private industry in Pakistan. By December, 1959, the Corporation had approved 73 loans totaling the equivalent of $16.2 million, of which 63 have been wholly or partly in foreign exchange, amounting to the equivalent of $10.6 million.
The recent revival of private investment activity in Pakistan resulted in a considerable increase in the demand on picic's resources, and it was estimated in 1959 that picic would need an additional $20 million to meet its foreign exchange requirements through 1961. This need has been met by the Bank loan of $10 million, together with a $10 million loan from the U. S. Development Loan Fund. The Bank will charge interest on each portion of its loan allocated to a particular project at the Bank's current rate of interest when the project is approved for financing.
power loan $2.4 million 15-year 6% loan of August 13,1959
borrower • Karachi Electric Supply Corporation Ltd. (kesc)
This loan financed the foreign exchange cost of a 14,700-kilowatt diesel power plant to provide rapid reinforcement of power supplies to the Karachi area. This is the third Bank loan to kesc for the expansion of its electric power facilities. The earlier loans totaled
$27.8 million and were for the construction of a 30,000-kilowatt steam power plant and the later expansion of this plant by 60,000 kilowatts. The latter, however, cannot come into operation before 1962 and in the meantime there is some shortage of power in Karachi. The Government therefore asked kesc to take emergency measures to expand its services. The first units of the new diesel plant will be in operation in August 1960.
participation . Irving Trust Company, Bank of America, Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., and The Philadelphia National Bank are participating for a total of $330,000.
railway loans $12.5 million 15-year 6% loan of November 30,1959
borrower • Pakistan
The loan will assist in meeting the minimum requirements of the Pakistan railways pending the formulation of a program of railway development to be carried out during the period of Pakistan's Second Five-Year Plan.
Pakistan has two railway systems: one is the chief form of transport in West Pakistan where traffic is growing at 6% per annum; the other system serves East Pakistan where traffic growth has been even more rapid. Despite good management, efficiency of operation has been hampered by inadequate line and yard capacity and by a shortage of signalling equipment and rolling stock.
participation • Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschap-pij, N.V. (Amsterdam), Manufacturers Trust Company and Irving Trust Company are participating for a total equivalent to $949,000.
other activities
The Bank's resident advisory mission continued its work in Pakistan during the year. One member of the mission serves as a member of the Secretariat of the Food and Agriculture Commission, which was set up during the year with Bank and fao cooperation.
In April 1960 a Bank staff member took up his assignment as adviser to the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation.
The annual growth of world demand for electric power is now so high as to require
a doubling of generating capacity every ten years.
The Bank's power loans have raised generating capacity
in countries at all stages of economic development.
On the left are the access tunnels
to the underground powerhouse
of the 400,000-kilowatt Tokke power station,
which will supply extra power
to southeast Norway, including the city of Oslo.
High in the Austrian Alps dams have been constructed, with the aid of Bank loans, to store water for use in the new power stations in the valleys below.
The Bank's largest loan for a power project, $80 million, was made in the Rhodesias and helped to finance the gigantic Kariba Dam across the Zambezi River (below). Despite great difficulties, the project was completed on time, and is already transmitting power to the Copperbelt and other industrial centers.
SAUDI ARABIA
At the request of the Government a Bank Mission visited Saudi Arabia in April/June 1960 to advise on economic development questions.
THAILAND
The Bank's resident representative in Thailand took up his post in July 1959. The Report of the Bank's General Survey Mission to Thailand was published by The Johns Hopkins Press on September 11, 1959.
UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
canal loan $56.5 million 15-year 6% loan of December 22,1959
borrower • The Suez Canal Authority
The loan is helping to meet the costs of widening and deepening the Suez Canal to accommodate ships of about 46,000 deadweight tons, compared to the present maximum of 36,000 tons. Modern harbor and communications equipment is also being purchased by the Suez Canal Authority to provide shipping with the most efficient service.
The Canal shortens the sea voyage between Asia and Western Europe by about 5,000 miles. It is one of the world's most important waterways: in 1958 at least one trip through the Canal was made by more than one-third of all ocean-going vessels and three-fifths of all oil tankers of over 4,000 gross tons. Traffic has grown steadily and now amounts to 18,000 ships and 140 million tons of cargo a year, of which 70% is oil, mainly from the Middle East. The discovery of new oilfields outside the Middle East may slow the rate of traffic growth in years to come, but the need to improve the Canal arises to a large extent from the increase in the size of tankers now seeking transit, as well as from a growing volume of traffic.
Under the loan agreement, the Suez Canal Authority will keep funds in reserve from its current revenues to provide the service for the loan. participation • Bankers Trust Company, Bank of America, The First National City Bank of New York, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, The Chase Manhattan Bank, Bank of Tokyo, Ltd., Arab Bank, Ltd., Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, The Hanover Bank and The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D. C. are participating for a total of $5,500,000.
EUROPE
AUSTRIA
industrial loan
$9 million (maximum 15 years) loan of September 25, 1959 borrower • Oesterreichische Investitionskredit, A.G.
When Investitionskredit was established in 1957 to help to meet the need for long-term capital for private industrial enterprises, the Bank assisted its initial operations with a loan of $10,765,000, which was used to finance the modernization and expansion of several concerns in the pulp, paper, paper board, textile
and electrical engineering industries. This loan was fully committed by the end of 1958.
The second loan will finance further projects to be selected by the Investitionskredit and approved by the Bank. Each part of the loan allocated for a particular project will carry the Bank's current rate of interest at the time the project is approved for financing. Similarly, separate amortization schedules will be agreed upon and determined in accordance with the circumstances of each approved project. The loan is to be fully repaid by October 1, 1974.
IRELAND
At the request of the Government, the Bank organized a Mission, in consultation with fao, to review the present agricultural situation and programs for development with special attention to the milk and pig-processing industries. The Mission began its work in June 1960, and is expected to complete its report in about four months.
ITALY
NUCLEAR POWER LOAN $40 million 20-year 6% loan of September 16,1959
borrower • Cassa per il Mezzogiorno
This was the Bank's first loan for nuclear power, and will finance 60% of the cost of constructing a 150,000-kilowatt atomic power plant on the Gari-gliano River between Rome and Naples.
The Cassa per il Mezzogiorno (Fund for the South) is re-lending the proceeds of the loan to the Societa Elettronucleare Nazionale (senn), a company established in 1957 to build, own and operate the nuclear power station. Power from the new plant will be fed into the transmission systems of senn's utility shareholders, covering about half of Italy and serving more than half the population. Power demand in the service area is growing rapidly; studies have indicated that if it is to be met, capacity should increase from 4,140,000 to 7,250,000 kilowatts in the period 19581965. A particular advantage of the senn plant will be the experience it will provide in the building and operating of nuclear power plants, which can be expected in due course to meet a growing part of the additional demand for power in Italy.
The project was the outcome of a study carried out jointly by the Italian Government and the Bank to establish the feasibility of a nuclear power plant in Southern Italy. As part of the study, tenders were
invited on an international basis and nine companies, British, French and American, submitted tenders. The plant will be built by General Electric Company of New York through a Swiss subsidiary, and will incorporate a nuclear reactor cooled and moderated by boiling water and fueled by enriched uranium. Construction of the civil works, substation and transmission lines will be carried out by senn. participation • Frankfurter Bank (Frankfurt am Main), Brinckmann, Wirtz & Co. (Hamburg), Dresdner Bank, A.G. (Frankfurt am Main), Baye-rische Hypotheken und Wechselbank (Munich) and one other European bank are participating for a total equivalent to $1,050,000.
NORWAY
power loan $20 million 25-year 6% loan of July 8,1959
borrower • Kingdom of Norway
The loan will help to finance the construction in the mountains of mid-Norway of two hydroelectric power plants with a combined capacity of 168,000 kilowatts. Half the power from the plants will supply the grid serving the Trondheim area in mid-Norway, and the remainder will be exported to Sweden. The loan will also assist the construction of 350 miles of transmission lines to reinforce and interconnect the power grids in middle and southern Norway.
The loan funds are being made available to the Norwegian Watercourse and Electricity Board, a Government agency which operates power plants with a total capacity of 1,163,000 kilowatts. The Board is also constructing other power plants which will add 680,000 kilowatts to its systems, including the 400,000-kilo-watt Tokke power plant for which the Bank made a loan of $25 million in 1956.
participation • Deutsche Bank, A.G. is participating for a total of DM 29.4 million ($6,993,000).
WESTERN HEMISPHERE
CHILE
power loan $32.5 million 25-year 6% loan of December 30, 1959 borrower . Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S. A. and Corporation de Fomento de la Production
This was the Bank's third loan to the same co-borrowers for the development of electric power in Chile. The loan will cover the foreign exchange costs of two new power plants, a hydroelectric plant in central Chile and a thermoelectric plant in the north.
The hydroelectric project includes the construction of a concrete arch dam, 300 feet high, across the Rapel River, 75 miles southwest of Santiago. Since this plant is to serve the main center of electric power demand in Chile, including Santiago and Valparaiso, it will be of large capacity — 280,000 kilowatts in four 70,000-kilowatt generators. Two hundred and twenty-five miles of transmission lines will be erected to distribute the power. A secondary use of the reservoir created by the dam will be to irrigate 25,000 acres of land in the Rapel Valley.
The thermoelectric plant is to be built at Huasco in northern Chile and will have a capacity of 15,000 kilowatts. The principal power demand in the Huasco area arises from mining, particularly iron ore, copper and manganese. The development for export of high-grade iron ore deposits has high economic priority. participation . Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank and Grace National Bank of New York are participating for a total of $175,000.
COLOMBIA
power loans
$17.6 million 25-year 6% loan of January 20, 1960 borrower . Empresa  de  Energia  Electrica de Bogota
Bogota, the capital city of Colombia and one of the chief industrial and commercial centers, has for many
years been subject to restrictions on the use of electricity. The project for which this loan was made will nearly double present capacity by adding 117,000 kilowatts of generating capacity to the system serving the city and its surrounding area. Included is a new 66,000-kilowatt hydroelectric plant and the addition of an 18,000-kilowatt unit to an existing hydroelectric plant. Both plants are on the Bogota River, which falls 6,000 feet in the first 16 miles after leaving the plateau on which the city is situated. Other works being assisted by the loan include the installation of a new 33,000-kilowatt thermoelectric plant and extensive improvement and rehabilitation of transmission and distribution facilities in the area. participation • Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank and Grace National Bank of New York are participating for a total of $691,000.
$25 million 25-year 6% loan of May 10, 1960 borrower • Corporation Autonoma Regional del Cauca (Cauca Valley Corporation) and Central Hidro-electrica del Rio Anchicaya Limitada (chidral)
The loan will cover the foreign exchange requirements of a $37 million program which will nearly double electric generating capacity in the Cauca Valley, one of the most rapidly growing industrial and agricultural areas in Colombia. A 33,000-kilowatt unit will be added to the existing thermoelectric plant at Yumbo, itself established with the aid of earlier Bank loans, and a new hydroelectric plant will be constructed on the Calima River. The underground powerhouse will have space for four generating units with a total capacity of 120,000 kilowatts; two 30,000-kilowatt units will be installed initially.
Most of the additional power from both plants will be needed to meet the increasing load in Cali, the industrial and commercial center of the Cauca Valley,
where power requirements have grown in recent years at a rate of about 16% a year. The loan will also help to finance the additional transmission lines necessary to incorporate twenty-five nearby towns and villages into chidral's transmission system and to interconnect with the system serving the Department of Caldas. participation • The Bank of New York, Manufacturers Trust Company, The Philadelphia National Bank, Grace National Bank of New York and Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank are participating for a total of $559,000.
other activities
Beginning in October, 1959, a Bank staff member was stationed in Colombia for six months at the request of the Government, to assist the Planning Department in the preparation of an investment program.
COSTA RICA
industrial loan S2 million 12-year 6% loan of May 4,1960
borrower . Central Bank of Costa Rica
The Central Bank will use this loan to provide medium and long-term credits to industrial firms for the import of capital goods. The Central Bank began a credit program in 1952 to promote the development of agriculture and light industry. Under the program, Costa Rica's commercial banks provide the credits to borrowers and in turn receive credits from the Central Bank. The program has been assisted by two earlier loans totaling $6.5 million.
Growing emphasis is now being placed on diversifying agriculture and developing new industries to reduce Costa Rica's traditional dependence on two export crops — coffee and bananas. The outlook for industrial growth, particularly in light consumer goods, is favorable. The Central Bank expects that foodstuffs industries will absorb about 30% of the funds from the new loan, the textile industry about 35% and a variety of other industries the remainder. participation • Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Grace National Bank of New York and Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank are participating for a total of $210,000.
HONDURAS
power loan $8.8 million 25-year 6% loan of June 29, 1960 borrower • Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica
The loan will help to finance the first stage of a program to develop the hydroelectric power potential of Lake Yojoa and the Rio Lindo, using the lake as a storage reservoir. The main works consist of dikes on the lake, a three-mile canal, and penstocks to carry the water to a 27,000-kilowatt powerhouse. About 175 miles of transmission lines will be built to connect the plant with the capital, Tegucigalpa, and with other towns in the northwest of Honduras. The project is scheduled for completion late in 1963, at a total cost equivalent to $14,750,000.
Electric power demand in the area is growing by about 9% a year. The new plant will be capable of meeting this growth in demand and also of being expanded at a later stage to meet larger needs. participation • The National Bank of Washington, D. C. and Grace National Bank of New York are participating for a total of $103,000.
other activities
The Bank's resident representative in Honduras completed his assignment in December, 1959.
NICARAGUA
power loan $12.5 million 25-year 6% loan of June 22,1960 borrower • Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza
The loan will help to finance the construction of a 50,000-kilowatt hydroelectric plant on the Rio Tuma and a 75-mile transmission line to bring power to the capital, Managua, and smaller towns en route. This project is among the largest of its kind in Central America and will more than double the capacity of Nicaragua's power network.
The project consists of the construction of a dam on the upper Rio Tuma on the high rainfall eastern side of the Continental Divide, creating a reservoir with a gross storage capacity of 410 million cubic meters. The water will be diverted through a tunnel
Japan needs modern highways
to keep transportation up to the tempo
of modern industrial life.
Above, work is proceeding
on Japan s first express highway
which will reduce by half
the average travel time taken to cross
the thickly populated region between
the metropolitan areas of Osaka and Kyoto.
The Bank has also made loans
for highway construction in Colombia,
where conditions are very different
from those in Japan. On the left,
a ledge is being made for one
of the new highways which are helping
to unite regions of Colombia
previously divided by the high ridges
of the Sierras.
to the powerhouse in the valley of the Rio Viejo on the drier and steeper Pacific slope of the Divide. The Bank loan will also help to finance transportation, communications and maintenance equipment as well as equipment to improve the distribution system in Managua. The total cost of the project is estimated at the equivalent of $20.8 million. participation • Grace National Bank of New York and Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank are participating for a total of $95,000.
PARAGUAY
At the request of the Government and in cooperation with FAO, the Bank sent a mission to Paraguay to examine the meat marketing system and recommend improvements. The Government has accepted in principle the mission's recommendations; the Bank has agreed to provide further assistance in working out the details for implementing them.
PERU
AGRICULTURAL LOAN $5 million 8-year 6% loan of June 1, 1960
borrower • Banco de Fomento Agropecuario del Peru
The loan will provide the foreign exchange necessary to continue the Banco's program of investment credits for the development of agriculture; the program was assisted with two previous Bank loans, each of $5 million, in 1954 and 1957. As the only source of development credit for agriculture, the Banco's program provides the necessary supplement to private investment in the improvement and expansion of agricultural production. The current program includes the improvement of irrigation facilities and more effective use of water on about 100,000 acres of land now under partial irrigation; the importation of about 500 tractors plus equipment; development of a further 15,000 acres of plantation crops; the importation of over 1,000 head of breeding stock; the erection of 1,560 miles of fencing, and the establishment of rubber, tea and coffee processing plants.
The considerable financial benefits which will be obtained from this program cannot be accurately estimated. They should be assessed on the more general grounds of the need to continue to expand agricultural output in Peru. An expansion of about 50% is needed during this decade to obtain a reasonably balanced economy, to meet the full needs of the population growth, to increase export earnings, and to avoid increases in imports of agricultural products. participation • Bank of America, The Hanover Bank, The Bank of New York, Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, and Grace National Bank of New York are participating for a total of $1,206,000.
power loan $24 million 25-year 6% loan of June 29, 1960 borrower • Lima Light and Power Company (Em-presas Electricas Asociadas)
Lima Light, a privately owned corporation which is the sole distributor of power in the Lima area, is engaged on a ten-year program to increase its generating capacity by 260,000 kilowatts. Most of the new power will come from the Huinco hydroelectric project, of which this loan is to assist the first stage, which will add 120,000 kilowatts of new capacity, and will increase by 70% the power now available in Lima, the capital and industrial center of Peru.
The project includes structures to collect and divert water from the eastern slope of the Andes to the Santa Eulalia River Basin on the western slope; a dam across the Santa Eulalia; a pressure tunnel eight miles long to a new underground powerhouse at Huinco; and the installation in the powerhouse of two 60,000-kilowatt generators. Two more generators are to be added at a later stage. New transmission lines will connect the Huinco plant with Lima, forty miles to the south-west. The first stage of the Huinco plant should come into operation toward the end of 1964. participation • Grace National Bank of New York is participating for a total of $50,000.
OTHER ACTIVITIES
The Bank's resident mission completed its assignment in March, 1960. At the request of the Government, Dr. Pieter Lieftinck, an Executive Director of the
Bank, spent six weeks in Peru early in 1960 advising the Ministry of Finance on problems of fiscal organization. The Bank's Director of Marketing also visited Peru early in the year to advise the Government on techniques of marketing bonds, in connection with a short-term Treasury issue. At the request of the Banco Industrial del Peru the Bank arranged for an expert from the United States Small Business Administration to advise on small loans procedures.
URUGUAY
livestock loan $7 million 12-year 6% loan of December 30,1959 borrower • Uruguay
The loan will assist a program to foster the use of improved methods of pasture development and livestock production. Under the program the necessary technical and financial assistance will be provided to livestock owners on a pilot group of 600 farms with a combined area of lVi million acres. The program
includes the improvement of pastures by fertilizing and re-seeding; the sub-division of farms by additional fencing to permit controlled rotation of grazing; the conservation of forage for supplemental feeding; and better control of livestock diseases.
The application of modern techniques in livestock production is of the greatest potential importance to the Uruguayan economy. In three years the pilot program now being undertaken is expected to result in a $3 million to $4 million increase in the annual income of the participating farms. Nearly all the new production will be sold abroad, with consequent increases in export earnings.
VENEZUELA
The General Survey Mission to Venezuela completed its field work by the end of 1959. The Mission's Report was still in preparation in June 1960. In the meantime Venezuelan officials had consulted the Mission on investment problems requiring immediate action.
Notes to Financial Statements
JUNE 30, 1 960
N o t e A
Amounts in currencies other than United States dollars have been translated into United States dollars:
(i) In the cases of 53 members, at the par values as specified in the "Schedule of Par Values", published by the International Monetary Fund;
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 15 members (Afghanistan, Bolivia, Canada, Chile, China, Greece, Indonesia, Korea, Malaya, Paraguay, Peru, Thailand, Tunisia, Uruguay and Viet-Nam), the par values of whose currencies are not so specified, at the rates used by such members in making payments of capital subscriptions to the Bank; and
(iii) In the case of Swiss francs, a non-member currency, at the rate of 4.2975 francs to 1 United States dollar.
No representation is made that any of such currencies is convertible into any other of such currencies at any rate or rates. See also Note B.
Note B
These currencies of the several members, and the notes issued by them in substitution for any part of such currencies as permitted under the provisions of Article V, Section 12, are derived from the portion of the subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank which is payable in the currencies of the respective members (such portion being hereinafter called restricted currency). Such restricted currencies may be loaned by the Bank, and funds received by the Bank on account of principal of loans made by the Bank out of such restricted currencies may be exchanged for other currencies or reloaned, only with the approval in each case of the member whose restricted currency is involved; provided, however, that, if necessary, after the Bank's subscribed capital is entirely called, such restricted currencies may, without restriction by the members whose currencies are offered, be used or exchanged for the currencies required to meet contractual payments of interest, other charges or amortization on the Bank's own borrowings or to meet the Bank's liabilities with respect to contractual payments on loans guaranteed by it.
Under Article II, Section 9, each member is required, if the par value of its currency is reduced or if the foreign exchange value of its currency depreciates to a significant extent in its territories, to maintain the value of the Bank's holdings of its restricted currency, including the principal
amount of any notes substituted therefor, and the Bank is required, if the par value of a member's currency is increased, to return to the member the increase in the value of such restricted currency held by the Bank. To the extent such restricted currencies are out on loan, the Bank and the members are obligated to make such payments only when such restricted currencies are recovered by the Bank. The equivalent of $12,500 is due from 2 members in order to maintain the value of their restricted currencies as required under Article II, Section 9.
Some members have converted part or all of the Bank's holdings of their restricted currency into United States dollars to be used and reused as United States dollars in the Bank's operations, subject to the right of the Bank or the member to reverse the transactions at any time, with immediate effect as to dollars then held by the Bank, and, as to dollars loaned, upon repayment of the loans. Such dollars while held by the Bank or on loan are not subject to the provisions of Article II, Section 9. Such dollars held by the Bank or repayable on loans are shown in these financial statements under "United States dollars" and, where relevant, as "unrestricted".
Note C
The principal disbursed and outstanding on loans and the accrued charges for interest, commitment fee, service charge and loan commission are receivable in United States dollars except the following amounts for which the dollar equivalent is shown:
The dollar equivalent shown as principal outstanding includes amounts which in accordance with Article II, Section 9 will be payable by members to maintain the value of their currencies when such currencies are recovered by the Bank.
Note D
The amount of commissions received by the Bank on loans made or guaranteed by it is required under Article IV, Section 6, to be set aside as a special reserve to be kept available for meeting obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. On all loans granted to date the effective rate of commission is 1 % per annum.
APPENDIX
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
JUNE 30, I960
Note E
Pursuant to action of the Board of Governors and Executive Directors the net income of the Bank has been allocated to a Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guarantees Made by the Bank; and the future net income of the Bank will, until further action by the Executive Directors or the Board of Governors, be allocated to this reserve.
Note F
In terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
Note G
Subject to call by the Bank only when required to meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. As to $15,446,320,000 the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement; as to $1,836,220,000 by a resolution of the Board of Governors.
Note H
The Bank has sold under its guarantee $69,003,844 of loans of which amount $49,808,844 has been retired. The following table sets forth the maturities of the guaranteed obligations outstanding:
General
The Board of Governors has approved applications for membership from Laos ($10 million) and Portugal ($80 million); the countries have until August 31, 1960 and November 30, 1960 respectively to accept membership. In addition the Board of Governors has approved applications for increases of Capital Stock Subscription from Chile ($23.3 million) and Colombia ($23.3 million) who have until September 15, 1960 to complete necessary action.
The Board of Governors has also approved the request of China to reduce its share subscription from $600 million to $375 million and to double the resulting subscription on substantially the same terms as those applying to the general increase which became effective on September 15, 1959. China has until August 1, 1960 to complete the necessary action.
•45-
Opinion of Independent Auditor
1710 H Street, N. W. Washington 6, D. C.
August 5, 1960
To
International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development Washington, D. C.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in terms of United States currency, the financial position of International Bank for Reconstruction and Development at June 30, 1960, and the results of its operations for the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year. Our examination of these statements was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary.