he year 1961/62 saw Bank lending reach the highest figure in any one year since it started operations. The investment activities of the Bank and its two affiliates, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the International Development Association (IDA) brought the new commitments of the group during the year to more than $1,000 million.
At the same time, the Bank continued to broaden the financial support for its operations in the capital markets of the world; IFC received new investment authority, which it was able to use in several operations; IDA continued to commit its funds rapidly, and began to widen the purposes of its financing; and the Bank took steps to increase both the amount and scope of its technical assistance. In sum, the developments of the year tended to integrate the Bank and its affiliates into a unified group of institutions offering a comprehensive service of financial and technical aid to economic development.
The total amount committed in new financing by the Bank and its affiliates in 1961/62 was $1,037 million. Bank loans were $882 million, compared with the previous highest annual total of $711 million in 1957/58. In addition, IDA made new development credits totaling $134 million; IFC's new loans and equity investments aggregated $18.4 million, and it had made an underwriting commitment of $2.9 million.
In the development of the Bank group of institutions, both IDA and IFC represent responses
to the needs of the less developed countries for new types of financing. The first move in this direction was the establishment in 1956 of IFC as a Bank affiliate, to lend to private industrial enterprises without government guarantee. With the 1961 change in its Charter, IFC now also has the right to invest in capital stock, and in the past year has acquired shares in some enterprises. It has also undertaken its first underwriting operation; this is a field of particular importance since in so many less developed countries capital markets, where they exist at all, are as yet not fully developed.
Although it has a separate Charter, and its own funds, IFC is closely integrated with the Bank. Where countries are members of both institutions, Governors and Executive Directors are the same. The President of the Bank is exofficio Chairman of the Board of Directors of IFC —and since October 1961 has also been its President. IFC, whose own staff is limited to a small number of experts in industrial investment, is able to draw on the experience of all departments of the Bank; this avoids duplication of work and ensures that IFC has available all the Bank's information on countries where an IFC operation is contemplated. Cooperation between the three institutions also works reciprocally; IFC now has primary responsibility for the promotion of industrial development banks and the analysis of proposals for their financing by IFC, the Bank and IDA, thus offering to member
countries an integrated service in that sector.
Another important step was the establishment in 1960 of the International Development Association as a second affiliate, sharing with the Bank the same management and staff. IDA extends development credits on terms which are more flexible and bear less heavily on the balance of payments of the borrowing countries than do conventional loans. In its first 14 months of lending, IDA has extended credits of $235 million to member countries. The credits made up to now are repayable over 50 years, are free of interest, and carry only a M% annual service charge. IDA helps to meet the special needs of many member countries which cannot borrow on conventional terms all the funds they require for sound development projects of high priority. It is also financing a somewhat wider range of projects than the Bank, particularly in the field of social investment.
but the financial operations of the World
Bank group of organizations are only one of the means by which it helps to promote economic development. Ever since the Bank turned in 1948 from reconstruction to development lending, it has been increasingly called on for advice on development techniques, and the technical assistance services of the Bank have become more varied and significant over the years.
The first approach adopted by the Bank to
provide other than financial assistance was the "economic survey mission" to analyze the development potential of a member country and to recommend directions in which its development effort should be concentrated. The first of these missions was in 1949, to Colombia, and it has since been followed by a score of others. Other technical assistance services of the Bank have also been steadily extended, and range from special missions on regional development to the day-to-day work of the Bank's engineers, analysts and economists visiting member countries to help them with specific projects. A staff college in economic development—the Economic Development Institute—has been operated by the Bank since 1956, and various training programs are organized for officials from the less developed countries.
1961/62 saw further extensions of Bank services in the technical assistance field. In November 1961, the President of the Bank, announcing the establishment of the new Development Services Department, said, "Our experience continues to confirm that shortage of capital is not the only, and indeed not the principal obstacle to more rapid economic progress in the less developed countries. Inexperience and lack of trained manpower at every level are even more serious handicaps. I believe that the lending activities of the Bank and of its two affiliated organizations can be carried out successfully only if they are accompanied by a major pro-
gram of technical assistance and training."
The Development Services Department administers the technical assistance work of the Bank and its liaison activities with other organizations in the field, such as the UN Technical Assistance Board; it also includes the Economic Development Institute and another new instrument set up last November, the Development Advisory Service. This Service is intended to provide a corps of experts to give economic and financial advice, particularly in development programing. In recent years there has been a growing demand from member governments for resident advisers to assist them on major policy problems of economic development. Requests for assistance of this kind have outstripped the ability of the Bank to meet them from its own staff, and it has been difficult to recruit outside experts with the required qualifications for sporadic one or two-year assignments. In setting up the Service the Bank is offering a career to qualified experts to serve as advisers to its member countries.
Since last November the Bank has been recruiting the first members of the new Service. Some have been drawn from the senior ranks of the government service of member countries and others from the Bank's staff and from the academic world. The caliber of the persons needed is high and consequently recruitment is not easy. Already, however, the nucleus of the Service has been formed and several of its members have taken up their posts overseas.
An expanded program of project and sector studies has also been embarked on during the year. Leaving aside questions of creditworthiness, the principal limitation on the Bank's rate of lending to the less developed of its member countries has been the limited number of projects or programs presented to it which were ready for financing and execution. The studies and analyses needed to prepare a project or program are often beyond the capacity of many less developed countries because of the local shortage of experience and of trained personnel. This essential preparatory work is also expensive and often involves the employment of foreign consultants with consequent costs in foreign exchange.
The Bank had occasionally, in the past, provided assistance for studies of this kind, by finding the technical expertise required and by financing part of the cost. It has now been decided that the Bank should become more active in this field, both in the investigation and preparation of particular projects for possible financing by the Bank or IDA, and where appropriate, in studying whole sectors of the economy of a member country in order to provide the basis for sound investment planning. During the past year the Bank has organized and helped to finance a variety of project and sector studies in six member countries, at a total estimated cost to the Bank of about 1800,000.
To avoid duplication with the activities of the UN Special Fund, part of whose functions is the
financing of pre-investment activities, the Bank takes steps to ascertain whether the Special Fund is in a position to undertake the project on a time schedule appropriate to its requirements, The Special Fund is kept currently informed of all Bank activities in this field.
the financial operations section of this
Report contains detailed information showing how widespread are the sources from which the Bank now draws funds for its lending operations. The situation today is very different from what it was in the early days of the Bank. During the immediate postwar period, for well known reasons, the Bank was obliged to depend on the United States for virtually all its funds. The United States paid-in capital subscription of $635 million was the first to be made freely available to the Bank for lending, and the Bank's first borrowing operation was the sale in 1947 of $250 million of Bank Bonds in the United States.
The economic recovery of other countries has since been reflected in a sustained broadening of international support for the Bank's finances. These countries have increasingly made their paid-in capital subscriptions available for lending, mostly on a convertible basis; by 1962 the capital contributions made available by members other than the United States had risen to $1,021 million. Other countries have also opened their capital markets to Bank Bond and Note
issues; at the end of June 1962, about 56% of the Bank's outstanding funded debt of $2,521 million was held by non-U.S. investors.
The market for Bank securities widens continuously. The past fiscal year saw the seventeenth issue of Bank Bonds in the United States, the first sale of Bank lire Bonds in Italy, and the eleventh public issue of Swiss franc Bonds. In addition, an issue of $100 million of dollar Bonds was placed with 53 institutional investors in 32 countries.
Investors outside the United States increased their holdings of Bank Bonds and purchased loans from the Bank during the year in an amount totaling $453 million. This represented 75% of the net amount of $611 million raised by the Bank from Bond and loan sales.
These developments are significant not only for the Bank, but also for the flow of development assistance. By offering a choice of capital markets, they enable the Bank to borrow on the most advantageous terms; they also channel through an international mechanism increasing amounts of investment capital from all the capital-exporting countries.
in recent years, the number of countries in a position to offer substantial amounts of development aid has markedly increased. At the same time, more of the less developed countries have succeeded in formulating national development
plans or large-scale priority development projects, which cannot be carried out with their own resources. The situation has called for international efforts to mobilize the potentially available assistance and to direct it where it is most needed and where it can be put to most productive use, in support of well conceived investment programs and projects. There are a number of possible techniques to this end, whose appropriateness and effectiveness vary depending upon circumstances. At the moment, international efforts are in an experimental stage, and there is a range of devices in operation. There is the informal exchange of information on the part of assisting countries and institutions; another stage is the coordination of external assistance by means of so-called "consultative groups"; and there are the international financial Consortia. The Bank's work in the field of development programing has led to its having been asked to take an active part in these efforts to mobilize and coordinate development finance. It assists the recipient countries in their planning activities and it has advised the aid-giving countries on the quality of the development programs and projects for which their aid has been sought.
Nigeria and Tunisia, during the past year, have been the subject of consultative group arrangements in which the coordination of assistance for their development has been discussed by groups of other interested countries meeting under the chairmanship of the Bank. A request
by Iran to the Bank to organize a consultative group is under consideration. Colombia and Chile have also asked the Bank to organize consultative groups; the Bank has analyzed their development plans and has suggested measures to be taken in executing them; these suggestions are now being reviewed by the Governments.
The Consortium on Aid to Pakistan met in January 1962, with the purpose of agreeing upon additional programs of aid for the second and third years of the Second Five-Year Plan, covering the period July 1961 to June 1963. The estimated aid required for the period was $945 million, of which $320 million was committed by Consortium members at a meeting in June 1961. The January meeting was successful in covering the full requirement.
There were also two meetings of the Indian Consortium during the year. It will be recalled that previous meetings of this Consortium had arrived at commitments of $2,225 million for the first two years of the Plan. A meeting of the Consortium in May adjourned for several weeks to allow the governments concerned more time to reach final decisions on further aid commitments for these two years. The Consortium was strengthened at the May meeting by the accession to membership of Austria and the Netherlands. Belgium also attended for the first time.
private investors are faced with special risks in investing abroad; in particular, it is believed by
some that the flow of private capital is considerably limited by the risks of expropriation without adequate compensation, of inability to repatriate capital or profits, and of war damage. Within the last few years there have been a number of proposals for an international scheme under which private investors could insure against these risks; these proposals were based on the belief that arrangements of this kind would accelerate the flow of private capital and increase its contribution to economic growth.
The Development Assistance Group (now the Development Assistance Committee of OECD) in July 1961 asked the Bank to prepare a study of the practicability and desirability of a multilateral guarantee system. Such a study had already been begun by the Bank and was made available to DAC on its publication in March 1962. It made no recommendations for or against a multilateral investment insurance program, noting that it was not possible to estimate the amount of additional investment which might be induced by such a scheme and that there was therefore no basis on which to judge whether governments would be justified in making financial commitments on the scale required. The report was devoted to identifying and focusing attention on the many difficult issues inherent in multilateral schemes so that they could be considered by governments. The Bank report, which has since been given preliminary consideration by DAC, is now with governments.
During the year the Bank also started a study of the desirability and practicability of establishing special institutional facilities for the conciliation and arbitration of disputes between governments and private investors. This study had been announced by the President of the Bank in his annual address to the Board of Governors in Vienna in September 1961. After general discussions on the subject in meetings of the Executive Directors, a working paper in the form of a draft convention was circulated in June for comment by member governments.
the membership of the bank rose from 68 to 75
countries during the year. Two of these countries were resuming earlier membership: the Dominican Republic rejoined in September 1961, with a capital subscription of $8 million, and the Syrian Arab Republic resumed its separate membership of the Bank in November, with a capital subscription of $20 million. The new members enrolled during the year were as follows:
As a result of these changes, and changes in the subscriptions of other members, the subscribed capital of the Bank rose to $20,485 million.
In addition, the Governors approved the admission to the Bank of Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia and Togo, and their membership awaits completion of the necessary formalities by the countries concerned. Applications for membership have also been received from 14 other countries, mostly newly independent nations of Africa. It is expected that many of these countries will become members of the Bank in the coming year.
except the United Arab Republic and South Africa. The former remains with the Department of Operations for South Asia and the Middle East, and the latter with the Department of Operations for Europe.
The continued increase in the work of the Bank and of IDA has led to a further increase in total staff, from 730 to 790. A total of 53 nationalities are represented.
there were several changes in the Bank's organization during the year. The new Development Services Department absorbed the Technical Assistance and Planning Staff. Mr. Richard H. Demuth became Director of the new Department, with Mr. Michael Hoffman as Associate Director in charge of the Development Advisory Service. Mr. John H. Adler succeeded Mr. Hoffman as Director of the Economic Development Institute.
In view of the considerable workload which is likely to arise from African operations in the immediate future, a separate Department of Operations for Africa was established, with Mr. Pierre L. Moussa as its Director. The new Department took over responsibility for operations in all independent countries in Africa,
The Roseires Dam is now being built across the Blue Nile in southern Sudan, with the help of Bank and IDA loans. The dam will be ten miles long and will take six years to build. The picture shows the construction of a bridge at the dam site.
THE YEAR'S LENDING
The total of new Bank loans was $882.3 million, compared with the previous highest level of $711 million; 29 new loans were made, raising the total number to 321 and the total amount to $6,544 million, net of cancellations and refund-ings. Including three new recipients of Bank loans —Ghana, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela —the number of countries or territories which have received Bank loans rose to 60 during the year.
The Americas received the largest amount of new loans with a total of $412 million, which can be measured against the previous highest figure of $148 million lent in 1960/61. New loans in Asia and the Middle East totaled $253 million; in Africa $85.3 million; and in Australia and Europe $132 million.
Loans for electric power accounted for $493.5 million, more than half of the total lent. The bulk of this amount was in three of the largest loans yet made by the Bank: a $95 million loan for power in the Buenos Aires area of Argentina; a loan of $100 million for the Snowy Mountains project in Australia; and a loan of $130 million for the expansion of Mexico's generating and transmitting facilities. Other borrowers for power were Colombia, Ghana, the Philippines,
South Africa, and Trinidad and Tobago.
Loans for transport facilities totaled $241 million. Of this, lending for highway development was the largest element, with loans to Colombia, Costa Rica, Japan, Mexico, Peru and Venezuela totaling $150.5 million. Lending for railway projects in India and South Africa amounted to $61 million; loans totaling $29.5 million were made for port projects in India and the Philippines.
Industrial lending amounted to $134.5 million. Two important loans were made to assist coal production in India, where the success of the current Five-Year Plan depends on an adequate coal supply. Indian industry will also benefit from a further loan to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation, providing foreign exchange for the expansion of private industry. Other industrial development bank loans were to Austria, Costa Rica and Ethiopia, all of which had previously received similar loans. A loan of $25 million provided further Bank assistance for Finland's pulp and paper industry, and Israel received a loan of $25 million to develop the potash deposits of the Dead Sea.
A loan of $2.9 million was made to Ethiopia for telecommunications and a loan of $2 million was made to Iceland to expand the hot water supply system in Reykjavik. Although many of the loans of the year, particularly those for highways, were of assistance to agriculture, the only loan made directly for that purpose was of $8.4 million for land settlement in Kenya.
FINANCIAL OPERATIONS
The new loans of the year brought the cumulative total of Bank loans, net of cancellations and refundings, to $'6,544 million, of which $4,805 million had been disbursed at June 30, 1962. Of the latter amount, $1,874 million had been repaid to the Bank or sold to other investors. The effective loans held at June 30 stood at $4,434 million, $438 million more than a year before.
Net earnings (exclusive of receipts from the 1% annual commission payable on all Bank loans) were $70 million, an increase of $7 million over the previous year and the highest earnings figure yet reached. Sales of Bank loans, all made without the Bank's guarantee, reached $319 million, also the highest figure yet reached. The total was made up of $32 million of participations, where other investors assumed parts of Bank loans at the time the loans were signed, and of $287 million of sales from the Bank's loan portfolio. Disbursements on loans were $485 million. Net borrowing was $292 million, bringing outstanding funded debt to $2,521 million.
reserves,  income,  repayments and interest
rate At June 30, 1962, the Bank's total reserves, comprising the Supplemental Reserve
and the Special Reserve, stood at $699 million, an increase of $97 million during the year. The Supplemental Reserve, accumulated from net earnings, stood at $476 million at the end of the fiscal year, compared with $408 million a year earlier. The increase of $68 million consists of the $70 million of net earnings, less $2 million representing losses resulting from revaluation of the Bank's holdings of the currencies of various member countries, debited directly to the Supplemental Reserve. The Special Reserve, which is held in liquid form to meet liabilities of the Bank in case of defaults, and to which are credited receipts from the 1% annual loan commission, increased by $30 million to $223 million.
Gross income for the year, excluding loan commissions, was $188 million, an increase of $21 million over the previous year. Bond and Note interest and issue costs rose to $99 million from $88 million. Administrative costs also increased, to $12.7 million from $12 million in 1960/61. Almost $2 million of these costs were for services to member countries, including general survey missions, project and sector studies, mediation, training programs and other advisory services.
Repayments to the Bank amounted to $104 million and repayments to other investors holding maturities of Bank loans were $122 million; the total of $226 million compared with $191 million a year before. The rate of interest on new Bank loans, including the 1% annual commission, remained at 5M% throughout the year.
disbursements and sales of loans The year's disbursements were $485 million, compared with $398 million the year before. The following table shows the distribution by countries of the orders placed by Bank borrowers using Bank loan funds. The normal procedure is for borroweis to place their orders on the basis of international competition, and the table illustrates the wide distribution which results.
Italy's first nuclear power plant, on the Garigliano River between Rome and Naples, is now nearing completion. This 150,000-kilowatt plant, partly financed by a $40 million Bank loan, will begin to supply power by mid-1963.
There continued to be an active market for portions of Bank loans; sales during the year totaled $319 million. In the past three years, these sales have totaled almost $800 million.
the year's borrowing There were five new borrowing transactions during the year, all but one of them outside the United States. The amount borrowed was the equivalent of $270.5 million. In addition, the Bank received $130 mil-ion in dollars and the equivalent of $62.5 million in Deutsche marks as a result of borrowing transactions arranged in previous years. The gross increase in debt was therefore $463 million.
The first borrowing operation, in July 1961, was the first Bank borrowing in the Italian market. It consisted of a public offering of 5% lire Bonds totaling Lit. 15,000 million ($24 million). The Bonds were sold at par with a final maturity of 15 years. The Bank of Italy headed the syndicate of seven underwriting banks, the others being Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, Banco di Napoli, Banco di Sicilia, Banca Commerciale Italiana, Credito Italiano and Banco di Roma.
On August 28, the Bank placed outside the United States a $100 million issue of U.S. dollar Bonds with 53 institutional investors in 32 countries. These are the "Two-Year Bonds of 1961" and bear interest at 4%.
The next two borrowings were in Switzerland. In October 1961 the Bank announced that it had
arranged to borrow Sw F 100 million (about $23 million) from the Government of the Swiss Confederation. This was the fifth direct placement in Switzerland and the third with the Confederation. The -proceeds were made available to the Bank in two installments of Sw F 50 million each, on November 1,1961 and January 1, 1962. Interest of 3M% is payable annually, and the loan will be repaid in two equal installments on January 1, 1966 and January 1, 1968.
On January 5, 1962, a public issue of Sw F 100 million (about $23 million) of Bank Bonds was sold on the Swiss market. The Bonds were sold at par, carrying 4% interest, for a term of 11 years. This was the eleventh public issue in Switzerland; the underwriting group was headed by the Swiss Credit Bank, the Union Bank of Switzerland and the Swiss Bank Corporation.
The last transaction of the year was the Bank's first public issue in the U.S. market since February 1960. On January 24, 1962, an underwriting group of investment firms and commercial banks, headed jointly by The First Boston Corporation and Morgan Stanley & Co., sold at par $100 million of AXA% 20-year Bonds.
The following Table summarizes these transactions and also shows redemptions, sinking fund purchases, and other repayments of past borrowings. The result was a net increase in the Bank's outstanding funded debt of $292.3 million.
Also sold during the year, but omitted from the Table because settlement did not take place
until after June 30, was a public issue of Netherlands guilder Bonds in the amount of f 40,000,000 (approximately $11 million). These 43^% 20-year Bonds were sold at 99J/2 to the public. The Netherlands Trading Society (Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij, N.V.) headed the underwriting group.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Mention has been made earlier in this Report of increased Bank financing of project and sector studies in member countries. During the year financial assistance has been given to six of these studies, including a general transportation study in Colombia, a highway and transport study in Peru, a railway survey in Bolivia, port studies in Haiti and Honduras, and a survey of the capital market in Chile. Funds have been allocated for a study for a bridge over the Hooghly River in Calcutta, a general transportation study in Ecuador, an investigation of a water supply project in the Philippines, a study of feeder roads in northeast Nigeria and a report on a road project in Burma. The estimated cost to the Bank of these studies will be approximately $1.7 million, of which more than $1 million will be spent in the coming year.
The Bank continued to act during the year as Executing Agency for projects receiving financial assistance from the UN Special Fund. In all cases this work is carried out under Bank supervision by outside consultants chosen jointly by the Bank and the country concerned. A report on the project for a dam on the River Niger and a major study of transportation problems in Argentina were completed. Work continued dur-
ing the year on two harbor siltation studies, one at the Port of Georgetown in British Guiana and the other at the Port of Bangkok in Thailand. Work also continued on the power and irrigation study in Guatemala and a mineral survey in Surinam. Preparations are being made to start a power study in Brazil. The Bank is to act as Executing Agency in a telecommunications study for Central America, the countries concerned being Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama. The Bank has also agreed to serve as Executing Agency in studies of coal resources in the Cauca Valley of Colombia, and of electric power in the Sudan.
By the end of the fiscal year a number of Bank advisers were in posts overseas. A resident adviser continued to assist the Government of Nigeria and a two-man advisory mission had been posted in Chile. Panama was using the services of both an investment program adviser and an agricultural expert. In Thailand, three advisers were assisting the National Economic Development Board and two others were helping the North East Committee. The advisory mission in Pakistan was continued.
The Report of the General Survey Mission to Uganda was published in April 1962. The Kenya Mission Report is in preparation. The report of the Economic Mission to the Philippines was transmitted to the Government early in 1962. The mission to assist the Spanish
Government in the preparation of a development program was completing its report at the end of the fiscal year.
A Bank-financed study is being carried out at the request of the Government of the Congo (Leopoldville) and with the full support of the Belgian Government. This is a factual study of the financial relationships between the two countries, following on Congo independence. The personnel working on the study are being assisted in assembling the material by outside firms of accountants. The study is expected to be completed by August of this year.
The seventh course of the Economic Development Institute, the Bank's staff college on economic development, took place from October 1961 until March 1962. A total of 143 officials from member countries and five from the Bank have attended the regular courses of the Institute since it opened in January 1956. A new departure during the year was the holding of the first EDI course in the French language. This was a special ten-week course, with emphasis on project appraisal, for French-speaking officials of less developed countries. Eighteen officials participated from 13 countries. A similar course, to be conducted in Spanish, is at present under consideration.
Last year's Report mentioned the assembly of libraries on development problems, consisting of approximately 400 books, articles and papers in English. Ninety-three of these libraries were dis-
tributed during the year to institutions in the less developed countries. Progress has now been made in the preparation of similar libraries in the French language and the work of translation and production is proceeding.
The training program for junior officials from the Bank's member countries was continued, nine trainees from nine countries taking part in 1962. This program has been in operation since 1949, and by this year 120 participants from 60 countries had taken its courses. The purpose of the program is to provide an opportunity for younger nationals of member countries—usually officials employed in the field of economic development—to understand better the work of the Bank and its relation to economic development.
Senior officials
from less developed countries all over the world gather in Washington for the courses of the Economic Development Institute.
The Institute seminars discuss all the problems of economic development.
annex The information in this section describes loans and other Bank activities during the year. Loans to borrowers other than member governments carry the guarantee of the governments concerned. Interest rates shown include the 1% commission which is allocated to the Bank's Special Reserve. The participations of financial institutions in loans of the year were all without the Bank's guarantee.
ethiopia/industrial loan
$2 million 10-14 year loan of November 22, 1961
borrower • The Development Bank of Ethiopia (DBE)
This loan, like a $2 million Bank loan to the Government of Ethiopia in 1950, will make it possible for DBE to finance the foreign exchange requirements of industrial and agricultural projects in the private sector. Established in 1951, with the help of the Bank, to provide medium and long-term credit, DBE has since made loans amounting to the equivalent of about $10 million. The greater part of the industrial loans were for textile mills, and the remainder were for plants manufacturing a variety of products; agricultural loans were for projects ranging from land clearing to transport of crops.
Each portion of the loan committed for one of DBE's projects will carry its own interest rate,
which will be the Bank's rate current at the time the commitment is made.
telecommunications loan
$2.9 million 20-year 5%% loan of May 31, 1962
borrower • Imperial Board of
Telecommunications
A previous Bank loan of $1.5 million, made in 1951, helped Ethiopia to reconstruct and improve its communications system. A strong demand for increased service has developed as a part of Ethiopia's economic growth, and this loan will assist a new program to extend communications. Over 50 new exchanges will be installed to bring the first telephone service to provincial towns with a total population of over 150,000. About 1,000 new lines will be added to the automatic exchanges in Addis Ababa and additions will be made to the radio-telephone and telegraph equipment connecting the capital city with cities in Africa, Europe, Asia and the Western Hemisphere. A successful training program provided by the Swedish Telephone and Telegraph Administration has reduced the number of foreign technicians employed by the Imperial Board from 100 to 12, and the entire management of the Imperial Board is expected to be Ethiopian in the near future. participations • Bank of America, San Francisco; First National City Bank, New York; and Irving Trust Company, New York participated in the loan for a total of $128,000.
Ghana/power loan
$47 million 25-year 5%% loan of February 8, 1962
borrower . The Volta River Authority
A large dam on the Volta River at Akosombo, and a hydroelectric power plant with an initial capacity of 589,000 kilowatts will be constructed with the help of this loan, together with a transmission system. The transmission lines will run from Akosombo to the seaport of Tema, 44 miles away, and then a further 18 miles to Accra, the capital; a separate ring of transmission lines, approximately 400 miles long, will supply power to towns, villages and mines in southern Ghana.
The loan forms part of an international financing program that will make possible construction not only of the electric power project, but also of an aluminum smelter which will be the largest single consumer of the power produced. Additional financing for the power project will be provided by long-term loans totaling $37 million from the United States Government and the equivalent of $14 million from the United Kingdom. The Government of Ghana will itself invest the equivalent of up to $98 million in the power project.
The aluminum smelter, to be located at Tema, will have an annual capacity of 100,000 to 150,000 tons, and will cost well over $100 million. It will be built and operated by Volta Aluminium Company, Limited (VALCO), formed by two large American aluminum producers, which will have a substantial equity
Africa
interest in the smelter. The smelter project will also be assisted by loans and guarantees provided by the United States Government.
kenya/agricultural loan
$8.4 million 20-year loan of November 29, 1961
borrower . Kenya
This loan, which is guaranteed by the United Kingdom, will assist the Kenya Government's program to increase agricultural production and to implement the policy of opening up land to farmers of all races. Within a three-year period, the Government plans to settle qualified farmers, mainly Africans, on approximately 180,000 acres of land, and to provide them with credit facilities, technical assistance and farm training.
The Bank loan will be used for farm development purposes only, such as water supplies, fencing, access roads, farm buildings and the planting of cash crops. As a result of more intensified cultivation, the gross annual value of production from 180,000 acres of land is expected to increase gradually from the present value, equivalent to $2.5 million, to $10 million, the greater part of which will be cash income for African farmers.
The program is to be carried out through sub-projects. When a portion of the Bank's loan is committed for a sub-project, it will carry interest at the rate then prevailing for Bank loans.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Report of the General Economic Survey Mission is in preparation.
nigeria
The Bank acted as Executing Agency for the UN Special Fund project to study the feasibility of a large multipurpose dam near Kainji, about 600 miles from the mouth of the Niger River. The final report of the consultants has been sent to the Special Fund and to the Government.
At the request of the Nigerian Government, the Bank staff member who is serving as Economic Adviser will continue in his post for another year.
The Bank has agreed to pay half of the cost of a survey by consultants of the feeder road program in northeast Nigeria.
south africa/railway loan
$11 million 10-year 5%% loan of December 1, 1961 borrower . South Africa
This loan will help to meet the current investment requirements of a large program of railway expansion and modernization which the South African Railways and Harbours Administration has been carrying out since 1947. Earlier Bank loans totaling $136.8 million assisted the program, and the new loan will cover part of the foreign exchange requirements for 1961-63.
About 80% of the mining and industrial freight of South Africa goes by rail and further invest-
ment in the railways is essential to economic growth. The current expansion program involves an increase in capacity, the elimination of traffic bottlenecks and progressive dieselization. participations • The New York Agency of Barclays Bank D.C.O.; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York; Bank of America, San Francisco; the New York Agency of The Bank of Montreal; Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D.C. were among the banks participating in the loan for a total of $1,966,000.
power loan
$14 million 10-year 5%% loan of December 1, 1961
borrower • The Electricity Supply Commission (ESCOM)
ESCOM provides about three-quarters of all the electricity used in South Africa. The loan will assist the expansion of the generating and transmission system which serves the Cape Northern, Rand, Orange Free State, and Eastern Transvaal regions, the country's most heavily industrialized and mining areas.
ESCOM's expansion program in these areas includes the construction of the new Komati power station in Eastern Transvaal, with an initial capacity of 750,000 kilowatts; the expan-
sion of the Highveld power station in the Orange Free State by the addition of 120,000 kilowatts;
and 314 circuit miles of high voltage transmission lines with associated substations. participations . The New York Agency of Barclays Bank D.C.O.; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; the New York Agency of The Bank of Montreal; Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D.C. were among the banks participating in the loan for a total of $1,925,000.
swaziland/ida credit
On March 14, 1962, the International Development Association extended a credit of $2,800,000 for highway construction. Details are given in the Annual Report of IDA.
uganda
The Report of the General Economic Survey Mission to Uganda was published in April.
Railway development in Nigeria is being assisted by a 1958 Bank loan of $28 million. The program includes a new 400-mile railroad from central Nigeria to the northeast frontier. In this photograph, the men are digging a culvert to run under the neiv line.
19
The busy Port of Calcutta
has been assisted by two Bank loans to relieve congestion and to maintain deep-water access for large ships.
The Bank has decided to pay a substantial part of the cost of (a) a project study of a 110-mile west-east highway between Prome and Toungoo in central Burma, and (b) consultant services to advise on the reorganization of the National Highway Department.
CHina/ida credits
The following credits were extended to China: Harbor Dredging
August 30, 1961 .... $ 2,200,000 Ground Water Development
August 30, 1961 .... $ 3,700,000 Municipal Water Supply
September 6, 1961 . . . $ 4,400,000 Development of Private Industry
December 1, 1961  .... $ 5,000,000
$15,300,000
Details are given in the Annual Report of IDA.
india/industrial loan
$35 million 15-year 5M% loan of August 9, 1961 borrower • India
Despite an increase of over 40% in the annual production of coal during the Second Five-Year Plan period, the industrial goals of the Third Five-Year Plan require that coal production must be increased from 55 million tons in 1961 to 97 million tons in 1966. This loan will make available foreign exchange needed by private coal mining companies for equipment to expand their production of high quality coal. The companies will obtain the foreign exchange by purchasing the required amounts for rupees from the Indian Government. Several hundred private collieries are participating in the program, and intend to increase their annual production from 44 million tons to 61 million tons. participations • Bank of America, San Francisco; Irving Trust Company, New York; Wells Fargo Bank American Trust Company, San Francisco; and the New York Agency of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation participated in the loan for a total of $875,000.
industrial loan
$19.5 million 12-year 5%% loan of December 22,1961
borrower • The Indian Iron and Steel Company, Limited (IISCO)
In the last ten years, IISCO has carried out two large expansion programs with the assist-
ance of two Bank loans totaling $51.5 million. Its capacity for production of finished steel products has been raised from 350,000 to 800,000 tons annually. The new level of production has brought problems in securing steady supplies of high quality coking coal. Accordingly, this Bank loan will be used to provide the foreign exchange required by IISCO to increase its own coal production from 260,000 to 2,200,000 tons annually. New mines will be opened and existing ones expanded; aerial ropeways will be installed to transport the coal to the company's steel works at Burnpur in the Damodar Valley.
The new installations will enable IISCO to meet its requirements of coking coal from its own collieries, and the use of ropeway transportation will relieve congestion of the railways in this heavily industrialized region. participations • Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company and The Philadelphia National Bank were among the banks participating in the loan for a total of $400,000,
industrial loan
$20 million 15-year loan of February 28, 1962
borrower . The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India, Limited (ICICI)
Like earlier Bank loans totaling $40 million, this loan will provide foreign exchange resources to ICICI, a privately owned development bank
ASIA AND
THEMIDDLE, EAST
established in 1955 with advice and assistance from the Bank to promote the growth of private industry in India. By helping to maintain the rapid rate of expansion of private industry, the loan should contribute toward the achievement of targets for employment and production embodied in the Third Five-Year Plan.
ICICI is owned by private investors of India, the United Kingdom, the United States and Germany, and makes long and medium-term loans and equity investments. In its seven years of operations, ICICI has lent or invested 427 million rupees (equivalent to $90 million) in 133 concerns, including electrical, chemical, textile, fertilizer, paper, glass and building materials.
Interest will be applied to each part of the
loan at the Bank's current rate when that part is committed for one of ICICI's projects.
port loan
$21 million 25-year 5%% loan of August 17, 1961 borrower • The Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta
The Port of Calcutta serves India's largest industrialized region. Because of its location, 120 miles from the sea on the changing and treacherous River Hooghly, the Port needs a large fleet of dredging and navigational craft. At present, owing to siltation, ships of 10,000-deadweight tons or more are unable to enter the Port when fully loaded. Equipment purchased with the
loan should increase dredging capacity to make it possible to keep the Port accessible throughout the year for ships drawing up to 26 feet.
About 20 floating craft, including dredges, will be purchased, together with equipment to improve Port efficiency. The loan will also finance the foreign exchange costs of setting up a Hydraulic Study Department to help solve the problem of siltation and to determine the feasibility of a satellite port downstream at Haldia. participations • Wells Fargo Bank American Trust Company, San Francisco; the New York Agency of The Chartered Bank; Irving Trust Company, New York; Mercantile Bank, Limited, London; the New York Agency of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation;
and Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, . Philadelphia participated in the loan for a total of $1,086,000.
railway loan
$50 million 20-year 5%% loan of October 13, 1961
borrower • India
This is the ninth loan made by the Bank for improvement and expansion of the Indian Railways; the $378 million lent by the Bank for this purpose is by far the largest amount it has lent anywhere for a single project. The loan will help to meet the foreign exchange cost of equipment and materials to be imported during 1962.
The Indian railway system, one of the largest in the world, handles the bulk of long-distance freight and passenger traffic in the country and has consistently operated profitably. Emphasis over the next few years will be placed on raising traffic capacity by equipping the system to run heavier trains at higher speeds. More diesel locomotives are to be bought, 1,300 route-miles of track electrified, large capacity freight cars acquired, heavier track laid, and improvements made in workshops, bridges, traffic and signaling. participations • Bank of America, San Francisco; First National City Bank, New York; Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York; Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, Philadelphia; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and American
Express Company participated in the loan for a total of $1,175,000.
ida credits
The International Development Association extended the following credits to India: Tubewell Irrigation
September 6, 1961 . . . .$ 6,000,000 Shetrunji Irrigation
November 22, 1961 ... $ 4,500,000 Salandi Irrigation
November 22, 1961     .    .    . $ 8,000,000 Punjab Flood Protection and Drainage
November 22, 1961 ... $10,000,000 Durgapur Power Extension
February 14, 1962 . . . . $18,500,000 Sone Irrigation Project
June 29, 1962 ..... $15,000,000
$62,000,000
Details are given in the Annual Report of IDA.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank has decided to pay at least half the cost of a study looking toward a new bridge across the Hooghly River to carry motor traffic between Calcutta and the heavily industrialized area to the west of the city.
iran
The obligation whereby the Bank recruited technical experts for the Plan Organization has
now been terminated, but the Bank will continue to be responsible for payment of the experts out of government funds until September 1962.
israel/industrial loan
$25 million 15-year 5%% loan of July 11, 1961
borrower . Dead Sea Works, Ltd. (Mifalei Yam Hamelah B.M.)
This loan will help to finance the expansion of chemical production at Sodom on the Dead Sea. The largest increase will be in potash; annual output will be. increased almost fourfold from the present 150,000 tons. When the expansion program is completed, the company's output of chemicals will rank second only to citrus fruit as a source of foreign exchange earnings.
Dead Sea Works, Ltd., was formed in 1952 by the Government of Israel; a majority of the share capital is now held by private investors. Immediately prior to the signing of the Bank loan, the company's capital structure was strengthened by the receipt of over I £27 million from the sale of an issue of ordinary shares to the public. Under the program, the company will build dikes to enclose about 38 square miles of the Dead Sea for use as pans in which brine will be concentrated by solar evaporation before processing in refineries ashore. In addition to a large new potash refinery, facilities will be built or enlarged to produce bromine and various bromine derivatives and table salt.
The gigantic Yankee Dam in northeast Thailand will be 500 feet high, and will store great quantities of water to irrigate Thailand's fertile central plain.
Assisted by a $66 million Bank loan, the project will also generate Thailand's first large-scale supplies of electric power.
japan/highway loan
$40 million 23-year 5%% loan of November 29,1961 borrower • Japan Highway Public Corporation (Nihon Doro Kodan)
In the past five years road traffic in Japan has doubled, and there is great need for modern express highways.
This loan will help to finance completion of the express highway being built between Kobe and Nagoya, the most densely industrialized area in Japan. A Bank loan of $40 million was made in March 1960 for the first 45-mile section of the new highway, and the present loan will be used to complete the Expressway over its entire planned length of 115 miles.
The Expressway will be a four-lane, divided, limited access highway. The sections now to be built consist of a five-mile extension from Amagasaki to Nishinomiya and a 65-mile extension from Ritto to Ichinomiya. Construction will be to modern design standards and will include earthworks, bridges, viaducts, tunnels, paving, interchanges, service areas, bus stops, toll stations, traffic control facilities and other works. participations • The New York Agency of The Toronto-Dominion Bank; The National Shawmut Bank of Boston; First Wisconsin National Bank of Milwaukee; Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company; and Bayerische Hypotheken-und Wechsel-Bank, Munich participated in the loan for a total equivalent to $1,183,000.
jordan/ida credit
On December 22, 1961, the International Development Association extended a credit of $2 million for the Amman water supply project. Details are given in the Annual Report of IDA.
pakistan/lDA credits
The International Development Association extended the following credits to Pakistan: Dacca Irrigation Project
October 19, 1961 . . . . $ 1,000,000 Inland Ports Project
November 22, 1961 ... $ 2,000,000 Khairpur Irrigation Project
June 29, 1962 .....$18,000,000
$21,000,000
Details are given in the Annual Report of IDA.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank continued to station staff members in Pakistan, serving both as advisers and as resident representatives. The Bank adviser to the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited (PICIC) completed his assignment at the end of March.
philippines/port loan
$8.5 million 17-year 5M% loan of July 26, 1961
borrower • Republic of the Philippines
The 7,100 islands of the Philippines are scattered over an area stretching 1,200 miles from north to south, and some 700 miles from east to west. There are some 350 public ports, of which 25 are ports of entry for ships engaged in foreign
trade, and traffic includes about 5,700 ships calling each year to load exports or discharge imports. The economy of the Philippines, therefore, depends heavily upon keeping the harbors open. This has been increasingly difficult in recent years: formidable arrears of dredging have accumulated, partly because of wartime neglect, partly because of inadequate equipment, and partly because harbor extensions have enlarged the areas which must be kept clear.
These arrears are now being tackled by a ten-year dredging program, which should restore and maintain an adequate depth of water in the major harbors of the Philippines, and make needed improvements. The Bank's loan will finance six dredges, a crane, and other equipment needed for the program. participations • The New York Agency of The Chartered Bank; the New York Agency of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation; Bank of America, San Francisco; The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York; First National City Bank, New York; Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York; and National Bank of Commerce of Seattle participated in the loan for a total of $920,000.
power loan
$34 million 25-year 5%% loan of October 13, 1961 borrower • National Power Corporation of the Philippines (NPC)
Manila, on the island of Luzon, is the principal industrial complex of the Philippines, as well
as the capital city. Electric power demand in the Manila area has been growing so rapidly in recent years that the rationing of power has remained necessary in spite of the addition of successive new power plants. The same rate of increase in demand is expected to continue over the next decade and the National Power Corporation (NPC) has embarked on a large-scale program to try to install the necessary new capacity. An earlier loan from the Bank helped to finance the Binga hydroelectric plant on the Agno River, with installed capacity of 100,000 kilowatts. New transmission lines covering the 120 miles to Manila were also included in the project. This new loan will finance a larger project about 25 miles northeast of the capital, where a 410-feet high dam will be constructed across the Angat River. The capacity of the main power station at the dam will be 200,000 kilowatts, and a 6,000-kilowatt generator will also be built at the outlet of a diversion channel. participations • The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York; Irving Trust Company, New York; Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York; Wells Fargo Bank American Trust Company, San Francisco; Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago; First National City Bank, New York; National Bank of Commerce of Seattle; Crocker-Anglo National Bank, San Francisco; The Philadelphia National Bank; The Marine Midland Trust Company of New York; Girard Trust Corn
Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $1,217,000.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank has agreed to pay half the cost of a study of water supplies to the Manila area; by the end of the fiscal year consultants had been selected jointly by the Philippine Government and the Bank. The Economic Mission to the Philippines delivered a summary of its report to the Government early in 1962. The Bank has also agreed to provide short-term advisers to the Philippine Government to assist in following up the work of the Mission.
thailand
The Bank staff member serving as resident representative in Thailand continues in his post. In addition, at the request of the Government the Bank has posted two advisory groups in Thailand, one to advise the National Economic Development Board and the second to advise the Committee for the Development of the Northeast, a low-income area receiving special attention. The UN Special Fund study of (a) the siltation problem at the Port of Bangkok and (b) the economic feasibility of building another port at Sri Racha on the Gulf of Thailand, was started during the year, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency. The field studies are in progress, to be followed by model investigations which will last a further three years.
austria/industrial loan $5 million 15-year 5%% loan of June 15, 1962 borrower • Oesterreichische Investitionskredit, A.G. (IVK)
Investitionskredit provides long-term capital to private industry in Austria, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises. It was established in 1957 for the immediate purpose of providing a channel for a previous Bank loan of $9.3 million for the expansion and modernization of a number of selected industrial enterprises. A second loan, of $9 million, was made to IVK by the Bank in 1959. From the outset, however, it was intended to build IVK into an independent investment institution, and it has now become an accepted part of the Austrian capital market, drawing its other funds from Austrian government holdings of counterpart funds, and from borrowing abroad. IVK is one of the main
EUROPE
sources to which private industry can turn for long-term capital, since the resources of the capital market are largely taken up by issues of the Government, municipalities and public utilities. IVK has now lent about $25 million for 55 different projects mainly in the following industries: paper, cardboard, textiles, electrical, building materials, chemicals and clothing.
The new Bank loan will assist IVK to continue its lending program. The loan will be disbursed as funds are required by IVK for disbursement of its own loans to industrial enterprises. participations • Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York, participated in the loan for a total of $585,000.
finland/industrial loan
$25 million 15-year 5%% loan of August 9, 1961
borrower . Mortgage Bank of Finland Oy
The proceeds of this loan will be re-lent by the Mortage Bank of Finland Oy, a subsidiary of the Bank of Finland, to seven private companies in the pulp and paper industry. The companies will use the funds to expand and modernize their facilities for the production of sulphate and sulphite pulp, newsprint, high-grade printing papers and kraft paper. The projects to be financed constitute a major part of the industry's current investment program, and are expected to increase Finland's net export earnings by about $56 million annually.
About 40% of the loan will be allocated to three companies for the production of sulphate pulp; another 40% will enable two newsprint mills to install modern newsprint machines; about 13% will be allocated to a company for the construction of pulp and paper mills; and the remainder will be used by a sulphite pulp manufacturer for a rationalization program to reduce costs and improve quality. The total cost of the seven projects involved is estimated at $113 million equivalent, of which the companies themselves will provide about four-fifths from their own resources and other borrowings. participations . Irving Trust Company, New York; The Toronto-Dominion Bank, New York Agency; Bank of America, San Francisco; The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York; Central National Bank of Cleveland; J. Henry Schroder Banking Corp., New York; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., New York; Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; Grace National Bank, New York; Bankierskantoor Staal & Co., N.V., The Hague; Brinckmann, Wirtz & Co., Hamburg; Deutsche Bank, A.G., Frankfurt; Bankhaus Neelmeyer & Co., Bremen; Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij, N.V., Amsterdam; Berliner Bank, A.G., Berlin; Dresdner Bank, A.G., Frankfurt; and Vereinsbank in Hamburg participated in the loan for $1,707,000.
iceland/hot water supply
$2 million 18-year 5%% loan of February 14, 1962
borrower . Iceland
Reykjavik, the capital of Iceland, is located in an area of volcanic activity where there are many natural hot springs. Since 1930, a unique system has been developed whereby water from the springs and from wells drilled in the area is distributed to houses and buildings in the city, and used both for space heating and as hot tap water. The present system, which serves about two-thirds of the buildings in Reykjavik, is being extended to serve most of the rest of the city. The loan will help to finance this extension; it involves the laying of over 30 miles of distribution mains, service connections from the street mains to individual buildings, and a well-drilling program to develop additional hot water sources. The extension will lower heating costs and reduce the country's requirements for fuel oil imports, effecting savings in foreign exchange which should gradually rise to $1.5 million annually. The Government will re-lend the proceeds of the loan to the City of Reykjavik for the account of the Hot Water Supply System. participations • The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York; Chemical Bank New York Trust Company; First National City Bank, New York; and Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York participated in the loan for a total of $95,000.
AUSTRALIA
power loan
$100 million 25-year 5%% loan of January 23, 1962
borrower . Australia
The proceeds of this loan will be re-lent by the Government to the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority to finance part of the cost of the Snowy Mountains scheme, a large power and irrigation project in southeastern Australia. Situated near the highest portion of the Great Dividing Range in New South Wales, the Snowy Mountains scheme provides for the diversion of two eastern rivers to the western slope of the watershed. Tunnels will carry the water to join the Murray and Murrumbidgee Rivers, which flow westward for more than a thousand miles through important farming areas. Work on the first stage was started in 1949, and the entire scheme is scheduled for completion in 1975 at a total cost estimated at the equivalent of $900
million. When completed, the project will provide a total capacity of 2.5 million kilowatts of power to the electricity systems of the States of New South Wales and Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory. In addition, about 2 million more acre-feet of water a year will be provided for irrigation.
The first stage of the scheme is already almost complete and three power plants have been constructed with a combined capacity of 660,000 kilowatts. The Bank loan will help to finance construction of part of the second stage which should be finished in 1967. The works to be undertaken with the help of Bank funds include the construction of three large dams, tunnels and pressure pipelines and the 760,000-kilowatt Murray No. 1 hydroelectric plant. On completion of the project, the water available for irrigation on the western side of the mountain range will be increased by 470,000 acre-feet a year. participation • Bank of America, San Francisco participated in the loan for a total of $500,000.
The Snowy Mountains project
in southeast Australia supplies power for Australia's industries and irrigation water for her farmers.
A $100 million Bank loan is assisting the second stage of the project. Right, heavy equipment building an access road in the mountains.
argentina/power loan
$95 million 25-year 5%% loan of January 19, 1962
BORROWER • Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires (SEGBA)
This loan will help to finance completion of the Gran Buenos Aires 600,000-kilowatt thermal power plant, the construction of a related high-voltage interconnecting ring, and expansion of the distribution system in the Greater Buenos Aires area. The new facilities should eliminate the critical power shortage in Argentina's most important industrial and commercial region. The area contains nearly a third of the country's population of 21 million, and absorbs two-thirds of the country's total power supply.
SEGBA, formerly a foreign-owned utility company serving the Buenos Aires area, has been acquired by the Argentine Government, and has also taken over properties of Agua y Energia
Electrica in northwest Buenos Aires, thus forming the largest electric utility in Argentina and one of the largest in Latin America. It is intended that SEGBA will eventually be returned to private ownership, and to this end its shares have been deposited with the Industrial Bank of Argentina to be sold to local private investors as rapidly as market conditions will allow.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank acted as Executing Agency for the UN Special Fund project to study the transportation needs of Argentina. The report of the study group was completed during the year and transmitted to the Argentine Government and to the Special Fund.
brazil
The Bank has agreed to act as Executing Agency for a survey of the hydroelectric resources of the State of Minas Gerais, for which the UN Special Fund is providing financial assistance. The Special Fund is considering extension of this survey to other States so that the whole of south-central Brazil will be covered.
bolivia
The Bank agreed to pay the foreign exchange cost of a survey of immediate problems facing the Bolivian railways. The report of the consultants has been sent to the Bolivian Government.
british guiana
The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for the UN Special Fund project to survey the bar siltation and erosion problems at the Port of Georgetown. The field study has been completed and the consultants' report is in preparation.
central america
The Bank has agreed to act as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund study of regional telecommunication development in the six Central American republics, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama. The study is expected to start during the summer of 1962.
In early 1961 Chile completed a draft Ten-Year Development Plan. At the request of the Government, the Bank sent a mission to appraise the Plan, and the mission's final recommendations are now being studied by the Government. A two-man Bank resident mission went to Chile in June 1962 to advise the Government on the development program. The Bank has also undertaken to finance the foreign exchange cost of a survey of the Chilean capital market with a view to making it a more efficient instrument for the mobilization of domestic savings for development. The study will begin this summer.
WESTERN
HEMISPHERE
chile
Colombia/highway loan
$19.5 million 15-year 5%% loan of August 28, 1961
borrower . Colombia
This loan, to finance a highway improvement and maintenance program, was linked with a $19.5 million development credit provided to Colombia by the International Development Association. The funds will be used to complete about 450 miles of roads started with the help of earlier Bank loans; to construct 340 miles of additional roads, complementing those under construction; to prepare designs for 300 miles of additional roads; and to import maintenance equipment to meet the immediate needs of the Highway Department. This is the fourth Bank loan for Colombian highways, bringing the total lent for this purpose to $67 million. When the current project is completed, Colombia will have an all-weather highway system connecting most of her important cities.
participations • Irving Trust Company, New York and Wells Fargo Bank American Trust Company, San Francisco participated in the loan for a total of $200,000.
power loan
$50 million 25-year 5%% loan of May 23, 1962 borrower . Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB)
Bogota, the capital city of Colombia and the principal center of industry, commerce and gov-
ernment administration, is situated on a shelf of the Andes, more than 8,000 feet above sea level. A few miles from the city the Bogota River falls more than 6,000 feet in 153^ miles, and EEEB, the autonomous agency which provides power to the Bogota area, is harnessing its power in a series of hydroelectric power plants at successive levels. Three plants are already in operation; this loan will add one new 150,000-kilowatt hydroelectric plant—later to be doubled in capacity—and will assist the completion of a storage reservoir to feed the power plants in the dry season. The loan will also be used to add a second 33,000-kilowatt turbogenerator at a nearby steam plant, and to make substantial additions to transmission and distribution facilities in Bogota and in several nearby towns. participations • The New York Agency of The Royal Bank of Canada; the New York Agency of The Bank of Montreal; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $350,000.
ida credit
On August 28, 1961, the International Development Association extended a credit of $19.5 million to Colombia for highway development. Details are given in the Annual Report of IDA.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • Last year's Annual Report stated that the Bank was sponsoring a sur-
vey of Colombian transportation facilities and needs as the basis for a coordinated transportation investment program. The study, of which the Bank financed half the foreign exchange costs, was completed at the beginning of 1962 and is now being published by the Government.
A Bank mission visited Colombia in the early part of 1962 to make an appraisal of the government's development plan. The mission's recommendations on the plan are now being considered by the Government.
The Bank has agreed to act as Executing Agency for a survey of the coal industry in the Cauca Valley, for which the UN Special Fund is providing financial assistance.
COSTA RICA/lNDUSTRIAL LOAN
$3 million 12-year 5%% loan of September 6, 1961
borrower . Central Bank of Costa Rica
Fourth in a series of loans made to the Central Bank of Costa Rica, this brings to $11.5 million the amount provided by the Bank toward a program which since 1952 has made finance available through regular commercial channels for imports of capital goods. Under the program, credits are provided to individuals and private companies by Costa Rica's commercial banks which, in turn, receive credits for the purpose from the Central Bank.
The first two Bank loans were largely used to finance imports of agricultural equipment to
Colombia's new
Atlantic Railroad:, assisted by
Bank loans of $46 million, traverses rugged terrain on its 500-mile length from central Colombia to the Caribbean. This train is transporting oil from the interior to overseas markets.
open up new areas to cultivation and increase mechanization of agriculture; the result was a rapid increase in output of sugar, cotton, maize, rice and beans. More recent loans have provided foreign exchange for imports of capital goods for light industries, which have increased steadily in both size and number in recent years, particularly in food processing, textiles and printing. participations • Bank of America, San Francisco; First National City Bank, New York; The Marine Midland Trust Company of New York; Crocker-Anglo National Bank, San Francisco; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $314,000.
highway loan
$5.5 million 15-year loan of October 13, 1961 borrower . Costa Rica
This loan, together with a credit of $5.5 million from the International Development Association, will help to finance the reconstruction and construction of about 420 miles of road, representing about one-third of Costa Rica's national and regional highway system, and the improvement of the country's road maintenance operations. Most of the highways to be improved serve the central plateau, populated by about three-fifths of the population and containing the bulk of the country's agricultural and manufacturing wealth. Three new highway sections
will be built, two to relieve severe traffic congestion in the San Jose area and the third to open up a rich agricultural region. These works, together with the improvement of maintenance operations, constitute the first and most important stage of a seven-year program to improve and extend the country's highway network which now carries 80% of total passenger traffic and 70% of freight.
participations • Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, Philadelphia; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia participated in the loan for a total of $150,000.
ida credit
On October 13, 1961, the International Development Association extended a credit of $5.5 million to Costa Rica for road construction and maintenance. Details are given in the Annual Report of IDA.
ecuador
The Bank has agreed to pay the foreign exchange cost of a transportation survey. Arrangements for executing the survey are now being worked out.
guatemala
The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund study of power and irriga-
tion in Guatemala. The study by the consultants was in progress at the end of the fiscal year.
haiti
The Bank is financing the foreign exchange costs of a study by consultants of the reorganization and reconstruction of the port at Port-au-Prince. The study was in progress at the end of the fiscal year.
honduras
The Bank is financing the foreign exchange costs of a study by consultants of port reorganization and expansion at Puerto Cortes. The study was in progress at the end of the fiscal year.
mexico/power loan
$130 million 23-year 5%% loan of June 20, 1962 borrower • Federal Electricity Commission and Nacional Financiera, S.A.
The Commission is an autonomous government agency charged with the development of electric power in Mexico; Nacional Financiera is an official financing institution which by law is authorized to incur external loans on behalf of the Mexican Government.
Three earlier Bank loans totaling $88 million were made to the Commission between 1949 and 1958, during which time it increased its generating capacity from about 100,000 to 1,200,000
kilowatts, becoming Mexico's biggest producer of power. The 1962-65 program of the Commission, for which this loan was made, provides for the construction or enlargement of 13 thermal plants with a total capacity of 1,260,000 kilowatts and of 10 hydroelectric plants with a total capacity of 1,130,000 kilowatts, all in the Commission's major systems serving the most important centers of industry and population. Smaller plants having a combined capacity of 160,000 kilowatts will be constructed under the Commission's rural electrification program. The program also includes the construction of approximately 2,800 miles of transmission lines with associated substations, and expansion of the Commission's own distribution systems. As a result, the Commission's capacity will be increased threefold. The new installations will also provide adequate reserve capacity. participations • United California Bank, Los Angeles; Central National Bank of Cleveland; Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company; Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Chicago; First Wisconsin National Bank of Milwaukee; The Marine Midland Trust Company of New York; The Philadelphia National Bank; The National Shaw-mut Bank of Boston; The National Bank of Washington, Washington, D.C.; J. Henry Schroder Banking Corp., New York; Maryland National Bank, Baltimore; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $5,045,000.
highway loan
$30.5 million 20-year 5%% loan of June 20, 1962 borrower . Federal Toll Roads and Bridges Authority, and Nacional Financiera, S.A.
To keep pace with the transport requirements of its rapidly developing economy, Mexico has for many years carried out successive road improvement programs until it now has some 28,000 miles of surfaced roads. A Bank loan of $25 million made in October 1960 is helping to finance the current program of extending and rehabilitating the national highway system. The new loan will meet the foreign exchange costs of a continuation of Mexico's toll transport program which was started a few years ago to provide faster and more convenient transportation in areas where traffic congestion is becoming serious. The current program includes construction of 240 miles of new toll roads, two out of Mexico City and one from Tijuana to Ensenada; four access roads totaling about 78 miles in length; five toll bridges; and the acquisition of a ferry-boat and the construction of terminals at La Paz near the southern end of the peninsula of Baja, California and at Mazatlan on the continental shore. This program will cost the equivalent of $67.4 million over the next three years. The Bank loan will cover the foreign exchange requirements; the remainder will be met by the Federal Toll Authority from revenues and local borrowings. It is expected to take from 8 to 20 years for the facilities to repay their costs from tolls.
panama
The Bank has made two experts available to the Government, one to advise the Government on its investment program and the other to assist in organizing land settlement in agricultural areas opened up by feeder roads and in developing agricultural policies.
paraguay/ida credit
On October 26,1961, the International Development Association extended a credit of $6 million to Paraguay for highway improvement and maintenance. Details are given in the Annual Report of IDA.
peru/highway loan
$10 million 9-year 5%% loan of November 3, 1961 borrower • Peru
In 1955 the Bank lent $5 million to Peru to help in the reorganization of its highway maintenance operations and as a first step toward placing maintenance on a mechanized basis. The new loan will make possible the further development of this program, enabling the Government to place the entire primary and secondary road system under proper maintenance.
In addition, the program financed by the loan includes the resurfacing of 125 miles of paved roads, and the replacement with modern two-
lane bridges of some 30 narrow bridges, many of them on the Peruvian section of the Pan-American Highway. The loan is also providing funds for a study of Peru's future traffic needs. participations • The New York Agency of The Bank of Montreal; the New York Agency of The Royal Bank of Canada; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $500,000.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • In 1961 the Bank joined with the Government in sponsoring a survey of Peru's highway facilities and needs, the Bank paying half of the foreign exchange costs. The objectives of the study were to recommend the basis for a Transport Commission to regulate inland transport and to assist in the formulation of a Ten-Year Highway Investment Program. The report of the consultants employed on the study has now been submitted to the Government.
surinam
The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund project to survey mineral resources in Surinam. The study is expected to take a further two years.
At the request of the Governor of the Bank for the Netherlands, the Bank is studying whether and, if so, in what form it could be useful in offering guidance to Surinam on its power development problems.
trinidad and tobaso/power loan $23.5 million 20-year 5M% loan of August 16, 1961 borrower • Trinidad and Tobago
The loan will help to finance the construction of a 100,000-kilowatt thermal power plant at the capital, Port-of-Spain, the construction of a 41-mile natural gas pipeline to supply fuel for the plant, and the expansion of transmission and distribution facilities. The loan is guaranteed by the United Kingdom.
Sustained by heavy investment in industry and in public services, the Territory's economy has grown at an average annual rate of 10% in recent years. The new thermal plant, to be operated by the Trinidad and Tobago Electricity Commission, will double the capacity of the Commission's system, and should meet power requirements for several years. participations • The New York Agency of Bank of Nova Scotia; Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada; the Agency of The Royal Bank of Canada, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad; the New York Agency of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce; Barclays Bank D.C.O., New York Agency; The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York; The First National Bank of Boston; The Toronto-Dominion Bank, New York Agency; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; Grace National Bank of New York; and Banque Lambert S.C.S., Brussels were among the banks participating in the loan for a total of $15,310,000.
venezuela/highway loan
$45 million 20-year 5%% loan of December 13, 1961 borrower • Venezuela
The loan, the first made by the Bank to Venezuela, will help to finance two express highways in north-central Venezuela, the most populous and rapidly developing region in the country. The project consists of two separate sections of controlled access, four-lane toll roads. One will run 37 miles southwest from Coche, a suburb of Caracas, to Tejerias where it will connect with an existing expressway running into the important industrial city of Valencia; the other, 22 miles long, will run north from Valencia to El Palito, connecting with the coast road to Puerto Cabello, Venezuela's second largest port.
Roads are by far the most important means of transport in Venezuela; since 1947 the basic network has more than tripled in length and motor vehicle density per capita is approaching that of Western Germany. By linking several areas of high industrial potential, the expressways will also help to promote the government's policy of encouraging the location of new industries away from the saturated Caracas area. participations • Chemical Bank New York Trust Company; First National City Bank, New York; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphi a; the New York Agency of The Royal Bank of Canada; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $943,000.
High in the Peruvian Andes
the new Huinco hydro-electric plant is being constructed to supply more power to growing industries in and around Lima, the capital city. This project received a Bank loan of $24 million.
appendix G
Notes to Financial Statements
JUNE 30, 1962
note A
Amounts in currencies other than United States dollars have been translated into United States dollars:
(i) In the cases of 57 members, at the par values as specified in the "Schedule of Par Values," published by the International Monetary Fund;
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 18 members (Afghanistan, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, China, Cyprus, Indonesia, Korea, Laos, Liberia, Malaya, Nepal, Nigeria, Paraguay, Peru, Thailand, Tunisia and Viet-Nam), at the rates used by such members in making payments of capital subscriptions to the Bank; and
(iii) In the case of Swiss francs and Cuban pesos, non-member currencies, at the rate of 4.2975 francs and 1.00 Cuban peso to 1 United States dollar.
See also Notes B and C.
No representation is made that any currency held by the Bank is convertible into any other currency at any rate or rates.
note B
These currencies of the several members, and the notes issued by them in substitution for any part of such currencies as permitted under the provisions of Article V, Section 12, are derived from the portion of the subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank which is payable in the currencies of the respective members (such portion being hereinafter called restricted currency). Such restricted currencies may be loaned by the Bank, and funds received by the Bank on account of principal of loans made by the Bank out of such restricted currencies may be exchanged for other currencies or reloaned, only with the approval in each case of the member whose restricted currency is involved; provided, however, that, if necessary, after the Bank's subscribed capital is entirely called, such restricted currencies may, without restriction by the members whose currencies are offered, be used or exchanged for the currencies required to meet contractual payments of interest, other charges or amortization on the Bank's own borrowings or to meet the Bank's liabilities with respect to contractual payments on loans guaranteed by it.
Under Article II, Section 9, each member is required, if the par value of its currency is reduced or if the
foreign exchange value of its currency ^depreciates to a significant extent in its territories, to maintain the value of the Bank's holdings of its restricted currency, including the principal amount of any notes substituted therefor, and the Bank is required, if the par value of a member's currency is increased, to return to the member the increase in the value of such restricted currency held by the Bank. To the extent such restricted currencies are out on loan, the Bank and the members are obligated to make such payments only when such restricted currencies are recovered by the Bank. The equivalent of $1,497,118 is due from 3 members in order to maintain the value of their restricted currencies as required under Article II, Section 9.
Some members have converted part or all of the Bank's holdings of their restricted currency into United States dollars to be used and reused as United States dollars in the Bank's operations, subject to the right of the Bank or the member to reverse the transactions at any time, with immediate effect as to dollars then held by the Bank, and, as to dollars loaned, upon repayment of the loans. Such dollars while held by the Bank or on loan are not subject to the provisions of Article II, Section 9. Such dollars held by the Bank or repayable on loans are shown in these financial statements under "United States dollars" and, where relevant, as "unrestricted".
note C
The principal disbursed and outstanding on loans and the accruals for interest, commitment charge, service charge and loan commission are receivable in United States dollars and other currencies (for which the dollar equivalent is shown) as follows:
The dollar equivalent shown as principal outstanding includes an amount which in accordance with Article II, Section 9, will be receivable from members to maintain the value of their currencies, and is net of an amount, equal to the increase in the value of their currencies, which in accordance with Article II, Section 9, will be payable by the Bank to members, when such currencies are recovered by the Bank.
note D
The amount of commissions received by the Bank on loans made or guaranteed by it is required under Article IV, Section 6, to be set aside as a special reserve to be kept available for meeting obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. On all loans granted to date the effective rate of commission is 1% per annum.
note E
Cuba has withdrawn from membership in the Bank. The value of its shares is $7,000,000. The Bank has set aside currency and notes of Cuba amounting to $6,288,340, leaving a balance of $711,660.
note F
Pursuant to action of the Board of Governors and Executive Directors the net income of the Bank has been allocated to a Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guarantees Made by the Bank; and the future net income of the Bank will, until further action by the Executive Directors or the Board of Governors, be allocated to this reserve. This reserve has been charged with the undermentioned amounts representing a net loss to the Bank as a result of the revaluation on the books of the Bank of the balances of amounts in those currencies held at the dates of revaluation and acquired from net earnings in the currencies indicated:
note G
In terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
note H
Subject to call by the Bank only when required to meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. As to $16,387,840,000 the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement; as to $2,047,430,000 by a resolution of the Board of Governors.
note I
The Bank has sold under its guarantee $69,003,844 of loans of which amount $61,808,844 has been retired. The following table sets forth the maturities of the guaranteed obligations outstanding:
general
The Board of Governors has approved the applications for membership from the following countries:
Subscription
At June 30, 1962 Togo had made partial payment on account of its subscription. In addition, the Board of Governors had approved an application from the United Arab Republic for an increase of $35.5 million in its share subscription. The United Arab Republic has until November 16, 1962 to complete necessary action.