ANNUAL REPORT 1963-1964
The Year's Activities
• The year's 37 Bank Loans were made in 28 countries and territories, and were equivalent to $810 million. The year's 18 IDA Credits were made in 8 countries and territories, and were equivalent to $283 million.
THE WORLD BANK GROUP OF INSTITUTIONS has sought to attack the stubborn problems of economic development on a number of fronts: providing finance in increasingly flexible ways, furnishing technical and planning assistance to member countries, building up local institutions to mobilize and channel capital for productive purposes, and forming international consultative groups to coordinate the provision of external aid. On all these fronts the Bank and its affiliates have continued to broaden and intensify their efforts during the year just past. For the second year in the history of the group, its loans, credits and investments exceeded $1,000 million: World Bank loans and investments by the International Finance Corporation (described in IFC's own Annual Report) were near previous maximums; development credits from the International Development Association reached a record total.
The Bank's financial strength continued to grow; its reserves reached more than $845 million. The Executive Directors initiated steps which in future would free more of the Bank's income for use in its operations, and made proposals intended to enlarge still further the usefulness of IFC and IDA. In the case of IFC, the proposal was to amend the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and IFC so as to authorize Bank lending to IFC. In the case of IDA, the proposal was that the Governors approve the transfer to IDA of $50 million of the Bank's net income for the fiscal year. In the meantime, a group of IDA's member governments took action to assure that their own contributions to the replenishment of IDA's resources would become effective.
The Bank made its first loans in eight countries: China, Liberia, Malta, Mauritius, New Zealand, Portugal, Spain and Tunisia: there were four new borrowers from IDA: Ecuador, Niger, Syria and Tanganyika; and IFC made its first commitments in Honduras, Malaysia, Nigeria, Sudan and Turkey. Altogether, projects in 80
countries have now received financial assistance from the Bank and its affiliates.
The Bank group supported projects of new-kinds in a number of the commitments they undertook during the year. The Bank made a loan (in Algeria) for the first large-scale commercial plant for the liquefaction of natural gas; it provided funds for a sea water distillation plant as part of a loan to Malta. For the first time, IDA extended a credit for a range of important capital goods manufacturing industries (in India); it made its second credit for the expansion of education (in Tanganyika), soon followed by a third and fourth (both in Pakistan).
It was a highly active year for the Bank and IDA; but it was also an introspective year. The President and the Executive Directors began a thoroughgoing review of the policies and practices of the two institutions. It resulted, among other things, in a resolve that the institutions should try to increase the effectiveness of their activities in agriculture, industry and education.
AGRICULTURE: Post-war experience has shown that progress in agriculture is essential to economic development. Agriculture is the chief economic activity in almost all of the underdeveloped countries; a high proportion of their employment is generated in this sector, and export earnings in a number of countries are almost entirely dependent on it. An unduly slow increase in agricultural output and income imposes severe constraint on the growth of the economy as a whole. But the best available information indicates that agricultural output in the developing countries has done little more than keep pace with population growth in the last decade; and for some underdeveloped countries, the cost of importing food is a heavy burden on the balance of payments. Clearly, the stimulation and guidance of more rapid improvements in agricultural techniques and organization constitute a key to the achievement of a satisfactory rate of development.
About 7% of the Bank's lending and about 15% of IDA's are for agricultural and forestry projects, mainly for irrigation and flood control. In addition, there are many transportation projects which benefit agriculture by improving access to markets. Nevertheless, the Bank and IDA are convinced of the need to broaden and intensify still further their activities in support of agriculture.
In the year just past, the amount of Bank and IDA lending for agricultural projects, while not large, compared favorably with that of previous years, and included a variety of unusual undertakings: The Bank made a loan in the Republic of China for the purchase of fishing vessels, and lent in Chile for the improvement of pastureland and the acquisition of breeding stock. IDA lent for livestock production in Paraguay and to strengthen an agricultural credit institution in Jordan. The Bank and IDA are hopeful that their assistance to agricultural credit institutions can be extended; these institutions should become progressively more important channels for other international sources of funds as well, and can serve as focal points for a wide range of domestic measures to raise agricultural production. By combining technical advice and supervision with the provision of finance, they can often greatly enhance the effectiveness of both.
Agricultural projects, especially those designed to have a broad impact, present especially difficult problems of organization and direction, and generally require a long gestation period. Indeed, the critical bottleneck in development of the agricultural sector continues to be the dearth of adequately studied, economically promising projects. As one method of attacking this problem, the Bank has negotiated an agreement, on behalf of itself and IDA, with the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization to initiate a jointly financed cooperative program to improve the quality and increase the number of proposals for agricultural financing. Under the agreement, the institutions would work together in the identification and preparation of projects for potential financing and in appraising such projects; if the Bank or IDA then agreed to finance them, the organizations would cooperate in supervising their execution and operation, and in arranging necessary technical assistance. The agreement,
already approved by the Governors of the Bank and IDA, will be acted on by the Governing Council of FAO in October 1964. Meanwhile, pending such approval, the two organizations already have begun informal cooperation in line with the agreement. During the year, in addition, a mission organized by the Bank began field work on a long-range study of the problems of agriculture in Africa south of the Sahara.
INDUSTRY: The relatively rapid growth of industry in the underdeveloped countries is a favorable aspect of their development, and the Bank, IDA and IFC believe that they can give additional encouragement to this sector. During the year, IFC and the Bank continued their support of industrial development finance companies, and committed more than $50 million to create or strengthen companies of this kind. The industrial financing activities of the World Bank group as a whole continued at a high level, amounting during the fiscal year to more than $180 million in all. IDA extended an industrial credit of a new kind: It was not extended for a new project, but was made to help manufacturers in selected Indian capital goods industries to make fuller use of already existing capacity, by enabling them to import components and materials on a scale not possible up to now because of a scarcity of foreign exchange.
Soon after the end of the fiscal year, the Executive Directors made a recommendation to the Governors which, if adopted, would create the possibility of a still greater flow of capital from the World Bank group to industry. Under the recommendation, the Articles of Agreement of both the Bank and IFC would be amended to enable the Bank, under appropriate limitations, to make loans to IFC, as it does to private development finance companies, for re-lending to private companies.
World Bank loans to private companies require a government guarantee of repayment; but frequently private enterprises are reluctant to seek such guarantees, and many governments find it politically or constitutionally difficult to extend them. IFC, on the other hand, does not seek or accept government guarantees. Loans from the Bank to IFC, therefore, would provide additional resources for the financing of private
industry without the need of a host government guarantee. Bank loans would enable IFC to make larger commitments than its present resources allow it to do, and would provide it with funds so that, in appropriate cases, it could finance enterprises with fixed-interest loans not carrying equity or other special features.
EDUCATION: It is generally recognized that economic growth in all sectors requires an adequate supply of basic skills at every level of activity, from the effective use of planning techniques in business and government to the proper use of tools in workshops and on farms. Education, therefore, is basic to economic development. This hardly requires illustration, but it is well exemplified in an objective of IDA's two credits for education in Pakistan during the year: They will help not only in the direct training of agricultural experts, but will also prepare teachers to train experts.
IDA now intends to increase its support for educational projects, and the Bank also is prepared, in appropriate circumstances, to enter the field. Both institutions, however, will currently limit their operations to projects in technical education (at all levels) and sometimes general secondary education of high priority in terms of economic development. To identify and prepare such projects, they are working in cooperation with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization under a cost-sharing agreement formally approved in June 1964. In 1963, Unesco sent educational investment programing missions to five countries, and others are now being prepared within the framework of the cooperative program. The purpose of the forthcoming missions is to help in the choice and preparation of projects as a basis for requests to the Bank and IDA for financial and technical assistance. Where Bank or IDA financing results, Unesco's help may be enlisted in supervising the execution of projects and in providing technical assistance.
LOCAL EXPENDITURE FINANCING: Experience has demonstrated the need in all economic sectors for the provision of external finance for local expenditure. Having reviewed past practice, the Executive Directors have confirmed the principle that the Bank and IDA should be pre-
pared to provide finance for local expenditure on high-priority projects in cases where lending only funds needed for direct imports would not provide adequate support.
THE NEW INITIATIVES undertaken during the year, however, do not mean that the Bank and IDA are changing the basic directions of their activity. They will continue to be concerned primarily with basic projects, especially in the fields of transportation and electric power, which require large amounts of capital and have a broad impact throughout the economy. More than half of Bank and IDA transactions during the year were for projects of this kind, and more than 70% of the money lent was for infrastructure. (See Table on page 9.)
RISING LEVELS OF DEBT and of debt service payments are a normal accompaniment of the process of development. For many countries, however, debt service has risen much faster than earnings from exports; and some countries have assumed obligations which, although not necessarily excessive in total amount, are concentrated too heavily in the short term.
The heavy debt burden that weighs on an increasing number of its member countries has been a continuing concern of the World Bank group. This concern has been expressed at meetings of consortia and consultative groups of Gapital-exporting countries, chaired by the Bank, at which amounts and terms of aid to the developing countries have been discussed. There are two consortia, dealing with assistance to India and Pakistan; the consultative groups are concerned with Colombia, Nigeria, the Sudan and Tunisia. In these meetings, the Bank was gratified to note a continuing trend during the year toward more appropriate terms of financing. Also, the Executive Directors have decided that the Bank itself may vary some terms of its lending to lighten the service burden in cases where this is appropriate to the project and to the debt position of the country. It may, for instance, agree to an extended grace period, as it did in a road loan made to Liberia in January 1964; or it may set a longer term, as it did in February 1964 for a 35-year loan made in Colombia for the big Nare power project.
The World Bank group's chief means of helping to alleviate the problems of debt service, however, are the long-term, low-cost credits extended by IDA, and the replenishment of IDA's resources was assured by action of member governments during the year. In 1963, the Executive Directors had proposed that IDA's resources be increased by $750 million of contributions from 17 governments, including $8,625,000 in the form of initial subscriptions by-Belgium and Luxembourg, which had indicated their intention of joining IDA. At the same time, it was proposed that no country's agreement to contribute would become binding until 12 countries with prospective contributions of at least $600 million had formally notified IDA that they would provide the amounts proposed for them. This condition was met on June 29, 1964. As the fiscal year ended, the remaining five governments were in the process of completing action required for their participation in the replenishment. The new contributions will be available for commitment in development credits until at least June 30, 1966, and payment is to be made in three equal installments beginning in November 1965, one year after the final payment on subscriptions to IDA's initial resources.
The 17 governments expected to assist in the replenishment of IDA's resources, together with their proposed contributions, are as follows:
The Government of Kuwait also has decided to participate in the replenishment of IDA resources, with a contribution of $3.36 million. This will bring the total of replenishment resources to $753.36 million. Another commitment in favor of IDA was undertaken by the Government of Sweden, which, over and above its participation in the general replenishment of IDA resources, offered to make its third special supplementary contribution, amounting to $5,045,000 in convertible kronor.
The Executive Directors have recommended to the Governors that the Bank itself become an important contributor to IDA's resources. In a report to be considered by the Governors at their Annual Meeting in September 1964, they propose that the Bank transfer as a grant to IDA the amount of $50 million—the balance of the Bank's net income for 1963/64 remaining after the allocation of $47 million to the Supplemental Reserve, and thus available for distribution as a dividend or for other disposition (see page 17).
THE BANK CONTINUES TO PLACE A HIGH VALUE on soundly conceived national development programs which can serve as frameworks for investment and for the evolution of policy and administrative measures conducive to economic development. As detailed later in this Report (see page 17), it is continuing to assist its member countries to formulate development programs. In some cases, this assistance is given by general survey missions which make an inventory of a country's economic resources, analyze its needs and problems, and sketch the general lines of a development program. In others, the Bank provides resident advisers to help the planning authorities.
The usefulness of development planning by now is generally recognized, and hardly any developing country is without a plan. National
The Island Bend Dam is one of nine large dams being built in the Snowy Mountains scheme for producing electric power and providing irrigation water in southeastern Australia. The Bank made a loan of $100 million for the scheme in 1962.
planning, however, has run ahead of the preparation of projects, and in many underdeveloped countries, there is still a shortage of well conceived and well prepared high priority projects available for financing. The shortage is critical, for neither general plans nor supplies of capital will accomplish much until the right techniques, competent management, and manpower with the proper blend of skills are brought together and focused effectively on projects of high economic value. The need, moreover, is urgent, for the failure to set projects in motion today will handicap development far into the future.
To help remedy the lack of project planning, the Bank is taking and intensifying measures to assist its members in the preparation of projects, apart from the arrangements with Unesco and FAO already mentioned. In appropriate cases, the Bank finds the necessary experts, draws up an outline of work and pays the foreign exchange costs of studies designed to produce viable projects of high economic priority; it also plays a similar supervisory role in cases where it acts as Executing Agency for studies financed by the United Nations Special Fund (see page 17).
The work of the Bank's Economic Development Institute to improve the quality of projects also continues to expand. This year, EDI gave its first project evaluation course in Spanish, for participants from 16 countries, and conducted its first course to be concerned primarily with the evaluation of industrial projects, attended by participants from 19 countries. In cooperation with the Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta, EDI also has arranged for a course in project evaluation to be held in Jaipur, India, for participants from eight Asian countries.
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND STAFF of the Bank continued work on the proposal to establish a center for the conciliation or arbitration of investment disputes arising between foreign investors and governments.
During the year, the proposal was given the form of a preliminary draft Convention on Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States. The draft was considered at four regional consultative meetings of legal experts, held in Addis Ababa, Bangkok, Geneva and Santiago and attended by experts
designated by 86 governments in all. The Executive Directors are now examining the results of the regional meetings in order to determine what further steps should be taken toward preparing a final text of a Convention for consideration by-governments.
The Convention would make facilities available to which foreign investors and governments could have access on a voluntary basis for the settlement of investment disputes through conciliation, arbitration, or conciliation followed by-arbitration. The Convention would provide a mechanism for the selection of conciliation commissions and arbitral tribunals and for the conduct of the proceedings.
The initiative for such proceedings might come either from a State or from an investor. But no State by the mere fact of accepting the Convention would be bound to resort to the facilities of the Conciliation and Arbitration Center, and no foreign investor could initiate proceedings against a signatory State unless both had previously-agreed to have recourse to the Center. Once they had so agreed, however, both parties would be irrevocably bound to carry out their undertaking. The heart of the Convention, in fact, is the assurance which it provides that if the parties agree to resort to the facilities available under it, their agreement will be given full effect. This, it is hoped, will create an element of mutual confidence that, in time, will contribute to a healthier investment climate and a larger flow of international private investment.
AN EVENT OF OUTSTANDING SIGNIFICANCE for the international development effort was the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in the spring of 1964. In twelve weeks of deliberations it ranged over the whole panorama of issues relating both to international trade and to the financing of economic development.
The President of the World Bank group addressed the Conference, and the Bank and IDA were represented throughout the proceedings. The President transmitted to the Conference a report on "Trade, Development and the World Bank Group"; and two Bank staff studies— "Economic Growth and External Debt" and "The Commodity Problem"—were prepared for
the Conference as background for its deliberations.
At the request of the Conference, the Bank agreed to undertake several studies of problems and proposals in the field of development finance: of a plan by which increased funds for development would be raised in private capital markets and lent to the developing countries at long term and low interest, with the governments of the developed countries guaranteeing the borrowing operations and subsidizing the difference between the cost of borrowing and the loan charges; of the feasibility of establishing a system, administered by IDA but with funds supplementary to its own, for assisting countries whose development programs are threatened by a decline in export earnings below reasonable expectations, due to long-term factors beyond their control; of the use and terms of suppliers' credits, and of possible ways of financing exports from developing countries; and of multilateral investment insurance. The Bank's undertaking these studies implies no conclusion about the merits of the specific proposals involved.
THE BANK CONTINUED during the year its studies of the prospects for the principal commodities moving in world trade, which are so crucial to the investment and growth potential of the less developed countries. It made available to the International Cotton Advisory Committee a study of prospects for extra-long staple cotton. In addition, at the initiative of the International Coffee Council, the Bank agreed to take part with the Council and the Food and Agriculture Organization in a long-range study of the coffee problem, directed in part to seeking alternative production and investment opportunities for the countries concerned.
Some developing countries face difficulties in mobilizing local capital for productive invest-
High-grade manganese ore is an important earner of foreign exchange for Gabon. It is shipped to overseas consumers by way of Pointe Noire, an Atlantic Ocean port of the Congo Republic. A World Bank loan helped finance a railway, shown under construction here, to connect mines and port.
ment partly because of investor fears of inflation. The Bank has begun an examination of this problem, and is studying the feasibility of measures that might be taken to assist in creating and maintaining domestic markets for bonds issued by the governments of less developed countries in their own currencies.
THE MEMBERSHIP OF THE BANK continued to rise rapidly during the year. Seventeen countries joined, including 16 in Africa, bringing total membership to 102. Several members increased their capital subscriptions to the Bank: Ecuador from $12.8 million to $17.1 million, El Salvador from $6 million to $10.7 million, Israel from $33.3 million to $66.6 million, and the Syrian Arab Republic from $20 million to $33.3 million. At June 30, the subscribed capital of the Bank was $21,186 million. To enable the Bank to accept additional capital subscriptions, authorized capital had been increased on December 31, 1963, to $22,000 million.
The membership of IDA also rose by 17, to 93. Including subscriptions of new members, initial subscriptions to IDA rose to $987,445,000. A list of new members of the Bank and IDA, together with their subscriptions, is given below.
THE REGULAR STAFF of the Bank and IDA grew during the year to a total of 975. The number of nationalities included was 62.
Mr. Orvis A. Schmidt was appointed to be Special Adviser to the President, on matters concerning Latin America; Mr. Gerald Alter succeeded him as Director of the Department of Operations, Western Hemisphere. Mr. Bernard Chadenet, a former Bank staff member and more recently general manager of a French group of industries, was appointed Associate Director of the Department of Technical Operations. Mr. Dragoslav Avramovic was appointed Assistant Director of the Economic Department, and continues in charge of that Department. Mr. Federico Consolo rejoined the Bank's staff as
Special Representative to United Nations Organizations.
Mr. George Martin, who had been Director of the Marketing Department since 1950, retired from the staff; Mr. Howard C. Johnson, who had been Manager of Portfolio Sales and Participations, was named Director of the New York Office. Mr. Donald D. Fowler of the staff was appointed Assistant Secretary.
General R. A. Wheeler retired in February-after 15 years of highly distinguished service. He had served successively as Engineering Adviser, the first Director of the Department of Technical Operations, and consultant. He played a highly-significant role in the development of Bank policies, and undertook a number of special assignments of unusual importance. He departs with the good wishes of his friends in the Bank and throughout the world.
The first two groups of appointees under the Junior Professional Recruitment Program entered the Bank during the fiscal year, and the third group was appointed. This program brings young university graduates of outstanding ability into the career staff through a two-year period of in-service training, upon completion of which it is expected that they will be given regular staff assignments. The 33 appointees average 28 years of age, ranging from 24 to 31, and come from 20 countries: Argentina, Austria, Belgium, China, Colombia, Cuba, France, Germany, Greece, India, Italy, Japan, Norway, Philippines, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States.
The Bank and its affiliates suffered a tragic loss through the sudden death of Air. William F. Howell, Director of Administration, on July 9, 1964. Mr. Howell joined the Bank in 1946, and was one of its earliest employees; he had served as Personnel Manager and Assistant Director of Administration before becoming Director in 1952. He played a leading role in building the international staffs of the Bank and its affiliates; his outstanding professional and personal qualities had won him universal high regard and warm affection. He will be sorely missed.
The Bank's Finances
INCOME • Net income reached $97 million and loan commissions amounted to $33 million. Both were record figures.
Gross income for the year, excluding loan commissions, was $219 million, a gain of $15 million over the previous year. Bond and Note interest and issuance expenses were $103 million, a decline of $1 million. Administrative costs rose by $1 million, to $14.6 million. Additional expenditures, for services to member countries, amounted to $4.3 million, an increase of about $1.5 million; the total was spent on comprehensive economic survey missions, project and sector studies, training programs for officials of the underdeveloped countries, and other technical and advisory services.
SPECIAL RESERVE • Commissions were added to the Special Reserve and raised it to $288 million. Funds in this reserve are invested in short-term government obligations, and can be used solely to meet the Bank's obligations arising from borrowings and from its guaranteeing of loans.
After due consideration of the reserve requirements of the Bank, the Executive Directors concluded that it was no longer necessary to automatically segregate a substantial portion of income in a form in which it was not available for the general operations of the Bank. They therefore adopted a change in policy affecting commissions and the Special Reserve. Heretofore, the Bank has treated a portion of its loan charges, amounting to 1% per annum of outstanding loans held by the Bank, as commission, and has automatically allocated the proceeds to the Special Reserve. Effective July 1, 1964, this practice will be discontinued, with the minor exception of approximately $87 million of old loans outstanding at June 30, 1964, for which the loan agreements state the commission separately or mention "interest (including commission)." With this exception, the Bank will now consider all income from loan charges as part of its regular income; and net income will thereby be increased by the equivalent of what otherwise would have automatically gone into the Special Reserve. The action will not affect the level of
loan charges; nor will it affect the amount of the Bank's income which would be available in future for reserves (either the Special Reserve or the Supplemental Reserve) whenever such use of income is thought desirable.
ALLOCATION OF NET INCOME • From the fiscal year 1950/51 to 1962/63, the Bank's net income was allocated automatically to the Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guarantees. In September 1963, the Executive Directors adopted a resolution discontinuing this automatic allocation, retroactive to July 1, 1963, and the resolution was noted with approval by the Board of Governors.
During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1964, net income was credited to Net Income Account, and on July 30, 1964, the Executive Directors approved the transfer of 547 million of net income to the Supplemental Reserve. The addition raised the Reserve to $605 million. Amounts corresponding to the Reserve are mingled with general funds and used in the operations of the Bank.
The Executive Directors decided that the financial position of the Bank made it unnecessary to transfer the balance of the year's net income to reserves or otherwise retain it in the Bank's business; and they have recommended to the Board of Governors that this balance, amounting to $50 million, be transferred to the International Development Association as a grant. Concurrently, the Directors recommended the following statement of policy by the Bank: "Any transfers to the Association will be made only out of net income which (i) accrued during the fiscal year in respect of which the transfer is made and (ii) is not needed for allocation to reserves or otherwise required to be retained in the Bank's business and, accordingly, could prudently be distributed as dividends." Both recommendations will be placed before the Board of Governors at its Annual Meeting in September 1964.
DISBURSEMENTS, REPAYMENTS AND SALES OF LOANS • Total loans (including loans yet to become effective) held by the Bank at June 30, net of exchange adjustments, were $5,192 million, a gain of $480 million for the year.
Disbursements amounted to $559 million, as compared to $620 million in the previous year.
Borrowers repaid $117 million to the Bank and $150 million to investors holding maturities of Bank loans. The total of $267 million compared to $244 million of repayments the year before.
Sales of loan maturities declined from the $273 million of a year earlier. They amounted to $173 million, of which $126 million was in sales from portfolio and $47 million in participations by investors who agreed to take up parts of Bank loans at the time of the signing of the loan agreements. In Europe, sales appear to have been affected by rising yields on other securities. In the United States, an important factor was pending legislation which, retroactively to July 19, 1963, would impose an
"interest equalization tax" on purchases by U.S. investors of securities of 22 countries classified as developed. Although participations in Bank loans would be exempt, it was decided as a matter of policy not to sell to investors in the United States loans made in any of the designated countries.
With the sale to the Banque de France of $58.6 million of the loan of 1947 to Credit National of France, the Bank disposed of all of its holdings of its first and largest loan. The loan amounted to $250 million, and the proceeds were used to help France maintain a flow of imports essential to its post-war recovery.
LOAN CHARGES • The rate of interest on loans by the Bank remained unchanged at 5^% throughout the year. Effective from July 1, 1964, however, the annual commitment charge of %% on the undisbursed part of Bank loans will be reduced to %%. The reduction will apply to existing as well as new loans.
FUNDED DEBT • The Bank continued in a liquid position that made it unnecessary to raise new money during the year. The funded debt declined for the second consecutive year; it was reduced by $27.4 million. An increase of $4.5 million, arising from issuance to investors of bonds which were sold on a delayed delivery basis in previous years, was more than offset by the repayment of $7.8 million of maturing obligations and by the Bank's purchase and redemption of $24.1 million of bonds to meet purchase fund and sinking fund requirements.
One refunding issue was placed during the period. It consisted of $100 million of Two-Year 4% U.S. dollar bonds, and was placed entirely outside the United States, with central banks and governmental accounts in 29 countries. It replaced an equal amount of bonds of the same interest and term, also held entirely outside the United States, that matured on September 15, 1963.
IDA's Finances
The amount of new IDA credits approved during the fiscal year was $283 million, bringing total IDA commitments on June 30, 1964, to $778 million. Disbursements during the year
were $124 million, as compared to $56 million in the previous year. The cumulative total of IDA disbursements stood at $193 million on June 30, 1964.
Before the action for the replenishment of IDA resources became effective on June 29, 1964, IDA had committed almost all the resources which were available to it up to that time, totaling $782 million. This figure rose to $1,450 million when the replenishment action became effective for twelve Part I Governments on June 29, 1964, and will rise to $1,540 million with the completion of the replenishment formalities by the remaining Part I Governments, including Kuwait, and with the actual receipt of Sweden's third special supplementary contribution (see page 10). With the completion of these formal actions, IDA will have available $762 million for new commitments in the period subsequent to June 30, 1964.
Technical Assistance
PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS • The Bank's technical assistance to its member countries continued to widen both functionally and geographically during the year. Bank missions were concerned with advice on national development programs in ten countries; the Bank was helping to carry on a score of studies designed to further the development of particular economic sectors or to advance the planning of specific projects; and help was being given in a growing number of special assignments. Specific details of the Bank's technical assistance are given, for each country concerned, in the Annex beginning on page 21.
Two teams were at work during the year on comprehensive economic surveys and recommendations for development programs: the mission to Morocco finished its field work just before the end of the fiscal year; the mission to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea also finished its field work, and its report was nearly completed. Members of the Bank staff served as economic or planning advisers to the Governments of Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ghana, Libya, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, the Philippines, and the Sudan. Similar assignments in Guatemala, Honduras and Thailand were completed during the year.
The Bank agreed to organize and help finance a study of transportation in Northern Rhodesia. As Administrator of the Indus Basin Development Fund, the Bank organized a study of the water and power resources of West Pakistan, to be financed by the Fund. Studies were continued of problems of coal transport in India, of electric power development in Ecuador, and of school design and construction methods in Tunisia. The Bank provided technical assistance to the Iranian Electricity Authority. Studies were completed of the transport needs of the Republic of China and of Ecuador, as were studies of the development of secondary roads in Northern Nigeria and of water and sewerage for the Manila area of the Philippines. Field work was completed in connection with a proposed new crossing on the Hooghly River in Calcutta, India. Altogether, the Bank has financed or is helping to finance 14 project and sector studies in 12 member countries; the estimated cost to the Bank is approximately $3.8 million.
The Bank also continued to act as Executing Agency for project and sector studies financed by the United Nations Special Fund, drawing up the plan of operations for the studies, recruiting the necessary expert assistance and otherwise supervising the work done. During the year, field work was begun on three projects: a study of the technical feasibility and economic implications of a railway to transport iron ore in Gabon, a survey of the road requirements for the agricultural development of southern Paraguay, and a study looking toward port and railway development in Costa Rica. Field work was completed on the Costa Rican study and on a survey of coal deposits in Colombia. A study of port facilities in Thailand was being extended to include consideration of the possibility of expanding port capacity at Bangkok. Final reports were completed on power requirements in the Sudan, power and irrigation projects in Guatemala and a regionally integrated telecommunications system in Central America and Panama. The Bank has agreed to act as Executing Agency for two new Special Fund studies: a survey of telecommunications needs in Pakistan and a transportation study in Surinam.
Among special assignments undertaken or carried forward during the year, studies of capital
markets predominated. The team that has been studying the capital market in Chile completed field investigations and its report is now in preparation; a consultant finished a report on measures for improving the mobilization of domestic savings in Tunisia; and the Bank retained experts to make preliminary surveys of capital markets in Pakistan and Peru. A mission to offer advice on the financing of development in Portugal was composed in part of staff members of the Bank and the International Monetary Fund. In another special assignment a staff member continued to advise the Finance Ministry of Malaysia on the organization of economic data. An adviser on agriculture completed his assignment in Panama.
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE conducted its ninth general course in English and its third in French. So far, 317 officials from 84 of the less developed countries have participated in the courses of EDI. During the year EDI began to distribute the first items of a Spanish-language library on economic development. The library is being donated to central banks, finance ministries, planning organizations and other institutions. It contains some 400 books, studies and articles; for Portuguese-speaking areas, items in Portuguese are being substituted when possible. The cost of this project is being shared by the Inter-American Development Bank. EDI also continued its own contribution to the literature of economic development. A monograph on planning in Pakistan, the third in a series of case studies, was published by The Johns Hopkins Press during the year. The monograph is one of a series produced on the experience of many of the Bank's member countries in the organization and implementation of development programing. The study ultimately will appear in book form.
With the help of a Bank loan, Israel has been building a new port at Ashdod on the Mediterranean, to relieve the pressure which heavy traffic is placing on Haifa and other ports. Here is the main breakwater under construction, protected by heavy concrete forms called tetrapods.
annex The information in this section describes Bank loans, IDA credits and other activities of both institutions during the fiscal year. Money amounts are usually expressed in United States dollar equivalents.
Bank loans to borrowers other than member governments carry the guarantee of the governments concerned, and the participations of financial institutions in the loans were all without the Bank's guarantee.
All IDA credits were made to the governments concerned, on identical terms: No principal repayments are to be made for the first 10 years; thereafter 1% per annum is repayable for the next 10 years and 3% per annum is repayable for the final 30 years. The credits are free of interest, but a service charge of % of 1% per annum is payable on the amounts withdrawn and outstanding, to meet the administrative costs of IDA.
This Annex also records commitments during the year by the Bank's other affiliate, the International Finance Corporation. Fuller descriptions of those commitments are given in the Annual Report of IFC, which is published simultaneously with the Bank/IDA Report.
AFRICA
regional
A four-man mission was organized by the Bank to study the special problems of agriculture in Africa south of the Sahara. The group began its field work in Kenya, and will next visit Tanganyika.
algeria
industry
$20.5 million 12-year 5Y2% Bank loan of May 14,1964, to the Compagnie Algerienne du Methane Liquide (CAMEL).
This loan will help to finance a natural gas liquefaction plant at Arzew on the Mediterranean coast of Algeria. The plant will produce 2.4 million cubic meters of liquefied natural gas annually for sale in England and France. It will be the first large-scale commercial installation of its kind. Gas will be supplied through an existing pipeline from the Hassi R'Mel field in the Sahara. The liquefied product will be transported by special tankers to England and France. Other major installations at Arzew will be a
10,600-kilowatt power plant, four storage tanks, and port facilities for the berthing and loading of tankers. The total cost of the project, including start-up expenses, is estimated at $89 million.
CAMEL is owned 40% by Conch International Methane Ltd., an international group, 40% by a French-Algerian group, and 20% by an agency of the Algerian Government. The project represents the first major industrial investment by foreign capital in Algeria since the country became independent. It will make possible the economic utilization of an important natural resource, assure the profitable operation of an extensive pipeline and increase Algeria's royalty and tax receipts. The Government also will benefit as a shareholder in CAMEL.
The term of the Bank loan has been set at 12 years, but provision is made for accelerated amortization under certain conditions depending on the level of profits. The Bank loan is guaranteed by the Algerian Government and, subject to certain conditions, by Conch International Methane Ltd. and three shareholders in the French-Algerian group. participation totaling $300,000: by Chemical Bank New York Trust Company.
ethiopia
ELECTRIC POWER
$23.5 million 25-year 5K% Bank loan of May 8, 1964, to Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority (EELPA).
All public power in Ethiopia is supplied by EELPA, except supplies to Asmara, which is served by a private company. Consumption of power in Ethiopia is still very low but has been increasing substantially; between 1959 and 1963, the number of customers served by EELPA rose from 28,000 to nearly 50,000. Power sales during the past five years have been growing at a rate
Earth-moving equipment imported under an IDA development credit is being used in Swaziland to cut a new all-weather highway through the hills near the Mozambique border. The new road, spanning the country from east to west, will link the largest towns and open new areas to cultivation.
of 30% annually and are expected to increase by as much as 20% a year for a number of years to come.
The loan will assist in financing the second and third stages of the Awash River hydroelectric development southeast of Addis Ababa. They will provide 64,000 kilowatts of new capacity to augment the 23,000 kilowatts already available from the first stage. The program also includes the expansion of transmission and distribution facilities in EELPA's main interconnected system which extends from Addis Ababa eastward some 220 miles to Harar, as well as 22 diesel units with a combined capacity of 5,800 kilowatts in areas remote from the main system. The total cost of these projects is estimated at $34.9 million.
participations totaling $975,000: by Irving Trust Company, The Chase Manhattan Bank, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, Commerzbank, A.G., Girard Trust Bank, and The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company.
gabon
The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund project begun in Gabon this year. It comprises (a) surveys of the technical and economic feasibility of a railway to transport iron ore from the Mekambo mines to a seaport near Libreville and (b) studies of the impact the railway would have on the economic development of Gabon.
ghana
A member of the Development Advisory Service continued to serve as Resident Representative and was available to advise the Government on economic and financial matters. He was assisted until August 1963 by a staff member who worked primarily with the National Planning Commission of Ghana, advising on methods for mobilizing internal and external financial resources for development.
kenya
In November 1961, the Bank made a loan of $8.4 million to Kenya, with the guarantee of the United Kingdom, for a project to develop farmlands for the settlement of African families on
180,000 acres in the highlands formerly reserved for Europeans. The Bank loan, together with a loan of $4.2 million from the Commonwealth (then Colonial) Development Corporation, was to be used for farm development purposes, such as water supply, fencing, access roads, farm buildings and the planting of cash crops. Implementation of the project was delayed partly by changes in the organization of settlement affairs in Kenya and partly by changes in the prospects for some of the crops to be developed under the project. These developments required alterations in the original loan documents, and a Supplemental Agreement was drawn up and signed on April 2, 1964 by the Bank, Kenya and the United Kingdom.
The character of the original scheme remains essentially the same, but under the new arrangements, the average size of the farms has been enlarged so that the number planned has been reduced from 7,800 to 5,744, and greater emphasis has been given to the raising of dairy cattle. The total estimated cost of the project has been reduced because of the less expensive type of development. Consequently the amount to be drawn from the Bank loan may be less. The guarantee of the loan by the United Kingdom continues in effect..
liberia
TRANSPORTATION-HIGHWAYS
$3,250,000 18-year 5)4% Bank loan of January 8, 1964, to Liberia.
This is the Bank's first loan to Liberia. It will help to build two new roads totaling 62 miles and will pay for equipment and materials to improve maintenance of the country's entire road system. Most of Liberia's road network has been built in the last 10 years, during which road mileage increased from 300 to 1,700 and the number of motor vehicles rose from 650 to about 10,000. The development of roads has stimulated economic growth; because travel time from production to consuming centers has been cut from weeks to hours, outlying districts now provide foodstuffs to the capital city of Monrovia and other population centers, and the production of rubber, cocoa, coffee and other cash crops has increased considerably.
Since the road network is still small, however,
for the country's size and population, the project being assisted by the Bank is an important step in further road development. Initially, one of the new roads will be an access route to a planned logging and sawmill operation in virgin forests. Ultimately it should help promote agricultural as well as timber development and bring an entire region in western Liberia within economic reach of Monrovia and of two of the country's large iron-ore mining complexes. The second road is part of a new 3 5-mile road being built to replace a long roundabout route from Monrovia to Robertsfield, the center of rubber production and the site of Liberia's international airport. Better road maintenance will restore Liberia's main trunk roads to good condition and keep them operable thereafter. The total cost of the construction and maintenance projects is estimated at $4.5 million.
Because of Liberia's difficult financial position over the next few years, and the recent action of other foreign creditors in accepting a rearrangement of Liberia's external debt, the Bank set the commencement of amortization of its loan for June 1972—a longer grace period than is usual in Bank loans.
libya
A member of the Development Advisory Service continued to serve as Economic Adviser to the Prime Minister. In October 1963 another member of the DAS began a two-year assignment as Principal Adviser on Planning to the Ministry of Finance and Development.
mauritius
ELECTRIC POWER
$7 million 20-year 5J^% Bank loan of September 23, 1963, to Mauritius.
Mauritius, a British colony in the Indian Ocean, has an area of 720 square miles and a population of 691,000, making it one of the most crowded areas of the world. Public power on the island is supplied by the Central Electricity Board (CEB), which now serves about half the population. The generating capacity of CEB's power plants is approximately 30,000 kilowatts, which it supplements in the dry season by power bought from private plants on sugar
estates. Two severe cyclones in 1960 damaged the system and curtailed sales of power.
With the rehabilitation of the system, the extension of service to new areas, probable industrial expansion, and the growing population, annual power sales are expected to grow at a rate of 11% through 1970. The project being assisted by the Bank loan should enable CEB to meet the island's requirements until that time. It includes the first stage of the Fort Victoria diesel power station at Port Louis with an initial capacity of 12,000 kilowatts. In addition, transmission facilities will be reinforced in the area of heaviest electricity consumption, the distribution system will be reconstructed and expanded in the towns to provide better service, and the service area will be extended. The total cost of the project is estimated at $8.6 million. The loan is guaranteed by the United Kingdom. participations totaling $4,825,596: by Banque Lambert, S.C.S., New York Branch of Barclays Bank D.C.O., Mercantile Bank, Limited, Hope & Co., Jonker & Verschoor, Firma F. van Lanschot, Nederlandsche Credietbank N.V., N.V. Hol-landsche Koopmansbank, Bankierskantoor Staal & Co. N.V., Amsterdamsche Bank N.V., Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij, N.V., Nederlandse Overzee Bank N.V., Rotterdamsche Bank N.V., Banque de Paris et des Pays Bas, S.A., R. Mees & Zoonen, and Theodoor Gilissen, N.V.
morocco
At the request of the Government, the Bank sent a general survey mission to assess the country's development potential and to recommend economic policies, institutional arrangements and the elements of an investment program designed to accelerate economic growth. The mission is now preparing its report.
Equipment in this Ethiopian fibre mill
was financed by a loan from the Ethiopian Development Bank (EDB), established with financial and technical assistance from the World Bank in 1950. EDB has financed imports of equipment for industries in Ethiopia by drawing on foreign exchange resources provided to it through World Bank loans.
niger
TRANSPORTATION-HIGHWAYS
$1.5 million IDA credit of June 24, 1964.
Niger, a landlocked country, has to rely on the transport systems and ports of neighboring Nigeria and Dahomey for its foreign trade. Because of the long distances to ports—over 800 miles—the high transport costs of Niger's overseas trade has a detrimental effect on the economy.
Groundnuts, the chief export, are grown mainly in the southeastern part of the country, where the IDA credit will finance two small, high priority road projects. A 21-mile earth road from Damthiao to Dungass will be improved and a new laterite-surfaced road of about the same length will be built from Dungass to Maigatari on the Niger-Nigerian border. On its side of the border, the Government of Northern Nigeria intends to complete the paving of a road which links Maigatari with the railhead at Kano. The project roads will reduce the cost of transporting groundnuts from the Dungass area by nearly half and should also attract additional settlers to the area and stimulate increased agricultural activity.
The amount of Government revenues which can be spared for road expenditures is needed to finance essential maintenance operations, and almost all new construction is being financed wholly by external aid. In these circumstances the IDA credit will cover the total cost (excluding import taxes) of the Dungass roads, most of which is foreign exchange.
nigeria
ELECTRIC POWER
$30 million 20-year 5J^% Bank loan of March 12, 1964, to the Electricity Corporation of Nigeria.
The Electricity Corporation of Nigeria, which is responsible for providing electric power throughout the country, is carrying out a six-year expansion program designed to establish a national power grid and to provide enough thermal capacity to meet requirements until 1969, when the hydroelectric power project at Kainji in the Niger River should be in operation. The Corporation now operates thermal plants with a combined capacity of 216,700 kilowatts. The program contemplates the addition of 220,000 kilowatts of new thermal capacity, 840
miles of transmission lines, and extension of distribution systems. The Bank loan will finance the foreign exchange costs of the transmission and distribution facilities to be built during the first 3J-^ years of the program at an estimated total cost of $42.3 million. These include about 640 miles of high-voltage transmission lines, extensions of the existing systems at Port Har-court, Lagos and Ibadan, and the expansion of distribution facilities at various centers to be served by the new power network. These works will create three transmission systems—one each in the Eastern and Northern Regions and the third in the Western and Mid-West Regions— which subsequently will be part of the national grid.
participations totaling $2,170,000: by Bankers Trust Company, The Chase Manhattan Bank, Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, United California Bank, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, New York Branch of Barclays Bank D.C.O., The Meadow Brook National Bank, The First National Bank of Chicago, Irving Trust Company, The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, New York Agency of The Standard Bank Limited, and Bayerische Hypotheken- und Wechsel-bank.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank continued to maintain a Resident Representative in Lagos. A member of the Development Advisory Service ended a two-year assignment as Economic Adviser to the Federal Government. In March 1964, at the request of the Federal and Mid-West Governments, the Bank sent another member of the DAS to serve as Adviser to the Government of Mid-West Nigeria; he is also available to advise the Federal Government.
Four meetings of the Consultative Group on Nigeria were held during the year to discuss the coordination of assistance for Nigeria's development. The group consists of Belgium, Canada, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, the Bank and IDA.
Consultants completed a study looking toward improvement and expansion of Northern Nigeria's road network. The Bank allocated $125,000 to meet half the cost of the study.
IFC COMMITMENTS • 1770,078 of loan and share capital for Arewa Textiles Limited.
$1,400,000 of share capital for Nigerian Industrial Development Bank Limited.
northern rhodesia
The Bank has organized and is helping to finance a study of the country's general transport requirements, including the priorities of various proposals for the future development of transport. The Bank has undertaken to meet the foreign exchange costs of the study, estimated at $140,000. Field work on the study commenced in June.
northern rhodesia and southern rhodesia
Prior to the dissolution of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland on December 31, 1963, the Bank had made five loans totaling $146.6 million for electric power, railways and agriculture, and a total of $125.4 million was still outstanding on that date. The loans had been made directly to the Federation or carried the guarantee of the Federation. The Bank undertook negotiations with Northern Rhodesia, Southern Rhodesia, the Federal Power Board (now the Central African Power Corporation), the Rhodesia Railways and the United Kingdom (which guaranteed all the loans), so that the loan documents could be altered to take into account the new political situation. As a result of the negotiations, effective January 1, 1964, Southern Rhodesia assumed a total obligation of $69.8 million and Northern Rhodesia assumed an obligation of $55.6 million. The United Kingdom guarantee of the five loans continues in effect.
sudan
A member of the Development Advisory Service is Adviser to the Department of Economic Planning. Fie is available to help review and revise the Ten-Year Plan of Economic and Social Development (1962-1972) to keep it abreast of changing conditions, and to advise on general economic financial policies.
A newly organized Consultative Group on the Sudan held three meetings at the Bank to discuss the coordination of financial assistance in con-
nection with the Ten-Year Plan. The Group consists of Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, the Bank and IDA.
The Bank acted as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund survey of the Sudan's electric power requirements and the preparation of a long-term program for power development, which was completed during the year.
IFC COMMITMENT • $689,588 of loan and share capital for Khartoum Spinning and Weaving Company Limited.
tanganyika
EDUCATION
$4.6 million IDA credit of December 19, 1963.
The expansion of secondary schools is vital to the economic development of Tanganyika. There is an urgent and increasing demand for secondary school graduates, both for direct employment and for further training in the administrative and professional fields, private and public. The need is all the more pressing as expatriate civil service officials depart. In five years, Tanganyika will need to have trained and available twice the number now employed in such careers as teaching and engineering, as well as a wide range of technicians in other fields.
In 1962 the Government began a program to expand the secondary school system which will increase the number of places for students to 24,300. The IDA credit is assisting this program and will be used for the construction of two new schools and the extension and equipment of 53 others, providing in all nearly 6,900 additional places for students. Because of Tanganyika's scattered population, boarding facilities are necessary in some cases to enable pupils to attend regularly. The two new schools to be built with IDA assistance will be government boarding schools; the 53 schools to be enlarged include 12 government and 27 voluntary agency boarding schools, and 8 government and 6 voluntary agency day schools. The total cost of construction, improvement and equipment is estimated at $6 million. The program is already well under way, and student enrollment in the new facilities commenced this year.
TRANSPORTATION-HIGHWAYS
$14 million IDA credit of February 5, 1964.
The road system in Tanganyika is of primary-importance, since the railways serve only parts of the country and the population, widely dispersed over a large area, requires an extensive transportation network. There are some 10,000 miles of main roads which serve as trunk routes between provincial centers and with neighboring countries. Their quality, however, is very uneven, with paved sections near the towns and long stretches between towns with only earth surfacing. The project being assisted by the IDA credit is a step toward the construction of an interconnected all-weather highway system. It consists of the construction or improvement of eight main roads in various parts of the country, totaling 734 miles. All the roads are important to production and trade, as they serve areas now producing cash crops or with a potential for agriculture.
Three of the roads are part of the main system which radiates from the capital, Dar es Salaam, and serves most of the major towns and some of the most productive lands in the country. A fourth road also runs from Dar es Salaam through an area of established agriculture with a large capability for increased production of foodstuffs for the fast-growing population of the capital. A fifth road serves an agricultural region in the south, near the Mozambique border; and a sixth extends from Mbeya to the northern end of Lake Nyasa. The other two are in northern Tanganyika in the vicinity of Lake Victoria. The improved roads will result in better routes for growing traffic, lower transport costs, faster transportation of agricultural produce to consuming centers and ports, and savings in road maintenance costs.
IFC COMMITMENT • SI,931,172 supplemental investment of loan capital for Kilombero Sugar Company Limited.
tunisia
TRANSPORTATION-PORT
$7 million 25-year 5}/£% Bank loan of June 5, 1964, to Tunisia.
This loan will assist in creating a modern port for Tunis, which handles over half the country's
foreign trade and serves an area containing more than half Tunisia's population of four million. The volume of traffic, nearly 2.4 million tons a year, is beyond the capacity of the port to handle efficiently, and is expected to increase by a quarter in the next decade. Most of the general cargo is now handled at the old port of Tunis at the landward end of a six-mile canal across the Lake of Tunis. Since there is no room for expansion at Tunis and the approach is difficult, the Government intends to transfer port operations progressively to the new port of La Goulette at the seaward end of the canal, where conditions are more favorable.
The project consists of the construction of two new, fully equipped berths at La Goulette, a passenger terminal and office buildings, and the equipping of five existing berths with transit sheds and warehouses. It also includes the relocation of the access road and of the breakwater at the harbor entrance, and the extension of the road and rail network within the port area. The total cost of the works to be undertaken is estimated at $11.4 million. The project will enable La Goulette to handle a total of about one million tons of general and bulk cargo annually. Passenger liners and cruise ships will also be diverted to La Goulette where the new terminal will replace old, inadequate facilities at Tunis. participations totaling $420,000: by The Chase Manhattan Bank, Commerzbank A.G., Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, and Bank of America, N. T. & S. A.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank is helping to organize a study intended to improve school building design and to lower construction costs, and has undertaken to meet the foreign exchange costs of the study, estimated at $375,000.
Two meetings of the Consultative Group on Tunisia were held at the Bank. Representatives of Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, the Bank and IDA attended these meetings.
The Bank provided a consultant to study the Tunisian capital market and staff members went to Tunisia to advise on development financing institutions. In each case, the reports have been transmitted to the Government.
ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
regional
A member of the Development Advisory Service was seconded to the United Nations to become the first Director of the Asian Economic Development Institute in Bangkok.
china
agriculture—fisheries
$7.8 million 15-year 5}^% Bank loan of September 27, 1963, to the Republic of China.
This, the Bank's first loan to China, will finance the foreign exchange costs of building and equipping 16 modern deep-sea fishing vessels to expand the country's tuna fishing fleet. It is estimated that a total of $9.4 million will be invested in the project. Population pressure on Taiwan's limited arable land has brought about an acceleration in the development of the fishing industry in the last 10 years. As a result, the fishing fleet has grown to some 5,800 powered vessels, the annual catch has increased to well over 300,000 metric tons, and the industry employs about 300,000 people, providing support for over twice that number.
The catch of tuna has increased substantially with the introduction of deep-sea fishing vessels. When the new vessels join the fleet, the value of Taiwan's annual catch of fish is expected to increase by the equivalent of over $4.5 million. The expansion will provide more employment, augment domestic food supply and, since two-thirds of the catch will be exported, will substantially increase foreign exchange earnings. participations totaling $970,000: by Irving Trust Company, Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, United California Bank, The Bank of New York, Girard Trust Bank, Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, The Marine Midland Trust Company of New York, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Crocker-Citizens National Bank, National Bank of Commerce of Seattle, First National City Bank, The First National Bank of Boston, Wells
Fargo Bank, and the New York Agency of Bank of China.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • A study to formulate an investment program for the improvement of transportation facilities was completed. The Bank paid $207,000 to cover the foreign exchange costs.
india
INDUSTRY
$90 million IDA credit of June 9, 1964.
Within the last decade there has been considerable development in India of manufacturing firms capable of producing sizable quantities of capital equipment. This has shifted part of the import demand from finished goods to components and materials for inclusion in domestic products. Because of the shortage of foreign exchange, however, manufacturers have not been able to purchase all their import requirements, with the result that plant capacity has not been fully utilized.
The IDA credit will enable companies in three major industries—commercial vehicles, industrial machinery and construction equipment —to import components and materials on a larger scale than has been possible up to now and thus to make fuller use of existing capacity and to produce more capital goods. In the industries directly affected, it should make possible an increase of output averaging as much as 30% in the year ending March 31, 1965.
The construction industry, which has been handicapped by a scarcity of spare parts for its equipment, will also benefit from the IDA credit. Funds are provided for the import of spare parts for heavy earthmoving and construction equipment already in India, of additional supplies of such equipment, and of transporters to move the equipment from one project site to another. Furthermore, the Government is taking measures to ensure the maintenance in India of adequate stocks of spare parts and to expedite their delivery. This should speed up the execution of various development projects throughout India, particularly in the fields of irrigation and electric power.
The proceeds of the credit will be made available to participating firms and agencies through
the import licensing procedures of the Government of India; the procedures will be streamlined to ensure an expeditious use of the credit.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank continued to maintain a Resident Representative in New Delhi. Two meetings of the Consortium on Aid to India were held during the year. Participants were Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States, the Bank and IDA. In August 1963, the Consortium pledged the equivalent of $1,052 million, subject as appropriate to legislative or other necessary authorization, to assist the third year (April 1, 1963 to March 31, 1964) of the current Indian Five-Year Plan. Of this amount, the Bank and IDA share was $245 million. In May 1964 the equivalent of $1,028 million was pledged for the fourth year of the Plan, again subject as appropriate to legislative or other necessary authorization; the Bank and IDA share was $245 million.
The Bank agreed to make an additional allocation of $100,000 to expand the scope and complete the study of India's coal transport problem. This brought the Bank's total allocation to $850,000. Field work on a study looking toward a new crossing on the Hooghly River was completed. The Bank contributed $116,000 to cover part of the cost.
IFC COMMITMENTS • $1,211,000 of loan and share capital for Fort Gloster Industries Limited, to help enlarge and diversify electric cable production by the company.
$1,380,000 of loan and share capital for Lakshmi Machine Works Limited, a new cotton-textile machinery company.
$3,450,001 of loan and share capital for Mahindra Ugine Steel Company Limited, a new Indian firm which will build and operate an alloy steel plant.
The largest loan ($72 million) ever made by the World Bank for a road project has been helping to build or improve 1,500 miles of highways in southwestern Iran. This aerial view shows a new road winding along the Patagh Pass west of Kermanshah.
iran
TRANSPORTATION-HIGHWAYS
$18.5 million 20-year 5}4 % Bank loan of June 10,1964, to Iran.
Roads are the principal means of transport in Iran. The Government is carrying out a continuing program of construction and improvement to provide paved roads for the movement of freight and passengers between important centers of industry, commerce and agriculture, and to accommodate the country's rapidly growing volume of traffic. There are now some 4,000 miles of paved main roads in Iran; a Bank loan of $72 million in 1959 financed a third of the cost of building 1,500 miles of these roads.
The Government now has under way the construction or improvement of a further 770 miles of main roads. This year's loan will assist in financing five sections of these roads totaling 425 miles. It will also finance a survey and preliminary engineering of roads selected for future improvement. The work being assisted by the Bank loan is expected to cost a total of $44.2 million.
The project will extend the benefits already obtained from the earlier road program. It resulted in better access to semi-isolated regions in many parts of the country, a drastic reduction in the time and cost of moving people and freight, and a great increase in the frequency of service of public carriers. Of particular importance was the improvement of the north-south artery from the Caspian Sea through the Tehran area to the Gulf ports, on which the volume of traffic has doubled since 1959.
participations totaling $1,460,000: by The Chase Manhattan Bank, First National City Bank, Irving Trust Company, Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, Mellon National Bank and Trust Company, and Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank organized and is helping to finance a long-range study being carried out to assist in the establishment and initial operation of an Authority for the regulation, planning and development of the electric power industry. The Bank has undertaken to meet the foreign exchange costs, estimated at $750,000.
japan
TRANSPORTATION-HIGHWAYS
$75 million 26-year olA% Bank loan of September 27, 1963 and
$50 million 25-year 5^% Bank loan of April 22, 1964, to Nihon Doro Kodan.
Both loans will help finance the construction of additional sections of the toll expressway which will eventually extend 333 miles from Tokyo to Kobe. The $75 million loan was for the 100-mile section between Tokyo and Shizuoka, and the $50 million loan was for the 49-mile section between Toyokawa and Komaki in the Nagoya area. The total cost of the Tokyo-Shizuoka section, including construction, land acquisition, and engineering, is estimated at $628 million; the cost of the Toyokawa-Komaki section is expected to be $202 million. Two earlier Bank loans totaling $80 million helped to finance 114 miles of the expressway from Nagoya to Kobe, of which 88 miles are already open to traffic. With the exception of a section extending about 23 miles from the suburbs of Tokyo, which will be six-lane, the Tokyo-Kobe expressway will be a four-lane, limited-access, highspeed, divided highway with interchanges, service areas, bus stops, toll stations and traffic control facilities.
The expressway, when completed, will be the most important highway in Japan. It will traverse the most highly industrialized and populated area of the country, and will link five of Japan's six largest cities: Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Kyoto and Kobe. It will relieve the acute shortage of transportation capacity in this area, providing for the safe and rapid movement of freight and passenger traffic at reduced cost.
participation totaling $50,000 in the $75 million loan: by Vereinsbank in Hamburg.
jordan
WATER SUPPLY
$3.5 million IDA credit of December 12, 1963.
One of the most pressing problems for municipal authorities in Jordan has been the provision of water. The large influx of people into the towns has put a strain on existing supplies and, despite rationing, the chronic water shortage seriously affects living conditions. The Government therefore has given high priority to improv-
Japanese National Railways used a Bank loan to help build the new railway from Tokyo to Osaka, on which trains are scheduled at speeds up to 125 miles an hour. Shown here: Nagoya station.
ing water supply systems. An IDA credit of $2 million was made in 1961 to improve the system in Amman, the capital, and this year's credit will assist similar projects in the four next largest urban centers: Ramallah in the Jerusalem area, Zarqa, Irbid-Mafraq, and Nablus. None of these centers has a sizable source of usable surface water nearby, and the projects involve the development of new sources. New well fields will be developed for Zarqa and Nablus; water for the Irbid-Mafraq area will be pumped 85 miles through a salvaged petroleum pipeline, serving numerous towns and villages en route; and a pipeline about 16 miles long will bring
water from a large spring to Ramallah .The main components of the projects in each case involve collection works, transmission mains, pumping facilities, reservoirs and related facilities and improvement or expansion of distribution systems. The total cost of the works being undertaken is estimated at $5.2 million.
The projects will be carried out by the Central Water Authority to which the proceeds of the IDA credit will be relent initially by the Government of Jordan. After the works are completed the new facilities as well as the Authority's financial liabilities will be transferred to operating agencies. The funds will be repaid to the
These scoops begin tunnels to divert the Jhelum River for construction of the Mangla multipurpose dam in West Pakistan, for which the bank has lent $90 million
Government over a period of 20 years, after three years of grace, with interest at 4 % per annum.
AGRICULTURE
$3 million IDA credit of December 12, 1963.
Most of Jordan's land area is desert, and only about 10 % is cultivated at any one time. Despite unfavorable climatic conditions, agriculture is the mainstay of the economy. Output can be increased both through intensification of production and through expansion of agricultural area. If sustained agricultural growth is to be achieved, however, the Government's efforts to improve agricultural research, extension services and marketing facilities must be accompanied by an expansion of credit facilities. The IDA credit will help to fill this need by providing
additional resources for the lending program of the Agricultural Credit Corporation (ACC), the largest institutional source of agricultural investment credit in Jordan. To make its operations more effective, ACC will also receive technical assistance in accounting and lending procedures, and the IDA credit will include funds to cover the foreign exchange costs of experts and accounting equipment.
ACC will make loans for the reclamation and improvement of land, the establishment of permanent plantations, some irrigation, and on-farm development. There will also be modest investments in farm mechanization, livestock production, and farm and storage buildings. These measures are expected to bring about an increase in food crops and dairy products for domestic consumption—thus lessening Jordan's
dependence on imported foodstuffs which accounted for nearly a third of all imports in 1961 —and in export crops, mostly olives and vegetables.
The Government of Jordan will relend the proceeds of the IDA credit to ACC which will repay the Government over a period of 10 years, after a 10-year period of grace, with interest at 334 % per annum. ACC will in turn relend the funds to farmers and agricultural enterprises at an interest rate of not less than % per annum at maturities appropriate to individual projects.
kuwait
A Bank staff member continued as adviser to the Arab Economic Development Fund.
malaysia
INDUSTRY-DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
$8 million. Bank loan of July 15, 1963, to Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Limited (MIDFL).
MIDFL was established in 1960 by Malayan and foreign investors to assist in the expansion of private industry. The Bank loan, together with an investment by the Bank's affiliate, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), are part of a series of measures taken to strengthen the organizational and capital structure of MIDFL to enable it to make a larger contribution to the industrial development of Malaysia. The immediate financial resources available to MIDFL rose from M$10.5 million (US$3.5 million) to about M$62 million (US$20 million), as the result of a M$7.5 million increase in share capital—of which the IFC has subscribed M$2.5 million (US$817,917)—a long-term, interest-free loan from the Government of Malaysia, and the Bank loan. Malaysian interests, together with the IFC, now hold just over 50% of MIDFL's share capital, and the remainder is held by financial institutions in France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Although still at an early stage, industrial development in Malaysia has shown a marked upsurge in the past few years. Malaysian enterprises, however, have often been handicapped by the inability of the local capital market to channel an adequate share of domestic savings to productive industrial ventures, in suitable
form and on suitable terms. MIDFL is designed to meet this need by providing investment capital in any form appropriate to its clients. It can undertake equity participation, make medium and long-term loans, or provide other financial and technical assistance to industry. It will sell its equity participations as soon as is practicable, so as to expand the ownership of industrial securities and to recover its own resources for additional investments.
The Bank loan will be committed, in parts, for individual projects to be agreed upon from time to time by the Bank and MIDFL. Each part committed for a particular project to be financed by MIDFL will be repaid according to a schedule to be determined at the time of the commitment, subject to a maximum term of 15 years. Interest will be applied to each part of the loan at the Bank's then current rate.
ELECTRIC POWER
$51.9 million 25-year 5}-£% Bank loan of August 7, 1963, to the Central Electricity Board of Malaya (CEB).
The Central Electricity Board is the largest supplier of electric power in Malaysia. The biggest project undertaken by CEB is the Cameron Highlands scheme for developing the hydroelectric power potential of groups of streams on the Cameron Highlands Plateau, about 100 miles north of Kuala Lumpur. A Bank loan of $28.6 million made in 1958 is assisting the first stage of the scheme which will provide 106,800 kilowatts of capacity. This year's loan includes funds for the second stage, the Batang Padang project, which will add two more plants with a combined capacity of 102,800 kilowatts. In addition, the loan will assist the construction of the Prai thermal power station, with an initial capacity of 60,000 kilowatts, on the west coast in northern Malaya. Both projects are designed for increases in capacity at a later date.
CEB's transmission network is being expanded to connect the new plants with existing facilities and to interconnect all major power plants and supply systems operated by CEB and other utilities on the western side of Malaya. This will increase firm generating capacity and realize considerable savings in generating costs by using both hydroelectric and thermal plants to their best advantage. The total cost of the generating
and transmission projects is estimated at $75 million.
participations totaling $2,830,000: by The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York Branch of The Chartered Bank, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, National Bank of Commerce of Seattle, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, First National City Bank, The Philadelphia National Bank, Girard Trust Bank, The Marine Midland Trust Company of New York, New York Agency of The Mitsui Bank, Limited, The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Grace National Bank of New York, Crocker-Citizens National Bank, The Bank of Tokyo Trust Company, Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, New York Agency of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, and Irving Trust Company.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank continued to provide to the Treasury the services of an expert in organizing economic data.
pakistan
AGRICULTURE
$9 million IDA credit of July 26, 1963.
This credit will assist in financing a flood protection, drainage and irrigation project in East Pakistan. About 95 miles of embankments will be built around the project area, which lies to the north and south of Chandpur on the Meghna Estuary, to protect the land from flood and tidal waters of the adjoining rivers. Two dual purpose pumping stations and one small drainage station will be built to drain an area of some 135,000 acres and to provide irrigation for 109,000 acres within this area. Other works include irrigation canals, drainage channels and necessary appurtenances. The total cost of the project is estimated at $18.2 million. The Provincial Government of East Pakistan will provide agricultural extension services to farmers, including guidance in the adoption of suitable farming and irrigation practices; credit facilities will be made available also. When the project is in full operation, crops can be grown throughout the year and the increase in the net value of farm production should be equivalent to more than $6 million annually. This would double
farm incomes in one of the most densely populated agricultural districts of the world.
The project will be built and operated by the East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority. The credit will be relent on IDA terms by the Central Government of Pakistan to the Province of East Pakistan, which will relend an equivalent amount to the Authority for repayment over a period of 20 years, after a five-year grace period, with interest at 4% a year.
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
$26 million IDA credit of August 16, 1963, for the Dacca project and
$24 million IDA credit of August 16, 1963, for the Chittagong project.
These credits will be used to provide adequate and safe water supply and sewerage services in Dacca and Chittagong, the two most important cities in East Pakistan. Dacca is the capital and leading commercial center, and Chittagong is the main port. W'ith the rapid growth of population in both cities since 1951, water supply and sewerage services have become increasingly inadequate: in Dacca less than a third of the population of 555,000 is directly served by the public water systems and only about a tenth have sewer connections. In Chittagong the water systems serve just over a third of the population of 365,500 and there is no public sewerage system.
The water supply installations being assisted by the IDA credit are designed to meet the expected water requirements up to about 1978. As part of the project the distribution systems will be extended until about 70% of the populations of both cities are served directly in 10 years. The sewerage schemes for the two cities will be the first phase of long-range programs which ultimately will provide facilities for the entire municipal areas. When this phase is completed in about six years, approximately half the people who have water connections will be served by the sewer systems and connections will continue to be expanded thereafter. Public sanitary structures will be built in both cities for those who cannot afford individual water and sewerage connections. The total cost of the Dacca project is estimated at $50 million and of the Chittagong project, $43 million.
The Government of Pakistan will relend the proceeds of the IDA credits to the Province of East Pakistan on IDA terms, and the Provincial Government will relend an equivalent amount to the Dacca and Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Authorities for repayment over 20 and 25 years respectively, after 5H-year grace periods, with interest at 33^% a year.
EDUCATION
$8.5 million IDA credit of March 25, 1964, for West Pakistan project and
$4.5 million IDA credit of March 25, 1964, for East Pakistan project.
These credits will assist the expansion and improvement of two agricultural universities, one at Lyallpur in W7est Pakistan and the other at Mymcnsingh in East Pakistan, six technical institutes in West Pakistan and eight in East Pakistan, and Technical Teacher Colleges at Karachi, Rawalpindi and Dacca.
Although Pakistan has made considerable progress in the past 15 years in expanding and modernizing its educational system, facilities are still far short of the country's requirements. The shortage of professionally trained personnel for agriculture and industry is particularly acute. Consequently, the Government is taking measures to increase the number of university-trained agriculturists to 840 annually by 1970 and of trained technicians in industry to 7,000 by the same year. The projects assisted by IDA will help to attain these goals.
At the Lyallpur and Mymensingh agricultural universities, IDA funds will be used for the construction of academic and other buildings, for site development and for the procurement and installation of teaching equipment. At the 14 technical institutes, IDA funds will be used for the procurement and installation of equipment for classrooms, laboratories, libraries, workshops, student hostels and administrative offices. Since the success of the technical institutes depends on the supply of qualified teachers, training programs are being expanded at the three Technical Teacher Colleges. IDA funds will cover the entire cost of a three-year program for the employment of expatriate teaching personnel in certain specialized fields and for the overseas training of Pakistani teachers who will replace
them. The cost of the project is expected to total $26 million.
The Government of Pakistan will relend the proceeds of the credits to the Provincial Governments of East Pakistan and West Pakistan on IDA terms.
TRANSPORTATION-PORT
$17 million 25-year 5J^% Bank loan of May 14, 1964, to the Trustees of the Port of Karachi.
This is the second Bank loan for expansion and improvement of the port of Karachi, the only deep-water port in West Pakistan. Since the time of the first loan in 1955, traffic has exceeded forecasts, rising from about 3 million tons to 5.6 million tons in 1963. This has overtaxed berthing and cargo-handling facilities and resulted in a chronic congestion of ships. The improvements now being undertaken will relieve this situation and provide enough capacity to handle part of the increased traffic, which is expected to reach about 8 million tons by 1970.
The loan will assist the reconstruction of four berths at the East Wharves, the construction of three new berths at the West Wharves, the construction of a new oil pier to replace an old. dilapidated one, the widening and deepening of the navigable channel to improve access to the oil berths and reduce the risk of collision, and the rehabilitation of the Manora breakwater at the harbor entrance to help maintain the hydraulic regime and so ensure access to the port. The berths at both Wharves will be provided with transit sheds, passenger terminals, roads and railways, electricity, water, bunkerage and cargo-handling facilities. Since these measures are the maximum that can be undertaken within the present physical layout of the port, Bank funds will be used also for the preparation of a master plan for future port development. The total cost of the project is estimated at $37.5 million.
PARTICIPATIONS totaling $890,000: by Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, Bankers Trust Company, Girard Trust Bank, Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, The First National Bank of Boston, First National City Bank, The Meadow Brook National Bank, The Philadelphia National Bank, Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, Crocker-
Citizens National Bank, and The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company.
TRANSPORTATION-NATURAL GAS PIPELINE
$15 million 20-year 5J^% Bank loan of May 14, 1964, to Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited.
The utilization of natural gas from the Sui field in West Pakistan, one of the largest in the world, began with a 346-mile pipeline from Sui to Karachi which was built by the Sui Gas Transmission Company with the assistance of a Bank loan of $14 million made in 1954. Sui gas has been an important element in the growth of industry in Karachi, Hyderabad and other areas in the south, as it provided ample supplies of indigenous fuel.
Subsequently, natural gas became available in northern parts of West Pakistan with the completion of a 300-mile pipeline from Sui to Multan and a limited pipeline system from the Dhulian oil fields to the Rawalpindi area. Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited, to which this year's loan was made, was formed in 1963 to be responsible for the distribution of Sui gas in the north. It has already taken over the Multan and Rawalpindi systems, which it will improve and expand. It will extend distribution of natural gas from the Sui field farther into the north by the construction of about 370 miles of pipeline from Multan to Lyallpur, Lahore and the Gharibwal/Dandot area. The total cost of new construction is estimated at $35.5 million; the
The Bank, IDA and 6 cooperating governments
are financing a complex system of canals to distribute irrigation waters in West Pakistan. Shown here: a canal near the lower Ravi River.
Bank loan will cover part of the foreign exchange required for this purpose. The gas will provide an economical and dependable supply of fuel to the expanding industries of the northern region, and will accomplish substantial savings of foreign exchange now spent on imports of oil and coal.
participations totaling $1,865,000: by Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, Irving Trust Company, Girard Trust Bank, Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, The Meadow Brook National Bank, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, and The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company.
TRANSPORTATION-HIGHWAYS
$22.5 million IDA credit of June 11, 1964, for East Pakistan project and
$17 million IDA credit of June 11, 1964, for West Pakistan project.
The credit of $22.5 million will assist the construction of a 150-mile two-lane, paved highway between Dacca and Chittagong in East Pakistan. The $17 million credit will assist the construction of a 90-mile limited access, two-lane toll highway between Karachi and Hyderabad and three bridges, over the Jhelum, Ravi and Sutlej Rivers, in West Pakistan. Both credits include funds to finance the services of consultants to advise and assist the highway departments of the Provinces and to undertake feasibility studies of road access from the terminal points of both highways, which extend only to the outskirts of the cities concerned, to the industrial and commercial areas of the cities. Both roads will be the first designed and built to modern standards in each of the Provinces. The total cost of the East Pakistan project is estimated at $45.5 million and of the West Pakistan project, $35.5 million.
East Pakistan has only about 3,500 miles of roads, which for the most part are unconnected stretches. Railways and waterways are the chief modes of transport. With an all-weather highway, a substantial volume of through and local traffic should develop between Dacca and Chittagong. While bulk freight will continue to be carried by rail and to some extent by river craft, the highway will be used to transport high-value
freight, manufactured goods and foodstuffs between the two cities and intermediate towns. It should also stimulate the development of local agriculture and industry.
West Pakistan, with 21,000 miles of roads, has a much more extensive network, but the roads are not designed to meet the demands of modern traffic. The Karachi-Hyderabad road will be the first section of a projected national highway which would extend from Karachi northward to Lahore, Rawalpindi and Peshawar. Since the new road will reduce the distance between Karachi and Hyderabad by about 30 miles, cutting the traveling time from five to three hours, the volume of commercial and passenger traffic is expected to increase rapidly.
TRANSPORTATION-RAILWAYS
$10 million IDA credit of June 24, 1964, for Pakistan Eastern Railway and $25 million IDA credit of June 24, 1964, for Pakistan Western Railway.
The two credits will help to finance completion of the railway programs in East and West Pakistan under the Second Five-Year Plan which ends June 30, 1965. The Eastern Railway will use the $10 million credit to finance signaling equipment, plant and machinery for workshops, equipment for ferry operations, special type freight cars, and equipment and materials for the double-tracking of the most heavily traveled sections of the Dacca-Chittagong line. The Western Railway will use the $25 million credit to finance railcars and trailers, plant and machinery for workshops, track maintenance equipment, rails, sleepers and miscellaneous equipment. These credits, together with five earlier World Bank loans totaling $93.7 million, make the railways the largest single beneficiary of Bank/IDA lending in Pakistan.
By June 30, 1963, freight traffic on the Eastern Railway was nearly 7 million tons annually and the number of passengers carried was 72 million, reflecting increases of 77% and 40%, respectively, over a 7-year period. Freight traffic on the Western Railway was 11.3 million tons and the number of passengers carried 123.4 million, showing increases of 36% and 41%, respectively, over'a 7-year period. In both Provinces there is a growing demand for all modes of transport. To
assure priorities of investment among the alternative means of transport, the Provincial Governments have recently reconstituted their Transport Coordination Boards to advise on all matters relating to transportation investments and policy.
The Government of Pakistan will relend the proceeds of the credits to the Provincial Governments of East and West Pakistan on IDA terms. The Provincial Governments will in turn make the proceeds available to the two Railways. The parts of the credits used for replacements of equipment and facilities will be repaid by both Railways to the Provinces over a period of 20 years, including years of grace, with interest at 5J/2%. On funds used for additions, the Railways will pay interest of 4% annually.
INDUSTRY-DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
$30 million Bank loan of June 30, 1964, to the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited (PICIC).
Since its establishment in 1957 by Pakistani and foreign investors, with the assistance of the World Bank, PICIC has become one of the leading institutions in Pakistan for the provision of medium and long-term finance for private industry. It has been an effective channel for the allocation of scarce foreign exchange to sound industrial projects in the private sector, and the projects it has financed have brought about appreciable foreign exchange earnings or savings. Furthermore, its industry surveys and market studies have broadened the range of potential investment by private industrialists.
The loan made this year will provide PICIC with about half the foreign exchange it will require until the end of 1965 for loans to new and expanding industries. It increased PICIC's resources to the equivalent of over $155 million. Including earlier loans, the Bank has now lent PICIC a total of $79.2 million, and the International Finance Corporation holds 5% of PICIC's paid-in share capital. Although PICIC takes direct participations in share capital and underwrites new offerings of securities, lending has been its main activity thus far. By the end of December 1963 it had approved 361 loans amounting to Rs. 551 million ($115.7 million) to a variety of industries. Of the total, all but Rs.
35 million were foreign exchange loans and more than three-fifths were to new enterprises.
Each part of the Bank loan committed for a particular project will be repaid in semi-annual installments according to a schedule determined at the time of the commitment. Interest will be applied to each portion of the loan at the Bank's rate prevailing when that portion is committed for one of PICIC's projects.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank continued to maintain a resident mission, with offices in Rawalpindi and Karachi, headed by a member of the Development Advisory Service.
An expert engaged by the Bank to carry out a preliminary survey of the capital market is preparing his report.
The Bank is organizing a study of the water and power resources of West Pakistan, financed by the Indus Basin Development Fund, to assist the Government in planning development of the water and power- sectors.
In April 1964 the Indus Basin Development Fund (Supplemental) Agreement came into force. Under it, the Governments of Australia, Canada, Germany, New Zealand, the U.K., the U.S., and the World Bank agreed to contribute an additional amount of $315 million in foreign exchange to be applied toward the cost of the works to be constructed by Pakistan in the Indus Basin. Of this amount, $58,540,000 was to be in the form of a contribution by the Bank or IDA, or both. The Bank and IDA decided that because of Pakistan's heavy burden of external debt, this contribution should be in the form of an IDA credit.
The Bank has agreed to act as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund survey to determine the future telecommunications requirements of the country and to recommend measures
This conduit will lead water out of a new reservoir into an irrigation system serving 131,000 acres of land on the Petchburi Plain in western Thailand. The project, partly financed by a Bank loan, will serve about 13,000 farm families. The Thai Government is also establishing an experimental farm and expanding extension services to improve agricultural practices in the area.
for the rational and efficient development and operation of telecommunications.
philippines
The Bank established a resident mission to work with the Government, and in particular with the Program Implementation Agency. It is headed by a member of the Development Advisory Service and initially included experts in agriculture, industry, transport, corporate finance and statistics.
A study directed toward the improvement and expansion of Manila's water supply system was completed. The Bank's contribution to the cost was $220,000.
syria
TRANSPORTATION-HIGHWAYS
$8.5 million IDA credit of December 24, 1963.
Although Syria's network of main roads has been extended by nearly a third in the past decade, it has not been adequate to meet the requirements of rapidly increasing traffic. Many sections of road have deteriorated badly and will have to be reconstructed to bring them up to suitable standards.
This credit will be used for the improvement of two of the country's most important highways: the road from Damascus to Aleppo, the principal north-south trunk highway, and the road from Aleppo to Raqqa, the transport route for produce coming from the main agricultural areas in the east. The improvements should reduce vehicle operating costs, achieve substantial savings in road maintenance expenditures, and expedite the movement of goods between Syria's largest cities and between producing and marketing centers.
IDA funds will also finance consultant services for a program to reorganize and strengthen the Department of Highways and Bridges, and for an overall survey of the country's roads to assist in the formulation of a sound highway investment program for the future. On the basis of the survey, the consultants will prepare the final design of about 375 miles of roads to be constructed or improved in the next phase of this program. The total cost of the project, including improvement works, consultants' fees and maintenance equipment, is expected to be $14 million.
thailand
INDUSTRY-DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
$2.5 million Bank loan of March 11, 1964, to the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT).
IFCT, a private company, is the main institutional source of medium and long-term finance for private industry in Thailand. The Bank loan, together with an investment of 4 million Baht ($193,108) by the International Finance Corporation, were part of a series of measures taken to increase the financial resources of IFCT to B 187 million ($9.13 million), and thereby enable it to make a more significant contribution to industrial growth in Thailand. Paid-in share capital, originally B 6.1 million, has been increased to B 30 million, while B 157 million of loan capital is available to IFCT through the Bank loan (B 52 million equivalent), B 48 million in loans from the Government of Thailand and a loan equivalent to B 57 million in foreign exchange from the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederauf bau, of Frankfurt, Germany. Four foreign investment and banking institutions made their first investments in IFCT and seven of the existing 12 foreign shareholders increased their holdings in the company. With the completion of the expansion, Thai investors, together with IFC, hold approximately 59% of IFCT's share capital.
The Bank loan will provide foreign exchange for the purchase of imported equipment, materials and services. It will be committed in parts for individual industrial projects to be agreed upon from time to time by the Bank and IFCT. Each part committed for a particular project to be financed by IFCT will be repaid over a period not exceeding 15 years, according to a schedule to be determined at the time of the commitment. Interest will be applied to each part of the loan at the Bank's then current rate.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank continued to station a Resident Representative in Bangkok.
A Bank mission to advise the National Economic Development Board and the Committee for Development of the North East completed its assignment.
A UN Special Fund study of port siltation at Bangkok is continuing, and is being extended to include the possible expansion of Bangkok's port facilities. The Bank is acting as Executing Agency.
AUSTRALASIA
new zealand
transportation-ports
$7.8 million 25-year 5J^% Bank loan of November 12,
1963, to New Zealand.
This, the Bank's first loan to New Zealand, was for the improvement of five ports, Auckland, Napier and Whangarei on the North Island, and Timaru and Lyttelton on the South. Island. The projects are part of a continuing development program being carried out at the larger ports to modernize and expand facilities to handle traffic more expeditiously and to provide for future growth.
At Auckland, New Zealand's largest city, quay cranes, cargo-handling and dredging equipment are being purchased and one of the wharves extended. At Lyttelton, the port of Christchurch, the third largest city, quay cranes are being provided at a new wharf. At Napier, a new finger pier will be built, adding two berths to the six now available. At Whangarei, the site of New Zealand's only oil refinery, tugs, a tug jetty, a pilot launch, a slipway, navigational aids, a workshop and offices are being provided. At Timaru, which handles a growing volume of meat exports, the main item is a mechanical meat-loading installation; a transit shed will also be built and cargo-handling equipment provided. The total estimated cost of the projects being assisted by the Bank is $12.5 million.
The projects are being carried out by local Harbour Boards to which the Government will relend the proceeds of the Bank loan on the same terms it received from the Bank. participations totaling $1,436,464: by Amster-damsche Bank N.V., Bankierskantoor Staal & Co. N.V., N.V. Hollandsche Koopmansbank, Vermeer & Co., Hope & Co., Jonker & Verschoor, and Nederlandsche Credietbank N.V.
electric power
$32.5 million 20-year 5J^% Bank loan of March 12,
1964, to New Zealand.
This loan was for the construction of an electric power transmission link to carry power from
the Benmore station now under construction on the South Island to the North Island, which contains the greater part of New Zealand's population and economic activity.
Until the mid 1950's demand for power was met almost entirely by the development of hydroelectric sites, mainly on the North Island. Most of the economically attractive hydroelectric resources of the North Island have now been largely developed, while large potential sites remain unexploited in the South Island. Although thermal capacity has been installed on the North Island, the prospects for its development on a large scale at costs comparable to those of hydroelectric power are not promising. The New Zealand Electricity Department has therefore undertaken the construction of a high-voltage, direct-current transmission line to transfer up to 600,000 kilowatts of power from the South Island to the North Island. The line will be 350 miles long overland and submarine cables will be laid for the crossing of the 25-mile wide Cook Strait. The total cost of the transmission facilities is estimated at $50 million. The successful operation of this link will open the way to further developments of this kind to meet the country's power needs.
participations totaling $3,722,624: by Banque Lambert, S.C.S., Dresdner Bank A.G., Com-pagnie de Gestion et de Banque, Pictet & Cie., The Toronto-Dominion Bank, New York Branch of the Swiss Bank Corporation, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Bank of Montreal, The Standard Bank Limited, The Bank of Nova Scotia, and Vermeer & Co.
territory of papua and new guinea
A general survey mission to investigate the economic development potential of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea completed its field work, and its draft report has been sent to the Australian authorities for review.
The Bank's $100 million loan for the Snowy Mountains scheme will help install 760,000 kilowatts of electric generating capacity in Australia. Of hydroelectric capacity, part will be based on the Geehi Dam; this picture shows preliminary work at the Geehi site.
EUROPE
denmark
electric power
$25 million 20-year 5J^% Bank loan of July 24, 1963, to Denmark.
The loan will assist five utilities to expand their generating capacity by 477,000 kilowatts of thermal power and to construct 400 miles of new transmission lines and associated facilities. The projects, which will cost a total of $81 million, will increase generating capacity in Denmark by nearly a quarter. This will help Danish power undertakings to keep abreast of industrial requirements and other power demand which is increasing at a rate well over 10% a year.
The service areas of the five utilities are on the Jutland Peninsula and the islands of Zealand and Bornholm. Three of the utilities are expanding existing plants in Esbjerg, Aarhus and R0nne; these plants also supply steam for district heating purposes in the cities in which they are located and these facilities will be extended. The other two companies are building new thermal power stations, one near Aalborg in the northern part of Jutland, and the other near SkaelskjzSr in the southwestern part of Zealand. participations totaling $8,641,160: by Banque Lambert, S.C.S., Banque de Paris et des Pays-Bas, Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij, N.V., Hope & Co., Bankierskantoor Staal & Co. N.V., Jonker & Verschoor, Theodoor Gilissen N.V. (with Labouchere & Co. N.V.), Nederlandsche Credietbank N.V., Firma F. van Lanschot, Amsterdamsche Bank N.V., and N.V. Hol-landsche Koopmansbank.
finland
INDUSTRY-DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
$7 million Bank loan of September 18, 1963, to the Teollistamisrahasto Oy (Industrialization Fund).
The Industrialization Fund, established in 1954 to provide finance for small and medium-sized industries in Finland, has been reorganized to enable it to provide a wider range of financial and technical assistance. Its financial resources have been increased five-fold to a total of 62
million markkas ($19.34 million) through Fmk 14.5 million in new share issues and Fmk 35.5 million in new borrowings.
The Bank joined with its affiliate, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), in providing part of this loan and share capital. IFC subscribed Fmk 512,040 ($159,279), and the remaining shares were taken up by Finnish shareholders and by investment and banking institutions in France, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. In addition to the Bank loan, the new borrowings include new debenture issues purchased by the Bank of Finland and the Post Office Savings Bank, and a long-term loan from private Finnish shareholders.
The Industrialization Fund's financial operations will include loans, loans with equity features, equity investments, underwriting of new issues and loan guarantees. A major objective will be to aid the development of the capital market in Finland by such means as underwriting operations and sales of equity participations. The participation of foreign investors in its share capital serves not only to increase the total resources of the Fund, but also to link the Fund with foreign financing and business enterprises.
The Bank loan will be used to finance qualified industrial projects to be agreed upon from time to time by the Bank and by the Industrialization Fund. Each part of the loan committed for a particular project will be repaid according to a schedule to be determined at the time of the commitment, subject to a maximum term of 15 years. Interest will be applied to each part at the Bank's then current rate.
malta
ELECTRIC POWER AND WATER SUPPLY
$7.5 million 20-year 534% Bank loan of September 6,
1963, to Malta.
This loan, the Bank's first to Malta, was for a combined thermal electric power and sea water distillation project. Malta is in the process of building a diversified economy based on new industries and expanded tourism, and additional electric power and water are essential to the success of these efforts.
All of Malta's water supply comes from underground sources. Since consumption is likely
to reach the maximum that can be obtained from these sources—4,300 million imperial gallons annually—by 1965, the only practical way of meeting future demand is through the conversion of sea water to fresh water. The distillation plant will be a multi-stage "flash" type and will be operated by steam supplied from the new power plant. The power plant will have an initial capacity of 25,000 kilowatts, or double the present capacity of Malta's public electricity system, and the distillation plant will have a capacity of one million imperial gallons a day. The new station is designed for an ultimate capacity of 100,000 kilowatts of power and water production of six million gallons a day. The total cost of the project is estimated at $10 million. The Government of Malta will relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to a new public authority, the Malta Electricity Board, which sells power to the public and will supply water at cost from the new distiller to the Government's Water Authority. The loan is guaranteed by the United Kingdom. participations totaling $7,465,000: by Banque Lambert, S.C.S., Girard Trust Bank, New York Branch of Barclays Bank D.C.O., and two other institutional investors.
norway
ELECTRIC POWER
$25 million 25-year 534% Bank loan of October 15, 1963, to Norway.
The loan was for the construction of the 230,000-kilowatt Rana hydroelectric power station in northern Norway, the 110,000-kilowatt hydroelectric power station at Trollheim in central Norway, and 130 miles of high-voltage transmission lines with related facilities to link the Rana station with the Tr^ndelag grid in central Norway. The projects, which will cost a total of $68.6 million, are part of a continuing program being carried out by the Norwegian
A chief object of 15 years of Bank lending in Finland has been to provide more electric power for growing industries. Of many installations to benefit, one is this thermal power plant near Turku, in southern Finland, whose generating capacity was doubled to 266,000 kilowatts with the help of a Bank loan.
Workmen cut through rock to construct the Adriatic Highway, one of two important new roads the Bank is helping to finance in Yugoslavia. The roads will improve connections with Greece and Austria, reduce transport costs, spur development and encourage tourism.
Watercourse and Electricity Board to expand generating capacity and the transmission network throughout the country.
Norway's large supplies of low-cost power have constituted the basis for important electrochemical and electrometallurgical industries. Economic development will continue to rely
heavily on the expansion of power-based industries during the present decade. The largest expansion is planned for aluminum. Present plans call for a tripling of the capacity for aluminum production to a level of about 600,000 tons annually by 1970. This should result in a corresponding increase in foreign exchange earnings.
About 65% of the output of the two power plants financed will be used by aluminum smelters.
portugal
ELECTRIC POWER
$7.5 million 25-year 534% Bank loan of November 6, 1963, to Hidro-Electrica do Douro and $5 million 20-year 534% Bank loan of November 6, 1963, to Empresa Termoelectrica Portuguesa.
These were the Bank's first loans in Portugal and will assist two power projects which will add 260,000 kilowatts of generating capacity to the national power network. The $7.5 million loan was to partly finance a 210,000-kilowatt plant at Bemposta which is the last of three hydroelectric developments on Portugal's stretch of the International Douro River. The $5 million loan was for the installation of a third 50,000-kilowatt unit to complete a thermal plant near Oporto. Part of this loan is also financing preliminary engineering studies for another thermal plant to be built near Lisbon. The total estimated cost of the Bemposta project is $35 million, and of the installation at the Oporto plant, $9 million.
The expansion of manufacturing in Portugal during the past decade has been accompanied by a rapid growth in the use of electricity, with industrial consumption quadrupling. Per capita consumption, however, is still among the lowest in Europe, and high priority has been given to power development, particularly to an increase in thermal capacity to firm up the predominant hydroelectric capacity of the system.
participations totaling $630,249 in the $7.5 million loan: by The Chase Manhattan Bank, Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, Banque Lambert, S.C.S., Crocker-Citizens National Bank, Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Grace National Bank of New York, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, The American Express Company, Inc., The Northern Trust Company, First Western Bank and Trust Company, The First Pennsylvania Banking & Trust Company, Bankierskantoor Staal & Co. N.V., and Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij, N.V.
participations totaling $95,000 in the $5 million loan: by Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, and Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • At the request of the Government, the Bank and the International Monetary Fund sent a five-man mission to advise on the financing of development. The mission particularly studied tax reform, budgetary policy, the capital market, and the banking system. The mission is now preparing its report.
spain
TRANSPORTATION-HIGHWAYS
$33 million 20-year 5}4% Bank loan of October 25, 1963, to Spain.
Spain has a very extensive road network but a large part of the system was built some 40 years ago and design and maintenance methods are inadequate for the volume and type of today's traffic. Despite a considerable increase in road traffic due to economic growth and increased foreign tourism during the past decade, motor transport in Spain is still at an early stage of development. Rapid expansion is expected as the economy grows, and the Government has embarked on a 16-year program to provide an adequate road network.
This loan, the Bank's first in Spain, will assist high priority projects included in the first stage of the program. These consist of the improvement or relocation of 460 miles of roads forming the Madrid-Barcelona-Alicante triangle, including a new bridge across the Ebro River; the construction of a 15-mile highway between Oviedo and Figaredo in one of the most industrialized and important agricultural regions of Spain; and a new 6.6-mile freeway between Palma and the airport on Mallorca. Bank funds will also be used for the establishment of two pilot road-maintenance divisions in the Madrid and Lerida areas as a first step toward a complete reorganization of highway maintenance operations throughout the country. The total cost of the improvement and maintenance works is estimated at $91.5 million.
participations totaling $1,658,588: by Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij, N.V., Neder-
landsche Credietbank N.V., Bankierskantoor Staal & Co. N.V., Firma F. van Lanschot, Labouchere & Co. N.V., Commerzbank A.G., Dresdner Bank A.G., Vereinsbank in Hamburg, Compagnie de Gestion et de Banque S.A., Handelsfinanz A.G., and Banca Commerciale Italiana.
turkey
IFC COMMITMENT • $916,667 in capital shares of the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey.
yugoslavia
tr an sp ortation-railway s
$35 million 25-year bY2% Bank loan of October 28, 1963, to the Yugoslav Investment Bank.
This loan will assist the building of a 121-mile standard-gauge railway between Sarajevo and the port of Ploce, to replace a narrow-gauge line. The new line will be electrified and equipped with central traffic control.
The mountains of Yugoslavia obstruct access to the sea except at a few gaps and the Sarajevo-Ploce railway is one of the few routes to the coast. It links the industrial centers of Bosnia directly with the sea, and provides the only rail link to Dubrovnik, the leading tourist attraction on the Adriatic, to Niksic, the site of new steel mills, and to Titograd, the capital of Montenegro. It is also the most direct connection between the Vojvodina, Yugoslavia's most important agricultural area, and the coast.
Because of the limited capacity of the narrow-gauge line, over 2j/£ million tons of freight annually have had to travel by more circuitous routes to and from the coast. The new line will be able to handle this additional tonnage, thereby freeing a very substantial amount of railway capacity for other uses. It will also lower transport costs, speed up travel and stimulate industrial and agricultural expansion in the areas served. The Yugoslav Investment Bank will transfer the proceeds of the Bank loan to the Community of Railway Enterprises in Sarajevo which is building the Sarajevo-Ploce railway at a total estimated cost of $96 million.
participations totaling $375,000: by The Bank of New York, Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, and The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company.
\
WESTERN HEMISPHERE
regional
A UN Special Fund study for development of telecommunications in Central America and Panama was completed. The Bank served as Executing Agency. The study contemplates the establishment of a regional telecommunications organization.
chile
AGRICULTURE AND PROCESSING
$19 million 15-year 534% Bank loan of December 18, 1963 and
$5 million 15-year 5)4,% Bank loan of December 18, 1963, to the Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion (CORFO).
The SI 9 million loan was for a project which provides for the improvement of 825,000 acres of pastureland, together with the acquisition of machinery, materials and breeding stock. Its purpose is to increase Chile's production of dairy products, meat and wool by increasing the number of productive animals which can be carried on pastures and by improving the average productivity per head through better feeding and management. The total cost of the livestock development program over three years is estimated at $58.6 million. The $5 million loan will assist a related project for the modernization and expansion of milk plants, slaughterhouses and associated facilities, which will cost a total of $8 million. The project will result in rationalization of the meat processing and distribution system and nearly double the quantity of milk processed through dairy plants.
CORFO will extend credits to farmers and cooperatives for these purposes on terms ranging from three to 12 years. This type of operation has been one of CORFO's activities for some years. The loans will enable CORFO to expand this phase of its operations to make it more consistent with the targets of Chile's Ten-Year Development Plan. High priority has been given to the projects since Chile now imports substantial quantities of dairy products and meat, and a
reduction of these imports would save foreign exchange expenditures.
participations totaling $225,000 in the $19 million loan: by Grace National Bank of New York, First Chicago International Banking Corporation, The Marine Midland Trust Company of New York, and The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank continued to maintain its resident mission in Santiago.
A technical representative of the Bank continued to act as liaison with the Chilean authorities for the purpose of assisting in the execution of highway construction and maintenance projects financed by an IDA credit and a Bank loan made available in 1961.
Field work was completed for a study of ways to make the Chilean capital market a more efficient instrument in the mobilization of domestic savings for development. The study was directed by a member of the Development Advisory-Service, and a report is now being prepared. The Bank's contribution to the cost of the study amounted to $122,000.
colombia
ELECTRIC POWER
$5 million 20-year 5J4% Bank loan of July 16, 1963, to the Electrificadora de Bolivar S.A. (Electribol) and $45 million 35-year 534% Bank loan of February 7, 1964, to Empresas Publicas de Medellin.
The $5 million loan was for the addition of 25,000 kilowatts of capacity at the Cospique thermal plant and for the rehabilitation and expansion of the transmission and distribution systems serving Cartagena, an important seaport and commercial center in northern Colombia. The project will more than double present power supplies in the Cartagena area, providing some standby capacity which is of particular importance since the Cartagena system is not interconnected with power sources of other metropolitan areas.
The $45 million loan was for the first stage of the Nare hydroelectric development to supply more power to the Medellin area, where the population has nearly quadrupled since 1938. The city of Medellin is the center of Colombia's textile and clothing industry- and the site of
many other important industries. The Nare development is part of a continuing program being carried out by Empresas Publicas de Medellin to strengthen and enlarge its system to meet the growing requirements of its service area. The project includes a new power plant with an initial capacity of 132,000 kilowatts, about 50 miles of double circuit transmission lines with associated facilities, and an expansion of Empresas' distribution system; its total cost is estimated at $75.5 million. The loan for the Nare project, with a final maturity of 35 years, was the longest ever made by the Bank. participations totaling $140,000 in the $5 million loan: by Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company and First Western Bank and Trust Company.
participations totaling $560,000 in the $45 million loan: by The Chase Manhattan Bank, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, The Marine Midland Trust Company of New York, The Meadow Brook National Bank, Grace National Bank of New York, and The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank continued to maintain its resident mission in Bogota.
Two members of the Development Advisory Service are helping the Cauca Valley Corporation to organize its department for regional planning, particularly for industrial development.
The Consultative Group on Colombia, comprising representatives of Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank met in June, The Group reviewed the year's activities, and considered a list of projects under the Colombian Development Plan which were in a sufficiently
Work proceeds preparatory to the construction of a concrete arch dam 300 feet high on the Rapel River in Chile. The dam will store water for a hydroelectric plant serving both Santiago and Valparaiso, and for the irrigation of about 25,000 acres of farm lands.
advanced stage of preparation to be ready for financing before the end of 1965.
The Bank acted as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund Survey of the Cauca Valley coal deposits, on which the consultants are now completing their report.
IFC COMMITMENTS • $701,403 of share capital for Corporacion Financiera de Caldas, an industrial development finance company.
$1,503,006 in Forjas de Colombia, S.A., a company formed to build a new plant for the production of steel forgings. Approximately $1 million of this commitment is for a direct subscription to capital shares; the remainder (now reduced to approximately $334,000) is a commitment to underwrite placement of the company's stock with other investors.
costa rica
ELECTRIC POWER AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
$22 million 23-year 5}/2% Bank loan of July 10, 1963,
to Institute Costarricense de Electricidad (ICE).
Additional electric power and a modern telecommunications system are of prime importance in the economic development of Costa Rica where the Government is encouraging industrialization as one of the principal means of maintaining a satisfactory growth of national income.
An amount of $12.5 million of the loan will be used for the construction of a 56,000-kilowatt hydroelectric power plant near Cachi on the Reventazon River and the extension of transmission facilities. This will increase generating capacity of ICE, which supplies most of the power in Costa Rica, to 139,000 kilowatts by 1966.
Telephone installations in Costa Rica have been inadequate to meet the demand for service for many years. The balance of the loan, $9.5 million, will help to finance the first stage of the development of a modern and efficient telecommunications system. It will provide new automatic exchange equipment for 26,000 telephone lines, together with associated installations. The new system will provide service in San Jose, the capital, and 22 other towns. The total estimated cost of the power and telecommunications projects is $36 million.
participations totaling $265,000: by Wells Fargo Bank, and Maryland National Bank.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • Field work on the UN Special Fund study of ports, railways and associated highways, for which the Bank acted as Executing Agency, has been completed; the final report is now being prepared.
dominican republic
A Bank staff member took up duties in February 1964 as resident adviser on development problems.
ecuador
TRANSP ORTATI ON-HIGHWAY S
$9 million 25-year 5>£% Bank loan of May 26, 1964 and
$8 million IDA credit of May 26, 1964, to Ecuador.
This loan and credit were part of a joint transaction whereby the Bank and IDA joined with the United States Agency for International Development (AID) and the Inter-American Development Bank to provide the equivalent of $39 million for a $62.2 million five-year national highway program. AID financing for the program totaled $16 million, and the Inter-American Bank, $6 million. The part of the program being assisted by the four organizations involves the completion of roads already under construction, the construction or improvement of 314 miles of additional roads, and the training and equipping of a maintenance organization so that it can provide adequate maintenance of about 3,000 miles of surfaced highways by 1968.
Ecuador's highway system constitutes the principal mode of transportation. Some key roads were built or improved with the assistance of earlier financing by the Wrorld Bank and AID, and have already had a beneficial effect on the economy. High priority has been given to the current program: adequate maintenance is essential to protect the substantial capital investments already made or to be made in highways; the roads to be built or improved will make new and productive lands in the coastal region accessible to efficient transportation, will establish reliable communications between important urban centers, and will considerably reduce vehicle operating costs.
participations totaling $120,000 in the $9 million Bank loan: by Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, and Grace National Bank of New York.
OTHER ACTIVITIES ¦ A study to help the Government to formulate a long-range program of investment for the improvement of transportation in the country was completed. The Bank contributed $340,000 to cover the foreign exchange costs.
The Bank has agreed to make an additional allocation of $100,000 for the continuation of advisory assistance to Ecuador's National Institute of Electrification in preparing the basis for a national electrification plan. This brings the Bank's allocation to cover the foreign exchange costs of this advisory assistance to $220,000.
el salvador
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
$9.5 million 20-year 5}4% Bank loan of October 1, 1963, to Administracion Nacional de Telecommunica-ciones.
El Salvador is encouraging industrial production, both for the local market and for the Central American Common Market. Industrial and business expansion is hampered, however, by the limited capacity of the present telecommunications system. There are only 16,000 telephones in the whole country, about 6 per 1,000 people; in the capital, San Salvador, alone there are over 12,000 applicants awaiting telephone service.
The loan will help to finance automatic exchange equipment for 26,000 telephone lines in the three principal cities, San Salvador, Santa Ana and San Miguel, together with the construction of a micro-wave radio system connecting these three cities and several small communities throughout the country. The total estimated cost of these installations is $13.6 million. They are the first phase of a long-range program and will meet the most immediate and essential needs.
participations totaling $385,000: by First National City Bank, Girard Trust Bank, The Philadelphia National Bank, Continental Bank International, and The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company.
guatemala
A mission to advise the Government on development policy and planning completed its assignment; it had been in Guatemala a year. A UN Special Fund survey of power and irrigation, for which the Bank acted as Executing Agency, also was completed.
honduras
The assignment of a member of the Development Advisory Service to advise the Government on development policy and planning was completed ; he had been in Honduras for a year.
IFC COMMITMENT • $350,000 of loan and share capital for Empresa de Curtidos Centro Americana, S.A., a company formed to build a modern leather tannery.
mexico
TRANSPORTATION-HIGHWAYS
$40 million 20-year 5^% Bank loan of September 20, 1963, to Nacional Financiera, S.A.
For many years the Mexican Government has been carrying out a road improvement program and the highway network, although still small in relation to area, has been nearly doubled to 30,000 miles since 1955. Two earlier Bank loans totaling $55.5 million have assisted this development. This year's loan will help to finance the program during the 1963-66 period for which total costs are estimated at $96 million.
The three-year program provides for the improvement or reconstruction of 1,340 miles of 11 paved roads, completion of 1,256 miles of 20 roads already under construction, and construction of 9 new roads totaling about 493 miles. Maintenance and laboratory equipment will be purchased to improve and expand maintenance operations and to facilitate the control of road construction. The roads included in the program are located in many different parts of the country. Some will be new roads providing shorter routes
The Reventazon River will be dammed in this Costa Rican gorge to store water for a 56,000-kilowatt power plant. The Bank loan for the project also will be used for major additions to Costa Rica's telephone system.
between important centers, or giving access to potentially important agricultural regions which are now virtually isolated from the rest of the country; others will be built to higher standards to accommodate the constantly increasing traffic. participations totaling S3,225,000: by First National City Bank, Wells Fargo Bank, National Bank of Commerce of Seattle, Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, The Northern Trust Company, Southern Arizona Bank and Trust Company, The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, and J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation.
IFC COMMITMENT • $1,601,281 of share capital for Industria del Hierro, S.A., a company which is building a plant to manufacture heavy equipment.
panama
The Bank continued to maintain its Resident Representative in Panama to advise on budgetary and planning problems. The adviser on land settlement, whom the Bank had provided, completed his assignment during the fiscal year.
paraguay
AGRICULTURE
$3.6 million IDA credit of December 26, 1963.
This credit will assist a three-year program to improve and increase cattle production. Although cattle production is Paraguay's principal industry and main source of foreign exchange earnings, the quantity and quality of cattle can be greatly improved by the application of modern techniques. The primary need now is for subdivision of pastures by fencing, adequate water supplies and proper facilities for stock handling. Under the program, funds will be lent to ranchers for these purposes. With improved facilities they will be able to reduce costs and progressively increase production up to double present levels at approximately 12 years after the investment is made. The program is expected to involve approximately 5,000,000 acres now carrying about 400,000 head of cattle. It is a pilot operation which, if successful, will provide the basis for wider application that could have far-reaching effects on the economy. Total investment in the program during the
three-year period is expected to be $6 million.
The Central Bank will administer the project and act as agent for the Government in disbursing the IDA credit. Most of the credit will be used for loans to ranchers for approved livestock development plans; ranchers will repay the Central Bank in Paraguayan currency, usually over 12 years with a four-year grace period and interest at 9%. A small part of the credit will be lent to contractors for the importation of machinery for building stock watering facilities, principally earth tanks; these loans will have a term of 3 to 5 years with interest at 9%. Repayment of funds from the IDA credit to the Central Bank will be retained in a revolving fund for a period of 20 years from the date of the credit and used for further loans for ranch development.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund survey looking toward the construction of roads in southern Paraguay to open up virgin land for settlement and agricultural development.
peru
ELECTRIC POWER $15 million 25-year
5H% Bank loan of November 22, 1963, to Empresas Electricas Asociadas (Lima Light and Power Company).
Lima Light and Power Company serves Greater Lima which has a population of over two million and is the administrative, commercial and industrial center of the country. To meet the rapidly rising demand for electricity in the area, Lima Light undertook an expansion program in 1960, in which the main items were the Huinco hydroelectric project about 40 miles northeast of Lima, and the associated Marca-pomacocha water diversion scheme. An earlier Bank loan of $24 million assisted the first stage of these projects, which included structures to collect water from the Marcapomacocha Basin, a six-mile diversion tunnel through the Andes to bring waters to the Santa Eulalia Basin on the western side, and the Huinco plant with an initial capacity of 120,000 kilowatts.
This year's loan is financing the second stage under which additional waters will be diverted to the tunnel, making possible a substantial increase in the output of existing power plants,
more drinking water for Lima and enough water for the irrigation of some 12,000 acres of arid land south of Lima. Two more generating units will be installed at Huinco bringing it to its full capacity of 240,000 kilowatts. Bank funds will also be used to strengthen and expand the distribution system in Lima, connecting up 45,000 new customers. The total cost of these works is estimated at $30 million.
participations totaling $615,000: by Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, Girard Trust Bank, Irving Trust Company, Wells Fargo Bank, Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, The Bank of California National Association, The Philadelphia National Bank, The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Grace National Bank of New York, and Crocker-Citizens National Bank.
TRANSPORTATION-PORT
$3.1 million 25-year 5}4% Bank loan of April 22, 1964, to Peru.
This loan was for the construction of a new port at Paita, the main harbor of northern Peru. The project includes the dredging of the port area, construction of a jetty equipped to berth four ocean-going ships simultaneously, adaptation of existing sheds, warehouses and other buildings to port use, a new road approach to the port, roads and utilities in the port area, and modern cargo-handling and workshop equipment.
The new port will speed up the turn-around time of ships, materially reduce cargo-handling costs, eliminate the long overland haulage of certain goods destined for northern Peru which now have to be imported through Callao some 600 miles to the south, and provide for the efficient handling of up to three times the present volume of traffic. The Paita project will cost a total of $5 million. It is part of a long-range program to improve Peru's public ports, except Callao, which is being modernized and expanded with the assistance of earlier Bank financing.
participations totaling $160,000: by Bank of America, Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, Grace National Bank of New York, and The Royal Bank of Canada Trust Company.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank's Resident Representative continued in his post.
The Bank has provided an expert who is carrying out a preliminary survey of the capital market.
IFC COMMITMENT • $1,600,000 in a loan to Compania de Cemento Pacasmayo, S.A., for a program to expand the company's production of cement.
surinam
The Bank has agreed to serve as Executing Agency for a port and transportation study financed by the UN Special Fund. Work continued on a UN Special Fund survey of mineral resources, for which the Bank is serving as Executing Agency.
venezuela
ELECTRIC POWER
$85 million 25-year 5 34% Bank loan of September 20, 1963, to C.V.G. Electrificacion del Caroni C.A. (EDELCA).
The loan will assist construction of the first stage of the Guri hydroelectric project on the Caroni River, one of Venezuela's most important sources of power. The ultimate capacity of the Guri site is estimated at 6,000,000 kilowatts. The first stage, which will cost a total estimated at $137 million, includes the construction of a dam about 300 feet high, a power plant with 350,000 kilowatts of capacity, and a 50-mile transmission line to connect the plant with Ciu-dad Guayana. The initial capacity could be expanded to 1,750,000 kilowatts in a second stage by the installation of additional generating units without further increase in the height of the dam.
The Guri project will help to realize the economic potential of the Guayanas, a region in eastern Venezuela richly endowed with mineral wealth. The Corporacion Venezolana de Guayana (CVG), a government agency responsible for promoting development of the Guayanas, has initiated a number of steps for industrial development in the region. Industrial power consumers already include three mining companies and a large steel mill; an aluminum plant is to be built.
El Novillo Dam, in
the State of Sonora, sxico, nears completion. It is one of ten hydroelectric installations being built with the help of a $130 million iank loan made in 1962.
EDELCA, established in 1963 as a subsidiary of CVG, will operate Guri and the 365,000-kilo-watt Macagua plant downstream. EDELCA will sell power in bulk to other systems operating in Venezuela. The power requirements of its combined market area—those of the Guayanas, CADAFE, the national power company, and Caracas—are expected to increase to 2,720,000 kilowatts by 1979; about 85% of this demand will be met by EDELCA. participations totaling $1,225,000: by The Marine Midland Trust Company of New York, The Chase Manhattan Bank, Irving Trust Com-
pany, New York Agency of The Royal Bank of Canada, The Meadow Brook National Bank, The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, and Dresdner Bank A.G.
IFC COMMITMENTS • $1,325,967 of share capital for C.A. Venezolana de Desarrollo (Socie-dad Financiera), a new industrial development finance company.
$140,529 of share capital for Siderurgica Venezolana, S.A., an addition to IFC's existing investment in this steel company.
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT     appendix G
Notes to Financial Statements
JUNE 30, 1 964
NOTE A
Amounts in currencies other than United States dollars have been translated into United States dollars:
(i) In the cases of 63 members, at the par values as specified in the "Schedule of Par Values", published by the International Monetary Fund;
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 39 members [Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo (Brazzaville), Congo (Leopoldville), Dahomey, Gabon, Guinea, Indonesia, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Korea, Laos, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Nepal, Niger, Paraguay, Peru, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Tanganyika, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Upper Volta, Viet-Nam and Yugoslavia], at the rates used by such members in making payments of capital subscriptions to the Bank; and
(iii) In the case of Swiss francs, non-member currency, at the rate of 4.2975 francs to 1 United States dollar.
See also Notes B and C.
No representation is made that any currency held by the Bank is convertible into any other currency at any rate or rates.
NOTE B
These currencies of the several members, and the notes issued by them in substitution for any part of such currencies as permitted under the provisions of Article V, Section 12, are derived from the portion of the subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank which is payable in the currencies of the respective members (such portion being hereinafter called restricted currency). Such restricted currencies may be loaned by the Bank, and funds received by the Bank on account of principal of loans made by the Bank out of such restricted currencies may be exchanged for other currencies or reloaned, only with the approval in each case of the member whose restricted currency is in-
volved; provided, however, that, if necessary, after the Bank's subscribed capital is entirely called, such restricted currencies may, without restriction by the members whose currencies are offered, be used or exchanged for the currencies required to meet contractual payments of interest, other charges or amortization on the Bank's own borrowings or to meet the Bank's liabilities with respect to contractual payments on loans guaranteed by it.
Under Article II, Section 9, each member is required, if the par value of its currency is reduced or if the foreign exchange value of its currency depreciates to a significant extent in its territories, to maintain the value of the Bank's holdings of its restricted currency, including the principal amount of any notes substituted therefor, and the Bank is required, if the par value of a member's currency is increased, to return to the member the increase in the value of such restricted currency held by the Bank. To the extent such restricted currencies are out on loan, the Bank and the members are obligated to make such payments only when such restricted currencies are recovered by the Bank.
The equivalent of $18,253,358 is due from 2 members in order to maintain the value of their restricted currencies as required under Article II, Section 9.
Some members have converted part or all of the Bank's holdings of their restricted currency into United States dollars to be used and reused as United States dollars in the Bank's operations, subject to the right of the Bank or the member to reverse the transactions at any time, with immediate effect as to dollars then held by the Bank, and, as to dollars loaned, upon repayment of the loans. Such dollars while held by the Bank or on loan are not subject to the provisions of Article II, Section 9. Such dollars held by the Bank or repayable on loans are shown in these financial statements under "United States dollars" and, where relevant, as "unrestricted".
note C
The principal disbursed and outstanding on loans and the accruals for interest, commitment charge, service charge and loan commission are receivable in United States dollars and other currencies (for which the dollar equivalent is shown) as follows:
The dollar equivalent shown as principal outstanding includes an amount which in accordance with Article II, Section 9, will be receivable from members to maintain the value of their currencies, and is net of an amount, equal to the increase in the value of their currencies, which in accordance with Article II, Section 9, will be payable by the Bank to members, when such currencies are recovered by the Bank.
note D
Amounts of commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6, as a Special Reserve to be held in liquid form and to be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of the Bank on its borrowings and guarantees. Subject to minor exceptions, no portion of the charges on loans accruing after June 30, 1964 will be designated as commissions.
note E
All net income of the Bank earned to June 30, 1963 has been allocated to a Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guarantees Made by the Bank. Of the $97,455,851 net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1964, the Executive Directors on July 30, 1964 allocated $47,455,851 to the Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guarantees and have recommended to the Board of
Governors that an amount equal to the balance of $50,000,000 be transferred by way of grant to the International Development Association.
note F
In terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
note G
Subject to call by the Bank only when required to meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. As to $16,948,800,000 the restricticn on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement; as to $2,117,550,000 by a resolution of the Board of Governors.
note H
The Bank has sold under its guarantee $69,003,844 of loans of which amount $63,808,844 has been retired. The following table sets forth the maturities of the guaranteed obligations outstanding:
general
As of June 30, 1964, the Board of Governors had approved applications from seven members for increases in subscriptions totaling $377.6 million; two members with applications totaling $7.3 million had paid in full the amounts due on account of such increases pending completion of legal formalities and one member had made partial payment on account of its increase.
As of December 31, 1963, the authorized Capital Stock of the Bank was increased by $1,000,000,000 to $22,000,000,000.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Notes to Financial Statements
appendix F
JUNE 30, 1 964
note A
Amounts in currencies other than United States dollars have been translated into United States dollars:
(i) In the cases of 57 members,at the par values as specified in the "Schedule of Par Values", published by the International Monetary Fund;
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 36 members [Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo (Brazzaville), Congo (Leopoldville), Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Korea, Laos, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Nepal, Niger, Paraguay, Peru, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Tanganyika, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Upper Volta, Viet-Nam and Yugoslavia], at the rates used by such members in making payments of subscriptions to the Association.
note B
Pursuant to Article IV, Section 1 (a), these amounts may be used by the Association for administrative expenses incurred by the Association in the territories of any Part II member whose currency is involved and, insofar as consistent with sound monetary policies, in payment for goods and services produced in the territories of such member and required for projects financed by the Association and located in such territories; and in addition when and to the extent justified by the economic and financial situation of the member concerned as determined by agreement between the member and the Association, such currency shall be freely convertible or otherwise usable for projects financed by the Association and located outside the territories of the member.
note C
The principal disbursed and outstanding on development credits and the accrued service charge are expressed in terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960 and the equivalent is payable by the borrowers in currencies which the Association determines to be freely convertible or freely exchangeable by the Association for currencies of other members of the Association, except that such amount would be reduced if (a) there is a uniform proportionate reduction in the par values of the currencies of all members of the International Monetary Fund or (b) the Association so decides because of a substantial reduction in the value of one or more major currencies of members. The foregoing does not apply to a credit of $9,000,000 which is expressed and is repayable in legal tender dollars.
note D
Subscriptions and supplementary resources are expressed in terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960.
note E
Payment of this portion of the subscriptions of members, with the exception of $375,000, being the subscription of Luxembourg, is due on November 8, 1964 as follows: One and one quarter percent of the subscription of each member is payable in gold or freely convertible currency; eighteen percent of the subscription of each member is payable (a) in gold or freely convertible currency by Part I members and (b) in the currency of the subscribing member by Part II members. The amount due from Luxembourg, a Part I member, is payable in gold or freely convertible currency in three equal instalments on or before November 8 in each of the years 1965, 1966 and 1967. In July 1964, Belgium became a Part I member with a subscription of $8,250,000 payable on the same terms and timing as the subscription of Luxembourg.
note F
These supplementary resources are to be paid by the members in freely convertible currencies in three equal instalments on or before November 8 in each of the years 1965, 1966 and 1967. In July 1964, Belgium, in addition to its subscription described in Note E,and Kuwait agreed to make supplementary resources available of $8,250,000 and $3,360,000 respectively, payable on the same basis as the above. The Board of Governors has authorized the Association to accept from four other Part I members supplementary resources aggregating 564,488,000 also payable on the same basis as the above. In addition, in July 1964, Sweden paid to the Association a further contribution equivalent to $5.04.5,000.
note G
Under Article IV, Section 2, each member is required, if the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has in the opinion of the Association depreciated to a significant extent within that member's territories, to maintain the value of the Association's holdings of its ninety percent currency, including the principal amount of any notes substituted therefor, and the Association is required if the par value of the member's currency is increased, or the foreign exchange value of the member's currency has in the opinion of the Association appreciated to a significant extent within that member's territories, to return to the member the increase in the value of such ninety percent currency held by the Association; provided, however, that the foregoing shall apply only so long as and to the extent that such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member.
Supplementary resources of the Association have, by agreement, the same respective rights and obligations as to maintenance of value as are set forth in Article IV, Section 2, of the Articles of the Association.