Part One:
The Year's Activities
The 1969 fiscal year was one of considerable expansion for the World Bank Group. The new commitments made by the Bank and its affiliates, the International Development Association (IDA) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), to member countries rose to a level substantially higher than in any previous year in the Group's history and 87% above the level for fiscal year 1968. As far as the Bank and IDA were concerned, the economic sectors where lending expanded most rapid y were agriculture and education; in terms of geographical areas, the growth of Bank and IDA lending to African countries was particularly marked. The new overall lending peak reflects the Bank Group's determination, as voiced by the President at the 1968 Annual Meeting, to increase still further its contribution to the worldwide development effort over the coming years.
The combined total of the commitments made by the Bank, IDA and IFC during the year amounted to $1,877 million, compared with SI ,004 million in fiscal year 1968. The Bank made 84 loans during the year for a total of $1,399 million, compared with 44 loans totaling $847 million in fiscal 1968; at the same time, more Bank bonds were successfully placed on world markets than in any previous year, enabling the Bank to undertake an expanded lending program and to add substantially to its liquidity position.
The operations of IDA, the Bank's affiliate which extends assistance on concessionary terms to the poorer developing countries, continued to be restricted by shortages of funds attributable to further delays in the bringing into effect of the second general replenishment of the Association's resources. Nevertheless, thanks mainly to advance contributions to the replenishment by a number of donor countries, the Association was able to extend 38 credits to the value of $385 million in fiscal 1969, a record high level which compared with only
18 credits worth $107 million in the previous year. The geographical distribution of IDA assistance was notably wider in fiscal 1969 than in the past. From IDA's inception in 1960 to the end of fiscal 1968, India and Pakistan, countries whose combined populations represent nearly 20% of the world total, and whose need for large amounts of external finance on concessionary terms is acute, had received two-thirds of all IDA lending, despite a very sharp drop in 1968. The expansion of IDA activities in 1969 enabled the Association to raise the value of tne credits It extended to India and Pakistan to an amount approaching those of earli.er years, while at the same time greatly increasing its lending to other countries, notably in Africa. As a result, the percentage share of India and Pakistan in the year's record total of IDA commitments was reduced to just over 50% (39.6% for India and 12.5% for Pakistan).
The investments made by IFC, the Bank's affiliate which encourages private enterprise ventures in the developing world, a so rose substantially both in number and value: 27 investments totaling $92.9 million were made in the year under review, compared with 16 valued at $50.7 million in the 1968 fiscal year. Details of Bank loans and IDA credits by purpose and area during the year may be found on pp 8 and 10-11; IFC's operations are described in its Annual Report.
The developing countries have achieved some notable successes during the year under review. Over this period they have added approximately $15 billion to their combined gross national product, thus keeping as a group almost exactly to the first Development Decade target of a 5% annual rate of growth to be achieved in the late 1960s; they have laid down an impressive amourt of new economic infrastructure; governments and peoples have in general continued to respond positively to the social, economic and cultural problems
posed by a period of unprecedentedly rapid change. Moreover, the developing countries have financed 85% of the investment made in their economies out of their own resources, often at significant sacrifice in terms of their current levels of consumption.
Within the general situation a number of encouraging individual trends have been apparent. The prospects for major increases in agricultural production resulting from recent advances in agricultural technology remain good. A few countries have made notable advances ir industrialization, while the availability of basic public services has grown considerably in a number of countries. Exports of developing countries rose at an overall rate of nearly 8% in 1968, twice the rate for the previous year and well above the average for the 1960s as a whole. More and more countries are becoming aware of the threat to their economic growth posed by uncontrolled rates of population increase, and of the need to adopt policies to meet this problem.
But other less desirable factors in the situation of the developing world cannot be ignored. The problem of many countries' dependence on a few primary commodities for their fore gn trade earnings persists; at the same time, developing countries' access to some markets for their products remains restricted. The need to provide for continuing high rates of population growth in many areas has absorbed a large proportion of available savings in a number of coun-
tries; this has limited in varying degrees the availability of investment to improve the average standard of living. The net total flew of resources from the developed to the developing world has continued to grow in absolute terms, but has diminished as a proportion of the gross national product ol the developed countries. Official flows remained roughly al the previous year's !evei; while a number of countries increased their aid programs substantiaily, some of the mosl important donors held their commitments at previous levels or even reduced them. The increase in the total flow of resources to the developmg world during the year was more than accounted for by a sharp rise in the infiow of private capital to the develooinc countries and to multilateral institutions; a number of developing countries, recognizing the importance of attracting such investment, have adoptee iiberal policies designed to encourage its further expansion
The development effort is beginning to pay off in man> developing countries Their ability to put new investment public and private, domestic and external, to productive use is rising steadily, as is the capacity of a number of countries to service new debt incurred on reasonable terms. It is against this background of much hopeful progress but many persisting problems in tne developing world, combined with an urgent need for a marked rise in assistance to capitalize on earlier investment, that the Bank's expanded activities during the year should be seen.
BANK/IDA ASSISTANCE 1964-69: SOME EXAMPLES
Between July 1, 1964, and June 30, 1969, the Bank and IDA made commitments totaling $6,424 million for 357 projects in 84 countries. Inter alia, this provided finance for:
—the creation or rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage systems for more than 29,000,000 acres of land —the construction or improvement of schools involving more than 635,000 school places —the installation of more than 12,000 megawatts of new electricity generating capacity ¦—the installation of nearly 1,400,000 subscriber telephone lines —the construction or improvement of nearly 12,000 miles of roads
—the provision by Bank-assisted development finance companies of assistance totaling nearly $1,700 million for over 11,000 projects*.
'During calendar years 1964-68
THE YEAR'S LENDING Financing Agriculture
Agriculture remains the sector whose rapid growth is most urgently needed in the majority of developing countries. In some countries, increases in agricultural production are the only alternative to serious pnvation; in many others, the dominance of agriculture in the economy makes its modernization the key to general economic growth.
The Bank Group's assistance to agriculture has risen substantially in recent years. During the year under review agri-cu'tural loans and credits extended by the Bank and IDA reached a total of $367.3 million, more than double the level achieved in the immediately preceding year and about three times that of the average over the previous five years.
In expanding its financing of agriculture, the Group has spread its assistance far more widely than in the past by providing support to new types of projects and by assisting countries which had previously received little or no Bank Group finance. As in past years, loans for irrigation projects absorbed the largest share of Bank and IDA agricultural lending—$134.0 million for projects in six countries. This total included the Group's first measure of assistance to Indonesia —a $5 million IDA credit for a project to rehabilitate the country's three most important rice irrigation systems1. Irrigation or flood control loans and credits were also made during the year to Guyana, Iran, Korea, Pakistan and Turkey.
Policies for increasing agricultural production in the developing world need to take account of economic efficiency and market possibilities. The desirability of diversification in agricultural output and exports combined with increasing awareness of the importance of improving the quality o*' diets in developing countries themselves, has led to a new emphasis on projects for livestock development. Livestock projects provide a locally-produced protein source; they also serve to diversify a country's agriculture, and hence reduce the dangers inherent in dependence on a small number of export and staple crops. The Bank and IDA have greatly expanded their assistance to livestock development during the year under review. Seven livestock projects were approved, for an overall Bank Group commitment of $86.8 million, in Kenya, the Malagasy Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. The Mexican project involved the largest single loan ever made by the Bank for agriculture, $65 million. Most of this sum will be used to help finance credits to individual farmers for beef and dairy cattle development, to be achieved through improved breeding stock, land improvement and development, on-farm construction and new equipment and machinery. Most of the remainder of the Bank loan will be used for crop development credits and for loans to agro-
1Otner credits made to Indonesia are noted on this page and on pp 14 and 19.
industries. The total cost of the project, in which an agency of the Bank of Mexico and a number of Mexican commercial banks are participating, is estimated at $200 million.
Recent advances in agricultural technology, notably the development of new high-yielding cereal varieties, hold out real hope for a radically improved world food situation. But the ordinary peasant-farmer in a developing country often cannot take full advantage of the new technology. Working at or near subsistence level, he finds it difficult to purchase necessary inputs such as improved seed, fertilizer or pesticides, or to make essential on-farm investments. The Bank and IDA recognize the seriousness of this impediment to agricultural development and have devoted a substantial proportion of their assistance to agriculture in the 1969 fiscai year to the provision of finance for agricultural credit to farmers. Such finance usually supports a well-formulated program for on-farm development, and is made available to farmers through existing lending institutions. Four agricultural credit projects were approved during the year in Colombia, Pakistan, the Philippines and Senegal, for a total of $69.0 million. Projects of this kind can have an important impact on the growth of agricultural production by channeling badly needed funds to individual farmers. The Bank Group takes a close interest in the operation of credit institutions associated with projects it supports, and helps them to strengthen their managerial, financial and technical capabilities.
Many developing countries need to transform their agriculture from a subsistence-based activity to one based on production for the market, and to diversify their agricultural production. The Bank Group continues to encourage these t-ends through its lending for general agricultural development, which totaled $72.2 million in the 1969 financial year. Diversification into new crops which provide a source of cash income, or improved production o; existing ones, was encouraged by loans or credits to support traditional coffee production in Burundi at its normal level, palm oil development in Cameroon, Dahomey, the Ivory Coast and Papua, afforestation in Zambia, and mechanization of sorghum, sesame and cotton farming in the Sudan. A $16 million IDA credit to Indonesia will finance the rehabilitation of two groups of rubber and palm oil estates, surveys of other estates and a feasibility study of smallholder rubber rehabilitation. A $13 million Bank loan to India will finance the production of seeds of new high-yielding varieties of foodgrains; at full development the project will produce enough seeds to plant seven million acres a year with the new varieties. This is the first loan the Bank has made for seed production
A new field of agricultural development which the Bank and IDA consider of special importance is that of agro-industries and related activities such as fisheries. The absence of
facilities for processing, storage, distribution and marketing of crops and livestock production can seriously reduce the benefits of the new agricultural technology to producers and consumers. The Group recognizes the importance of supporting the processing stages of agricultural development and expects to finance an increasing number of projects of this nature in the years ahead. During fiscal 1969, in addition to the Mexican project already mentioned, $5.3 million was made available for a fisheries project in Ecuador, and several other projects in the field of agro-industries were at advanced stages of appraisal at the end of the year.
Rapid agricultural development, made possible by scientific innovation and improved technology, requires a comprehensive operational approach. A well defined program of action, encompassing all the elements necessary for success and stating clearly the objectives to be achieved, is a necessary prerequisite for project implementation. But many of the Bank's member countries continue to need help in this process of project identification and preparation. During the year under review, the Bank has again benefited from its cooperative arrangement with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), which works with governments to establish priority projects which can usefully be submitted to the Bank for possible financing: FAO sent 67 missions to developing countries for this purpose in fiscal 1969, and participated in 22 of the Bank's 211 missions connected with its agricultural development activities. In Africa, the Bank's permanent missions in Abidjan and Nairobi have also continued to help African member countries with agricultural project preparation and identification during the year, often in cooperation with FAO, or with bilateral technical assistance organizations. The Bank's Agricultural Development Service has continued to assist African governments by providing managers for projects where they are required.
The size and geographical distribution of loans and credits during the year reflect the greater diversity and flexibility which the Group is introducing into its assistance to agriculture. While a number of large loans of a traditional kind, such as those for irrigation, were approved, no fewer than 16 of the year's 27 lending operations were for smaller projects in pivotal areas of developing countries' economies, costing $10 million or less each. Eleven of the 24 countries assisted during the year were in Africa, an area which had formerly obtained relatively little agricultural assistance from the Group. Loans or credits were extended in 1968/69 to seven countries which had not previously received Bank or IDA agricultural assistance: Burundi, Indonesia, the Ivory Coast, Korea, the Malagasy Republic, Senegal and Zambia.
Over 100 agricultural projects have reached an active stage of preparation for Bank Group assistance during the next few years.
Financing Education
The priority placed by the Bank Group on investment designed to develop human resources is reflected in the rapid growth of loans and credits for education projects since the Bank first entered this field in 1962. At the end of the 1969 fiscal year the total of Bank Group assistance to education stood at $244 million; 32 projects have been assisted in 28 countries. The 1969 fiscal year saw a considerable increase in the number and value of education loans and credits approved; projects with a total value of $81.8 million were initiated in Chad, Colombia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Korea, Malaysia, Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, and Zambia. None of these countries except Tanzania had received previous loans or credits for education from the Bank or IDA.
As an institution whose function is specifically to promote economic development, the Bank considers that it should concentrate its assistance on those areas of education where it can have the greatest impact on member countries' economic growth. The general objective of the Bank Group's lending for education is to modernize education systems, to make them more efficient and more relevant to countries' needs, and thus to maximize the contribution of the educational process to economic growth within countries' given resources. In particular, the Group's strategy for educational lending emphasizes projects which increase the availability of trained manpower—industrial, technical, administrative or agricultural.
Before making a loan or credit, the Group undertakes a careful study of the structure of the potential borrower's educational system to assess how effectively its output is geared to the country's manpower needs and how relevant the curriculum is to its existing or future level of development.
The Bank pays special attention to the possibility of qualitative changes in the system through curriculum reform and other improvements in the overall framework of education. Many developing countries have inherited educational systems which are inappropriate to their immediate needs, emphasizing academic rather than practical subjects, and designed to prepare pupils for further education at a university rather than to train them in everyday skills. Curriculum reform, designed to introduce subjects more relevant both to pupils' interests and countries' needs, is central to the Bank's educational strategy.
In many developing countries the lack of adequate secondary schooling facilities is the main impediment to the supply of school leavers able to contribute to their countries' economic development, and to the training of suitably qualified entrants to post-secondary institutions. Consequently, the Bank and IDA place special emphasis in their lending on improvements in secondary education: nine of the ten education
loans and credits made by the Bank and IDA during the year contained an element of secondary school assistance. Secondary schooling offers major opportunities for beneficial qualitative reform as well as quantitative expansion. In Colombia and Zambia, for example, funds were provided during the year for the construction of "comprehensive" secondary schools, which provide pupils with both academic and pre-vocational options. When a country has an educational system based on schools specializing exclusively in either academic or technical training, there is a tendency for pupils who enter the technical schools to be the rejects of the academic ones; a comprehensive school system reduces this tendency, and also ensures that the academic pupil, while able to advance in his chosen field, absorbs a certain amount of practical training at the same time.
In the Colombian program, which is being assisted by a Bank loan of $7.6 million, the ten schools to be built will operate on a two-shift basis, from early in the morning to early evening. This will make large enrollments possible (an average of 4,800 pupils will attend each school) and hence significant reductions in unit costs. At the same time provision is made in the project for facilities not found in smaller schools.
The Zambian project, for which the Bank has lent $17.4 million, covers not only the building of nine comprehensive secondary schools, but also a number of other sub-projects, including the rehabilitation of a further 56 existing secondary schools and the provision of new facilities for technical education and teacher training.
Technical education is another area with which the Bank and IDA are especially concerned in their lending. The shortage of skilled manpower in many developing countries is a major obstacle to their rapid economic growth; six Bank and IDA loans and credits during the year under review contained an element of assistance for technical schooling, and the Group intends to increase its efforts in this field. Technical education projects embrace both qualitative and quantitative improvements. In Korea, for example, an IDA credit of $14.8 million was provided for improvements and extensions at 32 schools, one university agricultural education department and three university science teacher training departments. The credit will also finance overseas fellowships and technical assistance. The number of students trained in agricultural, commercial, scientific and industrial subjects at the schools assisted is expected to increase from 27,820 to 36,340 over the next five years; the credit will also make for a marked improvement in the quality of the training provided.
The Bank's concern with the improvement of the quality of education at all levels has led it to pay special attention to investment in teacher training facilities. Seven of the year's loans and credits contained a teacher training component.
These included a $1.8 million IDA credit to Chad, which will help construct a primary school training center for 400 full-time students, a $6.3 million Bank loan to Guatemala, which will help establish a 700-student training center, stressing practical subjects, for secondary school teachers, and the $5.8 million provided jointly by the Bank and IDA to Guyana for a primary teacher training college with a capacity for 600 students, the construction and equipment of five new comprehensive secondary schools and the conversion to the comprehensive system of two others.
The technique of lending for a number of sub-projects at once is being used increasingly by the Bank in the educational field: simultaneous action on a number of fronts encourages an integrated rather than a piecemeal approach to educational development, and enables a country's whole educational system to move forward in balance. It is intended to broaden the scope of the lending package further by applying to education loans the process used in other project sectors, whereby funds for studies of future projects are included in a given loan. The Bank also intends to include provision in more loans for technical assistance, in the form of finance for experts to help implement the project, and for the simultaneous training abroad of nationals of the borrowing country to take over the project as soon as possible.
Apart from helping countries to restructure and expand their educational systems, the Bank Group is also investigating the possibilities for qualitative improvements offered by the application of modern technology to the educational process, through the use of educational television, programmed instruction, and other recently developed teaching aids, and through the adoption of new administrative techniques. Modern teaching aids can sometimes produce notable benefits, either by reducing the number of teachers needed in a school or oy increasing the efficiency of the learning process, thus reducing pupil wastage and its attendanl costs. The economic and social implications of new teaching methods need careful scrutiny, however, to ensure thai they are appropriate to local conditions, and that the benefits obtained will be fully utilized and will outweigh the often considerable costs of sophisticated equipment.
The Bank Group has continued to benefit from its cooperative arrangement with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) in the field ol general education, and its arrangement with FAO in that ol agricultural education. Unesco organized or participated in 29 of the Bank Group's 84 educational missions during the year, while FAO cooperated in ten joint missions concerned with agricultural training.
The Bank and IDA intend to expand considerably theii assistance to education in the coming years. Apart from
continuing the various activities already mentioned, the Bank Group is also considering investment in new fields such as informal adult education programs, perhaps assisted by mass communications media; the development of rural education centers to upgrade the level of education and agricultural skills in rural communities; and the extension of Bank or IDA assistance for technical education to cover projects for training in simpler skills than those hitherto financed by the Group.
Financing Public Services
The existence of an adequate public service infrastructure is an essential precondition for sustained economic growth. Since its inception, the Bank Group has lent on a large scale for investment in public services: about 63% o£ the cumulative total of Bank loans and IDA credits to date has been channeled into projects to create or improve transportation networks, power supplies, water supply or sewerage systems, and telecommunications facilities. Although much has been achieved, the need for further investment is still pressing; during the year under review, the combined totals of Bank and
IDA investment in public services reached the record level of $960 million.
Transportation
Transportation loans and credits during the year doubled both in number and in value compared with the previous year. 34 loans and credits totaling $474.5 million were made to 26 countries. Of this total, $297.4 million was for roads, $145.5 million for railways, $23.6 million for ports and $8.0 million for pipelines.
Several major transportation projects were approved during the year. A loan of $64.5 million to Guinea—one of the largest the Bank has ever made in Africa—will make it possible to exploit valuable bauxite resources by providing foreign currency for the construction of an 85-mile railway from the mining site to the coast, together with a port and township to handle the shipping of the bauxite overseas. A $35 million loan to Pakistan will finance a group of highway development projects in West Pakistan, including the construction of two major roads totaling 170 miles, the introduction
of a three-year highway maintenance program, a transport coordination study, studies for future road construction, and the continuation of consultants' services for an administrative reorganization of West Pakistan's Highway Department. Brazil's highway sector has been assisted by a $26 million loan for the construction of 102 miles of new roads, the paving of 166 miles of existing roads and connected consultants' services. This project was based on the findings of the first phase of a comprehensive transport survey which the Bank had helped finance, and is intended to be the first of a series of major highway projects in Brazil for which the Bank will provide funds. Other large projects approved during the year included highway loans to Yugoslavia and Argentina, a railway loan to China, and an IDA credit of $28 million to Indonesia for roads; the Indonesian project covers the rehabilitation of about 2,000 miles of roads, the improvement of maintenance services in 20 provinces, and training and other technical assistance.
At the same time, the Bank Group has expanded the volume of its lending for smaller transportation projects, which may nevertheless have a large impact on borrowing countries' economies. In keeping with the Group's special emphasis on agricultural development, finance has been supplied—usually in the form of IDA credits or a "blend" of Bank and IDA finance—for a number of projects designed to facilitate the transportation of agricultural produce to markets. Countries assisted in this way included Ceylon, and, in Africa, the Central African Republic, Chad, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, Niger and Togo.
Developing countries' foreign trade depends on the existence of adequate port outlets. The Bank has been active in port development during the year, making its first port loans to Cyprus and Liberia, and its second to Tunisia. One pipeline loan was made during the year, to Pakistan, for the transportation of gas from the Sui fields (the exploitation of which had been assisted by earlier Bank lending). The Sui gas will be used as a raw material in a fertilizer manufacturing project, designed to assist Pakistan's agricultural production; this project, too, is being assisted by a Bank loan (see page 18).
An increasingly important component of Bank Group lending for transportation is the provision of finance for engineering studies of future requirements. In this way the Bank can identify a country's needs over the coming years, and can plan ahead for their fulfillment. Another source of new projects is the series of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other technical assistance studies in which the Bank Group's staff is engaged; about 50 such studies are currently under way.
Many of the loans and credits approved during the year are important not only for the physical infrastructure they will provide, but also for the component of institution-building they contain. Training scnemes, proposals for and assistance with administrative reorganization, the provision of advisers and other forms of technical cooperation, are becoming a regular part of Bank Group transportation projects. The Bank believes that its assistance in this respect can be at least as valuable in the long run as its provision of finance for physical construction. Twenty-one loans and credits made to 17 countries during the year contain institution-building components.
The year's highway loans again showed a continuation of the trend toward the provision of finance for maintenance projects, and for tertiary and feeder roads. Where countries already have reasonable trunk networks, loans for maintenance programs or for minor road extensions can provide significant benefits at a relatively low cost. Loans for maintenance or for improvements in feeder roads were made to twelve countries in fiscal 1969.
In the case of railways, the Bank is continuing its efforts to support rehabilitation and effective management, and to improve operations. The proper coordination of road and rail transport is also a major concern of the Bank when making railway loans, such as the loans made to China, Colombia, Guinea, Pakistan and Tunisia during the year.
Power
The Bank and IDA lent $369.8 million for power development to 15 countries n the 1969 fiscal year.
All Bank Group financing must be for high-priority productive projects; much of it is designed to remove constraints on economic development by making possible a higher degree of utilization of existing factors of production. This was the case with a number of the Bank's power loans during the year—for example, those to Brazil, China, Malaysia and Sierra Leone, all of which will provide badly needed new capacity to help relieve present or expected shortfalls of electricity supplies to these countries' expanding industrial and commercial sectors. Other loans will maximize the benefits obtainable from earlier power projects, for instance a loan to Colombia that will integrate into a single system the operation of four separate generating authorities and thereby obtain significant economies of scale.
While a number of loans were made to countries whose power sectors had not previously received Bank Group assistance — China for example — most borrowers had obtained previous power loans from the Group. The establishment over the years of a continuing relationship between
lender and borrower is mutually beneficial; it makes it easier to determine priorities, and reduces the likelihood of delays in project implementation.
While anxious to foster such continuing relationships, the Bank and IDA at the same time encourage successful power authorities to diversify their sources of capital for further projects as far as possible. During the year under review, Bank lending for new projects in Argentina, Colombia, Ghana and Malaysia was supplemented by various sources of finance from developed countries.
The Bank also encourages international cooperation in power development, since joint ventures between two or more countries can reduce unit costs by achieving economies of scale. During the year under review, the Bank participated in discussions designed to lead to two such schemes in Africa—one for a joint Kenya-Uganda power development program, and one for a cooperative arrangement whereby Ghana would supply power to Togo and Dahomey from the Voita Dam (a Bank financed project for which the Bank made a supplementary loan during the year). The transmission line to Togo and Dahomey is expected to be financed under the Canadian external aid program.
Water Supply and Sewer Systems
The Bank Group made loans totaling $34.6 million to Cameroon, Jamaica, Malaysia, Singapore and Tunisia for water supply during the year. This is a relatively new area of Bank operations, and borrowers frequently need special help in the implementation of projects; this may include assistance in institution-building and detailed supervision of operations for some time a'ter the completion of the physical construction work involved. As a result each loan takes up a proportionately greater amount of time than it might in a sector where the borrower is more experienced. Project identification and preparation in this field also present problems; the Bank has benefited from the help of the World Health Organization (WHO) in identifying suitable projects for Bank Group financing under the institutions' cooperative arrangement. The Bank Group expects to expand its lending for water supply during the next five years.
Telecommunications
The existence of adequate telecommunications facilities is of fundamental importance to developing countries, encouraging the growth of a unified and efficient administration and stimulating balanced and rapid economic advance by improving links between producers and consumers, both domestic and foreign.
A total of $80.7 million was lent to Ethiopia, India, Malaysia,
Pakistan and Upper Volta during the year for telecommunications development. This sector has already seen a significant expansion of lending in recent years, and further increases are likely. Up to June 30, 1964, the Bank had made only eight loans for telecommunications, of which only four were solely for this purpose; during the subsequent five years, finance was provided for a further 14 telecommunications projects, bringing the total to 22 by June 30, 1969, of which five were approved during the latest fiscal year. Most telecommunications loans have been designed to improve member countries' internal telecommunications, an essential prerequisite for the effective expansion of international links.
During the year the Bank joined the Special Autonomous Group No. 5 of the International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). This Group deals with the economic analysis of telecommunications projects, and the Bank's membership reflects its determination to refine its project appraisal techniques in this sector through cooperation with the appropriate specalized agency of the United Nations.
Financing Industry
The pattern of Bank Group financing as a whole is designed to provide deve!oplng countries with a stock of physical infrastructure and an economic climate conducive tc further growth through rew productive investment. The Bank believes that its wok should, inter alia, create a favorable environment for fore'gn private capital flows into the developing world for the establishment of new industries and the consequent beneficial civersification of developing countries economies. Industrialzation in developing member countries of the Bank and IDA is also encouraged by the element oi orocurement policy (which ordinarily requires internationa competitive bidding to ensure the lowest economic cost in the execution of projects) providing a margin of preference— usually of 15%, or \'-e actual tariff rate if it is lower—to domestic suppliers in Ihe borrowing countries which participate in the bidding. Finally, the Bank Group provides membei countries with finance which directly assists the process o' industrial development: apart from the work of its affiliate, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) with the private sector, the Bank and IDA lent a total of $366.0 million for industry during the 1969 hscal year.1 Of this total, $193.0 million was accounted fc by loans to development finance companies in Colombia, cinlanc, Iran, Korea, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, and Turkey. Earlier Bank loans had been made to al these borrowers except Nigeria, which had previously obtained assistance from the International Finance Corporation
lThis figure includes ihe proi;r.:rn credit to India of $125 million for industria imports.
The Bank Group attaches considerable importance to the establishment of continuing relationships of this kind.
Development finance companies can play a major role in the economies of developing countries. As well as providing productive enterprises with finance by supplying them with equity or loan capital, or by underwriting issues of their securities, institutions of this kind can give technical and managerial assistance to entrepreneurs, and can act as financial intermediaries, bringing together local and foreign capital and skills for mutually beneficial joint ventures. Moreover, by encouraging the investment of domestic savings in business ventures, development finance companies can also assist the evolution of their countries' capital markets. During the last five fiscal years, the Bank Group has extended assistance totaling $640.7 million to 25 of the 28 development finance companies with which it is associated.
The provision of capital is only one element in the assistance the Bank extends to development finance companies. The Bank maintains a close and continuing relationship with these companies, standing ready to make available to each of them the experience it has gained over the years through its relationship with all of them. Before making a new loan, the Bank undertakes a comprehensive analysis of a company's operations, paying particular attention to the quality of its portfolio, which reflects the ability of management. This procedure encourages the maintenance of high standards of project appraisal and supervision, and of enlightened lending policies. Where necessary, managers or advisers may be found by the Bank to work with the company; the Bank may also help train a company's staff, either through formal courses at the Economic Development Institute (see page 21), or by bringing senior personnel to Washington to work
for a few months in its offices, or in those of the International Finance Corporation; alternatively, placement may be arranged for them in the more experienced companies associated with the Bank Group. The Bank also helps companies to improve their operations by commenting on their appraisals of the larger projects they finance.
In November 1968, the Department responsible for development finance companies was transferred from IFC to the Bank, which provides the bulk of the financing for these companies. The Executive Directors also reviewed the policies and procedures governing lending to development finance companies during the year, and agreed that the Bank should not be debarred from lending to publicly owned as well as to private development finance companies.
Apart from assisting development finance companies, the Bank also made loans to industry in Pakistan, Yugoslavia and India during the year. The Bank made $32 million available for a fertilizer project in Pakistan; IFC also participated in this operation. This project will enable domestically produced fertilizer, based on locally available natural gas piped from the Sui fields (see page 14), to replace imports, thus saving foreign exchange and contributing to Pakistan's program for agricultural self-sufficiency.
A total of $16 million was lent to Yugoslavia to cover the costs of equipment imports essential for the modernization of ten important industrial enterprises. The Bank loan will help these enterprises to compete more effectively in international markets and to increase their export earnings substantially.
An IDA credit of $125 million to India, agreed in principle during the previous financial year but held up by delays in the replenishment of IDA'S funds, was signed in January 1969. This, the only such credit to India since December 1966, will finance imports of vehicles, machinery and other essential industrial inputs required to increase the productivity of a selected group of key Indian industries.
New Areas of Assistance
Population
Conscious of the extent to which countries' efforts to develop their economies may be eroded by excessive rates of population growth, the Bank has begun to take an active interest in studies and action programs related to population questions.
The President of the Bank, in his speech to the Governors on September 30, 1968, explained the reason for this new effort, when he said: :'. . . the World Bank is concerned above all with economic development, and the rapid growth of population is one of the greatest barriers to the economic growth
and social well-being of our member states ... In terms c the gap between rich countries and poor, . . . studies sho\ that more than anything else it is the population explosio which, by holding back the advancement of the poor, is blow ing apart the rich and the poor and widening the alread dangerous gap between them."
It is the Bank's policy not to impose programs in this sensi tive area but to encourage awareness among member coun tries of the consequences of unchecked population increase and to develop programs to assist those countries whic ask fo.' help. During the year a Population Projects Depart ment and a Population Studies Division in the Economic Department were set up. Country economic reports now con tain a section dealing with population questions, and sta members specializing in pooulation studies have participate' in a number of economic missions. Specialist staff member have also been in close and frequent contact with outsid experts in the field of copulation studies. Discussions hav been held with the World Health Organization as to the prope roles of the two institutions in this field.
The Bank's first pooulation mission, composed of thre staff members and three outside experts, visited Jamaic during the year to assist the Government in preparing a long range family planning program. Requests for similar assist ance have been received from other member countries Although the Bank is still in the early stages of policy formu lation in this sphere, its work on population planning is ex pected to expand significantly in the coming years.
Tourism
investment in tourism has been recognized as a poten tially important area of Bank activity. In the past, tourism ha< been dealt with as a part of the Bank's other project wort but in view of its growing importance as a source of foreig exchange earnings for a number of developing countries, new Tourism Projects Department was set up during th< year with the specific task of identifying, preparing and imple menting projects in this field.
Tourism embraces not just vacation travel but the whol field of foreign travel, including business travel. The avail ability of adequate facilities for visitors provides a stimulu not only to earnings directly associated with tourist traffic, bi also to general economic development by encouraging po tential foreign investors to visit developing countries.
A loan for tourism may take the form of Bank ;inancing fc an integrated program of infrastructure works—road or air port construction, provision of water or power supplies, etc —in an area whose main existing activity is tourism, or wher tourism is the most promising activity. Alternatively, the Ban
may make such a loan to an institution in the borrower country whose function is to create and develop a tourism complex. Finally, the Bank might make a loan for "superstructure" rather than infrastructure, i.e. hotels and other related facilities designed to attract visitors to an area already possessing adequate basic infrastructure. In such a case, finance could be provided directly to individual enterprises, or to a financial intermediary for onward lending to various enterprises.
The Bank's Tourism Projects Department will provide the International Finance Corporation with technical advice on possible new IFC tourist investments. The Corporation has already made five tourism investments, with a total value of $16.8 million. The latest and by far the largest of these is a $9.9 million commitment for a new type of development company in Tunisia, which will specialize in the promotion and financing of hotel construction or modernization and other act vities related to tourism.
Fourteen Bank tourism missions have visited 16 countries during the year. Some of this preparatory work is expected to lead to loans for tourism during the year beginning July 1, 1969, and the rate of lending for tourism is expected to expand during the following years.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND OTHER ACTIVITIES
Technical Assistance
One of the most serious impediments to the rapid expansion of Bank Group financing lies in the fact that many developing countries lack the expertise to undertake for themselves the extensive analysis required for proper project formulation. The Bank's technical assistance program is directed toward easing this difficulty by providing funds for project identification and preparation and thereby helping to maintain the tempo of project lending. Already a major provider of technical assistance, the Bank expects its work in this sphere to increase still further with the expansion of its lending program, to which much of its technical assistance is closely geared.
Bank Group technical assistance takes a number of forms. Finance may be provided in a project loan or credit for studies designed to identify possible further projects; a loan or credit may be provided by the Bank or IDA for engineering studies; the Bank may provide grant financing (up to $200,000) for smaller pre-investment studies; or the Bank Group may act as Executing Agency for a study financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The Bank also provides member countries with advice on development planning, seconding staff members to work with governments where necessary. Finally, the Bank's Permanent Missions in Eastern and Western Africa and its recently estab-
lished Resident Staff in Indonesia are an important form of Bank-sponsored technical assistance.
The demand for technical assistance has been growing in recent years. The countries which have advanced sufficiently to be able to do without external help of this kind are heavily outnumbered by the newly emergent nations; the urgency of their need for project assistance, and the difficulties they face in doing the necessary but highly complex preliminary work for themselves, have made the provision of technical assistance a matter of top priority.
During the 1968/69 fiscal year, provision was made in Bank or IDA project loans or credits for technical assistance activities having a total value of $39.5 million. Of this total, $9.1 million was for feasibility studies of future projects. $28.9 million was provided for the help of consultants or outside experts in setting up projects and providing managerial or technical services during their early stages—services which are essential in a country where the initial supply of local expertise is low. The remaining $1.5 million was provided for training and overseas fellowships to enable countries to become self-supporting in management and other essential project skills as soon as possible.
As noted earlier, the Bank or IDA may make a loan or a credit, the whole of which is devoted to technical assistance, rather than a part only, as in project loans with a technical assistance component. During the year under review, three such credits were made to Indonesia, Korea and Pakistan.
Indonesia, which faces a particularly acute shortage of technical experts and is in urgent need of project assistance, was assisted by a $2 million credit for pre-investment and feasibility studies. The specific sub-projects for which the proceeds will be used were not laid down at the time the credit was made. This credit is intended to fill gaps in the provision of technical assistance to Indonesia, i.e., to cover cases in which other funds are not readily available on appropriate terms or cannot be used to provide in time the type or quality of assistance required. The individual technical assistance projects to be undertaken will be chosen by the Indonesian Government in association with the Bank's resident staff in Indonesia (see page 20, below); it is hoped that these projects will lead to financing from a variety of sources rather than purely from the Bank or IDA.
The credit to Korea, amounting to $3.5 million, will finance feasibility and engineering studies of roads, consultants' analyses of transport policies, and their recommendations for improved coordination. The credit will also provide for studies in the improvement of highway administration: new agencies for administration and coordination are expected to be established, and the credit provides for the training of Korean personnel to operate them.
In a project jointly financed by an IDA credit and a UNDP grant, Pakistan was provided with $3.9 million to employ general consultants for the East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority, set up in 1958 to coordinate the development of the Province's water and power resources. The IDA credit was for $2.0 million; the balance was provided by UNDP. The consultants will assist the Authority's staff in developing a unified action program and will help the Authority improve its own organization, thus enabling it to do without future consultancy services.
The member of the United Nations family with primary responsibility for technical assistance grants is the United Nations Development Programme. So as to draw a clear line of demarcation between its activities in this field and those of the UNDP, the Bank provides grants for such studies only if they cost $200,000 or less—and in every case, irrespective of cost, gives the UNDP the first option to finance the study. By June 30, 1969, a total of 38 Bank-financed studies had been completed, and a further six were under way. Two technical assistance grants were made during the year, one of $200,000 for a project in Congo (Kinshasa), and the other of $150,000 for a project in Tunisia. The grant to the Congo will finance the establishment of an investment advisory team in the Office of the President of the Republic; the Tunisian grant will finance a study for a water resources master plan in northern Tunisia.
Apart from technical assistance components in regular loans or credits, loans or credits made solely for technical assistance studies, and Bank technical assistance grants, the other general category of project-related technical assistance undertaken by the Bank is that of organizing and supervising studies financed by the UNDP. By the end of the 1968/69 financial year, the Bank had acted as Executing Agency for 57 UNDP-financed studies, for a total value of $49.1 million. Eight studies were completed during the year, and a further 33 were under way, of which ten, in Afghanistan (2), Colombia, Congo (B), Congo (K) (2), Indonesia, Lesotho, Pakistan and Somalia were commissioned by the UNDP during the year.
It is, of course, helpful and gratifying if pre-investment studies lead to the formulation of projects suitable for financing by the Bank or IDA. By the end of the 1968/69 fiscal year, eight of the 24 completed studies the Bank had undertaken as Executing Agency for the UNDP had led to Bank or IDA project financing, totaling $714.7 million.
The Bank's cooperative agreements with FAO and Unesco have continued to be of value in the field of project identification and preparation. Under the cooperative arrangements between the Bank and these fellow-agencies of the United Nations, the Bank finances the work of a number of FAO and Unesco staff members who identify and prepare
A survey team working on a new route for the Accra-Kumasi road in Ghana. Funds for this survey were provided by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and are administered by the World Bank.
projects in their respective fields suitable for Bank or IDA lending. FAO and Unesco staff members also participate in Bank and IDA missions to borrower countries, as mentioned in earlier sections (see pages 9 and 12). This cooperative provision of technical assistance is valuable to the Bank, and represents an important contribution to the development effort as a v/hole.
As noted above, the Bank has adopted the policy of stationing staff members in a number of developing countries to provide their governments with on-the-spot assistance in project identification and preparation. The Permanent Missions in Eastern and Western Africa have continued to assist African countries in putting forward priority projects suitable for Bank or IDA financing, especially in agriculture.
The Bank's newly established Resident Staff in Indonesia (set up at the end of the 1968 fiscal year) has now become fully operational, and has identified several priority areas for Bank Group lending. The combination of a serious shortage of local expertise, severe current economic difficulties and great long-term economic potential, makes Indonesia a particularly important candidate for urgent and massive assistance. The purpose of the mission is to assist and advise the Government in the formulation of its economic policies and its overall economic plans and program; in the implementation of economic policy decisions; in the preparation and execution of specific sectoral and project programs and plans; and in the coordination and mobilization of financial
and technical assistance. The Bank hopes that its technical assistance activities in Indonesia during the year under review will provide the foundation for a significant expansion of lending by the Bank Group and others during 1969/70.
The Bank's East Pakistan Agricultural and Water Development Program continued to operate during the year. The program, which involves a special allocation of staff and consultants, was set up in 1967 to assist the East Pakistan Government and its agencies in determining priorities, reviewing and advising on development measures, and in identifying, preparing, and implementing projects.
The Bank continues to provide advice on the organization of development planning to member countries, some of which require assistance in the establishment of suitable new planning organizations while others need help in reexamining existing systems and machinery, with a view to their improvement. During the year, staff members visited Haiti, the Sudan and Upper Volta to give advice on the establishment or adaptation of suitable organizations for formulating and implementing development programs and to advise on plan administration. Advice was also provided on requirements for technical assistance in the formulation and implementation of development plans. The secondment continued of a planning adviser to the Government of Haiti, and an agricultural economist was seconded to the Government of the Sudan to help in the preparation of a public sector investment program.
Both in its lending operations and in connection with its technical assistance activities, the Bank provides funds for overseas training of experts from developing countries in the new skills they need. While the Bank normally does not provide such training itself, it does assist in the arrangements for its administration. While previously this had been handled on an ad hoc basis, the decision was made in 1968/69 to set up a special new unit to coordinate and administer this type of assistance.
Economic Development Institute (EDI)
The creation and fostering of development expertise in each of the Bank's member countries is one of the most important p'erequisites for their further economic growth.
The Bank assists the training of senior officials from member countries by maintaining a staff college, the Economic Development Institute, which runs a number of courses each year. During 1968/69 the Institute's courses were attended by 149 participants; these came from 65 developing countries and one international organization. With the French Course, which began in March, EDI welcomed its 1,000th participant since the Institute's establishment in 1956.
In fiscal 1969 EDI again offered six courses: the six-month general course on development problems and policies plus five project-oriented courses, including one in French and one in Spanish. The three English project courses covered infrastructure, agriculture and industry, respectively. The present cycle of courses means that there are two courses in session simultaneously for most of the year.
In addition to its Washington courses the Institute has assisted agencies in member countries in conducting regional training programs overseas. In March a four-week project evaluation course was conducted in Guyana for English-speaking countries of the Caribbean region. This course was sponsored by the Government of Guyana in cooperation with that country's national university. In June the Institute joined two institutions in Africa (the Institute for Economic Development and Planning in Dakar and the Institute for Development Studies at University College, Nairobi) in sponsoring an eight-week project analysis course for English-speaking African participants. Both of these courses were undertaken on the understanding that they would be repeated by their sponsors in future years. In addition to EDI's primary role in providing curricula, teaching materials and staff for these two courses, individual staff members served as lecturers in a number of other overseas courses, including two-week contributions to a course at the Asian Development Institute in Bangkok and to a UNIDO-sponsored industrial project course in Nairobi.
Aid Coordination
Aid coordination continued to be an important activity for the Bark during the year. Meetings were held for nine groups (including three in which the Bank participates but which it does not chair): Ceylon, Colombia, East Africa (Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and the East African Community), Ghana, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Korea, and Pakistan. For these meetings and also for most of the groups which did not meet during the year, the Bank distributed to members considerable amounts of documentation, such as economic reports on the recipient country, reports on its utilization of aid, information on technical assistance, lists of projects to be financed and the like. In addition, the Bank participated in a meeting called by the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD to consider the problems and prospects of aid coordination from the point of view of the donor countries.
With more than ten years of experience in aid coordination behind it, the Bank believes that aid coordination will continue to be important in the development efforts of the coming years and this view seems to be widely shared by other agencies, national and international, concerned with the administration of development aid. This means more intensive activity on the part of existing groups and possibly also the
creation of new groups from time to time, where the need for such machinery can be demonstrated, and where constructive results can be expected from these efforts. There are several reasons for this view.
First, because the total of bilateral aid is not expanding, it is all the more important to deploy it as effectively as possible. One major step in this direction is the coordination of
aid on a rational basis. Aid coordinating groups tend tc make aid more effective by causing the donors and the recipient to focus constructively on the important issue; relating to the development of the latter; this can lead tc decisions by both parties which have a significant impac on the development of the country. In addition, aid coordi-tion reduces duplication of effort. It imposes a certair
degree of discipline on both donors and recipients which tends to make the provision and use of aid more effective and realistic.
Second, a number of the so-called "smaller" donors prefer to provide much or all of their aid to countries for which an aid coordinating group exists. They feel that their aid is more effectively used as a result of coordination, and that services provided through the aid coordination exercise enable them to administer their aid programs with lower overhead costs than would otherwise be necessary. Many of these "smaller" donors have adopted programs which will substantially increase their aid by the early or mid-70s.
Third, for some of the very poorest countries, the first need is for technical assistance. This is a field in which coordination is particularly important to avoid wasted effort and to identify and secure agreement on the priorities. It seems likely, therefore, that some groups will be formed primarily for the purpose of coordinating technical assistance.
But it also seems likely that much of this increased coordinating activity will be carried on in a somewhat more informal manner than in the past. Examples of this trend are the informal meeting on assistance to the East African Community held in Arusha, Tanzania, in December 1968, and the informal meeting on Ugandan agriculture held in Kampala in June 1969. The Arusha meeting was attended by the local representatives of the members of the Consultative Group for East Africa and chaired by the Chief of the Bank's Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa. These informal sector meetings attract specialists and participation by interested specialized agencies such as FAO. The UNDP Resident Representatives are playing an increasingly important role in assisting in the coordination of technical assistance programs at the local level. The Bank believes that this trend toward sector meetings is a useful development, leading to a better understanding of the issues by both donors and recipients.
Commodity Study
At the 1967 Annual Meetings of the Bank Grouo and the IMF, the Boards of Governors requested the staffs of the two institutions to undertake a special study of the problem of the stabilization of prices of primary products at a remunerative level and the economic feasibility of possible solutions to it. The analytical part of the study was transmitted to the Governors at the 1968 Annual Meetings. Following a further request at that time from the Governors, the Executive Directors of the Bank Group considered, on the basis of a number of working papers prepared by the staff, various alternative actions that might be taken by the Bank Group.
A staff report was made on specific financial measures and other ways in which the World Bank Group might assist in finding feasible solutions to the problem of the stabilization of prices of primary products. After extensive deliberations, the Executive Directors adopted a number of decisions covering the feasible role of the Bank Group in assisting member countries to diversify their production, to strengthen the competitiveness of their primary products in world trade, and to assist international commodity arrangements more effectively, and thus contribute to the solution of the commodity problem. The decisions of the Executive Directors and the staff report were transmitted to the Governors.
Other Studies
The Bank undertakes from time to time studies requested by or in collaboration with other international organizations. Work continued or was concluded during the year on a number of such studies.
The study jointly sponsored by the Bank, FAO and the International Coffee Organization (ICO), dealing with long-term trends in coffee supply and demand, was terminated during the year, and its principal findings were made available to the organizations concerned.
The study produced by the Bank's staff at the request of UNCTAD, on Supplementary Financial Measures to support development programs of countries whose export earnings had failed to meet expectations, remained under consideration by the Intergovernmental Group set up by UNCTAD to examine its findings; the Bank provided technical support to the Intergovernmental Group's deliberations.
The Bank's Executive Directors have had before them during the year a revised draft of Articles of Agreement for an international investment insurance agency. Further detailed discussion of the scheme has, however, been postponed, pending indications of sufficient support for its provisions from the Bank's member governments.
Apart from special studies of this kind, and the economic analysis it undertakes in connection with individual projects or the problems of particular member countries, an important part of the Bank's economic work takes the form of other general studies relevant either to economic development as a whole or the Bank's own work. These may include the examination of economic problems of whole sectors of activity, of major commodities, of international trade, or of methodological questions associated with the Bank's activities. In addition the Bank maintains, in cooperation with OECD and the regional development banks, a comprehensive international reporting system on the external debt of developing countries.
While much of the Bank's economic work remains restricted, reflecting the confidential nature of its relations with member countries, some material of general interest has been made publicly available, notably in the World Bank Staff Occasional Papers. During the year under review, the following three new monographs in this series were released: The Economics of Road User Charges by Professor A. A. Walters; Notes on the Mechanics of Growth and Debt by Benjamin B. King; Reappraisal of a Road Project in Iran by Herman G. van der Tak and Jan de Weille
The first four Occasional Papers published in previous years are now available in French and Spanish.
During the year, The Johns Hopkins Press published on the Bank's behalf The Water and Power Resources of West Pakistan, a three-volume report of a World Bank Study Group under the direction of Dr. Pieier Lieftinck, an Executive Director of the Bank. The report is the result of four years' study of the developmental potentia1 of the province, examining overall economic trends as weil as the specific sectors concerned—power and agriculture. The study is of particular interest in that it includes the Study Group's analytical work as well as its conclusions and thus contributes not only to Pakistan's development strategy, but also to the general methodology of development planning.
Commission on International Development
In August 1968, Mr. Lester Pearson, former Prime Minister of Canada, accepted the President's invitation to become Chairman of an international commission to examine the progress and problems experienced in the field of international aid and development assistance over the last 20 years, and to make recommendations on the best policies and methods to help promote the economic growth of the developing world in the years to come. The establishment of such a commission had first been proposed by the former President of the Bank, Mr. George D. Woods.
The Commission is financed by the Bank but works in complete independence from it. The Commission has seven members selected by Mr. Pearson. They are: Sir Edward Boyle (United Kingdom); Roberto de Oliveira Campos (Brazil); C. Douglas Dillon (United States of America); Wlfried Guth (Federal Republic of Germany); Sir W. Arthur Lewis (West Indies); Robert E. Marjo in (France); and Saburo Okita (Japan). A small international secretariat of 16 experts has been recruited to assist the Commissioners.
The Commission has held a number of meetings, including seven regional hearings in the developing world. It intends to present its Report in the autumn of 1969.
Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
Fifty States have now become parties to the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States, and have thus become members of the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID); eleven additional States have signed but not yet ratified the Convention. Details of the Centre's membership and affairs are contained in its Anrual Report.
BORROWINGS AND FINANCE World Capital Markets
The Bank obtains the oulk of the funds required for its lending program through bond issues in the capital markets of the world. The Bank's borrowings should, therefore, be seen in the context of the overall pattern of activity in these markets during the year. Sales of bonds on world capital markets surged to a new peak in calendar 1968 and at $7,691 million were up nearly 75% over 1967 and about 130 % over 1966 (see Table 12). Tnis was the fifth consecutive year that financing on the international markets registered an increase.
As in previous years, the facilities of the world capital markets were employed princ'oally by Issuers in the industrialized countries. Offerings and placements in this category amounted to $5,412 million or 70% of the total, and an increase of $2,603 million over 1967.
The developing countries sold obligations equivalent to $616.9 million internationally, about 8% of the 1968 total; and issues floated by international development institutions aggregated $1,403.2 milhon or 18% of all 1968 sales. Thus a total of $2,020 million 'aised in these markets was channeled directly into economic development, compared with $1,359 million in 1967.
The main feature of world capital markets in the year was a very sha'p rise in offerings and placements in Europe by corporate and governmental issuers. Within the European market Germany was by far the largest source of long-term capital, as domestic bond rates continued to decline and the German authorities encouraged capita! outflows. Moreover there was a sharp gain in Eurobond o'ferings denominated in Deutsche mark.
In all, $4,274 million of obligations were sold in Europe by issuers in the industrialized countries during the year, an increase of more than 150% above the volume reported for 1967. Affiliates of US corporations alone sold $2,025 million of oblgations in Europe in 1968, the bulk of them on the Eurobond market. The larger part of these issues was in the form of bonds convertible into shares of the parent
corporations. In 1967, US corporations sold $545 million of international issues in Europe. The continuing United States balance of payments problem produced a further tightening of official constraints on domestic financing of the capital needs of foreign operations, and spurred the huge rise in overseas borrowings by US concerns.
Dutch companies and other issuers located in the Netherlands sold the equivalent of $597 million of obligations internationally in Europe during the year. Included were $559 million of corporate bonds offered on the Eurobond market. In 1967 Dutch borrowings internationally had amounted to only $95 million. There was also a marked increase in the volume of issues from countries outside continental Europe, mainly Canada, Japan and the United Kingdom.
The developing countries borrowed the equivalent of $301 million in Europe or nearly half the total of their international borrowings in the year. Iran sold a public issue in Europe for the first time in the postwar period; and Mexico stepped up its European borrowings to $134 million compared with $85 million the year before.
The US market in 1968 continued in practice to be confined to foreign borrowers exempt from the Interest Equaliza-
Examining corn at the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University at Patnagar, India. A $13 million World Bank loan is supporting a program to increase agricultural production through the development of seeds of high-yield foodgrains. The University is participating in the program.
tion Tax. Bond sales of $1,887 million by outside issuers were only $105 million higher than in the year before. Canada sold $1,132 million in issues in New York and was the only industrialized country to float obligations in that market during 1968. The developing countries sold $285 million in New York in 1968, with Israel accounting for $174 million or more than 60% of the total. The World Bank made two public offerings in the United States, aggregating $400 million. It had offered an equal amount of obligations on that market in 1967.
Access to the London market by foreign issuers continued to be limited. Total international sales in 1968 dwindled down to the equivalent of only $36 million compared with $102 million in 1967. The East African Community borrowed the equivalent of $16.8 million in the year, Trinidad and Tobago and Jamaica $7.2 million each, and Iceland $4.8 million.
Long-term bond yields in the major capital markets in the first quarter of 1969 were above their levels in the first quarter of 1968. Yields on non-convertible Eurobonds denominated in dollars and Deutsche mark, after fluctuating within fairly close limits in the 6% to 6.6% range, began to diverge in mid-1967 and have varied more widely in 1968 and early 1969 as they followed domestic bond yields in the United States and Germany. In the United States, for example, yields on new offerings of high-grade domestic bond issues reached an historic high in March 1969, and have lingered near this level since, ranging from about 7Vz% to close to 8%.
Rates on dollar Eurobonds of US corporations rose, then declined in the first half of 1968; rates rose again sharply towards the end of the year and in the first quarter of 1969, as the US authorities embarked on a course of severely restrictive monetary policy. By contrast Deutsche mark Eurobonds experienced a slight decline in rates, similar to that of fixed interest domestic securities.
The continuing rise of long-term yields should be viewed against the background of massive flows of capital influenced by uncertainties over the maintenance of present parities of some major currencies, together with unprecedentedly high short-term interest rates in many countries and in the Eurodollar market at the beginning of 1969.
The Bank's Borrowings
It was against this background that the Bank had its most active year in the marketing of securities in fiscal 1969. Borrowings by the Bank in the capita! markets between July 1, 1968 and June 30, 1969 reached a new high with sales of US$1,224 million equivalent of bonds and notes. Included were $851 million of obligations sold to raise new funds to finance expanding loan operations, and $373 million equivalent of refunding obligations that replaced items which matured in the fiscal year.
The Bank's enlarged marketing program served to improve its liquidity position and to provide for prospective increases in its cash flow requirements. After meeting all financial requirements for the year, the cash resources of the Bank were increased by about $450 million.
The expansion of the Bank's lending program over the years ahead entails a rising borrowing requirement. The Bank is seeking to satisfy this requirement by broadening still further the market for its obligations, with the cooperation of member governments. New sources of funds were tapped during the year, along with traditional markets. Of the $851 million of new money issues sold in the fiscal year the equivalent of $400 million was marketed In Germany, $237 million in the United States and $214 million in Kuwait and Switzerland and to central banks, other governmental agencies, international organizations and institutional investors in about 65 other countries.
The German market was the principal supplier of borrowed funds to the Bank in fiscal 1969: bonds and notes
totaling DM 2,244 million (US$561 million) were marketed in that country. In addition to the DM 1,600 million (US$400 million) of obligations sold to raise new funds as noted above, DM 644 million (US$161 million) of notes were placed with the Deutsche Bundesbank, the central bank, to replace Bundesbank holdings of note issues which matured in the period.
Two new money issues in Germany were marketed by means of public offerings: DM 400 million of 61/2% Twelve-Year Bonds offered to the public at par; and DM 250 million of 61/2% Fifteen-Year Bonds offered at 981/2%. In each case the bonds were offered by a syndicate of leading German banks, headed by the Deutsche Bank, in association with the Dresdner Bank. The DM 400 million issue was the largest amount of non-German obligations ever to be publicly offered in the capita! market of the Federal Republic.
The remaining DM 950 million of new funds raised in Germany was obtained by placements of obligations with the Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, the country's
largest bank, and the Deutsche Girozentrale-Deutsche Kom-munalbank (DGZ). This is a significant new source of funds to the World Bark.
The market in Kuwait was another new source of funds in the fiscal year. With the assistance of the Kuwait Investment Company (S.A.K.), the World Bank publicly offered KD 15 million (US$42 million) of 61/2% Twenty-Year Bonds at 99%. The issue was fully subscribed and was the first public offering of a World Bank issue in the Middle East.
Other public offerings in the fiscal year included the Bank's only issue in the United States, $250 million of 6%% Twenty-Six-Year Bonds, of which about $13 million was purchased by investors abroad; and SwF 80 million (US$18.6 million) of 514% Sixteen-Year Bonds offered on the market in Switzerland. The equivalent of $7 million of the Swiss issue represented new money and $11.6 million served to replace a maturing issue of an equal amount.
Two major placements of Two-Year US dollar bond issues were purchased by central banks and other governmental accounts in about 65 countries, and by internadonal agencies. The issues aggregated $337 million: S200 million replaced two maturing issues and $137 million of the proceeds were added to the Bank's funds. In addition, $15 million of long-term US dollar bonds were placed with a central bank outside the United States.
A total of $471 million equivalent of debt matured during the year including $50 million of 3V2 % Fifteen-Year Bonds held in the United States. The remaining S421 million of maturities we'e held by investors outside the United States and included Belgian franc 500 mi lion (US $10 million) of 5% Ten-Year Belgian Franc Bonds. The Bank also retired a further $55 million equivalent of debt by means of sinking fund and purchase fund operations during the year.
At June 30, 1969, the Bank's outstanding funded debt stood at $4,081 million, an increase of nearly $800 million for the year. The broadening international character of the market for the Bank's issues is indicated by the estimated division of holdings by investors as of June 30, 1969: about 40% in the United States, 30% in Germany, 6% in Switzerland, 4% in Canada, and 20% in about 75 other countries.
The World Bank, in common with other borrowers in calendar 1968 and fiscal 1969, found the cost of funds in the market moving generally upward. As a result, borrowing costs of the Bank in the fiscal year averaged 6.46% compared with costs averaging 6.17% in 1967/68 and 5.52% in 1966/67. The rising cost of borrowings was reflected in the decision reached in August 1968 to increase the Bank's lending rate from 61/4% to 61/2%. After the end of the 1969 fiscal year, the Bank's lending rate was raised to 7% as of 1 August, 1969.
It should be emphasized that the Bank continues its policy of establishing rates on its loans at as low a level as is com-
patible with the maintenance of a sound financial position, on which its ability to raise funds in the capital markets depends. The Bank, however, is afforded some degree of flexibility in responding to upward movements in borrowing costs, owing to the sizable amount of funds it derives from paid-in capital and from accumulated earnings.
Other Financial Operations: Bank
Loans held by the Bank on June 30, 1969, including those not yet effective, and net of exchange adjustments, totaled $8,621 million, an increase of $1,045 million in the fiscal year. Disbursements on loans amounted to $762 million. Aggregate disbursements to June 30, 1969, were $9,583 million, and the undisbursed portion of loans was $3,039 million.
Repayments by the Bank's borrowers in the period were $403 million; $298 million paid to the Bank and $105 million to investors who had purchased borrowers' obligations from the Bank. Aggregate repayments to June 30, 1969, were $3,321 million: $1,798 million having been repaid to the Bank and $1,523 million to loan purchasers.
To help alleviate the burden of India's long-term debt on its foreign exchange resources, the Bank has posrponed for ten years the equivalent of $30 million of principal repayments due to it on certain loans to India during the two-year period ending March 31, 1969.
Meanwhile, the deposits previously made by the Bank with the Reserve Bank of India to offset temporarily part of the balance of payments effect on lnd:a of debt service payments to the Bank during the year ending March 31, 1968, were drawn down during the year. As of June 30, 1969, the equivalent of $15 million was held in the Reserve Bank as interest-bearing demand deposits denominated in US dollars, Deutsche mark and Japanese yen. These deposits are expected to be eliminated by March 1970, and no further deposits are expected to be made.
Sales of participations in loans and of items from the Bank's loan portfolio, after rising in fiscal 1968, resumed the declining trend that began in fiscal 1963. The total fo- the year amounted to $35 million, the lowest figure for such transactions reported in 15 years, and a decline of $72 million below the $107 million reported in fiscal 1968. The very sharp rise in yields on competing securities and continuation of restrictions on overseas investments by some capital exporting countries contributed to the year's decrease in participations and portfolio sales.
Income and Expenditure: Bank
Net income for the fiscal year was $171 million, approximately equal to the $169 million reported as net income in
each of the two preceding years. Net income in the last three fiscal years has been on a substantially higher plateau than in previous years, owing to continuing higher yields on the Bank's investments and to rising interest income on loans resulting from the rising level of loans held by the Bank.
Commission still charged on outstanding portions of a few of the Bank's earliest loans amounted to SO.5 million and was credited to the Special Reserve, raising it to $291.5 million at June 30, 1969.
Gross income was $410 million compa-ed with $356 million in fiscal 1968. The increase largely reflected rises of $22 million in investment income to $88 million, $28 million in interest income on loans to $303 million and $3 million in income from commitment charges on loans to $11 million.
Expenses for fiscal 1969 totaled $239 million, an increase of $52 million over the preceding year. For the second consecutive year bond and note interest and issuance costs rose sharply, reaching $197 million in the year compared with $153 million in fiscal 1968. The rise in these costs stems from the substantial increase in funded debt outstanding and from the higher costs of borrowing in the market. Administrative costs of the Bank and IDA aggregated $45 million, compared with S38 million in the previous year. After the deduction of $4 million as a management fee for IDA, administrative costs of the Bank aggregated $41 million compared with $34 million in the previous year.
Under a decision approved by the Board of Governors at the Annual Meeting in October 1968, $75 million of the Bank's net income for fiscal 1968 was set aside for transfer to IDA in the form of a grant, after $94 million from net income had been allocated to the Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guarantees and from Currency Devaluations. After the close of the 1969 fiscal year the Executive Directors allocated $71 million of net income for the period to the Supplemental Reserve, raising it to $1,034 million and total reserves to $1,326 million. The Executive Directors, at the same time, recommended that a further S100 million be transferred to IDA as a grant (see page 29).
Finances: IDA
On July 23, 1969, the second general replenishment of IDA's resources came into force. On that date, the United States deposited its formal notification of acceptance, thus fulfilling the minimum requirements to make the proposal effective.
The second replenishment proposal provided for expanding IDA's resources by $1,200 million equivalent, payable in three annual installments of $400 million each, and was designed to become effective as soon as at least twelve Part I countries pledging not less than $950 million deposited noti-
fications of acceptance (for further details of the terms of the replenishment, see the Annual Report for fiscal year 1968) Of the 18 Part I member countries party to the proposal, 14 with pledges aggregating $638.6 million had notified the Association by June 30, 1969 that they would make theii specified contributions. These countries were: Australia Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan Kuwait, the Netherlands, Norway, South Africa, Sweden, anc the United Kingdom. Luxembourg's notification was receivec on July 16, and the United States' on July 23, thus making the replenishment effective. Belgium and Italy had not actec as of that date, but were expected to do so soon thereafter Under the proposal, which was transmitted to the membei countries by IDA's Executive Directors in March 1968, it was provided that payment of the three installments was to be made on November 8, '968 (or 30 days after the date wher the replenishment became effective, whichever was later) and November 8, 1969 and November 8, 1970. Since the replenishment became effective on July 23, 1969, the payment of the first installment was to be made by Augus: 22 1969.
Since the effective date for the second replenishment came after the end of the fiscal year, the Association continued tc operate for most of the year with a serious shortage of resources; however, substantial relief was provided during the second half of the fiscal year by advance contributions to the second replenishment made by a number of Part I countries
Prior to these advance contributions, IDA had less thar $150 million available for new credit commitments during the fiscal year, of which about half was orovided by the $75 million transfer of profits f'om the Bank in October 1968 anc half from a variety of sources, including a loan from the Swiss Confederation of $12.1 million, a special supplementary contribution from Sweden of $21.4 million (these two items were noted in last year's Annual Report), and a further specia supplementary contribution provided by Denmark in January 1969 in the amount of $15 million. Because of the shortage of available resources, new credit commitments by IDA amounted to less than S50 million in the first half of the year
However, commencing in November 1968, a number o' Part I countries agreed to make substantial advance contributions toward the second replenishment of IDA's resources even before the second replenishment became effective. Action along these lines was taken by eleven Part I countries pledging additional resources to IDA totaling $244.5 millior and thereby enabling IDA to make new credit commitments up to that amount. Canada and Australia made available theii entire second replenishment contribution of $75 million anc $24 million respectively; Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and the Unitec
Kingdom each made available one-third (i.e., the first annual installment) of its share in the second replenishment.
As a result, despite the delay in full implementation of the second replenishment, IDA was able to sign new credits totaling $385 million in fiscal 1969, an amount higher than in any previous fiscal year, and marking a very substantial recovery from the $107 million of new credits signed in fiscal 1968. After taking account of the other resources available to IDA, this volume of lending involved the commitment of some $250 million out of the $1,200 million of the second replenishment, leaving $950 million of the second replenishment resources available at the end of the fiscal year for future commitments.
The total of credits made by IDA since its inception came to S2.216.6 million as of June 30, 1969. Disbursements in the fiscal year 1969 fell off to $256 mi lion from $319 million in the previous year, as the receding level of commitment in fiscal 1968 and early 1969 took their toll. Total disbursements by IDA since its inception reached $1,598 million as of June 30, 1969.
Annual transfers from net income have been made by the Bank to IDA every year since 1964, the five-year total coming to $285 million. These transfers have been of amounts which would otherwise have been available for distribution as dividends to the Bank's member countries. At the close of the 1969 fiscal year, the Bank's Executive Directors recommended to the Board of Governors a further transfer to IDA in the amount of $100 million. This recommendation will be considered by the Governors at the 1969 Annual Meeting in Washington.
ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
Departmental Reorganization
To sustain a higher volume of lending without any diminution in the quality of the staff's work, a number of organizational changes have been made during the year. Major changes were made in the structure of the Area, Economics and Projects Departments during October 1968, and in the Treasurer's Department in April 1969.
Under the Area Departments' reorganization, the Africa and Asia Departments were each split into two new Departments, while the Europe and the Middle East and North Africa Departments were merged. Details of the resulting staff changes are given below.
The Economics Department was divided into eight new divisions. In addition, six special economic study units were established, which report directly to The Economic Adviser to the President.
The Projects Department was divided into a number of separate Departments each with responsibihty for a particular sector. The four former divisions of the Projects Department became the Agriculture Projects Department, the Education Projects Department, the Public Utilities Projects Department and the Transportation Projects Department. In addition, three new Projects Departments were set up. These were a Tourism Projects Department, a Population Projects Department and a Special Projects Department. The Bank established departments to deal with tourism and population projects believing that these are important new areas of potential investment; the Special Projects Department is intended to deal with projects which do not fall naturally into any existing project category, notably intersectoral and multi-purpose projects in fields such as the use of water resources.
To supervise and coordinate the work of the Projects Departments, an Office of the Director, Projects, was set up under Mr. S. Aldewereld. Mr. B. Chadenet became Deputy Director, Projects, and Mr. V/. C. Baum became Associate Director. Details of other staff changes resulting from the reorganization are listed on page 30.
The Treasurer's Department was reorganized on May 1, 1969. A new Treasurer's Department deals with market and investment operations, including fund raising, investment of liquid funds, and receipts and payments. A new Controller's Department deals with accounts, loan disbursements and administrative expenses.
As noted earlier in the Report, the Development Finance Compan es Department was transferred from the International Finance Corporation to the Bank as from November 1, 1968.
Staff Changes
Mr. Eugene H. Rotberg became Treasurer of the Bank upon the retirement of Mr. Robert V/. Cavanaugh on December 31, 1968, after more than 21 years' service with the Bank. Mr. Rotberg joined the Bank from the United States Securities and Exchange Commission where he had been Associate Director of the Division of Trading and Markets. After the reorganization of the Department in May, Mr. Rotberg remained Treasurer, while Mr. Francis R. Poore, formerly Deputy Treasurer, became Controller.
A number of new appointments became effective on November 1, 1968, after the reorganization of the Area and Projects Departments. Mr. Abdel G. El Emary became Director of the Eastern Africa Department; Mr. Roger Chaufournier became Director of the Western Africa Department; Mr. I. P. M. Cargill became Director of the South Asia Department; Mr. Raymond Goodman became Director of the East Asia and Pacific Department; Mr. Michael L. Lejeune became
Director of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Department. Mr. Gerald Alter remained Director of the Western Hemisphere Department.
Directors were appointed to each of the new Projects Departments. Mr. Lionel J. C. Evans became Director, Agriculture Projects Department; Mr. Duncan S. Ballantine became Director, Education Projects Department; Mr. A. David Knox became Director, Public Utilities Projects Department; Mr. Robert Sadove became Director, Transportation Projects Department and Acting Director, Tourism Projects Department.
Mr. John H. Adler was appointed Director of the Programming and Budgeting Department from November 1, 1968. He had formerly been Associate Director of the Department.
Recruitment
The efficient conduct of the higher volume of business which the Bank is now undertaking requires not only some reorganization of existing staff functions but also a large influx of new staff. During the year under review the Bank embarked upon the first stage of a major recruiting program; the number of professional staff rose from 740 on June 30, 1968 to 917 on June 30, 1969, and a further substantial increase is expected during the coming financial year. To assist in the recruiting process, a staff member has been assigned to full-time recruitment work in Europe; other staff members have visited a number of countries in Asia, Europe and Africa on recruitment missions. The network of recruitment contacts in member countries has also been expanded.
Apart from the primary aim of attracting candidates of sufficiently high caliber to undertake the complex responsibilities of Bank work, the recruitment program is also intended to broaden the nationality base of the staff, by recruiting a higher percentage of new staff from continenta Europe and from countries from which little or no recruitment had been achieved in the past, and by reducing the proportion of the staff represented by United States and United Kingdom nationals. During the year the number of countries from which professional staff were drawn rose from 53 to 55, and recruits from seven additional countries are expected to join the Bank within the next few months. At the same time, the proportion of United States and United Kingdom nationals dropped from 50% to 47.5% in the case of staff on regular assignment and from 49.4% to 48.2% in the case of all professional staff, including those on fixed-term appointments.
The Bank is nevertheless anxious not to deprive developing countries of their trained experts. It has therefore expanded the policy of recruiting for a number of posts for fixed terms of two or three years; staff members thus appointed are thereby enabled to return to their country after their period
of service with the Bank having gained experience in development which they can put to good use at home.
At the end of June 1969 the total staff of the Bank and IDA professional and non-professional, numbered 1,834, comprising nationals of 75 countries.
Seventy-nine staff members who entered the Bank through the young professional program and have completed thei
training are now in regular assignments with the Bank or IFC. A further 27 young pro'essionals are now in training. During the next few months, 16 new entrants will join the program, bringing the total serving the Bank Group to 122 from 38 countries, as shown in the table on page 30.
New Facilities
The growth of activity in recent years has required the Bank to seek extra office accommodation. In June 1966 the Executive Directors approved the construction of a new building adjacent to the existing headquarters. Construction began in early 1967 and is expected to be completed by early fall 1969. Partial occupancy began in late 1968, and the building was substantially occupied by the end of the fiscal year. With this latest addition, the Bank headquarters has over 1,000,000 square feet of office space in four interconnected buildings.
The first group to occupy the new building was the joint Bank-Fund Computer Center. The establishment of such a center was recommended by consultants in 1967, and a Burroughs 5500 computer was installed in November 1968. The Joint Center has taken over the computer work which had been done externally at computer bureaus, and new programs for the computer are being devised when they are seen to be advantageous.
MEMBERSHIP AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The membership of the Bank rose from 107 to 110 governments during the 1968/69 fiscal year. Botswana and Lesotho joined the Bank in July 1968, and Mauritius joined in September. These three countries also became members of IDA. Indonesia, already a member of the Bank, became a member of IDA in August 1968. Consequently IDA's membership rose during the year from 98 to 102. At the end of the year, action was pending on membership in the Bank of Cambodia, Malta, Southern Yemen, Swaziland and Yemen Arab Republic, and on membership in IDA of Cambodia, Guinea, Malta,Swaziland, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay and Venezuela.
The subscriptions of new members of the Bank and increases in subscriptions by five existing members resulted in a rise in the Bank's subscribed capital during the fiscal year of $94.5 million, from $22,942 million to $23,036 million, as shown in the tables on this page.
In addition, increases in subscriptions totaling $61.1 million by three other countries, Jamaica, Nigeria and Uruguay, were pending at the end of the year.
During the fiscal year there were several changes among the Executive Directors.
Mr. Livingston T. Merchant, Executive Director for the United States since July 1965, retired at the end of October
1968; Mr. Covey T. Oliver was appointed to succeed him, and, following the regular election of Executive Directors held at the 1968 Annual Meetings, there were the following changes: Mr. S. Othello Coleman (Liberia), who had served as Executive Director for two years, was succeeded by Mr. Christopher Kahangi (Tanzania), who had formerly been Mr. Coleman's Alternate; Mr. L. Denis Hudon (Canada), who had been an Executive Director for three and a half years, was succeeded by Mr. Patrick M. Reid (Canada), who had been Alternate to Mr. Hudon; Dr. Jorge Mejia-Palacio (Colombia), who had served as Executive Director for 14 years, was succeeded by Mr. Virgilio Barco (Colombia); Mr. Luis Escobar (Chile) was succeeded by Mr. Angel R. Caram (Argentina). Mr. Escobar had served as Executive Director for two years; Mr. Joaquin Gutierrez Cano (Spain), who had served for five and a half years, was succeeded by Mr. Giorgio Rota (Italy); Mr. Karl Skjerdal (Norway), who had served as Executive Director for two years, was succeeded by Mr. Erik L. Karlsson (Sweden). A number of changes also took place during the year among the Alternates to Executive Directors. A list of the Executive Directors and their Alternates is given in Appendix 5.
During the fiscal year, the workload of Executive Directors increased considerably, both on account of the greater volume of Bank and IDA lending, and because of the large number of policy issues requiring the consideration of the Board. In view of the nature and volume of work handled by the Executive Directors, provision has recently been made for them to appoint full-time technical assistants.
Sags of coffee for export stacked in a new warehouse at the port oi Santa Marta, the Caribbean terminus of the Atlantic Railroad in Colombia.
Part Two:
Trends and Outlook in Development and in Development Finance
The economic progress of developing countries can be appraised meaningfully only in the context of the world economy as a whole. Economic developments in the major industrial nations affect, materially and directly, the exports and growth of developing countries. The year 1968 was a mixed one. Buoyant economic activity in the industrialized countries provided an excellent opportunity for substantial growth in many developing countries' export earnings, and a number of them made good use of it. On the other hand, the balance of payments problems of some of the most important aid donors and recurrent international monetary difficulties led to a lower priority being given to the developing countries than their problems and their potential for more rapid growth appeared to justify.
TRENDS IN GROWTH AND TRADE
High levels of investment, output and trade, and high and rising interest rates, continued to characterize the industrialized world during 1968 and the first half of 1969. Concern over their balance of payments situation remained a major factor in a number of developed countries' economic policymaking in 1969 as in 1968. In addition, the international monetary situation, with intermittent agitation in the currency and gold markets, has required close attention. The net flow of capital to developing countries has not increased in step witn the growth of the national product of the developed countries. And this has happened precisely at a time when development assistance on an expanded scale would enable many developing countries to consolidate the gains they have made in recent years, and could help others to initiate a genuine development effort.
Among the developed countries, a number of the smaller donors—Australia, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands, Nor-
way and Sweden—have committed themselves firmly to development assistance. But the five major donors—France, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States —still account for 83% of the total of official and private flows from all DAC countries1 to developing countries and multilateral institutions. The United States alone accounts for almost one-half of the total, and its policies remain crucial for the development effort as a whole.
During the seven years since 1961, the addition to the combined GNP of DAC countries has been of the order of $500 billion. Total net capital flows, public and private, to the developing countries increased during the same period by $3.5 billion, from $9.3 billion in 1961 (nearly 1% of DAC countries' combined GNP at that time) to $12.8 billion in 1968 (about 0.75% of DAC countries' combined GNP for that year).
While there are wide differences among countries, the aggregate real gross national product of industrialized countries increased by over 5% in 1968, as against 3.5% in 1967. Industrial production was expanding at a rapid rate toward the end of 1968 and early in 1969 in the developed countries taken as a grouo, and an overall growth rate of 4-5% in GNP is projected for 1969. The recent expansion of the Japanese economy has been particularly rapid. During the five years 1963-68, Japan doubled its national product, industrial output, and exports. If the high growth rates of this decade should continue into the 1970s, Japan may well move ahead of most other industrialized countries in per capita income. Another notable feature of the present decade in contrast to the 1950s is the higher rate of growth in the United States than in the European OECD area.
^Members of the Development Assistance Committee ol the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD); participants are: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, UK, USA, and the E.E.C Commission.
In many of the industrialized countries, the dominant concern in 1968 has been to restrain the buoyancy of their economies, and a monetary squeeze has been applied, together with fiscal action. Such measures may affect not only the pace of expansion in the industrialized countries, but also the rate of growth of their imports from the developing countries.
The target of growth in GNP for the developing countries during the first Development Decade was set by the UN General Assembly at 5% per annum for the late 1960s; this appears to have been attained, if all developing countries are taken together. Their overall growth rate reached 6% in 1967, reflecting mainly improvements in agricultural output; for 1968 it was probably at least 5%. There are noticeable differences from region to region (see Tables 1 and 2).1 The experience of individual countries varies even more widely. With population rising at 2.5%, per capita income growth has averaged only 2.5% for all developing countries together; for Latin America, Africa and South Asia, it was lower still—about 1.5% per annum.
India provides a good illustration of the population problem, and also of the recognition of the need to meet it. With an estimated population of 525 million (at mid-1968), India has 15% of the world's population, only 2.4% of the world's land area and hardly 2% of the world's income. There are 21 million births a year; improved health and medical services have reduced death rates, and average life expectancy has increased to 51 years, as against 32 years in 1950. With a per capita income level around $75, and GNP growing at 4-5% a year, the imperative need for action to curb population growth is clear. A vigorous new policy was formulated in 1967, aiming to reduce the birth rate by almost one-half by 1975, and progress is being made in carrying it out. In many other developirg countries too, the crucial importance of controlling population growth is now beginning to be reflected in the objectives and priorities of national economic policies.
The implications of rapid population growth for a number of developing countries were pointed out in the Bank's 1968 Annual Report. In Latin America, and only to a slightly lesser extent in other areas, the growth of urban populations has been particularly rapid; the current rate of urbanization greatly compounds the problem of improving living standards. The process of urbanization is an offshoot both of population growth and of development itself; greater efforts to understand and to guide this process are clearly becoming necessary.
in the main, with help from abroad, the developing countries have made substantial progress in providing the minimum economic infrastructure of power and transport needed
lAs compared with the tables presented m iast year's Report, this year the country coverage Is considerably expanded, especially in the case of Africa
to support the growth in the rest of the economy. Strenuous efforts are also being made in education, although the rapid growth in the number of children of school age makes it almost impossible for the education authorities to keep pace with demand. While some growth of industry has also taken place, only a few countries—the Republic of China, Korea, Iran, Mexico—have made major advances in industrial output. Agriculture remains the main occupation in most developing countries, and what happens in this sector largely influences overall rates of economic growth. Just as drought in many parts of Asia and Africa resulted in the stagnation or decline of agricultural production in 1964/65 and 1965/66, generally better weather in 1967/68, and to some extent in 1968/69 contributed to the large grain crops in these years. The rice crop indevelop'ng countries was particularly good in 1967/68, as was the wheat crop in 1968/69. With 1957-59 - 100, the index of per capita agricultural production In the developing countries was 102 in 1967 and 1968, as against only 97 in 1966; in South Asia it was 104 in 1968, as against 89 in 1966. But per capita agricultural production in the developing areas as a whole is still no higher than in 1961.
The increase in production in the last two years is not wholly attributable to good weather or to the extension of areas under cultivation; agricultural productivity is also rising as a result of the increasing application of modern technology to trad tional agriculture. In India, Indonesia, Pakistan, the Philippines and other countries, high-yielding varieties of rice, developed in the Philippines, are beginning to make an important contribution, although the shortage of land with regulated water supply remains a major limitation on their use. The wider use of chemical fertilizers, insecticides and pesticides is an integral part of the nascent "green revolution." A number of technical and econcmic problems arise with increases in agricultural productivity: there is a need for more storage, marketing, credit, and agricultural extension services, and for more equitable snaring of new resources and technology so that the gains are not confined mainly to a small number of favored farmers. As these issues are faced, the "green revolution" could help to improve living standards, strengthen the basis for successful deve opment by increasing tne economic size of domestic markets, and improve the balance of payments of the countries involved.
Most developing countries are committed to development. But this commitment needs to be translated into more effective policies and actions. For instance, sustained efforts are required to mobilize domestic savings for investment through better tax systems and an improved framework for savings, including realistic interest rates on deposits. The difficulty of increasing savings rates In countries with very low income levels is a serious constraint on the development effort.
The almost completed Cachi Dam on the Rio Reventazon, in Costa Rica. This hydroelectric project, the biggest in Costa Rica, is being carried out with the aid of funds from a $22 miiiion World Bank lean.
Similarly, the nature of the markets for primary commodities, and the difficulties experienced bydeveloping countries in obtaining access to markets for their exports in general, limit their export earnings. Even allowing for these constraints, however, further domestic measures can be taken to stimulate development. Policy measures to curb inflationary pressures and maintain economic stability are conducive to growth in real terms, as they assist both savings and exports. In addition, policies aimed at establishing and maintaining a realistic rate of exchange for exports can be of great assistance in promoting a more rapid rate of export growth. In many countries there is scope for improved tax administration, to help make budgets a more effective tool of economic policy.
The World Bank Group is interested in increasing the efficiency of total resource mobilization and use in the developing countries. Judgment in this field requires the most careful investigation and analysis; it must include consideration of the major sectors of a country's economy as well as its overall development strategy and economic policies. The Bank, therefore, makes regular reviews of the economy of each of its developing member countries through its country economic missions. Satisfactory economic performance is an important condition for Bank Group assistance, and the Bank tries to assist its members in developing and maintaining appropriate overall economic policies. The bulk of the Bank's assistance to developing countries is provided in the form of project loans; it therefore pays particular attention to the implementation of specific projects. The Bank investigates thoroughly the economic aspects of projects, including the extent to which infant industry tariff protection may be justified. In addition, projects must have adequate financial returns, appropriate management, satisfactory technical design and proper procurement policies, including international competitive bidding for inputs.
Concern with improved performance through effective mobilization of resources, domestic and external, in turn raises the question of the criteria by which performance is measured —growth itself, or the attainment of programmed targets, or the pursuit of what may be deemed appropriate policies. Output, total or per capita, is a frequently used indicator of performance, but it cannot be conclusive. A change in the rate of savings is another indicator, since savings can be a major source o; new investment, which is in turn a prerequisite of development. It is, of course, necessary to consider not only the volume of savings but also their composition and the effectiveness with which they are used.
The wide variations in the circumstances of individual countries require the consideration of different factors in different cases. In each country, moreover, the specific constraints on development need to be isolated, and policies to deal with them need to be found. There is no one set of precise, universal, or immutable criteria by which to judge the performance of developing countries, and considerable effort has to be made to fit policy recommendations to each country's specific situation.
Both the successes and failures of the developing countries are reflected in the world trade figures of recent years. Total world trade expansion in the 1960s has been substantial and uninterrupted, averaging nearly 8.5% per annum. Including the trade of the centrally planned economies, total world exports in 1968 may have amounted to $238 billion. The developing countries have also increased their trade, but their share in the total is relatively small and declining, particularly
on a per capita basis, while that of the developed countries is large and rising. The broad trends in export trade, according to UN statistics, are indicated below:
World exports, excluding the trade of the centrally-planned economies, amounted to $211 billion in 1968, up by 11 % from the 1967 total; the growth rate was almost double that recorded in 1967. Unusually strong import demand in the United States and Germany accounted for about 40% of the increase in world exports in 1968. The share of the developing countries in this, at $43.4 billion, was 20%, compared with 21% in 1967, 22% in 1960, 27% in 1953 and 30% in 1948. The exports of the industrialized countries grew by 12% in 1968, and those of developing countries by almost 8%.
Well over two-thirds of the total exports of the developing countries generally go to North America, Western Europe and Japan. Therefore, the growth of these economies and changes in the level of their demand for imports has a material bearing on the trade prospects of the developing countries. The exports of developing countries rose by 8% in 1968, as against 3.9% in 1967; the OECD countries imported 13% more from them in 1968, as against only 4% more in
1967. Trade among the developing countries themselves increased by only 3% in 1967.
The outlook for world exports in 1969 is for a projected increase of about 8%. Although total exports of industrial countries were about 15% higher in the first quarter of 1969 than in the corresponding period of 1968, a deceleration in the expansion of world trade is expected in 1969 compared to
1968, in response to the measures being taken to reduce demand in several of the largest industrialized countries. This will affect the exports of developing countries, as will the course of commodity prices during the year.
Buoyant demand in the industrialized countries not only leads to a greater volume of exports from the developing countries, but may also result in better prices. Improved prices for some commodity exports—cocoa, some vegetable oils, copper—also helped the developing countries' export earnings in 1968. The rise in export earnings in 1968 was relatively small for Latin America, but sizeable for Asia and Africa. The share of petroleum exporting countries in the
increase was large. In the years 1960-68, the aggregate exports of developing countries rose by almost 6% a year; the rates of growth in fuels, manufactures and metals have been higher than the average. Accordingly, the rather limited number of countries that depend mainly on petroleum exports and on exports of manufactured items have had higher export growth rates since 1960. Apart from petroleum producing countries (among which Libya continues to register the most remarkable gains), Korea, Israel, Pakistan, Mexico and the Republic of China have experienced relatively large gains in exports. India's exports, which remained rather stagnant for some years, increased by 8% in 1968 to a level of $1,750 miilion; the increase was especially large for non-traditional, manufactured and semi-manufactured items. Latin American exports grew little in 1967 and 1968: the exports of Argentina and Chile declined, while Brazil's exports rose in 1968 by about 15% to $1,900 million. The availability of preferential trade advantages in some markets, and policies designed to promote exports, including the establishment of realistic exchange rates, the improvement of quality and the reduction of costs, are among the factors which contributed to the relatively large expansion of some developing countries' exports.
THE FLOW OF OFFICIAL AND PRIVATE CAPITAL TO DEVELOPING COUNTRIES1
Total net financial flows, public and private, from DAC countries to developing countries expanded steadily and substantially in the 1950s.2 From $4,000-5,000 million a year in the early Fifties, the total rose to $9,200 million in 1961, fairly close to 1% of the combined GNP of DAC countries at that time. During 1962-64, net flows remained roughly stationary, but there was a rise to $10,500 million in 1965 and 1966, and further increases occurred in 1967 and 1968. In these years, however, the total flow formed a smaller percentage share of GNP.
Official and private flows of net financial resources from IDA Part I countries and Switzerland to developing countries are given in Table 3 for each of the years 1961 -68. The total of official flows from these countries was $6,170 million in 1961, about 0.6% of their combined GNP—the highest proportion that official flows have formed in the combined GNP of these countries in any year. In absolute terms the amount of net official flows of capita1 (gross disbursements minus amortization on earlier lending) from the developed countries to the developing countries and multilateral agencies was estimated at about $6,910 million in 1968. In view of the sharp cuts in
1AI! data lor 1968 are provisional.
2The data on capita! flows are mainly based on those complied by the Development Assistance Committee ol ihe OECD.
US foreign economic assistance appropriations in recent years, there is the distinct possibility that the net flow of disbursements of official assistance in the years immediately ahead may be significantly reduced. In 1960, when DAC was set up, over 80% of total flows of official capital was accounted for by three countries—France, the United Kingdom and the United States. Since then, the degree of concentration of aid has been reduced, although in 1968 five countries —France, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States—still accounted for 83% of the total, a proportion that roughly corresponds to their combined share in total GNP. Canada, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden have set quantitative medium-term targets to increase their aid substantially. In some cases the targets are in terms of budgetary appropriations for development financing; in others they relate to official and private flows combined.
In 1968, there was a marked decline in official flows from the United Kingdom and the United States offset by increases in flows from France, Germany, the Netherlands and others. Moreover in 1968, as in 1967, past accumulations of uncommitted balances were drawn down. Net official assistance from France rose by about 10% in 1967 and reached $826 million after declining over a period of several years since 1962; net disbursements of official loans in particular rose some 40%. Budgetary appropriations for official external assistance in 1968 were marginally lower than in 1967, but public expenditures in calendar 1968 rose from $660 million to $690 million. Net official assistance for calendar 1968 was $855 million equivalent. The United Kingdom experienced a period of economic difficulty culminating in the devaluation of the pound in November 1967. Consequently, there was a decline of about 5% in the net flow of official capital from the United Kingdom in that year compared with the high level of disbursements in 1966. Net disbursements of official funds in 1968 were $428 millon equivalent as against $498 million in 1967. Germany increased the level of its net official flows by about one-eighth in 1967 to $547 million; this increase was mainly due to larger technical assistance grants and a sharp increase in multilateral assistance; net bilateral loans showed virtually no change. The budget request for cash payment authorizations in 1968 was about 25% higher than in 1967: net official flows in 1968 rose to $595 million; most of this increase was in the form of official loans and contributions to multilateral agencies. The net flow of official capital from Japan reached $500 million in 1967, an increase of about one-quarter above its 1966 level. There was a further slight increase in 1968, to about $507 million. In absolute terms, the flow of net official funds from Italy grew by more than 25% in 1967 over 1966, to $154 million; loan assistance grew at an
even faster rate and offset the decline in multilateral assistance and in grants; but the total fell slightly in 1968. Capital flows from non-DAC countries have been relatively modest and limited to official transfers. The estimated net flow from the centrally planned economies remained level at about $350 million per year during the period 1966-1968.
The nature and terms of the flow of capital need to be considered as well as their volume. The main relevant considerations are the proportion of official aid programs in the form of grants, the interest rates, grace periods and maturities of official loans, the extent to which aid is tied to specified kinds of goods and/or purchases in particular countries, and the extent to which official aid is tailored to the debt-servicing capacity of a developing country. In the longer-term perspective of development assistance, loan terms—especially interest charges—have considerable significance. Efforts to-warcs the liberalization and harmonization of the terms of assistance by member countries culminated in the adoption by DAC in 1965 of a standard for the terms of assistance. The DAC recommendation called on member countries to use their best efforts to meet one of two standards. The first was that 70% or more of official commitments be in the form of grants. The second included the following provisions: (1) 81 % of total official commitments should consist of grants and loans at 3% interest charges or less; (2) 82% of total official commitments should be in the form of grants and loans with a maturity of 25 years or more; and (3) the weighted average grace period of official loan commitments should be not less than 7 years. The so-called "DAC average" terms (25 years maturity, 7 years grace period, 3% interest) came to be accepted by many countries in practice as a norm for development loan terms. Overall, the performance of DAC countries in 1967 was somewhat less satisfactory than in 1966. The proportion of grants and grant-like assistance in their total official assistance declined to 54.7% from 59.7%. The share of loans in the total had thus risen; and the weighted average interest rate on loans rose from 3.1% per annum to 3.8% per annum. There was, however, no significant change in the weighted average maturity or grace period of official loans. The share of grants in total official flows fell again in 1968, to an estimated 50%. However, the weighted average interest rate on loans also declined, to about 3.3%, and there was a slight increase in both grace and maturity periods.
The scheduled 1968 review of the DAC recommendation has been completed and the new recommendation went into effect in February 1969. This provides for further softening of the terms of loans. Under the "supplement to the 1965 recommendation", countries that provide at least 70% of development assistance in grants and grant-like assistance
would, as before, be regarded as having met DAC standards. Two new alternative tests were agreed upon: a donor should
(a) provide at least 85% of official development assistance commitments in such a way that each transaction has a minimum concessional element of 61 %; or
(b) ensure that 85% of such commitments contain an average concessional element of at least 85%.
The "concessional element" is defined as the difference between the face value of a financial commitment and the present value of the prospective stream of amortization and interest payments thereon discounted at a conventional rate of KP/o.1
The new recommendation recognizes that in judging compliance with the terms target, account should also be taken of the volume of assistance; countries whose volume of loan assistance meeting the new terms is significantly below the DAC average as a percentage of GNP will not be considered as having met the terms target. Thus, assistance which is very concessional but very small in relatior to a donor's GNP would not qualify.
The reformuiated recommendation applies only to official development assistance fairly strictly defined; all export credits, for example, including official ones, are excluded. DAC members have agreed to review more fully the differences in their basic approaches to export credits, whether official or officially guaranteed, and the relationship of such credits to wider development considerations. Although the tying of assistance to purchases in the donor countries need not necessarily involve a harden ng of terms, it may involve foregoing the procurement of goods and services at the lowest cost, and to that extent may reduce the quantum of resources which could be obtained with a given amount of financial assistance. In this regard, there appears to have been some improvement in 1967 and 1968. Even so, a large proportion of total assistance remains tied. In a resolution on terms and conditions of aid, UNCTAD II requested the Bank to prepare a study, :n consultation with the Secretary-General of UNCTAD and the IMF, of possible improvements in techniques of lending, having to do among other things with the conditions and scheduling of repayments. The study has been undertaken by Bank staff and should be completed ;n the course of 1969.
The data on private capita! flows are less exact than on official flows. The data on international capital markets gathered by the Bank and discussed in Part I of this Report show that only a few developing countries are able to borrow di-
1Thls definition diiiers somewhat from thai used in Tables 6-8 of this Report, in ihe tables, the grant element is based on the difference between the present value of protected disbursements (rather than the face value of commitments), and the present value of projected service payments. Grant element according to this definition would tend tc be somewhat less than according to the DAC definition.
rectly from the capital markets. Direct investment and export credits are much more important types of private capital flows to developing countries. Private capital has contributed substantially to the transfer of resources to developing countries, and there appears to be an upward trend in the flow of private capital, although it tends to be erratic from year to year. The total net flow of private capital from DAC countries to developing countries reached 53,800 million in 1957—a level not attained in any subsequent year until 1965. Net private capital flows from DAC countries totaled $2,500 million in 1963, and S3,200 million in 1964; they remained relatively stable at-around $4,000 million per annum in 1965-67, rising to $4,200 million in 1967. According to early data, substantia! increases in flows from some countries led to a rise in the total net flow of private capital to developing countries to a record of about $5,900 million in 1968. In that year, large increases were reported by a number of DAC countries, particularly Genmany, Italy, Japan and the United States.
In recent years, direct investment has represented over one-half of total private capital flows. Direct investments, which include reinvested earnings, ranged from a high of $2,500 million in 1965 to a low of $2,000 million in 1967, the fluctuations being due to a large extent to changes in the new flow of capital into the petroleum-producing countries. There was a sharp recovery in 1968, to about $2,700 million. Net private export credits have also increased sharply, from $900 million in 1965 to 31,200 million in 1967 and about $1,800 million in 1968. The use of export credits to finance the capital requirements of developing countries was particularly noticeable in 1966 when they amounted to roughly 13.5% of the aggregate net flow of financial resources from DAC countries; the trend seems to be toward an increasing use of such credits associated with a lengthening in maturities. The Bank has expressed in the past its concern over excessive use of export credits.
The aggregate net receipts of financial resources from all sources, official and private, bilateral and multilateral, by developing countries nave been increasing steadily since 1962. Generally, terms nave not improved in recent years, bul notable improvements have been made by a number of countries. In 1967 the total amounted to $11,400 million as compared with $11,000 mi'lion in 1965 and $9,300 million in 1963. According to preliminary estimates there was again an increase in "1968, raising total receipts to about $13 billion, primarily as a result of Increases In private capital flows. Some caution must be observed in interpreting these figures, since they are in terms of current prices; price inflation must have reduced the quantum o' goods and services financed by them although it is not possible to quantify its imoact. Similarly the effect on the real level of resource transfers of aid tying
and of the valuation put on aid provided in the form of commodities cannot be measured accurately.
The available data are thus not conclusive with respect to the actual net addition to the resources available to development resulting from flows of capital from developed to developing countries. On the one hand the net value of these flows is to some extent reduced by payments of interest, profits and royalties on investment income account. On the other hand, the economic activity financed by foreign capital investment can provide developing countries with substantial benefits over and above the value of the sums invested, including higher export earnings, tax and profit sharing receipts and foreign exchange savings as a result of import substitution.
EXTERNAL DEBT AND ITS SERVICING
For the 79 developing countries included in Table 4, external public debt outstanding1 increased by 114% from the end of 1961 to the end of 1967, from $21.6 billion to $46.2 billion, and rose by another $1.3 billion during the first half of 1968 to a total of $47.5 billion. During the same period, estimated payments of interest and amortization increased by about 74%, to slightly more than $4 billion in 1968. Five countries in Latin America—Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Mexico—together with India and Pakistan, currently account for about 45% of the total debt outstanding in all developing countries, and for well over one-half of total service payments made during the past few years, a!though both debt outstanding and service payments have been growing as fast or faster in other parts of the world, notably Africa.
Tables 6-11 provide an overall picture of the rapidly expanding debt burden of the developing countries and the way in which it has been acquired during the past few years.
1 Externa] debt data presented in Tables 4-11 are based mainly on information given by the debtor countries to the Bank, supplemented by intormation obtained from creditor countries, financial pubiications and other sources. When necessary, individual figures are estimated by the Bank stall. The external debt shown here includes all debt payable to creditors outside the debtor country in foreign currency, goods or services, with an original maturity ol one year or more, that Is an obligation of the national government, or a political subdivision, or an agency of either, or ol an autonomous public body. It includes publicly issued external bonds that are held In the debtor country; It also includes private debt guaranteed by the government. For some countries revised data are incorporated in this year's tables; this accounts for some differences from data published previously. Also, the statistics given this year relate to 79 developing countries, each of which reports Its external public debt to the Bank, and no attempt is made to estimate the debt of countries that do not report to the Bank. Experience has shown that estimates for countries vrhich do not report to the Bank are often very divergent from data received vjhen they report. This year, therefore, estimated totals tor 95 countries (as In the Annual Report for 1966/67) or for 92 countries (as In the Annual Report for 1967/68) are not included. The comprehensive coverage of the data for 79 developing countries presented this year is indicated by the fact that their total outstanding debt at the end of 1966 was $41,046 million, compared to a total of $37,366 million for 71 countries and an estimated total of $42,455 million for 92 countries shown in last year's Report. Data for UAR and Indonesia, not included hitherto, are included this year. Previously, suppliers' credits were not included in data for India—in outstanding debt or service payments—as consistent data were not available; they are now included.
Gluing together sheets of mahogany veneer at the Ta Hwa Enterprise Company plant at Kachsiung, China . This Company has received financial assistance from World Bank funds which were lent to the China Development Corporation.
The projections shown in Table 11, even in the summary form in which they are presented, provide valuable insight into the structure of the debt of the debtor countries and the debt servicing problems which they face. The distribution of terms of recent commitments shown in Tables 6-8 give a far better indication of the way in which this debt has been acquired than the "average terms" concept presented in previous Bank publications. In addition, it should be noted that this approach provides a useful framework within which to consider the effect of current and future terms of. lending to the developing countries. Analysis of this sort is presently under way in the Bank for a number of individual debtor countries.
While detailed consideration of these data would be beyond the scope of this Report, a number of interesting indications regarding the nature of the debt structure of the developing countries emerge from the figures. Within geographic regions, the pattern of payments on presently existing debt is by no means uniform. For Europe and the Western Hemisphere, for example, the peak debt servicing level was in 1968, while for Africa and the Far East it will occur in 1970. Servicing requirements for Middle Eastern countries do not peak out until 1971, and for South Asia until 1972.
It is, of course, dangerous to generalize on the basis of regional data. Nevertheless, these figures suggest that, because the major countries of some regions of the world have enjoyed softer terms of lending during recent years than those of other regions, they face different debt management problems. Tables 6-8 show the relatively heavy dependence of some of the Western Hemisphere countries on short-term lending, chiefly export credits, as contrasted with the concentration of grants and long-term loans received by other
countries. The differing structures of outstanding debt in the Western Hemisphere and South Asia are clearly indicated by the projected debt service streams of these areas. By 1972, service on existing debt of Western Hemisphere countries will have declined by over 35%, while service payments for South Asian countries, chiefly India and Pakistan, will still be increasing.
The fact that debt service payments for the developing countries as a whole have not increased as fast as total debt outstanding since 1961, and most noticeably since 1965, is due in part to improvements in the terms of lending which have taken place during the period. It is also, however, a reflection of the increasing pace of international debt relief operations.
Since 1956, when the first major post-World War II debt consolidation agreement was arranged for Argentina, almost $3 billion of external debt of the developing countries has been rescheduled. Almost half this amount of rescheduling has taken place within the past four years, including a total of $350 million in 1968 alone. In May 1968, postponement of about $100 million in debt service payments for each of the three fiscal years beginning April 1, 1968, was agreed on in the case of India, subject to bilateral agreements. The most recent rearrangements were those made in October 1968 for Indonesia and Ghana.
Debt relief operations have been partly of an emergency character; but partly they have been a means of improving the terms of aid, and providing greater flexibility in the use of resources transferred to the developing countries.
One of the elements considered when assessing a country's debt position is the debt service ratio: the ratio of amortization and interest payments to the value of exports of goods and services and factor income ;rom abroad. A low debt service ratio does not, of course, necessarily imply a high credit rating; it may simply be due to a low level of outstanding debt, and the country's economic performance and growth prospects may indeed be poor. Conversely, a relatively high debt service ratio may not be particularly serious if the country is investing in highly productive projects, and if exports are rising and continued growth in export earnings is likely. Table 5 illustrates developments in the debt service ratio of a number of developing countries during the past few years.
As in other matters, generalizations covering a number of countries would be misleading; the situation of each country differs from that of another. India has the largest external public debt among developing countries. While debt service charges as a proportion of total outstanding debt (about 5%) are no higher than the average for all developing coun-
tries, they amount to about 18% of foreign exchange earnings, as compared with an average of less than 10% foi all developing countries. Debt charges have increasec steadily in relation to exports of goods and services since 1964. For Pakistan, debt service has increased by almost 80% in the last four years, as has the debt service ratio. Argentina's outstanding debt has increased only slightly since 1964 but debt service charges have grown by about 20%; during this period, the debt service ratio increased by 10%. Mexico's experience has been somewhat different. Although both outstanding debt and service payments have risen by about 60% since 1963, her debt service ratio has declined slightly since 1964. Both Argentina and Mexico have adopted economic policies which have enabled them to attract fairly large gross inflows of private direct investment and to roll over and gradually stretch out short-term credits.
In the appraisal of debt servicing capacity by the Bank the level and structure of existing and orospective externa debt of a country on one side, and a projection of foreigr exchange earnings on the other, are two main elements o" analysis, but other factors are also taken into consideration For example, the ability to transfer payments is governed ir part by the extent to which a country's foreign exchange receipts are freely available, i.e., not tied to particular countries or specific projects, or limited by procurement conditions. Moreover, the service obligation which the borrowei undertakes extends into the future; therefore, a country's prospective ability and willingness to service debt are important factors when the decision to extend a credit is made Analysis and judgment must be brought to bear on the uncertainties inherent in any consideration of the future. Such analysis deals with a wide range of elements which influence directly or indirectly, a country's potential to service loans it cannot be established on the basis of a simple formula From an economic viewpoint, it may be regarded as ar assessment of the long-term balance of payments implications of the country's development programs and policies This calls for an ana'ysis of the country's present resource base, its development strategy and the likely course of its economy over the long term. Thus, as in the developmen' process itself, the assessment of a country's debt bearing capacity recuires a longer-term perspective within which tc consider the current situation and short-term outlook.
THE COMMODITY PROBLEM
Earlier in the Report, it was noted that the share of developing countries in world exports declined from 22% in 196C to 20% in 1968; in 1950, developing countries' exports hac
iccounted for almost one-third of world exports as a whole. Developing countries' exports have not risen proportionately vith the growth in world trade, partly at least because they ;onsist overwhelmingly of primary products, many of them vith relatively sluggish growth trends. Total exports of primary products have tended to expand at a much slower rate than exports of manufactured items, in value as well as volume, is may be seen from the following UN data:
been subject to particularly wide price fluctuations, which have themselves sometimes contributed to adverse longer-term price trends. Demand for most primary products is growing relatively slowly as a result of both technological developments and changes in consumer spending patterns. Moreover, world trade in primary products, and particularly in agricultural products, has been held back by the protection given by industrial countries to their own
Developing countries account for a large and rising share )f world exports of petroleum—currently about 90%—but he bulk of their products have not fared as well as petroleum.
The commodity problem facing developing countries is summarized briefly thus in the joint study "The Stabilization )f Prices of Primary Products", Part I, prepared by the staffs )f the IMF and the Bank, in response to the resolution adopted >y the Boards of Governors at the Annual Meetings in Rio ie Janeiro in September 1967:
"The developing countries are heavily dependent on primary products for most of their exports: currently, 88 per cent of their export earnings are derived from primary product sales. Furthermore, these exports are concentrated on a narrow range of products: almost one-half of these countries depend on one commodity for more than 50 per cent of their total exports and as many as three-quarters derive more than 60 per cent of their total exports from three primary commodities. As a result, the export earnings of the developing countries, with their crucial influence on import capacity and development potential, are heavily dependent on tne prices and trading opportunities prevailing in world commodity markets. With limited but important exceptions, these markets have shown two major unfavorable characteristics. First, their absorptive capacity has grown only slowly, so that increased sales have often been possible only at falling prices. Second, these markets have
primary producers. As a result, world commodity markets have in some cases taken on the characteristic of unstable residual markets bearing a disproportionate share of attempted adjustments between production and consumption in domestic as well as international markets. The necessary remedial action has to extend over a broad front. Commodity arrangements have a part to play. To be effective, these will often need to be associated with action by the less developed countries in the field of development policy and of domestic and external financial policies. Industrial countries have a major contribution to make by providing access to their markets and opening their domestic primary production to international competition, as well as by the extension of financial assistance and the maintenance of a high and stable level of aggregate demand."
Both supply and demand factors have contributed to the commodity problem. On the supply side, industrial countries have expanded their domestic output of many primary commodities, often assisted by protective measures. At the same time, develooing countries' exportable surpluses of some commodities have also been affected by difficulties in expanding supply, and in the case of some foods and fibers, by domestic consumption requirements—which have been generally rising with population growth and higher income levels. Price movements have affected exchange earnings
from certain other commodities when export volume has increased. On the demand side, demand for foodstuffs in the high-income countries generally rises only at a modest pace, even when incomes rise at 4-5% a year, while the demand for several industrial raw materials, such as jute, rubber, cotton and wool, is subject to competition from synthetics— a trend encouraged in certain periods by the uncertainty of supplies of some important raw materials, and the rather wide fluctuations in their prices. Furthermore, with technological progress, there is a tendency toward greater economy in the use of materials. While the trends in world trade and the nature of demand and supply conditions affect developing countries generally, some countries depend on one or two primary commodity exports for a major part of their export earnings and are particularly exposed to volatility in their export earnings.
Commodity price trends in part explain the trends in the trade of developing countries; they are relevant to an under standing of the commodity problem and of the ways anc means of dealing with the problem. In considering expor and import prices in international trade or the prices o primary commodities or manufactures, no single index car be conclusive; available indices differ in their coverage o commodities, and in the weights and price quotations the; use. The inclusion or exclusion of petroleum and the weight: to such individual commodities affect the degree of variatior and the trend indicated by the index numbers. The following data and the accompanying chart, based on a revised pric< index of primary products exported by developing countries illustrate the instability in prices of primary commodities o interest to these countries in the 1960s. The revised inde; is based on price quotations for 38 primary commocitie:
which account for about three-quarters of the total exports of the developing countries (excluding Southern Europe). The index is based on 1960-62 average weights. (The earlier World Bank Primary Commodity Price Index described in previous Reports was based on 23 commodities and used 1955-57 average weights.) Following a sharp decline in the prices of primary commodities in 1967, as shown by the revised Primary Commodity Price Index, the situation improved somewhat in 1968 (see Chart). The modest 0.5% rise in the index, if petroleum prices are excluded, was largely due to the improvement in the prices of cotton and copper. The prices of food products declined generally, with the increase in the price of cocoa having been offset by the sharp decline in tea prices.
While strictly comparable series are not available, the instability was perhaps greater in the 1950s. Again, since individual countries often depend largely on one or two primary commodities, the impact on them of steep falls in price is not really reflected in any overall or general indices.
The trends in commodity prices and in the export earnings of developing countries are of particular concern, because countries' economic development may be significantly affected by fluctuations in the stability and growth of their foreign exchange earnings. Efforts have therefore been made to deal with particular commodity problems through international commodity agreements, but such agreements have proved possible only in a few cases, and sometimes for limited objectives only. There has been equally limited progress in the removal of tariff and non-tariff obstacles to trade in these commodities. Basically, the stabilization of commodity prices requires improvement of the balance be-
tween world production and demand. Well developed commodity arrangements also have a role to play in this process. In the longer run, the solution of the export trade problem of developing countries will have to involve diversification of production and exports. Other measures are also needed. One such measure is to encourage systematic research on new uses for some commodities, and on techniques of cost reduction. This may to some extent offset such effects of technological progress as the creation of new substitutes and economizing in raw materials on the part of industry. There is scope for greater effort and finance in this field.
No panacea or simple, single solution to this complex problem exists. It is greatly exacerbated by developing countries' low level of economic development; improvements in the situation can only result from sustained economic growth, carrying with it expansion and diversification of their export trade. This in turn, however, requires measures to correct the structural imbalances in countries' economies, to secure diversified production, and to improve productive efficiency. Part of the diversification effort may occur in the agricultural sphere itself, and be aimed especially at raising food output in developing countries; but diversification should also include industrialization efforts.
Diversification of production in developing countries can include production and export of a greater variety of primary commodities as well as increased processing and manufacturing of such commodities (though the retention by developed countries of protective barriers against imported manufactured or processed goods sometimes inhibits more rapid shifts to processing activities by developing countries). The
latter type of development is sometimes referred to as "vertical diversification". On the other hand, "horizontal diversification" or "commodity-oriented diversification" generally involves shifting into the production for export of commodities other than those which are currently predominant, the production of new primary products for domestic consumption, or of import-substituting commodities.
International commodity arrangements, involving export quotas and production controls, cannot eliminate the danger of disruption of markets by excess supplies, unless the developing countries are encouraged and assisted in providing alternative production and employment opportunities through diversification. This may in some cases require the shifting of resources out of a particular field of production. It may at a minimum require restraint in the commitment of additional resources to surplus commodities and turning to alternative activities. Meanwhile, as the developing countries take steps to modernize their economies, and as their capacity to export non-traditional items improves, the developed countries could help by liberalizing the regulations governing these items to their markets.
The stabil'zation of commodity prices and increased access to the markets of industrial countries through commodity arrangements represent the trade approach for influencing the foreign exchange receipts of developing countries. By reducing the amplitude of price fluctuations and by seeking to deal with the slow growth of demand for primary commodities, such arrangements aim at improving the level and trend of export earnings. Commodity arrangements take different forms, varying almost from case to case. Buffer stock arrangements have in recent years attracted particular attention from the developing countries as a means of reducing the instability of prices of primary products. A buffer stock, as
an instrument of a commodity agreement, has to be equipped with adequate funds; these may be raised in various ways, for example by levies on producers and importers of the commodity in question. While these resources are being built up, the buffer stock management requires some initial finance— what may be termed prefinancing. Conceivably, such initial financing may sometimes be needed not just for short periods, but over a somewhat longer term, so as to provide sufficient time for the buffer stock's resources to be built up by such means as levies or other contributions by participating countries, or by any profits from sales.
During the 1969 fiscal year, the Bretton Woods institutions have made further studies of ways in which they can contribute to solutions to tne commodity problem facing the less-developed countries, as requested by their Boards of Governors at their 1968 Annual Meetings. To the extent that greater price stability of primary products also stabilizes the foreign currency earnings of developing countries, such stability is a matter of Interest to the International Monetary Fund. Similarly, to the extent that it contributes to the more effective economic development of the less-developed producing countries, commodity price stability is also of interest to the World Bank.
The World Bank's Executive Directors have taken a number of decisions, financial and other, on the present scope for Bank Group action in this field, and have transmitted them to the Governors of the Bank. These decisions relate mainly to policies for the divers fication of productive activity in the primary producing countries, and for assistance to appropriate international commodity arrangements. The Bank Group believes it can provide assistance to deal with the commodity problem through its own established procedures, employing the regular vehicles of Bank Group lending.