PART I:
THE YEAR'S ACTIVITIES
The World Bank Group made good progress
during fiscal year 1971 toward doubling lending in the five-year period 1969-73 compared with the period 1964-68. At the same time, the Bank and its affiliates gave increasing attention to ensuring that their assistance contributed to the optimum development of the recipient community as a whole. It was to this end that the Bank intensified its appraisals and broadened the scope of its country studies and reports.
The Executive Directors during the year devoted much of their attention to the basic policy issues raised by these reports, and also considered more than 30 recommendations on Bank policy made by the Pearson Commission.
The Croup's ability to maintain its projected level of operations in the coming fiscal year will depend in part upon the timing of the third replenishment of IDA's resources, since by the end of June 1971 all of its available funds had been committed for specific projects.
Negotiations for the replenishment were concluded early in the fiscal year. The resulting agreement, however, which proposed making available for commitment about S813 million a year for three years beginning July 1971, could not become effective until donors pledging not less than $1,900 million, and including at least 12 of the 18 Part I (richer) members, had notified IDA that they would take up subscriptions and make contributions as specified in the agreement. By June 30, 10*Part I countries had completed the necessary legislative or other action and had notified IDA that they would make their contributions. Their pledges, combined with those of Part II countries
AFGHANISTAN—An Afghan farmer opening an irrigation ditch. An IDA credit of $4.7 million will help to modernize the irrigation system in Afghanistan's fertile Khanabad valley, in the northeast. FAO, the UNDP and the World Bank provided technical assistance to prepare the project for financing by IDA.
which had notified IDA that they would participate, fell short of the required amount by $828 million. The effective date was postponed to September 30, 1971.
To permit the continuance of IDA operations pending the completion of action on the third replenishment, several member governments came forward with advance contributions just before and after the close of the fiscal year. In June, Denmark and Finland notified the Association that they would pay the first annual installments on their contributions, amounting to $8.8 and $4.1 million respectively. Other advance contributions received in time for mention in this Report were from Canada and the United Kingdom, each amounting to $50 million. Others had similar action under consideration.
Also after the end of the fiscal year, the Executive Directors of the Bank recommended to the Governors that, without waiting until their Annual Meeting in September, they approve a grant to IDA of $110 million out of the Bank's net income for fiscal 1971. Voting by mail, the Governors approved the proposal early in August.
The need for IDA funds, and for more IDA-type assistance as a proportion of total aid, is reflected in the analyses of the flow of assistance and the external debt of developing countries which appear in Part II of this Report. Projections based on the debt of 80 developing countries as of December 31, 1969, suggest that their debt service obligations increased more than twice as fast as their export earnings in 1970—by about 20% as compared with 9%. The growth rate of GNP in 1970 fell off for the world as a whole. The fact that the drop was especially severe in the developed countries raised a cloud over the export prospects of the less developed.
Public and private financial flows from the 16 principal aid donors to developing countries and multilateral development agencies increased by
more than 8% in 1970 over the previous year, reaching nearly $15 billion for the first time. Virtually all of the $1 billion increase was in relatively hard-term official export credits and private funds, however, channeled for the most part to countries well above the lowest level of economic development. The flow to some of the poorer countries of Africa and South Asia continued to decline, both absolutely and as a proportion of the total. The aggregate volume of official grants, loans and other long-term development assistance remained about the same as in 1969 and there was little change in average terms.
Development financing commitments by the three Bank Group institutions combined totaled $2,581 million in fiscal 1971. If operations are maintained at the same level through fiscal 1973, the five-year average since June 30, 1968, will have more than doubled the average for the previous five years. Measured against the earlier period, lending by the Bank itself has expanded by 116%; credits extended by its concessionary-lending affiliate, the International Development Association (IDA), have increased by 119%; and the Bank's specialized affiliate for operations in the private sector, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), has raised the volume of its loans, equity investments and other commitments by 179%.
In the fiscal year under review, the Bank made 78 loans totaling $1,896 million in 41 countries; 53 IDA credits amounting to $584 million were extended to 34 of its members; and IFC gave assistance to 23 enterprises in 15 countries and made one regional investment, for a total of $101 million. Details of IFC operations for the year will be found in its own Annual Report; a brief summary is included on page 27 of this Report.
Aggregate lending by the Bank and IDA in countries of Africa, Asia and the Western Hemisphere changed only slightly in fiscal 1971 compared with the previous year. Financing in developing countries of Europe showed an increase over fiscal 1970. A broader approach
There were also shifts in the distribution of loans and credits among the various economic sectors. Most notable, perhaps, were increases in education and in lending for urban water supply and sewerage improvements. While the absolute amounts involved are minor in relation to total lending, sharp percentage increases registered in these fields reflect the Bank Group's interest in broadening the scope of its development assistance. Other operational evidence of this included the Group's first loan specifically for a pollution control project, and the inclusion of conditions in loan and credit agreements which prescribe anti-
pollution measures to be carried out.
In line with policies agreed to during the year by the Executive Directors, the Bank Group considerably broadened its approach to problems of educational development, and its cooperative agreement with Unesco was expanded to include assistance in educational planning. The Group gave its first major assistance to agricultural research, both through a loan to help one of "its members build a new national program, and by joining forces with others in organizing a consultative group to support existing internatioaal institutes working in the field and to help in the establishment of new ones. In the field of water supply and sewerage, a cooperative agreement was worked out with the World Health Organization (WHO), comparable to those under which Unesco and FAO assist the Bank in the identification and preparation of education and agriculture projects (see page 31). Loans for rehabilitation
In further steps to make the Group's assistance to developing countries more flexible, the Executive Directors discussed and clarified policy with respect to non-project lending. A loan of this type was made to Nigeria, to help carry out a large program of post-war rehabilitation. The Group also engaged in other forms of rehabilitation lending, providing assistance to Peru after an earthquake caused widespread damage, and to Pakistan in the wake of the disastrous cyclone of November1970.
The Bank Group also took steps during the year to improve the quality of its research and economic analysis, building a stronger base for advice and technical assistance requested by member countries, as well as for its own operational needs. Problems of employment and income distribution were given special attention in general studies launched during the year, in project preparation and appraisal, and in the preparation of economic reports and sector analyses. In the Bank's country work, strong emphasis was placed on studies in depth of individual sectors.
Responding to concern expressed by many Governors at the Bank's Annual Meeting in September 1970, the Bank staff undertook a study during the year of the debt burden and the debt-servicing problems confronting the developing countries. An analysis appearing in Part II of this Report is based upon work done for the study.
To extract from past experience a clearer guide to present and future practice, an operations evaluation unit was established in the Bank during the year. Its responsibility is to evaluate the contribution of Bank Group operations to the development of member countries. A number of pilot studies are under way to determine the most effective methodology. They include a detailed
examination of the Group's experience in Colombia, and of the benefits expected and actually realized from half a dozen power projects in different countries.
The Year's Lending Agriculture
Bank Group lending for agriculture continued at the new high level reached in the previous fiscal year, against a backdrop of advancing technology, shifts in the composition and volume of external finance from other sources, and a broad reorientation of government policies. Not including the agricultural portion of some multi-purpose projects, financing in this sector totaled $419 million, with 13 Bank loans and 24 IDA credits in 27 countries.
Discussion by the Executive Directors of policy issues arising from loan and credit proposals, as well as recommendations of such bodies as the Pearson Commission, has helped to focus attention on the need for deeper knowledge of agricultural development in all its aspects, including its relationship to such central questions as unemployment and maldistribution of income; for new and stronger institutional measures to apply what is already known; and for a rising level of capital assistance. The World Bank Group's lending and technical assistance reflect these needs.
INDONESIA—Picking tea. Tea and cinchona (quinine) production in Java is to be expanded and modernized with the help of a $15 million IDA credit signed in June 1971.
Innovations during the year included two important steps in the field of research. In Spain, the Bank will provide $12.7 million to help finance the reorganization of agricultural research and development activities for the entire country, including the establishment of six research centers, each oriented to a major commodity of national importance. This was the first loan the Bank Group has made primarily for research, in any field. A fourth of the project funds will be for technical assistance, including the international recruitment of research specialists and consultants and 200 overseas training fellowships for Spanish scientists.
On the international level, together with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Bank took the initiative in sponsoring a consultative group of interested countries and institutions to advance agricultural research of major concern to developing countries (see page 33).
The first participation in World Bank Group financing by a church-related organization was arranged during the fiscal year. "Bread for the World," an agency of the Evangelical Church in Germany, agreed to provide $100,000 toward an IDA commitment of $1.35 million for the first phase of a rural resettlement project in Senegal. The participation was approved by the organization shortly after the end of the Bank's fiscal year.
Shifts in policy toward agriculture have been affected by many factors: trends in growth of population and food production; rising rates of unemployment and urbanization; and a stream of ecological, social, political, economic and
management problems generated by technological change.
Since the mid-'60s, when the implications of agriculture's lagging performance first became generally clear and the "green revolution" began almost simultaneously, governments of many developing countries have channeled increasing proportions of their development investment into thil sector. The volume will have to continue rising through the latter half of the '70s if the momentum already generated is to be maintained. To.accomplish this, and at the same time meet fresh problems spawned by the application of new technology, requires a substantial increase in external aid for agriculture and a shift in its composition.
Historically, information available suggests, the sector accounted for no more than 10% of official development aid at least until 1968; and perhaps half of this was general assistance in the form of commodities, primarily food, to offset lagging farm production. With the advent of the "green revolution," the need for food aid on a large scale as a generator of development is declining, though increased attention to such aid may well be justified for nutritional purposes and in cases of emergency. Now and in the future, the main developmental requirement will be external capital, both for traditional projects in fields such as irrigation, and to supply a wide variety of essential imports, including technical assistance at all levels.
Against this background, broad support has been apparent for the Bank Group's expanding role in the agricultural field. There have been divergent views concerning methods, but unanimity as to purpose: within the Group's inescapable constraints, both institutional and financial, to give the maximum possible support to governments that need and request help in solving problems associated with the agricultural sector. This has not only resulted in a larger volume of financing, but has led the Bank Group into new lines of action to help devise and support agricultural strategies in consonance with other sectors and in the light of each country's economic and social circumstances. More comprehensive projects
In terms of volume, financing for agriculture in the fiscal year ending June 30, 1971, rose slightly over the record level of the previous 12 months, raising the cumulative total to $2,348 million. The sector accounted for 17% of the year's larger total of financing. In the last three years the Bank and IDA have lent almost as much for agriculture as in the previous two decades.
The broad new cast of agricultural development policy has found practical expression in the
changing nature of Bank and IDA projects. The word "project" itself has enlarged its meaning, especially in agriculture. Today it seldom represents merely physical facilities as an object of investment, whether large or small, but a set of financial, technical and administrative arrangements, combined with necessary construction to achieve a set of interrelated objectives which pave the way, in turn, for the achievement of others.
Thus an increasing proportion of the Group's funds and staff effort devoted to agriculture have been channeled into comprehensive rural development projects embracing many sub-sectors such as credit, training and extension services, conservation, forestry, livestock, irrigation, drainage and flood control, and often cutting across major sectoral lines to include elements of transport, industry, utilities or education.
An apt example of this is the Lilongwe project in the central uplands of Malawi, a landlocked country in Southeastern Africa, twice the size of Switzerland with less than half the population but growing at more than 3% a year. Per capita annual income is about $50. Cash incomes may be near zero in some areas where traditional methods of farming prevail and there is little contact with the market economy. Principal crops are maize, the staple food, groundnuts, tobacco and vegetables. Potential for increasing yields and income is considerable, but the land is eroding and productivity is low. Already the surge of impoverished rural migrants to the urban centers has begun, with its familiar consequences.
An IDA credit of $7 million approved in May will help to finance the second phase of a project to halt or mitigate these trends by improving both the standard of living and the environment in an area of more than a million acres. The first phase has been under way since 1968 with the help of a $6 million credit.
The project elements include: aerial and cadastral surveys demarcating individual holdings of about 10 acres; a voluntary program of land registration; establishment of a "service center" for each 20,000 acre unit, including a produce market, fertilizer and seed store, and related offices and housing; construction of more than 700 miles of small farm-to-market roads; 3,000 miles of rainfall diversion channels to halt erosion; nearly 300 boreholes with hand pump facilities, providing potable water within reach of all families, thus reducing the incidence of water-borne diseases; tractor-dug ridges to guide farmers in contour-plowing; credit on reasonable terms for on-farm investments and the purchase of improved seeds, fertilizers, oxen, implements, steers for fattening, and other requirements; development of a large ranch to provide steers for stall-fattening by
project farmers; technical assistance at all levels, including training for project staff and extension workers, and the development of plans for maintenance of infrastructure beyond the development stage; timber planting on non-agricultural land in the project area, which will improve soil and water conservation; and provision for the cost of a project evaluation unit.
By 1975, the average net income of some 52,000 families on about 500,000 acres will be more than $170, judging by experience already gained. By 1979, the Government will have recovered its expenditures and there will be a net annual increase in the national income of more than $5 million. More important, the project is expected to have a profound demonstration effect throughout the region and beyond. This effect will greatly expand the impact already achieved through two similar but smaller projects in other areas, one assisted by IDA and the other by the Federal Republic of Germany. Agricultural credit
Within the rising total of Bank Group lending for agriculture during the fiscal year, there were shifts in both geographical and sectoral distribution. For the first time in any year, well over half was in funds to provide farmers and ranchers with improved credit facilities. Irrigation, on the other hand, which has accounted historically for more than 50% of lending for agriculture, represented less than 12% in fiscal 1971.
Agricultural cooperative credit institutions were one of the "promising activities" for which the Pearson Commission recommended increased assistance. In an analysis of this question presented to the Executive Directors, the President pointed out that a large volume of Bank and IDA funds had, in fact, been channeled to farmers through agricultural credit cooperatives of various kinds; since 1959, 34 loans and credits totaling $490 million have involved cooperatives directly or indirectly. Effective management has been found to be a recurring problem. The Bank is exploring the possibilities of helping to improve the management of such institutions and of assisting governments in the preparation of agricultural credit projects involving the use of cooperatives.
Partly for transitory reasons, both the volume and proportion of agricultural lending to Asia declined, while there were increases for developing countries in Africa, Southern Europe and the Western Hemisphere. Some of the drop in Asia's total resulted from events in Pakistan.
Eight countries received their first assistance from the World Bank Group for agriculture: Dominican Republic, Greece, Guatemala, Israel, Jamaica, Mauritius, Nigeria and Upper Volta. A loan of $75 million to Mexico was the largest ever
made by the Bank Group for agriculture. It will help advance a $193 million project to further accelerate livestock production and agricultural development.
The improvement of dairy farming has frequently been an element in livestock projects financed by the Bank and IDA, though the principal focus has been on the expansion of beef production. Among nine livestock credit projects approved during the year under review, two are specifically directed to the modernization and expansion of the dairy industry—in Korea and Turkey. So is a major segment of a third, to finance the second phase of a livestock development program in Ecuador. All will involve adaptations of directed credit systems which characterize Bank and IDA livestock operations.
With rising incomes and the spread of fast and efficient transport, more countries with suitable climatic and soil conditions are well placed to enlarge their exports and improve domestic food supplies through the production of high-value crops such as fruits and vegetables. While such crops can produce far more income per unit of land than staple foods or fibers, their profitable production requires intensive cultivation and skillful management. So far, few developing countries have been able to take full advantage of the opportunity.
In October 1970, the Bank made its first loans specifically for such high-value crops. It agreed to provide $20 million for a three-year, $50 million lending program in Israel. Principal borrowers will be cooperative farming enterprises which will produce cut flowers, sub-tropical fruits and off-season vegetables for the European market. The loan includes funds to improve storage and handling facilities for sea and air transport, and a small sub-project to assure adequate water for irrigation. Of the project's total cost, the Government, three participating banks and the sub-borrowers will provide 20% each. The Bank will cover foreign exchange requirements.
Late in the fiscal year, the Bank and IDA together agreed to help finance a similar project in Turkey with a loan of $10 million and a credit of $15 million, against total estimated costs of §44 million. In this case, the main crops involved will be citrus fruits, grapes, peaches and vegetables. In addition to providing credit and technical services to some 2,000 participating farmers and nurserymen, the project will help private companies finance the purchase of two ferry ships and 385 refrigerated trailers with 100 towing units, and build packinghouses, cold storage plants and box factories. It also provides funds for citrus research and a comprehensive credit survey.
Deeper analysis of the agricultural sector in borrowing countries has become an urgent need to support the Bank Group's higher volume of lending and provide requested assistance to governments in working out their strategies for investment. A fourth major sector review was concluded during the year, in Malaysia, and field work was completed for such reviews in Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Under the Bank-FAO cooperative program, FAO staff members participated in 39 of the Bank's agricultural missions during the year and the Organization sent 86 missions to developing countries to identify and prepare agricultural projects for the Bank's consideration. Of the projects approved in this sector during the 12 months period, FAO provided assistance in connection with 17.
Project identification and preparation on behalf of governments continued to be the main functions of the Bank's own permanent missions in Eastern and Western Africa, stationed in Nairobi and Abidjan; and its Agricultural Development Service, headquartered in Nairobi, provided management services to member governments in the area on a reimbursable basis (see page 31).
AGRICULTURE PROJECTS
AFGHANISTAN: IDA, May 1971—$5 million,
i   irrigation (total cost/ $6 million).
| BOLIVIA: IDA, June 1971—$6.8 million, improvement of livestock production (total cost, $11 million).
COLOMBIA: Bank, May 1971—$8.1 million, land settlement, improved rice and pasture production (total cost, $21.6 million).
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: IDA, April 1971—$5 million, dairy and beef production (total cost, $9 million).
ECUADOR: IDA, November 1970—$10 million, dairy and beef production, research and ' training, seed production and certification (total cost, $1:9.7 million).
GREECE: Bank, June 1971—$25 million, groundwater irrigation (total cost, $50 million).
GUATEMALA: Bank, January 1971—$4 million, beef production (total cost, $7.8 million).
GUYANA: IDA, November 1970—$2.2 million, beef production (total cost, $4.4 million).
INDIA: IDA, October 1970—$6 million, crop-spraying aircraft, training (total cost, $8.8 million); IDA, December 1970 —$24.4 million, i Andhra Pradesh farm credit (total cost, $45 million); IDA, June 1971—$35 million, Tamil Nadu farm credit, tubewells, electric pumps, tractor imports (total cost, $62.3 million); IDA, June 1971 —$25 million, Haryana farm credit, irrigation, farm mechanization (total cost, $44.5 million).
INDONESIA: IDA,July 1970—$3.5 million,fisheries expansion for export (total cost, $4.3 million); IDA, November 1970—$14.5 million, Java
i and Celebes irrigation rehabilitation (total cost, i $29/1 million); IDA, May 1971—$7.5 million, rice | seeds industry (total cost, $12 million); IDA, June i 1971—$15 million, rehabilitation, expansion of i tea and cinchona production, improvement of I transport and worker housing, re-equipment and expansion of tea factories, technical assistance, tea research (total cost, $25 million).
ISRAEL: Bank, October 1970—$20 million, credit for production, storage and handling, high-value export crops (total cost, $50 million).
IVORY COAST: Bank, June 1971—$7 million (two loans, $1.9 million and $5.1 million), consolidation and expansion, oil palm and coconut development (total cost, $17.6 million).
JAMAICA: Bank, December 1970 —$3.7 million, cattle, coconut, citrus production (total cost, $8 million).
KOREA: IDA, January 1971—$7 million, dairy production, processing, marketing, research and demonstration planning (total cost, $12.6 million).
MALAGASY REPUBLIC: IDA, July 1970 —$5 million, irrigation for rice production (total cost, $8,2 million;.
MALAWI: IDA, May 1971—$7.25 million, comprehensive small farm development, credit (total cost, $8.6 million).
MAURITIUS: IDA, March 1971—$5.2 million, smallholder tea development, credit (total cost, $7 million).
MEXICO: Bank, May 1971—$75 million, comprehensive livestock and agricultural credit, including agro-industries (total cost, $193 million).
NIGERIA: Bank, May 1971—$7.2 million, cocoa planting, rehabilitation, farm credit, training, studies for future development (total cost, $10.4 million).
PHILIPPINES: Bank, January 1971—$14.3 million, rice processing and storage (total cost, $20.9 million).
SENEGAL: IDA, May 1971—$1.35 million, rural resettlement, groundnuts and cotton production (total cost, $1.8 million); $3.7 million, irrigation, rice storage facilities (total cost, $4.8 million).
SPAIN: Bank, May 1971—$12.7 million, construction and technical assistance, national agricultural research program (total cost, $28.2 million).
TANZANIA: IDA, October 1970—$9 million, expansion, flue-cured tobacco production (total cost, $14.7 million).
TURKEY: IDA, February 1971—$4.5 million, dairy production, training, studies, demonstration (total cost, $7.5 million); Bank-IDA blend, June 1971— $25 million (Bank $10 million, IDA= $15 million), production, handling, marketing, shipping of fruits and vegetables (total cost, $44 million).
UGANDA: IDA, July 1970—$4 million, tobacco production, curing barns, marketing facilities (total cost, $7.26 million).
UPPER VOLTA: IDA, December 1970—$6.2 million, cotton production (total cost, $9.4 million).
URUGUAY: Bank, June 1971—$4 million, livestock production (total cost, $8.3 million).
Education
The World Bank Group broadened its approach to educational development in fiscal 1971, in line with new policies approved by the Executive Directors in the light of more than eight years of experience in this sector. Lending for education exceeded $100 million for the first time in a single
year, s
In five Bank loans and nine IDA credits to 14 countries, the volume of educational lending totaled $108 million, a third above the level of the'previous two years and more than triple the average for the five years ending with fiscal 1968. The Bank lent $68 million, IDA $40 million. The cumulative total increased to $425 million, including $213 million in loans and $212 million in credits.
IDA credits for education were extended to seven African countries (Chad, the People's Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Senegal, Somalia, Tanzania and Uganda), and to the Dominican Republic and Indonesia. Bank loans were made to Brazil, Greece, Iran, Jamaica and Turkey. Of the 14 borrowers, nine received education loans or credits for the first time: Brazil, the People's Republic of Congo, the Dominican Republic, Greece, Indonesia, Iran, Senegal, Somalia and Turkey.
Education policy redefined
The Group's policy on lending for education was reviewed and redefined during the year. The original policy, approved by the Executive Directors in 1963, called for concentrating the Group's attention on vocational and technical education and training, and on general secondary education. Other categories were to be considered "only in exceptional circumstances." In its report two years ago, the Pearson Commission urged that more funds be made available for research and experimentation in the developing countries "with new techniques, including television and programmed learning," and proposed "a more systematic analysis of the entire learning process as itJapplies to developing countries."
The President recommended acceptance of the proposals. To help lay the groundwork for such an expanded program, he proposed that the Bank's cooperative agreement with Unesco be broadened to include educational planning as a field of inquiry by Unesco missions. This has been done.
Early in fiscal 1971, the President had submitted more detailed proposals to the Executive Directors, based on experience since the Group first entered the education field in 1962. "We should broaden the scope of projects considered," he said, "and we should determine priorities and
select projects on the basis of a thorough examination of the education system as a whole rather than by a priori designated areas of eligibility which may not relate to the particular country. We should continue to emphasize projects which, like vocational training, produce trained manpower directly, but we should also consider financing other types of projects . . . which would have important long-term significance for economic development." Such projects would be "designed to encourage changes which improve the relevance, efficiency or economy of education systems." Both the main recommendations of the Pearson Commission and the President's proposals for a redefinition of policy are being carried out.
The new policy's meaning in operational terms may be illustrated by projects approved during the year for Ethiopia and Iran, and a loan to Spain which was signed on the final day of fiscal 1970. These are countries in widely differing circumstances. None is the poorest or richest of the developing countries, but each fairly represents a broad spectrum of development needs, both generally and specifically in the education sector. The accompanying table (see next page) gives a crude profile of the three, in selected statistics— figures which are illustrative only, since comparable information of this kind for different countries is seldom either certain or available.
All three Governments are aware of their needs and determined to meet them. Only Ethiopia has had previous experience with the Bank Group in the education sector, through an IDA credit of $7.2 million in 1966 which has helped to finance a nationwide construction program to enlarge the secondary school system and train more teachers. When it began, only 1% of children in the secondary school ages were enrolled, and few of them completed the course. While the enrollment ratio has increased, it is still extremely low and the number of applicants is far greater than the system can accommodate.
Under the new IDA credit of $9.5 million, approved in March 1971, a much broader approach will be undertaken at a total cost of more than $13 million. The earlier construction program will be carried forward, with special emphasis on rural areas which now have only primary schools. An academy of pedagogy will be built, with its own teacher training institute; two other such institutes will be established, and a fourth expanded. Three rural education institutes will be set up to provide post-primary education and training in agricultural production for primary school leavers, and instruction in agricultural methods for adults based on collaboration between teachers and agricultural extension agents.
Looking to the future, the credit will also finance the completion of manpower studies already being carried out by the Government, a comprehensive review of the education sector, and further technical assistance for agricultural and technical education and to upgrade school maintenance procedures. Educational reforms
Iran is already in the midst of a program to reform primary and secondary education, to improve and expand the training of teachers, and to increase the output of agricultural and industrial technicians. A new educational structure is being adopted which will make the entire system more relevant to the people's needs and the country's development. A $40 million program assisted by a Bank loan of $19 million will help to carry on this program, and at the same time to broaden it. Twelve experimental primary and "guidance cycle" schools, providing an extended primary course with guidance counseling, will be constructed in accordance with new building designs adapted to the reformed curricula. They will demonstrate new organization patterns and will offer practical training in industrial skills, commerce and home economics in addition to academic subjects.
Four new teacher training colleges will be built and the faculties of education at four universities will be expanded. The project includes funds for six vocational training centers and the expansion and equipment of six schools for agricultural technicians. Two new agricultural schools will be established in the southwestern and Caspian Sea regions, especially designed to provide instruction relevant to the natural characteristics of those areas. All of the agricultural schools will stress practical subjects.
The project in Spain, involving a Bank loan of $12 million and total costs of about $24 million, is helping to support the first phase of a fundamental reform of the educational system over the
next decade. The intention of the Government is to change the present complex and rigid educational system to make it more efficient and responsive to the economic and social needs of a modern, rapidly growing country. In the first stage, general education will be reformed mainly at the primary and secondary levels. This will be done through the establishment of basic schools covering the entire compulsory schooling period (ages 6-13), supported by higher education institutions for teacher training and upgrading, and educational research.
Construction aspects of the project include 19 basic schools and 20 secondary schools, all designed, equipped and staffed to accommodate the restructured educational system and to carry on demonstration and experimentation programs. In addition, eight institutes of education will be built, designed to meet nearly two thirds of the country's needs for training and upgrading teachers.
Perhaps most important, technical assistance will be provided for curriculum development, programming the reform plans, establishing norms and standards, training education planners, administrators and supervisors, and assisting in reorganization of the Education Ministry. Using Galicia as a model, the project will demonstrate the implications of carrying out the reform at the regional level. Bank funds will also equip a National Center for Educational Research in Madrid, which is being set up with assistance from Unesco and the United Nations Development Programme.
There were noteworthy special features in a number of other education loans and credits approved during the year. An IDA project in Tanzania provides for agricultural institutes to train extension service officers, and rural training centers which will give short, practical courses for about 25,000 farmers per year. In Indonesia, five technical training centers are to be built and equipped with workshop and laboratory facilities. Each will draw students from two to four existing
senior technical secondary schools in major centers of industrial employment. The project also provides funds to train about 330 teachers to staff the centers.
One of the greatest and most neglected needs is for non-formal training of adults, especially farmers. Several of the year's projects, such as those in Ethiopia and Tanzania, are providing funds for this purpose on a limited scale. Another example is an IDA-supported project in Somalia, which includes provision for mobile agricultural training units.
While some of the needs and opportunities for this type of training are obvious and reasonably satisfactory techniques are readily available, far too little is known about the problem or the best means of dealing with it. Many public and private agencies have engaged in such work, but no comprehensive evaluation of their experience is available. To help fill this gap, and hopefully to provide better guidance for future operations, the Bank has arranged for a study to evaluate schemes of non-formal education, focusing especially on those in rural areas.
A loan of $13.5 million to Turkey illustrates another aspect of the Bank Croup's broader approach to the educational needs of its members. The project is designed to increase the availability and improve the quality of vocational, technical
and management education. It will also broaden the use of new instruction media, such as television, and increase domestic production of scientific equipment. A management training institute and six adult training centers will be built and equipped. Equipment will be provided for 30 schools for technicians, 12 practical trade schools, a technical teacher training college, a science equipment production center, and an educational film, radio and television center. In addition, the project includes funds for foreign fellowships and technical assistance in developing curricula, introducing new teaching methods and modernizing equipment production.
Both Unesco and FAO have continued to assist with lending operations in the educational field under their cooperative agreements with the Bank, while help has been provided in connection with specific projects by the UNDP and various bilateral agencies. Twelve of the projects approved during the year were identified or prepared with the help of Unesco, and Unesco staff members took part in 19 Bank missions for the
MALAYSIA—Using modern visual teaching aids. Nearly 11,000 new student places are being provided in Malaysian schools with the help of an IDA credit of $8.8 million. Most are in vocational, technical and agricultural schools.
preliminary identification of education projects. FAO staff participated in 12 missions concerned with education projects related to agriculture.
liH t \IIO\ I'KO.'K It liOMIMf \\ KFI'l III If .
c.KFif i: 'ii-ii. v-w.wi i""i
||fjJ|M
Public Services
Development depends as much upon the caliber of institutions responsible for projects and programs as upon the appropriateness of general policies or the adequacy of finance. Thus the
building of effective institutions can be central to the whole process of growth.
This applies with special force to the infrastructure— chiefly transportation, power and other public utilities—which is essential to the establishment of modern industry and the expansion of agriculture beyond the subsistence level. Together they claim a high proportion of scarce resources. Consequently it is a matter of strategic importance that resources be allocated in accordance with sound developmental priorities, and that the planning, construction and operation of projects in these sectors be as efficient as possible.
This is an area in which the World Bank Croup has had its most extensive experience, and in which its contribution to development through technical assistance has been most pronounced. There are two main reasons: the tie between Bank Group finance and technical assistance, and the exceptional degree of continuity that has characterized much of the Group's lending, especially in transportation and electric power. (For a review of Bank Group technical assistance activities, see page 29.)
Bank Group financing has been closely related to the acceptance and effective use of technical advice and assistance, both on general policy questions and in matters of organization, administration and finance, as well as on the technical aspects of projects. In the case of transportation and public utilities, technical assistance in helping to build efficient institutions may be especially important because of the strategic relationship of these sectors to others, as well as because of the share of public resources they command. Beneficial results from such assistance, however, do not flow automatically from conditions attached to finance for projects, nor can they be assured merely because advice has been requested and given. Rather, they are often a function of continuity in operations, making possible the evolution at the staff level of a genuinely common effort by lender and borrower together. Relation to other issues
Especially where policy changes or institutional reforms are necessary, a close and confident relationship can be crucial to the effectiveness of technical assistance and the related projects. This is especially evident in many countries where the Bank and IDA have helped to finance a series of projects in power or transportation. In some cases, these relationships have continued with little interruption over long periods, as in Colombia where the Group has financed a continuing series of power projects to help meet the country's growing needs for energy.
The importance of such continuity can be seen most clearly, perhaps, by comparison with situa-
tions where it has not yet been so well established, as in the Croup's current efforts to expand its help to members in the fields of telecommunications and water supply (see below, pages 24 and 23).
Because of the volume of resources devoted to these sectors and the close dependence of others on;their efficiency, many of the basic issues engaging the Executive Directors have important relevance to transportation and public utilities. One is unemployment, which poses difficult questions: to what degree is it feasible to use labor-intensive road construction, operating and maintenance methods, for example, without self-defeating sacrifice of project benefits, including the generation of employment? This is a pressing problem that increasingly concerns the World Bank Group as unemployment continues to rise on the wave of population growth in developing countries. The dilemma is raised most frequently in connection with road construction and maintenance projects. It is hoped that a major study of construction methods, now being carried out by teams of consultants employed by the Bank, may help to illuminate it more clearly. Also a large-scale study in Eastern Africa of different road design standards, methods of quantifying their relative benefits, and possibilities of substitution between labor and capital in construction, may prove to have an important bearing on the problem. The study is already being carried out by the Road Research Laboratory of the United Kingdom in cooperation with the Bank. A similar study is under discussion for Western Africa.
It is clear that power, gas and water supply, transportation and communications are intimately involved in issues arising from accelerated urbanization. What is cause, and what effect? Can better design, planning and phasing of all these essential services, and perhaps new fiscal, pricing or other regulating devices, help to slow if not reverse the flood of people into overcrowded cities, or mitigate its consequences? Such questions are intertwined with the population and employment problems, the slow progress of agriculture and lack of rural amenities, and the compulsion of modernizing societies to cluster. Answers are hard to find, but the search is on.
Transportation
At one end of the development spectrum, Bank Group lending for transportation in fiscal 1971 will help to build suspension bridges on porter trails in Nepal; near the other, it will help to advance programs costing $500 million to rehabilitate Argentina's railways and improve and extend its highway network; along the way, it will provide technical and financial help in many combi-
nations, in projects large and small, tailored to the needs of countries in virtually all stages of growth.
As it has for the last three years, transportation in all its forms accounted in fiscal 1971 for the largest single share of Bank and IDA finance—21 Bank loans of $573 million and 10 IDA credits of $78 million, for a total of $651 million. Of the total, $98.5 million was for projects in Africa, $178 million in Asia and Oceania, $142 million in Europe and $232.5 million in the Western Hemisphere. Within the transportation sector, the share of Bank Group lending for road construction and maintenance has increased steadily to well over half. The proportion for railways has declined, amounting to less than a third in fiscal 1971. Most of the balance is accounted for by loans and credits for ports and inland waterways. Institutional improvement
The sector abounds with illustrations of a point stressed by the Pearson Commission, that technical assistance can be most effective when it accompanies finance for priority purposes with clear objectives, as well as the Bank's belief that continuity in both financial and technical assistance is most likely to result in the evolution of well-managed institutions.
In Ethiopia, for example, feasibility studies are now under way on 14 roads in preparation for specific projects to be carried out as part of a continuing program, portions of which have been financed by a series of Bank loans and IDA credits. In earlier years such work would have required the services of foreign consultants. Today both the feasibility studies and detailed engineering are being done by Ethiopian personnel of the Imperial Highway Authority (IHA). The IHA was established as a condition of the Bank's first highway loan to Ethiopia, and its organization, management and technical capabilities have improved steadily with the help of consultants arranged for by the Bank in connection with successive loans and credits.
In May 1971, the Bank made its first loan to Brazil for port development, providing $45 million to help finance the construction of maize and container handling facilities at the Port of Santos as part of a major five-year investment program. Five other loans have been made to Brazil in the transportation field since 1952, totaling $154 million. The latest included funds for the services of consultants to help Brazil reorganize its entire port sector, including the National Department of Ports and Navigation.
In Argentina, the Bank made its first loan for railways and its third for highway development. A general reorganization and rehabilitation program for the railways began four years ago and is to be pressed to completion over the next five years at
V_____,_
SOMALIA—On the Mogadiscio-Baidoa Road. IDA credits of $8.5 million have helped support a broad program of road construction and maintenance and feasibility studies in Somalia.
a total cost of about $840 million. The Bank's willingness to lend $84 million toward a two-year segment of this program, costing $368 million, was related to the Government's determination to carry out far-reaching institutional changes which should help to make the system financially viable and improve service at the same time. A new corporate statute gives the railways more autonomy, and substantial improvements in operations and maintenance have resulted in better financial performance.
A second loan of $67.5 million to Argentina, made simultaneously, will help to finance the construction and improvement of about 700 miles of highways and carry out feasibility and engineering studies on another 2,200 miles for future development. In this field also, planning, construction and maintenance activities have been considerably improved.
The project in Nepal combines finance for construction with technical assistance to improve administration and road maintenance. Nepal is an extremely poor country that presses up the southern slope of the world's highest mountains between India and Tibet. More than 80% of the 11 or 12 million Nepalese live by small-scale agriculture, producing two thirds of the country's total output; the other third comes from cottage industries, construction and trade. Per capita income is among the world's lowest, and production has been rising barely fast enough to keep pace with population growth. The primary need is for the integration of small, isolated valley economies, for which a prerequisite is improvement of the transport system. A basis for this was provided in 1965 in the form of a detailed five-year transport program resulting from a Bank-financed study. Various parts of this program have been carried
_J
out with bilateral assistance, but coordination and better organization are required.
The Bank Group's project, assisted by an IDA credit of $2.5 million, will help to accomplish this, combining technical assistance with finance. Physical elements of the project involve the construction of five pedestrian bridges to carry porter traffic on hill trails, which comprise an important part of the transport network; the replacement of five understrength road bridges; and the establishment of a five-year road maintenance program for three key areas, including the provision of equipment and workshop facilities.
A far more comprehensive road maintenance improvement program is to be undertaken in Kenya, involving the entire national road system. This project helps to illustrate two points: the high priority assigned by the Bank to proper maintenance, which has been a continuing preoccupation; and the Bank's increasingly common practice of including in projects the necessary funds for technical assistance to study major problems of the sector, train personnel, improve related institutions or pave the way for future operations, whether financed by the country itself, the Bank Group or other lenders.
The project entails an IDA credit of $12.6 million and Government expenditures of nearly $40 million spread over some five years. It haddts genesis in a detailed study of the road maintenance problem which was provided for in a Bank-financed highway project two years ago. It is expected to result in the reorganization of responsible Government agencies, strengthening both field and headquarters operations. Funds are provided to help in filling key posts with foreign experts and to train Kenyans to replace them. A staffing and training program will be built for maintenance personnel, and equipment will be provided to carry out a four-year program to improve some 12,000 miles of roads.
A considerable amount of Bank-administered technical assistance in the transportation field is
financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). In fiscal 1971, work began or was completed on eight transportation studies for which the Bank has been the executing agency under UNDP commitments totaling nearly $5 million. Meanwhile, nine studies for which about $5 million was allocated in the previous fiscal year were still in progress. Many of these include feasibility studies which may lead to future lending by the Bank or IDA; others involve studies of organization and management problems or the provision of technical assistance in the administration of transport agencies.
Bolivia and the Democratic Republic of Congo provide usefut examples. A transport survey of Bolivia which was financed by the UNDP is now being followed up by a team of 11 consultants who are helping the Bolivian National Railways improve its management and operating methods. In the Congo, an IDA credit of $7 million, approved in May 1971, will help to improve river transport facilities while consultants assist the Government in reorganizing the public agencies concerned and training Congolese personnel.
During the year, the Bank Group gave its first assistance to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, a new member of IDA. It was a credit for technical assistance which will help to prepare the way for a systematic approach to development of the highway system and relieve the Republic of its almost exclusive reliance on economic activity centered about the port of Aden. Other countries receiving loans or credits for the first time in the transportation sector were Dahomey, Fiji, Iceland, Jordan, Nepal and Sierra Leone.
TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS
ARGENTINA: Bank, March 1971—$84 million, railway rehabilitation (total cost, $368 million); $67.5 million, highway construction, feasibility studies, engineering (total cost, $150 million).
BRAZIL: Bank, May 1971—$45 million, Santos jport improvements (total cost, $78.5 million).
CAMEROON: IDA, December 1970—$1.5 million, Douala port improvements (total cost, $2.8 million).
t CHINA: Bank, May 1971—$15 million, railway improvements (total cost, $42 million).
CONGO (DR): IDA, May 1971—$7 million, restoration and improvement, river transport system and fleet, technical assistance (total cost, $13 million).
DAHOMEY: IDA, September 1970—$3.5 million, road maintenance program (total cost, $4.1 million).
FIJI: Bank, June 1971—$11.8 million, highway construction, engineering (total cost, $16.6 million).
FINLAND: Bank, February 1971—$13 million, expressway construction (total cost, $33.8 million).
GUINEA: Bank, June 1971—$9 million, additional port and railway infrastructure for expansion of bauxite mining project (total cost, $12.9 million).
HONDURAS: Bank, June 1971 —$6 million, new port near San Lorenzo, expansion of Puerto Cortes (total cost, $9.8 million).
ICELAND: Bank, October 1970—$4.1 million, highway surfacing (total cost, $7.7 million).
INDONESIA: IDA, June 1971—$34 million, Sumatra highway improvement, regional development study, engineering for additional highways, feeder roads (total cost, $49 million).
IVORY COAST: Bank, June 1971—$20.5 million, highway construction, engineering (total cost, $35.5 million).
JORDAN: IDA, June 1971—$6 million, highway construction, maintenance, consulting services, urban transport study, Amman (total cost, $8.7 million).
KENYA: IDA, December 1970—$12.6 million, national road maintenance program (total cost, $18.1 million).
KOREA: Bank, June 1971—$54.5 million, road construction, feasibility studies, engineering, pilot maintenance program (total cost, $102.5 million).
MALAYSIA: Bank, June 1971—$16.1 million, two new ports in Sabah, cargo-handling equipment, technical assistance (total cost, $22 million).
NEPAL: IDA, November 1970 —$2.5 million, road and porter trail improvements, maintenance (total cost, $3.4 million).
NEW ZEALAND: Bank, February 1971—$16 million, railway rolling stock, equipment (total cost, $87.8 million).
NIGER: IDA, January 1971—$5.7 million, road improvement (total cost, $8 million).
PERU: Bank, September 1970—$30 million, post-earthquake road construction (total cost, $41.8 million).
PHILIPPINES: Bank, April 1971—$8 million, Mindanao road improvement, feasibility studies (total cost, $15.8 million).
SIERRA LEONE: Bank-IDA blend, October 1970 —$7.2 million ($3.7 Bank, $3.5 IDA), Bo-Kenema road construction (total cost, $10.4 million).
SPAIN: Bank, June 1971—$90 million, railway improvements (total cost, $519 million).
THAILAND: Bank, July 1970—$12.5 million, Bangkok port improvement (total cost, $21 million).
TUNISIA: Bank, January 1971—$7.5 million, joint financing with Kuwait, 185-mile gas pipeline for power (total cost, $13.6 million); Bank, May 1971—$24 million, highway improvements (total cost, $42.2 million).
YEMEN (PDR): IDA, April 1971—$1.6 million, highway engineering study, construction equipment (total cost, $2.7 million).
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank, June 1971—$35 million, highway construction, engineering and laboratory equipment, consulting services for highway planningand maintenance (total cost,$88million).
Electric Power
Institutional efficiency in the power sector is especially critical for development because of the nature of the industry.
Capital costs are high. Foreign exchange requirements are heavy; for hydroelectric plants, the import component is typically 50%, for thermal installations it is more likely to be 75% or more. The lead time for planning and construction is long, as much as eight years for hydroelectric schemes. For any given service area, growth of demand over such periods is highly uncertain.
Thus heavy costs are incurred when either too much or too little demand for power is anticipated and provided for. If too much, scarce funds will be diverted from more important purposes; if too little, the growth of productivity, and therefore of the resource base itself, will be retarded.
Helping its member countries to avoid these costs and free resources for their fullest use in development has been an important objective of the World Bank Group in its power operations for more than two decades. Through June 30, 1971, the Bank and IDA had applied 28% of all their development financing to this sector, a total of $5,284 million. In the latest fiscal year, their lending for power totaled $501 million: 12 Bank loans amounting to $390 million and four IDA credits totaling $111 million. This was the second largest volume of such lending in their history, exceeded only in the previous fiscal year.
Nowhere have the benefits of project-related technical assistance been more evident than in this sector. This is due primarily, perhaps, to the attributes of the industry described above, which make it a natural vehicle for the transfer of necessary capital resources over a long period. The requirement of heavy and repeated investments argues strongly for the need to assure that management is competent and has authority appropriate to its responsibility; that rate structures and government policies enhance, rather than diminish, the system's ability to discharge its function efficiently; that organization, administration and accounting procedures are effective; that demand will be properly assessed and expansion systematically designed to meet it; and that future investments will be capably planned and adequately provided for. The Brazilian example
Brazil offers an example of continuing close relationships between Bank and country staffs in the power sector. In March 1971, the Bank made a loan of $70 million to help finance a large hydroelectric plant and transmission facilities at Salto Osorio on the Iguacu River. The project is the latest in a virtually unbroken series on which Brazilian and Bank staff have worked, in a continuing program
to anticipate and keep abreast of rising demand. It resulted from a study of power needs in South Brazil which was completed in 1969 by the World Bank, acting as executing agency for the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The borrower is an autonomous subsidiary of the government owned company responsible for development of federally owned power projects..
Certain aspects of a loan made in December 1970 to Tanzania were especially noteworthy. The Bank joined with Sweden to help finance the largest power project Tanzania has ever undertaken, which will meet the rapidly growing need for electricity in the coastal region where most industrial and commercial activity is concentrated. The Bank's loan, of $30 million, was accompanied by a $12 million 50-year, interest-free credit by Sweden. The Swedish terms, identical to those of IDA, will reduce the Government's overall burden of service charges. In a similar joint operation, the Bank and Sweden agreed to provide $23 million and $6 million respectively for a power transmission project in Kenya.
ELECTRIC POWER PROJECTS
BRAZIL: Bank, March 1971—$70 million, 700 MW hydroelectric plant, transmission facilities (total cost, $152.3 million).
CHINA: Bank, April 1971—$55 million, 500 MW reserve unit (total cost, $73.2 million).
EL SALVADOR: IDA, December 1970 —$5.6 million, expansion, transmission facilities (total cost, $7 million).
GHANA: IDA, June 1971—$7.1 million, improvement and expansion, distribution system (total cost, $14.5 million). ,; . INDIA: IDA, April 1971—$75 million, construction, 2,800 miles of transmission lines (total cost, $750 million).
J IRAN: Bank, October 1970—$60 million, transmission facilities around Tehran, management training (total cost, $93 million).
IRELAND: Bank, March 1971—$20 million, 250 MW generating unit (total cost, $28 million).
KENYA: Bank, June 1971—$23 million, joint _ financing with Sweden, 60 MW unit, 65 mile" transmission line (total cost, $37.5 million).
MALAYSIA: Bank, July 1970—$20 million, three 120 MW generating units (total cost, $58.9 . million),
PAKISTAN: IDA, August 1970 —$23 million, West Pakistan transmission facilities (total cost, $40 million).
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA: Bank, April 1971 (Australia, guarantor) — $23.2 million, 45 MW hydroelectric power station (total cost, $33.9 million).
TANZANIA: Bank, December 1970—$30 million, joint financing with Sweden, 100 MW hydroelectric power unit (total cost, $54 million).
TUNISIA: Bank, January 1971—(See Transpor-. tation Projects, gas pipeline).
TURKEY: Bank, June 1971—$24 million, expansion of generating capacity, consolidation of power grid (total cost, $65 million); $7 million, power generation and transmission, staff training (total cost, $10 million).
.   URUGUAY: Bank, November 1970—$18 million, 100 MW additional generating capacity (total cost, $23 million). ZAMBIA: Bank, July 1970—$40 million, 600
iMW power station at Kariba Dam (total cost, $57
'million).
Water Supply
The Bank and IDA lent more for the improvement and extension of water and sewerage systems in fiscal 1971 than in all their previous history, $189 million. Even the cumulative total of $329 million, however, has been a mere trickle in relation to the unmet need for investment to meet the most modest requirements.
The inadequacy of municipal water and sewerage facilities in cities throughout the developing world has become increasingly acute under the weight of population growth and rural to urban migration. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that about half the urban population of developing countries has no public water service and three quarters lack piped sewer facilities. Only a fourth have water for drinking and hygiene supplied to their homes or nearby courtyards by public systems. Simply to provide minimal household service to two fifths and assure that all would at least have access to public standpipes and toilet facilities would require investments on the order of $2 billion a year for 10 years.
The problems of this sector seem at first glance to be almost insurmountable, but some hope can be derived from the experience of past Bank and IDA loans for water projects. Without exception, when local resources have been combined with external assistance and sound utility management practices have been adopted, these projects have demonstrated that dramatic improvements are possible.
the approach of the Bank Group, therefore, is twofold: on the one hand to provide financial assistance for project development; on the other, to stimulate improvement in organization, engineering, management, and financial practices. In the process the Bank has often been able to help realize considerable savings by calling attention to design and analytical techniques which permit improvements in project design and selection.
The huge backlog of needed investment in water and sewerage systems in developing coun-
tries results largely from a vicious circle of inadequate municipal resources and a general reluctance to charge consumers a price that fully reflects costs. Especially at a time when the cost of producing additional supplies is steadily rising, this raises a severe impediment to the rational development of the sector. Consequently, the Bank Group places great emphasis upon financial reform of water and sewerage undertakings, insisting that they be reasonably free of political interference and have reasonable budgetary control over the services they provide. In practice, this normally means that the rates charged should be adequate to cover operating and financial costs, and to build reserves which will meet at least part of the cost of continuing expansion.
A major reason why the Bank Group has tried to encourage the development of this sector is that its benefits are so pervasive. It is generally accepted that the financial returns accruing to water and sewerage authorities considerably understate the true benefits to the community, by no means all of which are readily apparent or easily quantifiable. Environmental improvement, a valuable end in itself, can also result in additional financial benefits by improving the community's productive capacity through raising or safeguarding the level of public health. An example of this is a project for river pollution control in Sao Paulo, Brazil, for which the Bank agreed in fiscal 1971 to provide $37 million.
(See page 31 for an account of a cooperative agreement under which the World Health Organization will assist the Bank in the identification and preparation of water supply and sewerage projects.)
Botswana, Colombia, Yugoslavia
During fiscal year 1971, the Bank Group helped to finance water supply projects in six countries with eight Bank loans of $186 million and one IDA credit of $3 million. The IDA credit will provide facilities in Botswana to serve both Gaborone, the capital city, and Lobatse, where the country's principal export industry, livestock slaughtering, was threatened with closure because of water shortage. A loan to Colombia of $88 million was the second for improvements and extensions of the water supply system of Bogota, and the largest ever made by the Bank Group in this sector. In conjunction with sewerage, drainage and pollution control works being carried out by the borrower, the project will make an important contribution to orderly urban development of the Bogota metropolitan area. This is particularly important because of the city's extremely rapid growth: population is expected to increase from 2.5 million to 5 million by 1980, and possibly to more than 10 million by 2000.
One loan approved during the year, involving a Bank commitment of $45 million, was for a multi-purpose project in Yugoslavia to provide water for a wide variety of uses: drinking and hygiene, industry, agriculture and power generation. It will help to finance the $93 million first phase of a long-term plan to develop the Ibar and Lepenac river basins in the Autonomous Province of Kosovo.
Telecommunications
Considerable experience in financing telecommunications was gained in the two decades from 1949, when the Bank made its first loan in this field to Brazil as part of a power project. A more concerted effort is now under way, however, to assess the requirements of member countries in this sector in relation to their total development needs and priorities. Lending operations to improve communications essential to development have been expanding steadily.
During fiscal 1971, four Bank loans and two IDA credits approved for telecommunications projects totaled $196 million: $105 million from the Bank and $91 million from IDA. The year's lending compared with $219 million for this purpose for the 20 years through 1968 and an average of $82 million for fiscal 1969 and 1970.
Rapid technological advances have opened the way for new types of telecommunications service, and for the reduction of both capital and operating costs. Demand for service is high, but in most
developing countries facilities are grossly inadequate to meet the growing needs of trade, agriculture, industry and government.
This has been evident in Iran, for example, where a $36 million loan made last November will help to more than double the number of telephone connections and expand both telex and telegraph services. The project will cost a total of about $150 million. It will complement a large expansion of long distance facilities already under way to integrate the different parts of the country. At the time the project was appraised, there was a two-year delay in providing service, and all existing facilities were heavily overloaded. The position is similar in India, where an IDA credit of $78 million made in fiscal 1971 will help to finance expansion of the telephone system and improve the quality of long distance services. Despite this effort, the waiting list for connections is expected to increase to a million by the end of the program in 1974.
Another example is found in Indonesia, where an IDA credit was approved in July 1970 to assist part of a five-year expansion program drawn up with the help of a technical mission provided by Australia. Good telecommunications facilities are especially important to Indonesia's trade and development because of its geography: the archipelago it occupies embraces more than 6,000 islands stretching in a chain some 3,000 miles long. Existing telecommunications facilities were wholly inadequate and costly to operate, and there were serious deficiencies in management and control. The Government's program is designed to help overcome these and other shortcomings.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECTS
COLOMBIA: Bank, May 1971—$15 million, trunk switching units, local exchange equipment (total cost, $32.4 million).
INDIA: IDA, April 1971—$78 million, part of five-year program for expansion of local telephone exchanges (total cost of five-year program, $652 million).
INDONESIA: IDA, July 1970—$12.8 million, inter-island microwave system (total cost, $22.6 . million).
IRAN: Bank, November 1970—$36 million, expansion, Tehran exchange system (total cost, $149.2 million).
MALAYSIA: Bank, June 1971—$18.7 million, improvement and extension, local, long distance, international telecommunications (total cost, $94 million).
VENEZUELA: Bank, June 1971—$35 million, general expansion program (total cost, $315 million).
WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE PROJECTS
BOTSWANA: IDA, February 1971—$3 million, water pumping, treatment facilities (total cost, $3.3 million).
BRAZIL: Bank, May 1971—$37 million (two loans, $22 million and $15 million), Sao Paulo water supply and pollution control (total cost, $141.3 million).
COLOMBIA: Bank, May 1971—$88 million, second phase, Bogota water supply expansion (total cost, $103.7 million); $2 million, Palmira water supply, sewerage facilities (total cost, $3.8 million).
CYPRUS: Bank, March 1971 —$3.5 million, Nicosia sewerage facilities (total cost, $6.8 million); $1.9 million, Famagusta sewerage and drainage facilities (total cost, $3.2 million).
KENYA: Bank, November 1970—$8.3 million, Nairobi pumping station, water treatment plant, reservoir (total cost, $12.1 million).
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank, June 1971—$45 million, multi-purpose project to supply water for industry, agriculture, communities and power generation (total cost, $93.3 million).
Industry
In the provision of finance for industry in developing countries, both directly and through development finance companies (DFCs) and other intermediaries, the Bank Group's role has been considerable. Such financing has accounted for about 15% of all development loans, credits and investments by the Bank, IDA and IFC, or $3,132 million through June 30, 1971. This does not include the industrial component in loans and credits for general development program purposes, in agriculture projects for crop processing industries, or in some multi-purpose projects for which other sectors are the main beneficiaries.
During the fiscal year under review, the Group's financing for industry totaled $386 million in 22 countries: 11 Bank loans of $285 million and 24 IFC investments totaling $101 million. (For full
information on IFC operations, see the Corporation's separate Annual Report.)
A number of industrial projects intended for direct financing by the Bank or IDA were nearing the final stages of appraisal or negotiation as the fiscal year ended. One was approved by the Executive Directors. This is a multi-purpose project in Botswana to provide infrastructure in connection with a large copper and nickel mining venture. A Bank loan of $32 million will help to finance a $60 million project for power generation and transmission, water supply, road and rail transport, and to construct a township at Pikwe, including a health center.
Within the sum of lending for industry, support to development finance companies accounts for the largest and fastest-growing segment, more than two fifths of the all-time total and two thirds
in fiscal 1971. In loans, credits and equity investments, the Group provided $264 million during the year to 18 such companies to finance ventures in 12 countries. This represented an increase of more than a fifth over the previous year and was more than 18% of the cumulative total of $1,420 million. The year's financing included $253 million in Bank loans, while IFC provided $10 million in loan funds and invested $700,000 in equity.
Generally speaking, development finance companies assisted by the Bank Group operate in the small to medium range of industrial and commercial projects which the Group helps to finance, providing essentially the same services domestically that IFC supplies internationally.
The Bank has been heavily involved in promoting, financing and giving technical assistance to institutions of this kind since 1950. These financial intermediaries have made an appreciable contribution to economic development. They have helped to change attitudes in the business community, and to introduce new ideas concerning project formulation and management. Some DFCs have become key factors in the industrialization of their countries, by providing a channel for directing foreign and domestic capital, both public and private, into productive investment. In a few cases, they have begun to develop the ma-
chinery, procedures and business outlook required to create or expand the capital market.
The World Bank Group has helped to organize 15 of the companies to which it has provided finance, and to reorganize another six. It has helped to recruit key officials and train many more, both through the Economic Development Institute (see page 31) and by means of special programs. IFC is represented on the Boards of 17.
DFCs obtain their funds from many private and public sources, both domestic and foreign. The proportion coming from the World Bank GrorJp varies widely, averaging about 24% and rising to the neighborhood of 60%, depending on the circumstances. In some cases, Bank Group participation has been a key factor in helping DFCs obtain adequate funds from other sources. DFCs assisted by the Bank Group have made loans, equity investments and other commitments for industrial and commercial ventures totaling upwards of $4,500 million.
The range of Bank Group involvement in assisting the growth of development finance companies may be illustrated by a single case: the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB), which received its ninth line of credit from the Group in November 1970. It was in the form of a Bank loan of $40 million, bringing TSKB's total support from the Bank, IDA and IFC to $128 million.
TSKB was one of the Bank's first two clients in the development finance company field. The Bank was instrumental in promoting its establishment in 1950, providing an initial loan of $8.7 million.
YUGOSLAVIA—Furniture factory in Slovenia. Through the Yugoslav Investment Bank, the World Bank has provided $48 million for industrial development.
IFC made its first investment in TSKB shares and took a position on the Board of Directors in 1963, a post it has since relinquished. Many of TSKB's officials and key staff members have come to the Bank for special training, some as fellows of the Economic Development Institute and others in Bank and IFC departments.
Today, TSKB has about 400 loans outstanding. It has made commitments to private ventures in Turkey amounting to the equivalent of $216 million, including $13 million in equity. In recent ye3rs it has been able to broaden its resource base by borrowing from the European Investment Bank and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau.
IFC financing during the year amounted to $101 million, compared with the previous year's total of $112 million. This brought the cumulative total of the Corporation's financing to $578 million, including $50 million in standby and underwriting commitments. Of the all-time total, $306 million, or more than half, has been committed in the last three years. Of the total committed by IFC in fiscal 1971, $88 million was provided for manufacturing, $11 million for development finance institutions and more than $2 million for tourism. As parts of the same financing arrangements, other investors provided $332 million.
A Capital Markets Departmentestablished in IFC during the year will spearhead the Bank Group's effort to encourage the mobilization of private savings in developing countries for productive investment.
TURKEY: Bank, November 1970—$40 million, development finance company.    ¦ •"
Population
The Bank Group's assistance to member countries in the field of population planning is more extensive than the volume of its lending indicates: three projects totaling $10 million through fiscal 1971.
The Bank made its second loan for this purpose during the year, while IDA entered the sector for the first time. The Bank's loan of $3 million will assist a project in Trinidad and Tobago, while IDA's credit provides $4.8 million to help expand the capacity and improve the effectiveness of Tunisia's national program. Both projects provide for the construction of various types of health facilities, and the one in Trinidad and Tobago includes a family planning institute. The technical assistance elements include provision for aid in program evaluation, management, family life education, utilization of manpower and training of family planning workers.
A series of additional projects is in various stages of preparation, and the volume of lending will rise. As envisaged when the Bank Group committed itself in this field three years ago, however, its principal contribution will continue to be in various forms of technical assistance. So far, sector missions have been sent by the Bank to seven countries, including some of the largest and most populous.
For the Bank to be effective, of course, requires commitment on the part of the government concerned; such commitment is still not common in large areas, including some where population growth is having its most serious effects. Where it does exist, the Bank or IDA can help to realize the considerable benefits of population programs. Projects are being developed only in certain countries where population policies have been adopted. In a number of others, the Bank has carried out reviews of the impact of population growth on socio-economic development.
POPULATION PROJECTS
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO: Bank, May 1971—$3 million, medical facilities, family planning institute, nurse-midwife training centers, technical
j . assistance (total cost, $4.6 million).
I      TUNISIA: IDA, March 1971—$4.8 million,
I   medical facilities, paramedical school, technical
I   assistance (total cost, $7.7 million).
Tourism
In more than a score of developing countries, money left behind by tourists adds up to 15% or more of foreign exchange receipts, and from half to more than three quarters of this is net. In half
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
BOTSWANA: Bank, June 1971—$32 million, power, water, transport, township infrastructure for copper-nickel mining project (total cost of infrastructure, $60 million).
COLOMBIA: Bank, May 1971—$40 million, five development finance companies.
ECUADOR: Bank, December 1970—$8 million, two development finance companies.
FINLAND: Bank, October 1970—$20 million, development finance company.
IRAN: Bank, July 1970—$50 million, development finance company.
IRELAND: Bank, June 1971—$10 million, de- -felopment finance company.
KOREA: Bank, April 1971—$30 million, development finance company.
MOROCCO: Bank, August 1970—$10 million, specialized development finance company for tourist hotel construction; May 1971—$35 .mil- . lion, development finance company.
NIGERIA: Bank, July 1970—$10 million, de--velopment finance company.
a dozen countries, including such large ones as Mexico and Spain, the importance of tourism for development can hardly be exaggerated: for Mexico, it grosses a fourth of all foreign exchange receipts; in Spain the figure is 43%, which represents an inflow of well over $1 billion annually.
The striking importance of tourism for the development prospects of so many countries is a relatively new phenomenon, propelled by the jet engine and financed by expanding payrolls in Europe, North America and — very recently — Japan.
Until August 1970, when the Bank made a loan of $10 million to help build tourist hotels in Morocco, all of the Group's direct assistance in this sector had been provided through IFC and the development finance companies (see page 25). It totaled about $30 million: nine IFC investments in South and Central America, the Caribbean and Africa, and 33 projects in Africa and Asia assisted by six DFCs with $10.6 million provided by the World Bank Group.
Toward the end of the recent fiscal year, the Bank made a second loan in this field, providing $10 million to help finance a $24 million tourism complex near Piran, Yugoslavia, on the southern shore of the Bay of Trieste. A number of other projects were in active preparation, and sector studies already completed and in process pointed to a slowly rising trend of financing.
In addition to the facility of tourism for attracting foreign exchange, its job-creating potential is considerable. It also generates income in other productive and service sectors. Yet tourism is not always an unmixed blessing. Its helter-skelter development can degrade or destroy important cultural assets, including many on which its own viability rests. Displays of alien affluence in the midst of local poverty can be disruptive. With adequate foresight and planning, however, the worst of such ills can be avoided and the benefits of tourism further increased. In some cases, tourism projects can bring positive environmental improvements. A case in point is the project in Yugoslavia, which would not be justifiable, even in purely economic terms, if steps were not taken to assure that water off the beaches would be safe for swimming. As a condition of the loan, the authorities will prepare and carry out related plans for modern sewage treatment and disposal facilities.
Much more needs to be learned, and the Bank is deeply involved in studies for this purpose. So far, surveys of the sector have been carried out in 19 countries. A study of tourism potential and problems in Bali is nearing completion, financed by the UNDP and administered by the Bank. Agreement has been reached on UNDP studies in
Afghanistan, the Dominican Republic and Fiji, and others are proposed for Venezuela and the Caribbean area. A number of other international organizations are making important contributions to the growing bank of useful information. In addition a number of individual countries—notably Tunisia and Turkey—and the East African Community are carrying out studies with their own funds or bilateral aid. The Bank is also financing an international study of the financial aspects of hotel operations.
TOURISM PROJECTS
MOROCCO: Bank, August 1970—(See Industrial Projects, hotel financing company, page 27).
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank, June 1971—$10 million, tourism complex near Piran, facing Bay of Trieste (total cost, $24 million).
Non-Project Lending
During fiscal 1971 the Bank Group gave assistance to members for rehabilitation purposes in both project and non-project form, and in response to recommendations by the Pearson Commission, the Group's policies on non-project lending and the financing of local currency expenditures were reviewed by the Executive Directors.
As envisaged by the Articles of Agreement, specific projects have been the primary focus of Bank and IDA lending. There have been important exceptions, however, beginning with the Bank's earliest loans for European reconstruction. They were a form of non-project lending, sometimes called "program loans," to finance the import of essential equipment and materials.
Similar loans or IDA credits have been made for general development purposes when special situations have arisen to justify them. Examples have included loans for the Italian Government's development program in Southern Italy and various industrial "import credits" to India and Pakistan.
In January 1971, two months after the catastrophic cyclone in East Pakistan, the Executive Directors approved an IDA credit of $25 million to help the Government carry out a large rehabilitation program. The credit was intended to help finance a wide variety of projects included in the program; these were related to long-term plans which the Bank had reviewed in considerable detail. Subsequent developments in East Pakistan postponed the program's execution.
A loan in "program" form was made in April to Nigeria, providing $80 million to help the Gov-
ernment carry out its plans for post-war economic rehabilitation. It provides general support in foreign currency to help finance imports for a two-year program to rehabilitate the entire economy.
The Pearson Commission made two related recommendations for action which it felt would improve the flexibility and effectiveness of development financing. One called for removal of "regulations which limit or prevent contributions to the local costs of projects," the other for recognizing "the great value, in many cases, of more program aid." The Commission felt that assistance limited to costs in foreign exchange created "an uneconomic bias towards capital intensive projects," while greater use of "the more flexible form of program aid" would make the current volume of assistance more effective.
In an analytical review of these questions, the President reported to the Executive Directors his belief that the Bank's existing guidelines were adequate to permit the financing of local expenditure in appropriate cases. He also pointed out that the Bank and IDA had a well-established role and were particularly well qualified for financing projects, and concluded that they should continue to lend for projects in the absence of clearly preferable alternatives.
He concluded, however, that program lending should be undertaken in special circumstances where it appeared necessary to increase the effectiveness of Bank or IDA lending and ensure an adequate and timely transfer of funds in support of the development programs of member countries. After considerable discussion, the Executive Directors accepted that program lending was appropriate in special circumstances and took the view that in principle, subject to specific demonstration in each case, such circumstances might arise when a borrowing country had a satisfactory development program and was following sound economic and financial policies, but could not obtain the external resources required to support the program by borrowing only for specific projects.
Technical Assistance and Other Activities
Technical Assistance
Many developing countries need assistance in the identification and preparation of studies which can form the basis for future investment programs. There has been an increasing interest in planning such assistance on a country-wide basis to ensure that studies for high priority investment projects are planned and executed at the appropriate time, that studies anticipate questions which might be raised by potential investors, and that the limited human and financial resources available for studies are used efficiently.
Whenever possible, the Bank contributes to the country planning approach by identifying studies through economic missions which visit member countries at regular intervals, and through special sector missions. This work is coordinated with that of other international and bilateral development assistance organizations, particularly the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other agencies of the United Nations family. Staff members of these organizations regularly participate in or cooperate with Bank-organized missions.
The Bank has been reviewing its working arrangements with the UNDP, which is placing new emphasis on country programming, to ensure that member countries and the institutions themselves derive the greatest possible benefits from the new approach. The Bank will continue to maintain the closest relationship with the UNDP and has offered to assist the agency itself and its representatives in matters of country programming whenever possible.
The Bank Croup's principal method of financing technical assistance is by making specific provision for it in project loans and credits. Funds are often included for overseas training and fellowships to help borrowers become self-supporting in management and other skills; for expatriate experts and consultants to provide advisory, management, financial and training services required for effective operation of the project being financed; and feasibility studies for the future expansion of the project or sector. During fiscal 1971, Bank loans and IDA credits totaling $1,406 million incorporated provision for technical assistance activities costing $49.6 million. This included $4.4 million for overseas training, $40 million for expatriate experts and consultants, and $5.2 million for feasibility studies.
A credit for technical assistance was made to Indonesia. It provided $4 million to assist the government in the preparation of a wide range of
NON-PROJECT LOANS
NIGERIA: Bank, April 1971—$80 million, imports for post-war rehabilitation program.
PAKISTAN: IDA, January 1971—$25 million, post-cyclone reconstruction. (A non-project credit in the sense that projects to be financed, among many in the Government's reconstruction program, were not specifically determined at the time the credit was approved.)
projects. A credit of $2 million was made for the same purpose in 1968.
The Bank also provides technical assistance in its capacity as executing agency for the UNDP, the major source of finance for technical assistance in the UN family. The Bank encourages member countries to seek financing for specific technical assistance projects from the UNDP whenever feasible. In such cases, the Bank frequently assists the government in preparing its application and agrees to act as executing agency where appropriate. During the past year, the Bank became executing agency for 16 new projects approved by the UNDP, representing commitments totaling about $14 million. Of this amount, $8 million has been earmarked for transport studies in the following countries: Bolivia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Korea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Sierra Leone and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. The remaining $6 million will finance a study of urban transport and development of Bogota, Colombia, a development planning project in Ethiopia, a survey of the sugar industry in Indonesia, a plan for the development of tourism in Fiji, a tourism study in Afghanistan, assistance to the Water and Power Development Authority of East Pakistan, and telecommunications studies in Mali and Senegal.
The Bank Group does not normally make grants for technical assistance. Exceptions have been made in some cases when, for procedural or other reasons, the UNDP has not been able to respond
to members' requests which the Bank considered important in terms of its own lending program. In 1971, increased flexibility in UNDP procedures made it unnecessary for the Bank Group to provide any financing solely for technical assistance, except for the IDA credit to Indonesia mentioned above.
Since 1959, the Bank has been designated executing agency for 88 projects financed by the UNDP for a total value of $76.6 million. Forty-five of these projects are currently under way. Of the 43 which have been completed, 37 have so far led to investment or to projects included in the Bank Group's lending program. Three were not designed to result directly in investment, and only three others have not yet led to any investment follow-up. Mekong Basin studies
In response to requests from the Secretary General of the United Nations and the Mekong Committee representing the Khmer Republic, Laos, Thailand and Viet-Nam, the Bank carried out a review of the development of water resources of the lower Mekong Basin. This has led to identification of a group of pioneer projects for which further pre-investment studies are considered justified. Arrangements have been made for financing 14 of these studies. Half the $2 million cost is expected to be borne by UNDP and half by four donor governments (Japan, Netherlands, United Kingdom and United States). The Bank has agreed to the request of all parties to serve as exe-
cuting agency for these projects, working in close association with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the Asian Development Bank. With advances to be made up by UNDP and some of the donor governments, this work is expected to start shortly. The Bank has stationed a representative in Thailand to coordinate the Bank's involvement in the Mekong activities.
A substantial, although not readily quantifiable, amount of technical assistance is made available to member countries through the Bank's operational missions and reports. It ranges from help in preparing projects and organizing suitable agencies to carry them forward, to broad studies of development problems and priorities in major economic and social sectors. Similar assistance is provided through the Bank Group's cooperative programs with FAO and Unesco. Special units in these agencies provide expert staff to assist countries in the identification and preparation of projects for Bank Group financing, substantially supplementing the capacity of the Bank itself to carry out such work. An expansion of the cooperative program with Unesco was agreed upon during the year, enabling Unesco to provide the Bank with technical support in educational planning and sector studies.
A substantial increase is expected in Bank Group lending in the fields of water supply, wastes disposal and storm drainage. There is need for a considerably larger number of sector studies and for more assistance to governments in project identification and preparation in these fields. Accordingly, an agreement has been negotiated with the World Health Organization (WHO) to establish a jointly financed cooperative program. Under the agreement, WHO's expertise will be available to support the Bank's expanded operational work, and governments will be assisted to carry out studies necessary for the formulation of sector programs and policies, to identify and prepare projects which the Bank or IDA could consider for financing, and to identify and prepare proposals for*preinvestment studies and other projects.
The new arrangement will broaden, strengthen and systematize informal working relationships between the Bank and WHO which have existed for some years. The agreement is roughly similar to those concluded by the Bank a number of years ago with FAO and Unesco. Subject to prior approval by the Boards of Governors of the Bank and IDA, it is to become effective on September 1, 1971.
The Bank's Permanent Missions in Eastern and Western Africa, with headquarters in Nairobi and Abidjan respectively, continued to assist African member countries in identifying projects suitable
for financing by the Bank Group in agriculture and transport and, more recently, in education. The Agricultural Development Service, attached to the Eastern Africa Mission, has continued to assist governments in that region in the management of agricultural projects on a reimbursable basis.
Resident staffs were maintained in India, Indonesia, Nigeria and Pakistan. Resident Representatives continued to serve in Afghanistan, Colombia and Ethiopia, and others were assigned during the year to the Democratic Republic of Congo and Nepal.
The Bank continued to provide advisory services to member governments facing special development planning problems. In fiscal 1971, staff members visited nine countries to review their development planning and policy-making machinery and advise on possible improvements and technical assistance needs. Secondments continued of planning advisers to the Governments of Ethiopia, Haiti and Mauritius.
During the year, the Bank became a participating agency in the Operational Assistance Scheme (OPAS) of the UNDP. Under this scheme, experts are recruited to fill operational or executive posts within governments at the normal salaries for the posts they hold. The UNDP then supplements their salaries to bring them into line with competitive international levels. As with all projects financed by the UNDP, the recruitment, payment and related administrative work is done by the participating agencies. It is hoped that the Bank's participation in OPAS will enable it to respond more readily to requests from member governments for qualified persons to fill technical and managerial positions, including personnel for work on projects financed by the Bank Group.
Economic Development Institute (EDI)
The Economic Development Institute provides training for officials concerned with development programs and projects in the Bank's less developed member countries. Its courses, each of which is normally limited to 25 participants, consist of lectures combined with group discussions, work exercises, problem-solving assignments and field trips. Considerable use is made of case materials, drawn largely from the actual experience of the Bank. Sessions are conducted by the Institute's small full-time teaching staff and by specialists from the various departments of the World Bank Group, as well as from other international organizations, government agencies, universities and private firms.
Courses conducted in fiscal 1971 included an 18-weeks general development course in English;
five courses of nine to 11 weeks in sector programming and project evaluation in industry, agriculture (two courses), education and transport, all offered in English; and general project evaluation courses in French and Spanish, of 11 and nine weeks respectively. Two hundred participants from 71 countries and five international organizations attended. Since its establishment in 1956, over 1,300 officials from more than 100 countries and international agencies have studied at the EDI.
In addition to its regular courses at the Bank's headquarters in Washington, the Institute assists other international and national agencies which conduct training programs. Assistance may take the form of co-sponsorship, curricular advice, teaching staff for short periods or teaching materials. An eight-weeks project analysis course for English-speaking African participants, first given in 1969, was conducted again in Nairobi in July and August 1970, in cooperation with the African Institute for Economic Development and Planning (IDEP) and the Institute for Development Studies at the University of Nairobi.
Aid Coordination
Discussions during the year with member governments concerned have made it clear that the Bank is expected to play a large and guiding role in the further improvement of machinery for the coordination of development assistance. This is a field in which the Bank has long been involved and to which it attaches great importance. Its principal efforts have been directed to the organization and servicing of mechanisms to coordinate assistance for particular developing countries, a function to which increasing attention is being given by governments and other international institutions.
A considerable number and variety of aid coordination groups now exist under various sponsorships. The most visible are the consortia, consultative groups and other formal aid coordination bodies, and country reviews carried out by the Inter-American Committee on the Alliance for Progress (CIAP). The Bank is chairman of two consortia, the Aid Croup for Ceylon and 13 consultative groups. The Bank is a member of the Consortium for Turkey, sponsored by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia (IGGI) under the chairmanship of the Government of the Netherlands; it also provides staff support for these, for the country review exercises conducted by CIAP, and for groups convened by the Governments of Guyana and Honduras.
During the year, the Bank took steps to reactivate certain consultative groups and to form new ones for three countries. The Consultative Group for Thailand was reactivated at a meeting in September 1970. The Group for Nigeria met in May 1971 for the first time since February 1966. A new Consultative Group for the Philippines met for the first time in April 1971, and inaugural meetings of consultative groups organized for the Democratic Republic of Congo and Ethiopia were held in May.
Recent experience suggests that for some countries aid coordination at the level of the consultative group, which normally concentrates on reviewing the recipient country's economic performance and external resource needs, could usefully be complemented by local groups at the country level. Such a local group can be of particular value in coordinating technical assistance and preinvest-ment requirements. In countries in which several national and international aid agencies are engaged in financing or otherwise assisting a variety of development projects, day-to-day problems of coordination arise which can often be effectively dealt with on the spot if local officials of the agencies concerned are made aware of them and authorized to expedite necessary actions. The need for such local coordination has been extensively discussed in the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD. The Bank has participated actively in these discussions. The consensus, fully supported by the Bank, has been that the recipient government should take the responsibility for organizing and chairing local coordination meetings if it is able and willing to do so, with such assistance as it may feel it needs from the Bank, the UNDP, or other agencies.
The World Bank has been engaged in a series of staff discussions with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and CIAP, designed to further improve cooperation among the three agencies. To help CIAP strengthen its review process, the schedules of its country reviews and the Bank's economic missions to Latin American countries are being coordinated; the object is to have up-to-date Bank economic reports available for the CIAP reviews. Documentation for the country reviews will be prepared in close consultation with the World Bank, IDB and other agencies, though final responsibility will, of course, remain with the CIAP secretariat. The Bank hopes that such increased cooperation at the staff level will help to build a more solid base for improving coordination of external assistance provided by multilateral and national agencies in the CIAP region.
With financing provided by the UNDP, the Bank undertook a staff and consultants recruit-
ment program for the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), which was established during the previous fiscal year with the Bank's technical assistance. Together with the Central American Bank for Economic Integration, the Bank explored possibilities for joint action to advance industrial development within the Central American Common Market.
Cooperation with regional banks
Exchanges of information and staff visits between the World Bank, the African Development Bank and the Asian Development Bank intensified during the year as operations of all these institutions have expanded in their respective member countries. The World Bank's Permanent Mission in Western Africa has played an increasingly active role in maintaining liaison with the African Development Bank, especially in the field of project identification and preparation; both have their headquarters in Abidjan. The World Bank has seconded one of its staff members as an adviser to the President of the African Development Bank, while two staff members of that Bank are spending a year at the World Bank's headquarters, gaining experience in techniques of development finance. Both operational and economic missions of the World Bank call regularly at the headquarters of the Asian Development Bank in Manila to discuss findings with their opposite numbers en-route to or from member countries. Similar informal staff consultations are regularly held at the African Development Bank and with the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED), a major supplier of both capital and technical assistance to many of the Bank's African member countries.
Coordination of international assistance for agricultural research
Perhaps no investment during the past quarter century has produced such promising results for world development, as well as such challenging new problems, as that for agricultural research. Especially notable has been the research on cereals carried out by international institutes concentrating on agricultural problems common to several countries in a geographic and climatic re-gio'n. Among these are the International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines, the Centra Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo (International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center) in Mexico, the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture in Nigeria, and the Centra Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (International Center of Tropical Agriculture) in Colombia.
In the past, these international agricultural research institutes have been financed mainly by donations from private foundations. To continue
and expand their important work, however, and to establish new international or regional centers capable of doing similar work on other crops of special concern to developing countries, is clearly beyond the financial capacity of the private agencies. The Bank undertook an extensive series of consultations on this problem with the foundations that have taken the leadership in the field, and with other international organizations and national aid agencies concerned with promoting agricultural productivity in the developing countries. On the basis of these explorations, the President of the Bank proposed to the Executive Directors that a consultative group be formed under the co-sponsorship of the Bank, FAO and UNDP to consider, on a continuing basis, the financial and technical requirements for international agricultural research and to organize the necessary financial support.
A preliminary meeting was held in January 1971 of governments and other parties interested in organizing such a consultative group. It was attended by 17 governments, three private foundations, the International Development Research Center of Canada, and the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD. It was agreed that a Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research should be created. The first meeting of the Group was held in May at the Bank's headquarters, dealing exclusively with organizational matters such as the composition, objectives and organizational structure of the Group. At the end of June, the Consultative Group had 19 members, while nine additional participants have expressed interest in continuing cooperation as observers. Under procedures to be worked out by FAO, it was agreed that up to five developing countries would be invited to membership for two-year terms, each representing a major geographical region.
Although membership does not involve a commitment to provide funds, a number of members have indicated the order of magnitude of financing which they are prepared to make available under certain conditions. With the approval of the Executive Directors, the Bank Group announced at the first meeting of the Consultative Group that it would consider providing an amount of up to $3 million in grants for the calendar year 1972 to assist activities supported by the Consultative Group, provided that requisite funds cannot be raised from other sources.
In its work to determine the gaps in—and priorities for—agricultural research needed for the benefit of developing countries, especially at the international and regional levels, the Consultative Group will be assisted by a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). The Committee consists of 12
internationally distinguished scientists under the chairmanship of Sir John Crawford of Australia. Six of the members are nationals of the developing countries. The Bank Group provides the Secretariat for the Consultative Group and FAO for the Technical Advisory Committee. Subject to required budgetary approval, the three co-sponsors —FAO, UNDP and the Bank—will share the cost of the TAC and of individual specialists advising the Committee.
The "Commodity Probllem"— Implementation of Decisions
Many of the Bank Group's activities in fiscal 1971 had a bearing on the "commodity problem," which had been the subject of extensive discussion by the Executive Directors during the previous two fiscal years.
In 1969, these discussions had resulted in a series of decisions by the Executive Directors which have served to guide the Group's work in helping to accelerate the diversification of production in countries that are overly vulnerable to the vagaries of primary commodity markets, in helping to strengthen the competitive position of such commodities, and in furthering international arrangements to stabilize their prices. In essence, they constituted a mandate to intensify efforts already being made along these lines.
In 1970, the Executive Directors had reviewed these questions in their deliberations on two relevant recommendations by the Pearson Commission: that the Bank, in considering loans for agriculture projects, take into account "the impact of new production capacity on world market prices" as well as rates of return in the borrowing country, and that the "financing of buffer stocks in support of well-conceived commodity agreements and policies should be recognized as a legitimate object of foreign aid." On the first point, while the Bank has taken into account the price impact of new production on projects, it was agreed that an effort should be made to develop techniques for making a broader assessment of the effects of future price developments. On the second point, no immediate need was found for buffer stock financing beyond that available through the International Monetary Fund.
In carrying out the Executive Directors' decisions in this field, the following activities in fiscal 1971 were especially relevant:
—The Bank's first loan for a national program of agricultural research (page 7) and its co-sponsorship of a consultative group in support of international agricultural research (page 33).
—Intensification of the Bank's work in market
analysis and price forecasting for a wide range of commodities. This included work on experimental studies in depth of selected commodities; preparation, as part of all appraisal reports on projects producing commodities for export, of market annexes analyzing, to the extent feasible, the possible effects of the projects on the world market; and regular consultations with selected international commodity organizations at an early stage in the appraisal of such projects. During the year, the Bank consulted with study groups of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) on 10 such projects and with the International Coffee Organization (ICO) on one. Arrangements for similar consultations are being discussed with additional study groups.
—Intensified cooperation with the Coffee Diversification Fund (CDF) of the ICO, established in 1968 and the only such fund set up under an international commodity arrangement. The Bank has indicated its readiness to work out joint or parallel financing arrangements with the CDF for diversification projects in coffee-producing countries.
—Increased attention to problems of diversification in economic reports and sector studies, and in forward planning of the Bank Group's investment program for individual countries.
Economic Studies
Economic analysis is the World Bank's main professional instrument for charting its policies, guiding its operations and responding to requests for technical assistance or special studies, both from member governments and from the world development community. Its capacity to perform such work was strengthened in fiscal 1971 (see Staff and Department Changes, page 41).
More than a score of important policy issues addressed during the year by the Executive Directors required extensive economic research and analysis. This was true, for example, of many questions raised by the Pearson Commission in,its recommendations for action, 33 of which applied to the World Bank Group and were considered by the Executive Directors. Many references to these discussions will be found in this Report.
Applied economics is, of course, a vital element in virtually every aspect of day-to-day operations. It provides the principal analytical tools for studies of member countries' economies, their prospects for development, and the likely effects of existing and alternative policies. It is essential to the adequate examination of economic sectors and priorities for financing, the appraisal of specific projects, the determination of borrowers' creditworthiness, and the provision of technical
assistance, especially on matters of planning and policy.
Special studies closely related to operations are carried out by staff economists or consultants employed by the Bank as problems arise in the course of lending and technical assistance activities, or as experience shows the need for better analysis or new techniques. From time to time, the'se result in monographs of wider professional interest, and are published in a series of "World Bank Staff Occasional Papers." One of these, a study of "Risk Analysis in Project Appraisal" by Louis Y. Pouliquen, was published in fiscal 1971, and several others were being prepared for publication. Occasionally studies of larger scope are published for the Bank by the Johns Hopkins Press. An example in fiscal 1971 was "The Structure of Protection in Developing Countries," by Bela Balassa and Associates.
Special studies
As larger issues appear over the horizon of development, the Bank attempts to lay the foundation for an adequate operational response by conducting more basic studies employing all available techniques of research and analysis. For example, the staff began a broad examination of employment and income distribution and their relation to development. It is hoped that the study will throw new light on the magnitude of the unemployment problem and methods of combatting it, on the "trade-off" between employment and growth of production, and on resulting policy issues. The result of one such project was nearing completion as the fiscal year ended. It is a programming study of Mexico, which attempts to analyze the relationships between the project, the sector and the whole economy, employing a system of inter-related programming models for each level. A similar study of the Ivory Coast is under way. The object is to sharpen existing tools and develop new methodology which might provide better answers to questions confronting both the Bank and its member countries, such as possible conflicts between growth, on the one hand, and employment and income distribution on the other.
At the 1970 Annual Meeting of the Board of Governors in Copenhagen, many Governors expressed concern over the mounting burden of external debt borne by developing countries and the rising proportion of their export earnings claimed by debt service payments. In response, the President of the Bank agreed that the staff should undertake a major study of the problem. This work has been completed. (For a discussion of the debt problem, see page 50.)
Occasionally the Bank is called upon by other international institutions to study, and sometimes to make recommendations on, specific develop-
ment problems of general concern. In 1969, the Bank was requested by the Trade and Development Board of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), to "consider working out arrangements for supplementary finance and, if appropriate, to consider introducing them." This referred to possible arrangements to cushion the impact on development programs of unpredictable shortfalls in earnings from primary commodity exports, and resulted from a study conducted by the Bank at UNCTAD's request in 1965. The Pearson Commission had also urged that the adoption of such a scheme be expedited. Lacking any indication that funds required would be available beyond those provided for regular development assistance, however, the Bank advised UNCTAD in August 1970 that it would defer further detailed consideration of such a proposal. The matter was discussed by the Executive Directors in April 1971, on the basis of a renewed request from UNCTAD that the Bank pursue its efforts to work out the details of a scheme of supplementary financing and to assess its probable cost. It was agreed that the problem would be kept under review, and meanwhile that the Bank would examine on their merits any cases of hardship that might arise from shortfalls in export earnings.
International Investment Bnsurance Agency (BillA)
Discussions continued during the year regarding the proposal for the creation of an International Investment Insurance Agency. A number of major issues were defined and clarified, and at the end of the fiscal year several suggested solutions were under consideration by the Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors were assisted in their work by information and oral presentations given by representatives of major bilateral investment guarantee programs.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
By June 30,1971, 62 States had ratified the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States and are thus members of ICSID. Four additional governments had signed but not yet ratified the Convention.
During the past year, ICSID learned of a number of major investment contracts providing for the submission of any future disputes to ICSID; provisions to that effect were also included in national legislation and further bilateral investment
promotion treaties. The Centre's project for collection, classification and dissemination of investment promotion legislation and treaties was continued. The Centre's own Annual Report provides details of its membership and affairs.
Borrowings and Finance
World Capital Markets—Calendar 1970
The volume of long-term securities offered or placed in the world capital markets by all external borrowers declined in calendar 1970 for the second consecutive year. For six straight years before 1969, securities sales in these markets had registered gains.
In 1970, aggregate sales of foreign and international debt issues amounted to $6,021 million equivalent, a decline of $199 million or 3.2% from the volume in 1969 and of more than $1,708 million from record sales reported in calendar 1968.
Among the major categories of borrowers, gains in borrowing were reported for the industrial countries of Europe, multilateral European institutions and international development institutions. These gains, however, were offset by a sharp decline in borrowings by issuers in other industrialized countries, notably Canada, Japan and the United States, and by a modest decline in borrowings by the developing countries. (Details of offerings in the world capital markets in calendar 1970, with comparative figures for earlier years, are shown in Annex Table 12.)
The decrease in the volume of activity on the long-term capital market took place during a period of mixed trends in the costs of borrowing internationally. These costs reached a peak in May-June 1970 and then followed a declining trend through the remainder of the year and into January 1971. However, early in 1971 there was a sharp reversal in the volume of sales which moved strongly upward. As a result, costs of borrowing internationally began to rise again in February 1971; preliminary figures indicate that this trend in costs continued, with interruptions, through June 1971.
Long-term foreign and international borrowings by issuers in the industrialized countries totaled the equivalent of $4,168 million in 1970, equal to 69% of the year's total and a decrease of $668 million or 14% below their borrowings in 1969. Issuers in the industrialized countries of Europe increased their borrowings by some $95 million in the year to $1,766 million equivalent. More than offsetting this gain was a decline of $763 million, to a total of $2,401 million, in borrowings by issuers in other industrialized countries.
Borrowings for development in 1970 amounted to $1,638 million equivalent, a gain of more than 28% over similar borrowings in 1969. All of the increase was accounted for by the international development institutions. These issuers sold a total of $1,261 million in the year, up by $396 million and equal to some 21 % of all issues sold. The developing countries, on the other hand, reduced their borrowings in 1970 by about $37 million to a total of $377 million equivalent.
Europe, for the fifth consecutive year, was the principal market for long-term external borrowings in 1970. Sales of obligations on this market totaled about $4,231 million equivalent, a decrease of some $370 million from 1969 volume.
Among European currencies, the largest volume of borrowing in 1970 was in Deutsche mark, as it was in 1969, though the volume of sales in marks was down substantially. Foreign issues floated on the German market last year amounted to $381 million equivalent and Eurobond issues denominated in Deutsche mark aggregated the equivalent of $607 million. Swiss franc issues in the year amounted to the equivalent of $286 million with virtually all borrowing consisting of the sale of foreign obligations in the Swiss market.
Sales of long-term obligations in Europe by external borrowers in the industrialized countries amounted to $3,372 million equivalent in 1970, including $351 million of foreign issues floated on the Swiss, French and Belgian markets and $3,021 million of obligations sold in the Eurobond market. For the year the total of sales in Europe by this category of borrowers was off by $362 million or nearly 10%.
United States corporations and their affiliates continued, as they have for the past six years, to be the largest class of borrowers in Europe. However, due to shifting interest rate patterns, which from time to time made borrowing more attractive domestically, and to a slowing in the U.S. economy, U.S. corporations reduced their borrowings in Europe last year to $1,092 million as compared with $1,257 million in 1969.
Italy was the second largest borrower in Europe in 1970, with government and corporate issues amounting to $433 million equivalent, including $362 million sold in the Eurobond market. Othier important borrowers in Europe in the year were issuers in the Netherlands, with sales of $292 million; France, $267 million; the United Kingdom, $258 million; Canada, $178 million; and Japan, $120 million.
Long-term borrowings by the developing countries in Europe were $179 million. The Republic of Argentina borrowed $62 million equivalent in Europe: $50 million in the Eurobond market and the equivalent of about $12 million in the market
in Switzerland. Other developing country borrowers in Europe were the Federal Electricity Commission of Mexico, $20 million; Panama, $30 million; the Highway Authority of Spain, also $30 million; and Brazil, $15.5 million.
The market in the United States absorbed $1,293 million of foreign securities in the year, a decline of only $44 million below the previous year's total. Issuers, provincial and corporate, in Canada sold $795 million in issues in the United States in 1970, a decline of $296 million from sales in 1969.
Partially offsetting the declines in Canadian and developing country borrowings in the United States in 1970, were sales of $300 million of obligations by international development institutions: $200 million by the World Bank and $100 million by the Inter-American Development Bank. In 1969 there were no sales in the U.S. by this class of issuer.
Japan became a major factor in supplying funds to development institutions in 1970. The Bank of Japan lent ¥ 72,000 million, $200 million equivalent, to the World Bank and a further ¥ 6,000 million, $16.7 million equivalent, was borrowed by the Asian Development Bank in the Japanese market.
As previously noted, the international development institutions sold a total of $1,261 million equivalent of long-term obligations in calendar 1970. The Asian Development Bank raised nearly $22 million equivalent through the sale of a Yen issue in Japan equal to $16.7 million and of a Schilling issue equal to $5 million in Austria. The Inter-American Development Bank sold four issues in the year, aggregating $165.6 million equivalent. The issues included one amounting to $27.3 million equivalent in Deutsche mark offered in Germany, the $100 million issue of bonds offered in the U.S. and two issues sold in Europe, amounting to $38.3 million.
Borrowing in four continents
Altogether the World Bank marketed 14 issues, aggregating $1,074 million, in calendar1970, compared with $713 million in 1969. The Bank's 1970 borrowings comprised a public offering in the United States of $200 million; two public offerings in Germany aggregating DM 350 million (US $96 million); private placements in Germany of DM 548 million (US$150 million); two issues of Netherlands Guilder bonds amounting to f. 120 million (US$33 million), for which settlement took place in January 1971; a public offering of SwF 75 million of bonds in Switzerland, equal to $18 million at the time of sale; placement of £L 10 million (US$28 million) of bonds with the Bank of Libya; ¥ 72,000 million (US$200 million) of obligations placed with The Bank of Japan; and
placements of two U.S. dollar issues with central banks and international organizations amounting to $349 million.
The Bank's Borrowings—Fiscal 1971
Borrowings by the World Bank in the 1971 fiscal year increased sharply and reached a new record level, as the Bank continued to build up its financial resources to meet the requirements of its larger lending program.
Eighteen issues of Bank obligations were sold during the year, aggregating $1,368 million equivalent. This compared with $735 million in fiscal 1970 and $1,224 million in fiscal 1969, the previous peak marketing year.
In addition to issues sold during the fiscal year, in June 1971 the Bank arranged for the public offering of issues in Japan and Switzerland. In each case settlement was scheduled after the close of the fiscal year, so that the two issues are not included in the total borrowings for the period. The Japanese issue, the first public offering of World Bank bonds in Japan, amounted to ¥ 11,000 million (equivalent to US$30.6 million) of Ten-Year 73A% Bonds. The Bonds were priced to the public at 991/2%, and the offering was made through an underwriting group of Japanese investment firms in association with commissioned banks. The Swiss issue, offered in June, amounted to SwF 75 million of 61/2% Fifteen-Year Bonds offered at par.
Included in the issues on which settlement was made in fiscal 1971 were marketings in the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United States, where the Bank had not raised funds for about two years. For the first time, the Bank obtained Libyan pounds through a borrowing from the Bank of Libya. It also raised new funds by means of three public offerings in the German market and borrowings from The Bank of Japan.
Borrowings in fiscal 1971 included $886 million equivalent of obligations sold to raise new funds and $482 million of refundings. In the previous year, new borrowings totaled $362 million and refunding obligations $373 million.
In fiscal 1971 two issues aggregating $400 million were sold by public offering in the United States market: $200 million of 85/s% Twenty-Five-Year Bonds offered at par in July 1970, and $200 million of 61/2% Five-Year Notes offered at par in January 1971. Of the total, $384 million was purchased by investors in the U.S. and $16 million in other countries. At the end of the year $17.1 million of the 85/b% Bonds remained on delayed delivery, for delivery to purchasers through August 2, 1972.
In offering the Five-Year Notes, the Bank acted to broaden the market for its securities in the
United States. Heretofore, it has concentrated largely on developing the U.S. market for its long-term issues; in this instance, it offered intermediate-term obligations attractive to commercial banks and other financial entities which, by the nature of their business or the needs of their portfolios, seek shorter-range maturities for investment.
As in the preceding year, The Bank of Japan was a major source of World Bank funds borrowed in fiscal 1971. Three loans, aggregating ¥ 79,000 million, equivalent to US$219 million, were made by The Bank of Japan. Interest was 7.43% a year, and the loans come due serially over the period 1975-76.
Altogether, the World Bank has received five loans aggregating ¥ 151,000 million from The Bank of Japan since February 1970. This sequence reflects the continuing growth in Japan's monetary reserves, and the Government's desire to contribute to development financing through the World Bank.
The Bank looks forward to further development of the market for its long-term bonds in Japan, and expects from time to time to tap this new source of funds for development.
The Bank's public offerings in Germany amounted to DM 550 million: DM 200 million of 81/2% Ten-Year Bonds offered in July 1970 at 99'A%; DM 150 million of 8% Fifteen-Year Bonds offered in December 1970 at 983A% ; and DM 200 million of 71/>% Fifteen-Year Bonds offered in May 1971 at 991/2%.
In Germany, the Bank also refunded, through the issuance of notes, a total of DM 528 million of maturing debt. Of these refundings DM 459 million was with the Deutsche Bundesbank and DM 69 million with the Deutsche Girozentrale— Deutsche Kommunalbank.
Two issues denominated in Netherlands guilders were sold by the Bank. One amounting to f.60 million of 81A% Fifteen-Year Bonds was publicly offered at 99% in the Netherlands; the other, also amounting to f. 60 million, consisted of 73A%
Five-Year Notes and was offered at 99'A% in December 1970, to non-residents of the Netherlands and the United States. In Switzerland a syndicate of Swiss banks offered SwF 75 million of World Bank 63A% Fifteen-Year Bonds. The offering was made in November 1970 at 991/2%.
In the year, the World Bank made its initial borrowing of Libyan pounds through placement of £L*10 million (US$28 million equivalent) of 8% Five-Year Bonds with the Bank of Libya.
Central banks in some 70 countries, together with an international organization, supplied the remainder of new funds raised during the year. The Bank placed with these institutions two issues of Two-Year U.S. dollar Bonds totaling $375 million: $175 million of 77/e% Bonds, placed in September 1970, and $200 million of 5.20% Bonds, placed in March 1971. Of the total, $337 million replaced two maturing issues and $38 million was added to the funds of the Bank.
The outstanding funded debt of the Bank was increased during the year by delivery of $43.5 million of bonds sold in a previous year on a delayed delivery basis. The U.S. dollar equivalent of the Bank's outstanding debt was increased a further $10 million as a result of the upward revaluation of the Swiss franc.
A total of $490 million equivalent of debt matured in the fiscal year. The bulk was held by the Deutsche Bundesbank and other central banks and governmental institutions outside the United States. Included, however, was £2.1 million of 3'/2% Twenty-Year Stock sold on the London market in 1951, which came due in the year. The original amount of the issue was £5 million, of which £2.9 million had been previously retired. A further $58 million of debt was retired during the year by means of sinking and purchase fund operations.
Distribution of Bank debt
At June 30, 1971, the outstanding funded debt of the Bank stood at $5,424 million equivalent, an increase of $856 million for the year. The estimated division of holdings of the Bank's outstanding debt by countries as of June 30, 1971, was 38% by investors in the United States, 27% in Germany, 8% in Japan, 5% in Switzerland, and 4%* in Canada. The remaining 18% is held largely by central banks and other governmental institutions in more than 75 countries.
The Bank's borrowing costs in the period, weighted by amount and maturity, averaged 8.07% compared with an average of 7.54% in fiscal 1970. In September 1970 the Bank's lending rate was raised from 7% to 71A%. This rate was maintained through fiscal 1971.
Liquid resources available to the Bank amounted to $2,566 million on June 30, 1971, a
gain of $474 million during the fiscal year and of more than $1,000 million over the amount at the end of fiscal 1968. By adding to liquid assets, the Bank insured its ability to meet larger cash requirements for loan disbursements. The Bank maintains a continuing review of its liquidity requirements, and for its longer term needs has established guidelines to meet future contingencies.
Increase in Capital: Bank
During fiscal 1971, the Bank's Board of Governors approved two resolutions calling for increases in both authorized and subscribed capital. Effective December 31, 1970, the authorized capital of the Bank was raised from $24,000 million to $27,000 million. The purpose was to enable the Bank to accept special increases totaling $2,222 million in the capital stock of 75 member countries, which were approved in July 1970. It also provides sufficient authorized capital for the subscriptions of new members and for any increases in those of individual members.
The special increases in the subscriptions of 75 members, on a selective basis, follow similar increases in the International Monetary Fund resulting from the Fund's fifth general review of member countries' quotas.
Under the resolution authorizing special increases to capital stock, the 75 members involved have the right to subscribe to an additional 22,220 shares at a price of $100,000 a share. If all special increases are taken up, the Bank's subscribed capital will rise to about $25,500 million, of which more than $2,500 million would be paid in and approximately $23,000 million would remain subject to call only to meet the Bank's obligations created by its own borrowing or by guarantees of loans.
To June 30, 1971, nine members had taken up their special increases in subscriptions, and a further 13 members were taking the necessary steps to do so.
Other Financial Operations: Bank
Loans held by the Bank on June 30,1971, net of exchange adjustments and including those not yet effective, totaled $11,327 million, an increase of $1,459 million in the fiscal year. Effective loans held amounted to $9,980 million as of June 30, 1971.
Disbursements on loans in fiscal 1971 were $955 million, the highest level reported in any year and a gain of $183 million over the year before. Cumulative disbursements on June 30, 1971, aggregated $11,310 million; the undisbursed portion of loans at the end of the year was $4,741
million compared with $3,905 million at the end of fiscal 1970. (See comment below concerning disbursements.)
Repayments by the Bank's borrowers were $465 million in the year, including $319 million paid to the Bank and $146 million to investors who had purchased portions of the Bank's loans. Cumulative repayments as of June 30, 1971, were $4,227 million: $2,445 million to the Bank and $1,782 million to purchasers of loans.
Sales of participations in loans and of items from the Bank's loan portfolio were down substantially. The total of $24 million compared with sales of $172 million in fiscal 1970; normal sales in that year had been augmented, however, by the purchase of $162.5 million of portfolio items by The Bank of Japan. As of June 30,1971, cumulative sales of loan participations and from loan portfolio aggregated $2,373 million.
Income and Expenditures: Bank
The Bank's net income for the fiscal year was $212 million, compared with a net of $213 million in fiscal 1970. Commission still charged on outstanding portions of the Bank's earliest loans declined to $286,000, as additional principal on these loans was repaid. It was credited to the Special Reserve, which amounted to $292.2 million on June 30,1971.
Gross income for the year was $577 million, an increase of $73 million over the previous year. Contributing to the increase were gains of $38 million in investment income to $187 million and of $39 million in income from loans to $383 million. Other income declined $4 million to a total of $7 million.
More than offsetting the rise in gross income was an increase of $74 million in expenses, which totaled $365 million. Bond and note interest and issuance expenses continued to rise. This reflected in part the impact of higher interest costs on borrowings in recent years; in part, it resulted from the year's sharp increase in funded debt outstanding. The total of these expenses in the period was $309 million, compared with $246 million the year before. Taking into account the substantial amount of funds derived by the Bank from its paid-in capital and accumulated earnings, the overall cost of all funds (capital, accumulated earnings and borrowings) through fiscal 1971 was 3.7%, compared with 3.3% through fiscal 1970.
Administrative expenses of the Bank and IDA increased as a result of further staff additions to meet the requirements of expanding operations, as well as the general rise in operating costs. The Bank's administrative expenses were $56 million after deducting $20 million in "Management Fees" from IDA (compared with $16 million in
fiscal 1970), and the further deduction of $1.75 million paid for "Service and Support" by IFC. The previous year, the Bank's administrative costs were $45 million. The Bank charge to IFC for "Service and Support" took effect on July 1,1970, replacing an earlier cost-sharing arrangement under which certain categories of IFC expenses were charged to the various items involved.
At the 1970 Annual Meeting of the Boards of Governors, the Board approved a transfer of $100 million of the Bank's net income for fiscal 1970 as a grant to IDA; the remaining $113 million of that year's net income was allocated to the Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guarantees and from Currency Devaluations. After the close of the 1971 fiscal year the Executive Directors allocated $102 million of net income for the period to the Supplemental Reserve, raising it to $1,254 million and total reserves to $1,546 million. The Executive Directors at the same time recommended to the Governors that they approve the transfer to IDA, as a grant, of the remaining $110 million of net income for the year.
Disbursements: Bank
In fiscal 1971, Bank disbursements approached $1,000 million for the first time in a single year: the total was $955 million, an increase of nearly 24% over the previous year.
Lending by the Bank has averaged $1,658 million over the last three years, compared with $854 million for the years 1966-68. A considerable lag had developed between commitments and disbursements. There had been little or no increase in the volume of disbursements in fiscal 1969 and 1970, and it was only during the year under review that the impact of the higher level of lending began to be reflected significantly in disbursements.
A number of steps have been taken, and other possibilities are being explored, to help reduce the interval between commitments and disbursements while maintaining the Bank's established standards of effective project implementation. Reference to one of these measures will be found in various sections of this Report: the practice* of including funds in loans for feasibility studies, or even for final engineering work that will be required for other projects in the same or related fields. Occasionally the Bank includes funds in a project loan to reimburse the borrower for expenditure it has already incurred to carry out such preparatory work. In rare cases, a separate loan is made specifically to finance detailed engineering costs for a future project, but this is a costly procedure in terms of staff time required to process the engineering loan itself. Especially in the poorer countries, more assistance is being given in connection with procurement procedures and
project execution. Field supervision of projects has been intensified, and includes a review of disbursement problems.
The lag in disbursements was the subject of intensive review during the year, and of discussion by the Executive Directors. Analysis showed that it stemmed from a number of causes, including a lower proportion of relatively quick-disbursing logins, which characterized much of the Bank's early assistance to more developed countries; an increasing proportion, among the Bank's borrowers, of very poor countries with less experience in executing projects and working with the Bank; and a steady increase in both the variety and comprehensiveness of projects being financed, often requiring more time for execution, and therefore disbursement.
Finances: IDA
New credits signed by IDA in the fiscal year amounted to $584 million, bringing the gross aggregate since the start of operations to $3,406 million. About two-thirds of the total of effective credits held by the Association had been disbursed by June 30, 1971, including $235 million in the latest fiscal year.
Resources available to IDA were increased during the year by approximately $161 million. They included a grant of $100 million by the Bank from its fiscal 1970 net income, which was approved by the Board of Governors at the 1970 Annual Meeting in Copenhagen. A further $48 million was received from one member country in payment of its pledge under the second replenishment. The Association also accepted a contribution offered by New Zealand, which is not a member of IDA, amounting to $NZ5 million, equal to US$5.6 million. Net income for IDA in the period amounted to $7 million.
Grants from net income have been made by the World Bank to IDA in each year since 1964, and have totaled $485 million. As authorized by the Board of Governors, these grants have been of funds "not needed for allocation to reserves or otherwise required to be retained in the Bank's business" and which, "accordingly, could prudently be distributed as dividends." Except in 1967, they have amounted each year to about half the Bank's net income. After the end of fiscal 1971, the Bank's Executive Directors recommended a grant of $110 million, representing nearly 52% of the year's net income.
A resolution calling for a third replenishment of IDA's resources was approved by vote of the Governors on February 17,1971. Under the resolution, the 18 Part I countries would make available additional funds totaling $2,398 million in the three year period June 30, 1971, to June 30,1974; and a
further $10,540,000 would be made available in the same period by three Part II countries: Ireland, Spain and Yugoslavia.
The Swiss Confederation has also agreed, subject to parliamentary approval, to lend IDA the equivalent of about $32 million without interest. Proceeds of the loan would be made available in three equal instalments in the years 1971 through 1973, and repayment would extend over 50 years. Altogether, a total of about $2,440 million would be available in the three years, with about $813 million being paid in annually.
The resolution covering the third replenishment provides for an adjustment of the voting power of the Part I countries that will more accurately reflect the share of each of them in total Part I contributions to IDA. It also provides an opportunity to the Part II countries to increase their subscriptions in order to maintain their relative voting power as a group. Payment on additional Part II subscriptions will be made in the currency of each subscribing member.
When the third replenishment becomes effective, it will more than double the amount available to IDA under the second replenishment. For it to become effective, however, countries providing not less than $1,900 million of additional resources, and including at least 12 Part I members, must formally notify IDA that they will make their specified subscriptions and contributions.
The original target date for the third replenishment to take effect was June 30, 1971. To that date, formal notifications had been received from 10 Part I countries pledging an aggregate of $1,068 million and 39 Part II countries pledging about $4 million. The effective date has been extended to September 30, 1971, to permit completion of action by other Part I countries. (See page 5 for action by some countries to commit contributions in advance of the agreement's effectiveness.)
Organization and Administration Staff and Department Changes
Professor Hollis B. Chenery succeeded Mr. Irving S. Friedman in September 1970 as Economic Adviser to the President and Chairman of the Economic Committee.
In November 1970, the Bank opened its office in Tokyo. Its activities are mainly concerned with facilitating liaison between the Bank and the Japanese Government, as well as the Japanese financial community. Mr. Aritoshi Soejima was appointed Director of the new office. Mr. Soejima had served as Counselor for International Affairs of the Ministry of Finance in Tokyo and spent six years on the staff of the International Monetary Fund.
Also in November, Mr. Luis Escobar was appointed to the new post of Special Representative for Inter-American Organizations.
Effective January 1,1971, a major departmental change involved reorganization of the central economics staff into three units, all reporting to the Economic Adviser to the President: the Economics Department, the Economic Program Department and the Development Research Center. Mr. P. D. Henderson, formerly Chief of the Quantitative Techniques and Analysis Division, was appointed Director of the Economics Department in January 1971. Mr. John Philip Hayes was appointed Director of the Economic Program Department in May 1971. He served most recently as Deputy Director-General of Economic Planning at the Overseas Development Administration of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London. Mr. Hayes served as an economist on the economic staff of the Bank from 1958 to 1964.
Also effective January 1, 1971, Mr. K. Georg Gabriel was appointed Controller of the World Bank Group, succeeding Mr. Francis R. Poore, who retired after more than 23 years of service. Mr. Gabriel joined the Bank staff in 1967 and had been Deputy Controller since 1969.
In another reorganization effective February 1971, a new Department of Computing Activities took over the programming and systems analysis functions assigned to the Data Processing Division of the Administration Department and the Statistical Services Division of the Economics Department, and responsibility for operations of the Joint Computer Center. Mr. Mervin Muller, formerly Professor of Computer Sciences and of Statistics at the University of Wisconsin and Special Assistant to the Vice President of the University, joined the Bank in February 1971 as Director of the new Department.
Responsibility for overseeing the work of the Administration Department of the World Bank Group was assigned in April 1971 to Mr. Mohamed Shoaib, Vice President.
Mr. Ernesto Franco-Holguin was appointed Special Representative for United Nations Organizations, succeeding Mr. Federico Consolo, who retired on April 1, 1971.
Recruitment
The Bank's program to recruit highly qualified new staff for its expanding program of lending and technical assistance continued through fiscal 1971. Two hundred sixty seven professionals joined the staff during the year, resulting in a net increase of 178 and a total of 1,348.
This represented an increase of about 82% over the three years since 1968, a period in which lending operations more than doubled. Including non-
professionals, the number of staff members rose to 2,610, an overall increase of 1,046.
While the Bank's recruitment is based solely on qualifications rather than any formal or in-
Executive Directors
formal nationality quota system, a special effort has been made in recent years to achieve a more representative balance. As a result, the number of nationalities on the staff as a whole is now 89; among professionals, it rose during the year from 68 to 78. In the last three years, the percentage of professional staff members coming from IDA's Part II (less developed) member countries has increased from 19% to 25%.
The Bank's Young Professional Program continued to expand. Selections have been increased to three each year. A total of 118 staff members who had originally entered the Bank under this program have been assigned to regular Bank/IDA or IFC posts. A further 60 Young Professionals are now in training and an additional 30 are expected to join the program in the first few months of fiscal 1972. This will bring the total number of Young Professionals serving the Bank Croup to 230 from 57 countries.
Membership and Executive Directors Membership
The Bank's membership rose to 116 in fiscal 1971 with the addition of Equatorial Guinea, Fiji and the Khmer Republic (formerly Cambodia), whose subscriptions were $6.4 million, $11.1 million and $20.3 million respectively. IDA's membership increased to 107; new members were the Khmer Republic, with a subscription of $1,020,000, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (formerly Southern Yemen), with a subscription of $1,180,000.
At the end of the fiscal year, membership in the Bank was pending for Malta and Oman, and in IDA for Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Malta, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay and Venezuela.
The Bank's authorized capital was increased from $24,000 million to $27,000 million, as of December 31, 1970. Its subscribed capital rose during the year from $23,158.8 million to $23,871 million.
The Board of Governors of the Bank authorized increases totaling $2,222 million in the capital subscriptions of 75 member countries; nine of these countries had taken up $552.7 million in additional subscriptions by June 30,1971. In addition, India, Panama and Uruguay increased their subscriptions by $100 million, $8.6 million and $13.1 million respectively.
With the increase in its subscription, Japan became one of the five largest subscribers to the Bank's capital stock, and was thus entitled to appoint an Executive Director. Mr. Seitaro Hattori, who was elected by Burma, Ceylon, Japan, Laos, Malaysia, Nepal, Singapore and Thailand at the 1970 regular election of Executive Directors, was appointed in February 1971 as Executive Director for Japan; and Khunying Suparb Yossundara was elected Executive Director by the remaining countries in the group.
There were a number of other changes among the Executive Directors during the fiscal year. At the time of the 1970 regular election, Dr. Luis Machado, who began his service as an Executive Director in 1946, retired at the end of his term. He was succeeded by Mr. Adrian Lajous. Dr. Pieter Lieftinck, who joined the Bank as an Executive Director in 1955, resigned on March 31,1971, and Mr. A. Rinnooy Kan was elected to serve the remainder of his term.
Mr. Claude M. Isbister succeeded Mr. Patrick M. Reid on August 1, 1970, and was reelected as Executive Director at the 1970 regular election. Mr. Fritz Stedtfeld became Executive Director for Germany in October 1970 in place of Mr. Wilhelm Hanemann. Mr. Marc Vienot succeeded Mr. Georges Plescoff as Executive Director for France on November 1, 1970. Messrs. J. O. Stone, Christopher Kahangi, Erik Karlsson and Angel R. Caram completed their terms of service. In the 1970 regular election, their respective posts were filled by Messrs. A. W. Young, Donatien Bihute, Erik Tornqvist and Luis B. Mey. Mr. Young resigned his position as Executive Director in December 1970 and was succeeded by Mr. R. Lindsay Knight.
The nationalities of Executive Directors and the countries they represent will be found in Appendix 5, which also shows a number of changes which occurred during the year among Alternate Executive Directors.
PART II
TRENDS AND OUTLOOK IN DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
The Flow of External Financial Resources to Developing Countries
Data now available on the flow of capital to the developing countries in 1970 appear to confirm trends which have been emerging with increasing clarity since about 1965. Total net capital receipts of all developing areas from all sources approached $15 billion in 1970, an increase of about $1 billion over 1969. Part of this increase was the result of an increased net flow from the multilateral development institutions. More than half of it, however, came from bilateral sources, primarily official export credits from DAC countries, and private capital, including both export credits and private investment. Official development assistance from the DAC countries, the main source of grants and loans at concessionary terms, increased only slightly above the level reached in 1967.
The broad outlines of the contributions of the DAC countries are sketched in Annex Table 3. Total net flows1 increased by more than $1 billion in 1970 as compared with 1969. The official development component of the total, however, rose by less than $200 million, with the result that while the share of total flow in the combined GNP of the DAC countries remained at about 0.?5%, the share of official development assistance declined further to an estimated 0.34% of GNP. Within the net flow of about $6.8 billion in
1"Net" as here used denotes gross disbursements minus amortization oi principal; turther netting out oi interest payments yields net transfer as shown in Annex Table 9.
PERU—A grain ship, Port of Callao. This port was improved and expanded with the first two of four Bank loans for port development in Peru. Others have helped to build deep water facilities at Pisco, south of Callao, and a new port at Paita, northern Peru's main harbor.
official development assistance, grants increased slightly in absolute terms but remained at a relative level of about 65% of the total, as compared with almost 90% at the beginning of the past decade.
The increase in the total official flow resulted from a sharp rise in "other official flows," which almost doubled to a peak of $1.1 billion in 1970. These items represent primarily officially financed export credits at terms with very little concessionary element. In the early 1960s, "other official flows" rarely constituted more than 5-10% of total official DAC flows; in 1970 they amounted to more than 14% of the total, and accounted for most of the significant increase on the official side of the ledger.
The net flow of private capital from DAC countries increased further in 1970 to $6.7 billion, continuing the steady growth which began in 19621963 from a level of about $2.5 billion. The increase in 1970 consisted chiefly of guaranteed private export credits; a sharp increase in direct investment was offset by an equal decline in portfolio investment. During the past five years, net private export credits to developing countries have almost doubled in annual volume; in 1970 they constituted over 30% of total private flow as compared with only about 15% in the early 1960s. During the same period, 1965-1970, private direct investment has averaged about $2.5 billion a year, although there has been some year-to-year fluctuation around that mark. The remaining private flow, defined loosely as "portfolio investment" in DAC statistics, has also undergone a transformation in composition. As indicated in Annex Table 12, the developing countries have, since 1968, raised a declining amount of long-term capital in the international money markets, in part because of the steadily increasing cost associated with this source of funds. Replacing these flows, there has been a phenomenal growth in other forms of direct private bilateral financing,
consisting for the most part of loans from banks and other financial institutions, such as insurance companies and private investment syndicates. From a level of about $500 million annually in the mid-1960s, net disbursements of this type of financing have more than doubled, exceeding $1 billion in 1970.
In view of the external debt situation of the developing countries discussed below, it is important in assessing these trends to keep in mind the terms on which the major components of the total flow of capital are extended. Recent research in the World Bank indicates that for the 80 developing countries covered in the Annex Tables of this Report, the major types of external financing just described carry representative terms as shown below (in increasing order of "softness"):
(') Discounted at 10%. The 10% discount rate, though arbitrary, has become customary in comparisons of terms of aid by DAC. The "grant" concept is not intended to imply that private capital flows on commercial terms involve a concessionary element. Moreover, when comparing terms of lending from various sources, the interest rate differential is not the only criterion, and other aspects, such as aid tying and price differences, should be taken into consideration.
To summarize trends in the net flow of resources in these categories in absolute terms since 1965: private financial credits have more than doubled; bonds and other private flows have shown little change; private suppliers' credits have almost tripled; DAC "other official flows" have quadrupled; multilateral loans have increased by roughly half; net loans from Sino-Soviet countries are estimated to have declined slightly (and in any case comprise only about 5% of the global net flow); net DAC official development assistance loans have increased by about 30%; and the flow of grants has increased by about 10%. In other words, while the flow of resources in those categories with a relatively high concessionary element has grown very slowly or not at all for the past few years, growth in most of the "hard term" categories has been rapid and, from all indications, appears likely to continue unabated, at least for the immediate future.
The effect of these trends is illustrated in two different ways in Annex Tables 4 and 10. Table 10 shows that in every developing region the grant element of combined loans and grants committed has declined since 1965.1 For the most part the decline has been steady; for the developing countries as a whole the reduction of average grant element has been on the order of 25% from the 1965 level. The fact that disbursements normatly lag behind commitments (the length of the lag depending, of course, on the type of transaction) reduces the likelihood of an early shift in the composition of gross new flows to the developing countries. This composition is shown in some detail in Annex Table 4 for a sampling of recent years. The table is arranged to show changes in the geographic distribution of total disbursements (in the right-hand column), changes in the global distribution of flows by category (in the bottom rows), and changes in the composition of flows for each region (in the interior of the table). With respect to the composition of flows by category, the trends discussed above have resulted in what may be regarded essentially, in global terms, as a substitution of hard-term private capital flows for grants. During the period covered, gross disbursements of private loans and credits have increased from less than a fourth of the total to almost a third, while grants have declined from a third to about a fifth. Despite moderate increases in bilateral official loans and loans and credits from multilateral development agencies, the share of gross flows from these sources has remained about the same as in 1965.
These movements in composition have, of course, affected the geographical distribution of capital flows. Since most of the increase has come from private sources, it has been directed primarily to those regions where rapid growth is already taking place, where the level of development is already relatively high, or where exceptional opportunities exist, as in some of the extractive industries. The poorer regions, particularly Africa and South Asia, where growth prospects are perhaps less clear, have been receiving a declining share of the total gross flows of external capital directed to all developing countries. In 1965, Africa and South Asia together accounted for about 47% of the total, while in 1969 the figure had been reduced to about 33%. In absolute terms, this has meant a reduction in gross flows of almost $1 billion per year for these two regions, while the total to East Asia and countries
'The figures shown in the final column of Table 10 are aggregates for those transactions for which every element of the terms information necessary to calculate the grant element is known. Consequently, while these data constitute a large sample of the total, they understate the actual level ol commitments received by the countries covered.
GHANA—Constructing fishing boats. Ghana's inshore fishing fleet is being modernized and enlarged with the help of a $1.3 million IDA credit, as part of the first stage of a long-term plan to expand the fishing industry.
of the Western Hemisphere increased by more than $1.5 billion between 1965 and 1969.
Trends in the composition of flows within regions are less clear, but do reflect global developments to some degree. In every region except Africa grants have declined as a share of gross flo*ws. Private loans and credits have continued to inch upward in relative terms in the Western Hemisphere, and in 1969 made up half the total of gross disbursements. A sharp increase in the total share of private flows has also taken place in the Middle East and Southern Europe; the doubling of the level in South Asia reflects, more than anything else, a very low starting point. The very large increase in the relative share of official bilateral flows in total capital receipts of East Asia is in large part a result of the resumption of lend-
ing to Indonesia by the DAC governments, although such flows to other countries in the area have also increased.
To conclude, private capital flows and official export credits have continued to grow rapidly, while net official development assistance appears to have settled onto a plateau of about $7 billion annually. The initiative for the supply of external finance thus appears to be shifting gradually from the public to the private sector, with clear implications for both the terms and geographic distribution of global flows. As noted below in the section on external debt, debt service owed to private creditors over the next few years is already very high in relation to private debt outstanding, and is heavily concentrated in those regions where private capital flows continue to make up a growing share of total receipts of external financing. Recent studies undertaken in the OECD and several DAC countries indicate that this conclusion would be reinforced if satisfactory data were available on the flow and accumulation of direct investment in the developing countries. These flows are excluded from the general discussion above, but they are, nevertheless, the single most important source of private capital available to the developing countries. On the basis of the incomplete data available, it appears that fully half of the estimated total of $35 to $40 billion in foreign direct investment assets in the developing areas is in Western Hemisphere countries. The only general exception to the patterns noted for flows of other types of private capital is that the next largest recipient region for direct investment in recent years has been Africa, where investment in petroleum extraction and mining has been expanding rapidly.
It is difficult, and perhaps risky, to attempt to translate recent capital flow trends into forecasts for the future, even when such trends appear to be firmly established and when such forecasts appear to be highly desirable for global development planning and analysis. About all that can reasonably be said on this score is that such efforts as have been made indicate that in the near future not much change is to be expected in the patterns established during the past five years or so. It must be understood, of course, that such a conclusion, tentative though it is, could be summarily invalidated by any of a number of developments, particularly on the international political scene. On the other hand, once such a conclusion is reached, it is not at all difficult to trace out a simple, mechanical outline of the general direction of capital flows over the next few years. Exploratory work of this sort has been started in the World Bank, and the initial results give little cause for optimism. Barring a major reversal of recent
trends in the volume, composition and terms of capital flows to the developing countries, little significant increase can be expected over the next decade in the net transfer figure of roughly $5 billion, excluding equity investments, as shown in Annex Table 9.
While projections of this sort are not badly out of line with the measured growth of both capital flows and debt service over the past decade, such a slow expansion of the total net transfer of resources to the developing countries has broad implications for development. Such a flow would fall short of most reasonable estimates of net capital requirements over the next decade, and would fail to meet the minimum objectives for global capital flows suggested for the Second Development Decade, much less the more ambitious guidelines proposed two years ago by the Commission on International Development. Further, in view of the widely disparate individual debt and balance of payments situations discussed below, it would appear inevitable that some individual developing countries would face the prospect of reduced growth rates or debt servicing difficulties.
The External Debt of
Developing Countries
The World Bank Group has been concerned with the external debt of developing countries for many years. In part, this concern has stemmed from the need to protect the Bank's own loan portfolio, as enjoined by the Bank's Articles of Agreement, From the very beginning of its lending operations, prospective borrowers have been required to provide the Bank with information on their current debt situation. But more basic has been the Group's concern for the success of the whole development process, and this has led Bank staff to pay particular attention to the debt prospects of member countries as a regular part of their economic work.
In recent years, international interest in this subject has intensified. The Commission on International Development, headed by Mr. Lester B. Pearson, described the increase in debt and debt service payments over the last 15 years as "explosive," and noted that the "debts already contracted by many developing countries cast a pall over the short- and long-term management of their economies." The Peterson Task Force, set up by President Nixon to advise him on the shape of the United States aid program in the seventies, described the present debt burden of many developing countries as "an urgent problem" which "endangers continuing imports, investment, and development." In March 1970, the Inter-American
Committee on the Alliance for Progress requested the Bank to assist in a special study of the debt of Latin American countries. Responding to this growing wave of concern, the President of the World Bank committed the Bank's staff to a thorough study of all aspects of the growing indebtedness of developing countries at the 1970 Annual Meeting of the Board of Governors in Copenhagen. The study has been completed and is being transmitted to the Governors. This section of the Annual Report draws heavily on its findings.
The Present Debt Situation
Unfortunately, available statistics on external debt are not completely reliable: some of the largest debtor countries themselves have no accurate idea of the total extent of their debt, and information on debt not enjoying the guarantee of the public authorities in the borrowing country is so scanty that that type of debt must of necessity be excluded from the analysis entirely. Comparison of reports from creditors and debtors suggests that the World Bank's external debt data, which so far are based on reporting by debtors, understate even the public and publicly guaranteed debt somewhat. Over time, there have been significant improvements in the Bank's data, and further improvements are expected.
It is safe to say, however, that by the end of 1969 80 developing countries had together accumulated almost $59 billion of external public debt1 (including about $13 billion of undisbursed amounts). As Table 6 shows, half of this debt was owed by only eight countries, while another eight accounted for almost half of the remainder.
Total public external debt outstanding grew at an average rate of 14% annually between the mid-fifties and 1969, though, as Annex Table 5 shows, the rate slowed somewhat in the last two or three years. In some areas, it grew substantially faster than average: in South Asia (which had little external debt in the mid-fifties), for example, the rate was 22% annually, and in East Asia 19%. In the Western Hemisphere, on the other hand, where debt was already substantial in the mid-fifties, growth of debt averaged a comparatively modest 11% annually.
Debt service payments also grew at about 14% annually between 1956 and 1969 and in the latter year amounted to $5.0 billion. But it is interesting that debt service increased very much more slowly in the sixties (9% annually) than in the late fifties
1 Includes all debt repayable to external creditors in foreign currency, with an original or extended maturity of more than one year, that is a direct obligation of, or has repayment guaranteed by, a public body in the borrowing country.
(29% annually). This deceleration was true in all developing regions with the exception of East Asia, where the growth of debt service accelerated slightly in the sixties. The high rate of growth of debt service in the late fifties may be overstated because of the comparative unreliability of the data for the base year, and in any case reflects rather modest absolute increases from a low base. Wfiat can not yet be fully explained is the slow growth of debt service payments in the sixties in relation to that of debt outstanding: it seems to result from a combination of factors, including the lengthening of maturity and grace periods on loans and credits from official sources and multilateral institutions in the early sixties, the gradual lengthening of the average maturity of suppliers' credits in recent years, and the multilateral debt renegotiations undertaken by some major debtor countries in the late sixties.
In a number of developing countries, particularly in Southern Europe, the Middle East, and the Western Hemisphere, the rate of growth of debt outstanding in the sixties was little if any higher than the rate of growth of gross national product (in current prices). In the same areas, debt service payments grew on the average somewhat more slowly than current-price gross national poduct, and at about the same rate as foreign exchange earnings.
In other countries, especially in Asia and Africa, both debt outstanding and debt service payments grew much more quickly than either gross national product or foreign exchange earnings. As a result, the ratio of debt service to foreign exchange earnings — the so-called "debt service ratio"—grew rapidly in those countries (Annex Table 7). In Ceylon, for example, the debt service ratio increased from less than 1% in 1960 to over 10% in 1970, while in both India and Pakistan the
rise was from about 5% to over 20% in the same period.
The debt service ratio is, to be sure, a rather inadequate indicator of the seriousness of a country's debt problem and international comparisons of these ratios have only limited meaning. Some countries which have good standing in world capital markets are able to retain a high credit rating regardless of these debt service ratios. To put the problem in its proper perspective, many other factors must also be considered: the stability and diversification of a country's export structure; the prospects for future export growth; the extent to which imports can be reduced without adversely affecting current production; the structure of debt outstanding; the size of foreign exchange reserves and available compensatory financing facilities; and the debt service record of the country. But the debt service ratio does give some indication of the extent to which a country must take account of its external indebtedness in its economic policies, and rapid increases usually point to problems ahead unless gross capital inflows are expected to rise very rapidly or the prospect for export earnings is particularly good.
Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1969, 54.4% was owed to official bilateral creditors, 19.2% to multilateral lending institutions such as the World Bank Croup and the regional development banks, and only 26.4% to private creditors (Annex Table 5). Of the debt to private creditors, a little under half was on account of suppliers' credits, with the balance reflecting bonds held abroad, debts to financial institutions, and debts arising from nationalization of foreign assets.
In certain areas, debts to private creditors were substantially less important than this average would suggest. Thus the proportion of the total
owed to private creditors was particularly low in South Asia and was only 22.3% in Africa. By contrast, debt to private creditors was important in the Western Hemisphere (37.9%), the Middle East (50%), and a small number of individual countries in other areas.
Differences in the relative volume of debt to private creditors is part of the reason why the ratio of debt service to debt outstanding varied from region to region, as the figures above indicate. Only in the Middle East and Southern Europe (where a very small number of relatively prosperous developing countries have access to long-term private capital) was the ratio of debt service due in 1970 to debt outstanding to private creditors at the end of 1969 less than 20%.
Such ratios cannot be used to yield a precise measure of the "hardness" of borrowing terms because of the important effect which the age of a loan at date of measurement has on the size of the ratio (the ratio will normally be much lower for a loan which has just been extended than it will for one which is nearly fully repaid). But they do suggest what other evidence confirms, namely that loans extended by private creditors normally have substantially shorter repayment periods than those extended by either official bilateral creditors or multilateral lending institutions.
Over the period 1970-75, developing countries will be required to make service payments totaling more than $19,830 million on the debt of about $43,410 million outstanding to bilateral official and multilateral creditors at the end of 1969—a ratio of required debt service over that six-year period to debt outstanding of 46%. Debt service due on the debt of about $15,530 million to private.creditors, on the other hand, is expected to total about $12,970 million, a ratio of 84%. In some individual countries — such as Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Peru, the Philippines and Yugoslavia — the ratio with respect to debt to private creditors is expected to be close to, or even higher than, 100%.
Past Debt Servicing Difficulties and Their Causes
Since the mid-fifties, eight developing countries have undertaken multilateral debt renegotiations, most on several occasions. The number of countries is small, but the list includes many of the largest debtors among the developing countries. Moreover, there are at least 12 others that have renegotiated their external debt on a bilateral basis. In recent months, Pakistan has suspended the transfer of debt service payments to sources of official bilateral development assistance, except where service can be made in kind, and the government has indicated that it would like to discuss the debt burden with creditors.
In some recent international discussions on the external debt of developing countries, the word "debt" has become so nearly synonymous with "debt problem" that it is perhaps wise to recall that countries, like corporations or individuals, borrow because they believe it in their best interests to do so. To be able to borrow abroad is an important advantage, and the size of a country's external debt reflects not so much the size of its "problem" as the extent to which foreign nations have been willing to assist by extending it credit. There is nothing intrinsically threatening, therefore, in a rapid rate of growth of external debt, and to argue that many developing countries could now make effective use of additional external capital is to justify a further increase in their external debt.
What, then, is the origin of the debt problem which has confronted so many developing countries in the recent past? The causes are numerous, and no general discussion can do justice to their great variety. But two issues are fundamental: the productivity with which capital can be employed by the borrowing country, and the ability of the country to "transform" the output of the capital into foreign exchange available for debt service. In both respects—and especially in their capacity for "transformation"—many developing countries are in a more difficult position than developed countries.
As far as the question of productivity of capital is concerned, there is an abundant supply in many developing countries of projects which yield a return on capital at least equal to that earned on projects in developed countries, or more relevantly, to the cost of capital in international markets. But there are many other countries in which, at their present level of development, the supply of such projects is limited. Given skilled manpower and adequate infrastructure, the supply would increase. But manpower and infrastructure require substantial investments in schools, medical facilities, roads, etc. These, though vital to development, tend to yield a financial return only after many years.
The problem of converting part of the output of an investment into foreign exchange to service foreign debt is not unrelated to the availability of financially viable projects in the borrowing country. But there are some aspects which warrant separate consideration. The balance of payments adjustment mechanism rarely works as smoothly in developing countries as it does in developed. In part, this is because factors of production tend to be less mobile in developing countries than in developed, and changing the orientation of men and machines from one geared to the domestic market to one geared to the international is, as a result, a long and difficult task. In part also the adjustment mechanism works less smoothly because, when the re-orientation is accomplished, developing countries often find that the products they are most suited to produce for international markets are those faced with a low elasticity of demand, quantitative import restrictions or high tariffs. There is an obvious danger in sweeping predictions about the terms of trade of developing countries as a group, but it does seem clear on the basis of past experience that the prices of commodities such as textile fibers, rubber, sugar and tea are likely to deteriorate rather sharply if developing countries substantially increase their sup-
ply in the world market. It is for this reason that moves currently under way to provide a measure of preferential access to the markets of developed countries for the manufactured exports of the developing are so greatly to be welcomed.
There are some developing countries in which both the productivity of capital and the capacity to "transform" local currency into foreign are high. These countries can afford to borrow large amounts of external capital at commercial rates. There are many other countries, however, where these conditions do not obtain, and for them the avoidance of debt servicing problems requires that, on average, foreign capital be available on concessional terms.
Annex Table 10, summarized below, indicates that over the period 1965-69, the grant element1 of loans and grants provided to developing countries declined from 59% to 45% (at 10% discount rate). Except in the Middle East and the Western Hemisphere, the grant element in loans alone remained virtually unchanged in all areas, which is rather remarkable considering the hardening of interest rates in world markets over that period. The decline in the overall grant element, therefore, reflects some hardening in loan terms to the Middle East and the Western Hemisphere, and, even more important, a significant decline in the volume of grants provided.
Not reflected in these figures, moreover, are the additional costs incurred by developing countries because of the conditions imposed on the use to which the flow of foreign resources can be put: thus, most official aid and all export credits are "tied" to a particular procurement source, and there are other conditions which sometimes raise the real cost of aid to recipients. Because these conditions increase the effective interest cost of
The "grant element" of a loan is the difference between its nominal value and the discounted cost to the recipient of the flow of future service payments (see page 48).
loans, and reduce the real value of grants, the grant element in the total flow is certainly lower than indicated above.
On the other hand, even allowing for these factors would not greatly alter the impression that official development assistance continues to be made available to developing countries on highly concessional terms. Before adjustment for aid tying, the grant element on such assistance has averaged around 80% in recent years. The few countries which have not received official development assistance on highly concessional terms are for the most part countries with relatively high per capita income or prospects of rapid export growth.
The terms of private loans are also relevant to the debtor country. The grant element in export credits, not to mention bonds issued by developing countries and commercial bank credits, is clearly very much lower than that in official assistance, and for many of the "middle income" developing countries which use these sources of funds most heavily—Argentina, the Republic of China, Greece, Iran, Mexico and Venezuela are examples —the grant element in the total flow is inevitably rather low. However, the terms on which capital has been made available to most individual developing countries have been reasonably in line with the productivity of capital and "transformation" possibilities in the countries concerned.
This is not to say that inappropriate terms have never been responsible for debt servicing difficulties. Nor is it to imply that the combination of terms and volume of capital made available has been appropriate to the circumstances of individual countries. On the contrary, the decline in grants and the stagnation in new loan commitments have together produced a sharp erosion of the net flow of resources into some developing countries in recent years (see Annex Table 9), and have resulted in a marked hardening of the overall terms of the total inflow of capital into those countries. It was these developments, perhaps more than any other single factor, that led to the Indian debt renegotiation in 1968. But by and large it seems fair to say that inappropriate terms have not usually been the principal cause of debt servicing difficulties.
To a major extent, the origins of debt servicing difficulties should be sought in the borrowing country's management of its economy as a whole. Certainly, only where debt service is a significant item in the borrower's balance of payments will a rescheduling of fixed debt service obligations suggest itself when a balance of payments crisis occurs. Of the 79 countries for which debt service ratios are given in Annex Table 7, only 19 had an average debt service ratio of over 10% in the years
EL SALVADOR—Spillway gates of the Rio Lempa dam. This hydroelectric power plant was the first of five World Bank Croup power projects in El Salvador, constructed with the help oi a Bank loan in 1949. An IDA credit of $5.6 million, signed in fiscal 1971, will help to continue the country's power development program to keep abreast of rising demand.
1965-69. It is noteworthy that among these 19 are all the countries which have had multilateral debt renegotiations except Indonesia, where the average debt service ratio over the period was 8%. Another six countries have had significant bilateral debt rescheduling. But in few cases is it fully ^appropriate to speak of the situations which preceded debt renegotiations as debt crises.
In each of the multilateral debt reschedulings, the nature of the difficulty was highly complex "and the growth of debt service only one element in the picture. Nevertheless, with the exception of the Indian renegotiation referred to above, it appears that all fall into one of two categories.
In some cases, the dominant characteristic was the undue accumulation of short-term debt in an effort to forestall the consequences of balance of payments disequilibrium, without measures to correct fundamental problems such as over-valued currency or excessive levels of protection.
In other cases, it seems more appropriate to speak of a development crisis. Over-ambitious and inefficiently executed long-range investment programs were launched and financed by short-term credits taken up without control. Export credit guarantees and insurance facilities open to suppliers in industrialized countries made it possible for them to act without the prudence which the evident mismanagement might otherwise have prompted. In the end, a major political crisis put an end to the improvidence, leaving the country saddled with a huge and unproductive debt.
The primary responsibility for avoiding debt crises must be that of the developing countries themselves. In a broad sense, good debt management means good economic policies, for no plausible level of concessional aid from abroad will be successful in averting future debt crises if recipients mobilize their own resources ineffectively, invest them inefficiently, or maintain an exchange rate which discourages export production. In a narrow sense, good debt management implies restraint in the assumption of external debts except where there is a reasonable presumption that the borrowed capital will generate production which can, directly or indirectly, be transformed into additional foreign exchange resources over a period appropriate to the service of the debt.
When these policies are followed, there is nothing inevitable about debt crises. The example of Colombia is particularly instructive in this regard. In recent years, Colombia has allowed its exchange rate to depreciate in line with increases in domestic prices, has provided generous export incentives, has pursued an active policy of increasing tax revenues and directing public sector expenditures toward productive purposes, and has pursued an effective monetary policy. It has also avoided the temptation to place excessive reliance on short- and medium-term suppliers' credits. The result has been that, despite an increase in Colombia's external public debt from 6% of GNP in 1956 to 18% of GNP in 1969, the burden of debt service has remained moderate. The ratio of public debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services rose from about 5% in 1957 to 12% in 1963, but then gradually declined to 8% in 1969. The ratio of debt service to gross domestic savings showed an even smaller increase over the period.
But the example of Colombia also highlights the role which creditors can play. While no amount of creditor support could have avoided debt crises in Colombia if Colombia's own policies had been inappropriate, sound Colombian policies would have been politically difficult—indeed, perhaps impossible — to sustain had that country not had available to it a generous supply of long-term foreign capital, principally from the U.S. AID, the
IBRD and the IDB. At the end of 1955, 54% of Colombia's external public debt was repayable within five years; by the end of 1969, that ratio had fallen to 25%. The availability of long-term capital from official lending agencies is not the sole explanation for this dramatic improvement in debt structure, as demonstrated by the absence of comparable improvement in the debt structures of countries similarly favored by the availability of long-term external capital; without such long-term capital, however, the improvement would have been extremely difficult to achieve.
The Prospect
In preparing its study of the external indebtedness of developing countries, the Bank staff devoted particular attention to making an assessment of the long-term debt servicing prospects of some 30 developing countries, together accounting for approximately 80% of the outstanding external debt of all developing countries. By their very nature, analyses of this kind are fraught with uncertainty: a change of political conditions, a monsoon failure, a new mineral discovery, any of these or many less striking events can change a country's debt servicing prospects significantly in a very short period. Though the projections made took into account expected changes in export prices, they could make no allowance for the possible effects of an accelerated rate of inflation in world markets, or for substantial changes in foreign trade and exchange rate policies. Despite the difficulty of generalization in the field of debt servicing prospects, it appears on the basis of this sample that most developing countries fall into one of three categories.
In the first are the majority of developing countries, which, as in the past, should be able to avoid significant debt servicing difficulties in the foreseeable future. In some cases, this is because the countries have as yet contracted very little external debt and have access to external resources on highly concessional terms (as is the situation of many African countries). In others, it is because debt, though substantial, is effectively managed; where a bunching of debt service payments does exist, there is ample scope for ameliorating the situation by replacing short-term debt with debt on longer terms as the former is paid off. In one case, Indonesia, it is because the country concerned has already undergone a highly concessional debt rescheduling which should enable it to avoid further debt servicing difficulties. Together, countries in this category accounted for almost half the debt of developing countries at the end of 1969.
The second category includes only a very small number of countries, but together they account for approximately one fifth of the total debt of developing countries. Essentially, these are countries whose development will require the support of large amounts of external assistance for a very long time to come, either because of their extreme poverty or because inefficient domestic resource management and poor external debt management in the past have already created serious debt servicing difficulties. Large amounts of external assistance on concessional terms and very good policy performance on the part of the countries concerned will be necessary to avoid the need for debt renegotiation for these countries. Were some such renegotiation to be required, moreover, it is probable that long-term debt relief on highly concessional terms would be required.
The third category of countries numbers about a dozen but represents about one third of the total debt of developing countries. For the most part, they are countries with relatively high or rapidly growing GNP per capita and good export prospects. For them, the long-term prospect is for a fairly high rate of economic growth without debt problems or dependence on concessional assistance provided only that economic policy per-
formance and debt management are satisfactory.
Another characteristic which they have in common is that debt service payments clearly are, and in the medium-term future can be expected to remain, a significant claim against their annual foreign exchange earnings. Most of these countries also have a significant concentration of debt of short maturities. Accordingly, they are vulnerable to sudden and unexpected shortfalls in foreign exchange availability, or to sudden increases in imports. For this reason, they must all pay particular attention to their external debt in framing their economic policies.
This is not to say that these countries are likely to get into debt servicing difficulties. In all probability, most of them will not. Even if difficulties are encountered, moreover, they are likely to be of a temporary nature and to involve only a part of the country's total debt. In some cases, bilateral negotiations to refinance or reschedule debt service payments falling due may be all that is required.
Because of their basically sound underlying prospects, and the relatively high proportion of their external debt due for repayment in the immediate future, debt relief, if required, can appropriately be aimed primarily at stretching the "bulge" of debt service payments into the future.