The World Bank Group approved development assistance totalling $3,555 million during the year ended June 30, 1973. The figure was higher than in any previous year. It marked fulfilment of the goal announced five years ago by the President: that the Group should provide twice as much assistance in 1969-73 as it did in the previous five years.
The expansion in activities in fiscal 1973 was accompanied by continued efforts to assure a more effective contribution by the Group to the economic and social betterment of its developing member countries. Greater attention was given to the need to improve the quality of life by spreading the benefits of development more widely, with particular emphasis on the poorest among countries and peoples.
Despite the growth in their operations, the Bank and IDA play a marginal, though vital, role in the global development effort. They are highly conscious of the fact that by far the largest proportion of the resources devoted to development are mobilized by the developing countries themselves. Later pages of this Report offer a glimpse of the ways in which the Bank and IDA have sought to shift the emphasis of their activities in order to assist more fully the social and economic progress of developing countries. The shift has been sometimes subtle, sometimes striking; but it has always been accompanied by the clear realization that the problems of development are too complex for definitive solutions. This Report does not, therefore, seek to suggest that such solutions have been found; it seeks primarily only to highlight the directions in which the search for them is proceeding.
Of the year's total, $2,051 million took the form of 73 Bank loans to 42 countries. The International Development Association (IDA) approved 80 credits amounting to $1,357 million to 43 countries; in addition, it approved 11
Storage facilities tor groundnuts at a small village in Upper Volta. IDA is helping a rural development program aimed at stimulating agricultural production.
reactivated credits to Bangladesh. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) made 28 investments in 18 countries for a total of $146.7 million. (For further details, see IFC's Annual Report.)
The year's record was highlighted by a sharp increase in IDA lending—to a level almost 36% higher than in fiscal 1972. The agreement on the third replenishment of IDA's resources became effective following confirmation in September 1972 of the United States' contribution to the replenishment. It is expected that the Association's resources will be fully committed by June 30, 1974. Discussions were begun in December 1972 on a fourth replenishment, and are continuing.
During the year, the Executive Directors made a comprehensive review of IDA's lending policies. A notable feature was that over 70% of IDA resources had been channelled to the poorest countries (those with a per capita GNP of $120 or less), and increasing attention had been given to those designated by the U.N. General Assembly as "least developed." The share of countries with a per capita GNP above $250 was less than 10% of the total. IDA assistance had been concentrated on the poorer countries whose debt servicing prospects were limited.
Over one-half of the IDA credits, it was further noted, had been for agriculture and education in recent years. IDA's portfolio of projects thus increasingly reflected the priorities and constraints in the poorer countries. For the 70% of IDA-assisted projects in the last five years for which such calculations were possible, the average rate of return to the economies concerned had been between 15% and 20%.
On the basis of the review, the Executive Directors concluded that while IDA's basic (ending policies should be maintained, the greater emphasis which had been given to the very poor countries, including the "least developed," should be continued. Further, the Bank Group, and IDA in particular, should go on giving increasing emphasis in lending to those sectors which were of direct relevance to the bulk of the population in developing countries.
In conformity with this policy, an outstanding feature of the year's operations was that, for
Note on dollar amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of this Report for capital of the Bank refer to United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944, while those used for subscriptions and contributions to IDA refer to U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1,1960. For all practical purposes, these are the same. Unless otherwise specified, all other amounts in U.S. dollars refer to current dollars. One dollar as used for Bank capital and IDA subscriptions and contributions equals approximately 1.20635 current dollars. For more detailed discussion, see General Notes to Annex Tables 3-10, which follow Table 10; Note A, Appendix G, Bank financial statements; and Note A, Appendix F, IDA financial statements.
the first time in the history of the Bank and IDA, the volume of lending for agriculture exceeded that for any other sector. At $938 million, it was more than twice as large as in fiscal 1972—and about 35% higher than the lending for transportation, which had previously been the biggest single recipient of Bank Group funds. Lending for education rose sharply, to a record level about 50% above the figure for the previous year. There was a substantial increase in the assistance given for telecommunications and water supply projects.
The increase in Bank and IDA assistance for agriculture happened to take place during a period when the priority needs of developing countries were underlined by a dramatic deterioration in the global food situation. An unprecedented combination of adverse weather conditions in large parts of the world led to serious shortfalls in food grain production, a precipitous decline in grain reserves, and a scramble for supplies which raised world food prices sharply. (Wheat prices, for example, rose from $60 to more than $100 per ton.) Although, among developing countries, a few grain exporters gained, the external payments balances of net importers were seriously strained. In Western Africa particularly, where millions of people were hit by food shortages resulting from a severe drought, the Bank explored the scope for supplementing with development schemes the relief operations organized under the aegis of the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).
Western Africa provided another example of the efforts of the Bank and IDA to add to their activities in support of economic development new dimensions of social and humanitarian concern. The program to control river blindness in the region was taken a step forward as the Bank joined with the World Health Organization, the United Nations Development Programme and FAO to sponsor a meeting of
governments and international organizations with a view to mobilizing resources for the purpose. In Nicaragua, IDA approved a credit to help in the reconstruction of homes, schools, industries and urban infrastructure following the disastrous earthquake which hit Managua in December 1972.
The Bank continued its assistance for population planning, through projects in Iran and Malaysia. The concern for the underprivileged within countries was reflected in support for a modest land settlement project in Brazil's poorest area, the northeast; the project is expected to serve as a pattern for settlement in the underdeveloped regions of the country. Comparable opportunities for development were explored in other particularly underdeveloped areas, including southern Sudan and northeast Thailand.
In the education sector, the Bank and IDA for the first time supported projects—in Indonesia and Lebanon—devoted mainly to the development of primary education. In both, a central aim was to make educational opportunities more widely available to all population groups in the country. The Indonesian project represented the first time the Bank or IDA provided assistance for the local production of textbooks. The general objective of spreading the benefits of development more widely was reflected also in IDA's first major operation in support of small-scale industries—in India. To strengthen the Bank's work in the industrial sector generally, an agreement was reached with the United Nations Industrial Development Organization on the terms of a cooperative program. It was expected that the agreement would become effective in January 1974 after the necessary approvals had been given.
The Bank's operations were supported by a near record level of gross borrowings, which totalled $1,723 million during the year. The single largest source of funds was Japan, which provided 35% of the total. The next largest was Germany, with 22%. The Bank continued its search for new sources of capital for development, and made its first bond issue of LL 75 million in Lebanon. The Bank's net income in fiscal 1973 was $186 million, or$3 million more than in the previous year.
Development Trends, Capital Flows, and the Problem of Debt
The expansion in the Bank Group's activities during the year took place against the background of economic progress in developing countries which, though uneven, was nonetheless encouraging, particularly in view of global economic conditions. Preliminary indications for calendar 1972 suggest that aggregate production and income in the developing world once again expanded at rates approaching those achieved in the late 1960s. In the previ-
ous year, the expansion had suffered mainly because economic activity in developed countries had slowed down during 1970 and 1971. Taking all developing countries together, their growth appears to have been 6% during 1972 —an impressive performance in global terms and one that matches the target set for the Second Development Decade in the United Nations' International Development Strategy.
.Population growth, however, exceeded the 2.5% annual rate postulated in the International Development Strategy for the decade, causing per capita GNP to grow by only 3%.
*	Such aggregates, however, mask wide differences between countries, as is clear from Table
1.	The growth rate of the 25 countries classified by the United Nations as "least developed" fell below its already low level of the previous year. In per capita terms, these countries did not grow at all. In sharp contrast, GNP growth accelerated in developing countries which export manufactures on a relatively large scale. In the case of petroleum-exporting countries, though the rate of growth slowed a little, it remained high.
An overall growth rate is an inadequate index of the underlying problems of development each country and its people face. Poverty, even in the developing countries favored by relatively good resource endowments, characterizes the lives of millions of individuals, particularly in rural areas. They suffer from widespread unemployment or underemployment, poor nourishment and debilitating diseases; their productivity is generally low. Probably close to 1,000 million people in the developing world have annual per capita incomes of less than $100 at official rates of exchange. Of these, 300 million have average incomes of less than half that amount. About 130 million in India alone are in the latter category.
The economic performance of the developing world is greatly influenced by broader trends on the international economic scene. The developed economies are the main markets for most primary products. The levels of and expectations concerning economic activity, currency realignments and rates of inflation in the developed nations, therefore, have a pervasive influence on prices and demand for the products of the developing world.
Many uncertainties continued to characterize the international scene in calendar 1972. While economic activity in the developed world recovered from its 1970-71 low, inflationary pressures became stronger and were expected to persist. Their impact on developing countries was compounded at times by severe instability in foreign exchange markets, and generally by uncertainty about the form of future international monetary arrangements.
Capital flows
It is difficult to draw clear inferences from the various measures of resource transfer to developing countries, especially in view of the year's currency changes. In 1972, according to preliminary estimates reported by the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the flow of external financial resources to developing countries was slightly greater than in 1971. Although indications are that commitments by DAC members increased in 1972, the total of funds actually disbursed declined as a proportion of donors' GNP. Within DAC members' commitments in
1972,	grants rose more rapidly than loans. Thus, on a commitments basis, the overall terms of Official Development Assistance (ODA) softened; the grant element increased from 82.6% in 1971 to 84.5%.
But the data on net disbursements of financial resources to developing countries from DAC members, shown in Table 2 on page 8, present a different picture. ODA disbursements represented 0.34% of donors' GNP in 1972, compared with 0.35% in 1971. The share of total flows in donors' GNP declined from 0.78% in 1971 to 0.73% in 1972. Total flows— official and private—increased by about $1,200 million, or slightly more than 7%; but measured in national currencies the increase In total flows was about 2%. While ODA disbursements rose by $884 million, or 11.5%, when
1972	flows are converted to U.S. dollars at March 1973 exchange rates, their growth did not keep pace with the expansion of GNP in the donor countries. Other Official Flows rose nearly 22%, or about $280 million.
The principal factors accounting for this deterioration in the donors' total performance
relative to GNP are found in the components of private flows. Total private flows in 1972, as recorded by DAC, were at about the same level as in 1971. DAC reports that three components of private flows actually declined, although the small decrease in one component—direct investment—may merely reflect the complexities of statistical reporting."’ Private portfolio investment in multilateral institutions fell nearly 20%. The very sharp drop, of 47.3%, in private export credits may signal a reversal of the strong upward trend observed in their case in recent years. In contrast, the fourth component of DAC private flows, private portfolio investment, rose more than 200% in 1972.
That increase—which in itself almost compensates for the declines in other components of DAC private flows—is probably understated. There is at present no international system of reporting—whether to DAC, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Bank or elsewhere— which accounts fully for debt issued in the rapidly growing Eurocurrency market, although efforts are being undertaken to remedy the situation.
Impact of inflation
Inflation in the industrialized countries has affected the developing world in numerous ways. Generally, inflation reduces the real cost of repaying outstanding debts although new debt can be undertaken only at higher costs. Under inflationary conditions, the prices of manufactured exports from developed countries continued to rise. Thus inflation added to the cost of manufactured goods imported by all developing countries. Yet inflation also contributed to a sharp increase in the developed world's demand for manufactured goods. This helped accelerate the growth both of exports and of GNP in a number of developing countries—Brazil, Israel, the Republic of Korea and Mexico, among others. The recent sharp increases in the prices of many primary commodities (measured in dollars, but not necessarily in other currencies), while quite possibly reflecting the increased pace of worldwide inflation, must be viewed against the background of
See Annex Table 3.
the sharp swings periodically experienced in primary product prices. The terms of trade of some developing countries may have deteriorated, since the prices of and demand for several of their major exports have not increased to the same extent as has been the case with their imports.
Inflationary conditions appear also to have given rise to an abundance of privately-held financial resources, further fostering the growth of markets like the Eurocurrency market. Borrowing by developing countries in such markets has, on the crude estimates available, more than doubled between 1971 and 1972, and may have been of the order of $8,000 million in
1972.	The effects of these borrowings are still uncertain. While they have helped finance the borrowing country's balance of payments deficit, they may also have added disproportionately to its debt service burden. On average, these resources have been loaned on relatively hard terms—at market or near-market rates of interest which have themselves been pushed even higher by inflation and international monetary uncertainty.
Exchange rate adjustments
There were again a number of major monetary realignments during the past year. The pound sterling continued to float. In February
1973,	the United States announced its intention to seek legislative approval for the devaluation of the dollar—for the second time in less than two years. Subsequently, adjustments in other currencies, especially the yen and Deutsche mark, have continued to take place. While no firm evidence is available as yet, it is probable that the instability and uncertainty in exchange markets during the winter of 1972-73 had some adverse effect on world trade. There are indications that the prices of some commodities may be responding to the changes in exchange rates. But it is likely to take a rather long time for the effects of all these changes to be fully worked out; and these effects will merge with those of subsequent events.
Along with the IMF, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and other international organizations, the Bank
is attempting to analyze the effects of the exchange rate realignments and inflation in industrialized countries on its developing member countries—on their export earnings, reserves, import capacity, debt, and debt service liabilities. Any change in the real cost to each developing country of servicing its external obligations as a consequence of international price changes is an issue of major importance to the Bank.
Realignment of exchange rates alters the nominal value of the external debt. It is only in the narrow accounting sense that all debt can be shown in U.S. dollars; in fact, the debt is denominated in about 40 currencies. To find the extent of any changes in the real cost of servicing debt that have resulted from exchange rate realignments requires careful and detailed country-by-country analysis. That analysis must extend beyond nominal changes in exchange rates to encompass numerous factors like trading patterns and the probable effects of changes in the prices of traded goods not only on trade flows but on the domestic economy as well. Such analyses are part of the Bank's continuing effort to assess the problems and to advise its members.
Statistics are regularly collected by the Bank on the value of the outstanding external debt owed by its borrowing member countries. These data have been revised, converting them to U.S. dollars at the exchange rates prevailing on March 31, 1973, instead of those prevailing on December 31, 1971. At the end of 1971, the dollar value of the external debt of 81 developing countries was $81,705.2 million at March 1973 exchange rates, or 3.1% higher than the same debt valued at December 1971 exchange rates. In summary form, Table 3 compares debt outstanding as converted on each of the exchange rate alignments. The new figures result
simply from multiplication of the reported debt outstanding by the new exchange rates.
Any inferences drawn from this table, however, can be only illustrative. The exchange rates themselves could change. The March 1973 exchange rates are not part of a formal agreement within the international monetary system, as was the case with the par values under the Bretton Woods arrangements or of the central rates adopted in December 1971. Moreover, to some extent the changes may be nominal, involving no real loss or gain. To draw meaningful economic inferences from such numbers is a complex task.
The nominal 3.1% rise in the U.S. dollar value of all external debt following the March
1973	realignment is somewhat less than the 3.6% increase that had resulted from the December 1971 realignment. This is because the largest share of debt outstanding, about 50%, continues to be denominated in U.S. dollars which were devalued, while relatively small shares are denominated in the currencies that appreciated: some 4% is denominated in Japanese yen, and less than 10% in Deutsche mark. The regions whose outstanding debt has been affected most by the March 1973 realignment are Southern Europe, East Asia and Africa; this reflects the relative importance there of lending repayable in yen, Deutsche mark or other currencies which have appreciated. Conversely, the realignment has led to relatively small nominal changes in the value of debt owed by countries in South Asia and the Middle East, where lending denominated in U.S. dollars is predominant.
As for the sources of lending, the nominal effect of the exchange rate realignment appears largest in the case of multilateral institutions and smallest in the case of private lenders. Lending by multilateral institutions to countries
in East Asia and Southern Europe has risen. At the same time, borrowing by these institutions has been concentrated in the currencies that have appreciated. Countries with relatively strong currencies have been able to grant the Bank access to their capital markets; there the Bank could borrow on terms that in turn allowed it to maintain its own lending rate. Because multilateral institutions make loans denominated in the currencies in which they themselves borrow, the nominal value of these loans in March 1973 U.S. dollars has risen.
External debt
The exchange rate realignment has altered the nominal value of developing countries' external obligations, accounting, as shown above, for some part of their growth. In order therefore to focus on real rather than nominal changes in these obligations, the 1971 data examined here are expressed in end-1971 U.S. dollars. During 1971, the external public debt outstanding of 81 developing countries had increased more than 14% at December 1971 exchange rates (see Table 4).(1) Significantly, the trends indicated in recent years were accentuated: the role of bilateral official lending Swas further reduced, and multilateral institutions became still more important as sources of official lending. The combined share of bilateral official and multilateral agencies in the total increase declined during 1971. Meanwhile, the already rapid growth in private lending accelerated. The smaller components — commercial banks and other private lenders —grew most dramatically, nearly half the increase in recent years occurring in 1971 alone.
Because disbursements usually follow commitments only after varying intervals of time
(1) Including undisbursed. For details and for data on earlier
years, see Annex Tables 4 and 8.
and commitments themselves may be modified or cancelled, the two do not always move in the same direction simultaneously. Year-to-year changes in loan commitments have ranged from an increase of over 24% during 1967 to a decline of 0.2% during 1968.'"’ Year-to-year changes in loan disbursements have tended to be less volatile. Loan commitments increased by 22% in 1970 but remained around the 1970 level in 1971.
As commitments are translated into disbursements and as debt service payments become due, there remains little reason to expect a marked increase in the net flow of financial resources to developing countries. The rise in debt service owed by the developing countries noted in last year's Report could again be accentuated by rising interest rates, and by the greater increase in private over the generally more concessional public lending, both bilateral and multilateral.
Changes in debt service payments tend to vary rather widely from year to year. Taking all 81 countries together, debt service payments had increased 18.2% in 1968, but rose only
11.8% in 1969. During 1970, they again rose more rapidly—by 16.3%—while the 1971 increase fell off to 12.6%. But aggregates mask wide differences between regions and individual countries. The majority of developing countries should be able to avoid debt difficulties. Others could encounter temporary difficulties from time to time. Relatively few may require long-term, highly concessional debt relief. But the recent increase in commitments on harder terms could foreshadow more widespread debt service difficulties. To avoid this, the export earnings of these countries would have to rise more rapidly, there would have to be larger flows of long-term assistance on easier terms, or both.
<2) See Annex Table 9.
The Last Five Years
On April 1, 1973, Mr. Robert S. McNamara began his second five year term as President of the Bank, IDA and IFC. The reappointment was in accordance with a resolution unanimously adopted by the Executive Directors in January 1972. It was noted that Mr. McNamara's first term had been a period of rapid progress in the Bank Group's operations around the world.
The progress is reflected in the completion of the program for the five years 1969-73 outlined by the President in his address to the Board of Governors in September 1968. The results show that all the targets of the program have been achieved, and some substantially exceeded.
Specifically, the targets were:
•	To double the global total of Bank and IDA lending. The total has increased 128%.
•To triple lending to Africa. It has risen 214%.
•	To double lending to Latin America. It has grown 128%.
•	To quadruple lending for agriculture. It has increased 317%.
•	To triple lending for education. It has expanded 362%.
Comparing the two five year periods, lending to developing countries in Asia has increased 123%. The comparable increase for developing countries in Europe and the Middle East is 225%.
The chart on page 16 reflects the special effort which the Bank and IDA have made to assist the poorest and "least developed" member countries. It indicates that the volume of lending to such countries has increased faster than the total. The number of lending operations has risen faster still.
The growth in operations in the poorest and "least developed" countries has been made possible in large part by the growth of IDA resources. But there has been a shift also in Bank loans, not to the poorest countries, but to the middle income countries and to the poorer ones among them. The table on page 15 illustrates the trend by grouping borrowing countries into categories according to their per capita GNP.
No less important than the increases in the volume of assistance have been the qualitative
changes in the Bank's activities.(1) The Bank has been taking a much more comprehensive view of the development process. Although economic development is the Bank's main concern, it believes that it is necessary also to promote the social development required to stimulate economic growth. Greater attention has, therefore, been given to the social aspects of economic growth, including population, employment, income distribution, health, malnutrition and the impact on the environment. Increasingly, assistance is being given on the basis of a comprehensive study of a country's economy, or of particular sectors within the economy, in the effort to assure that it has maximum impact at points of greatest need.
The more comprehensive view has led to a marked diversification of the Bank's activities. The diversification is seen in the support given to projects in new sectors such as population planning and urban development. It is seen also in new types of projects in the more traditional sectors, such as agriculture, transportation or industry. In each case, the emphasis has been on innovation and flexibility in responding to the special needs of the country or people in question.
An integrated approach
The more comprehensive view, furthermore, has led increasingly to projects that, rather than being confined to a narrow purpose, encompass a variety of activities that often transcend individual sectors. Thus, through an integrated approach, the aim has been to establish a mutually reinforcing framework of action designed to assure that the assistance has the most beneficial impact on the country, the area or the sector as a whole.
Greater attention has been given to types of projects that can help spread the benefits of development more widely, especially among the poorer sections of society. The attention is inspired by the conviction that the object of development is not projects, but people. Development can have no meaning unless it brings a better, fuller and more productive life
In this section, references to the Bank include IDA.
to the mass of the underprivileged in poor countries.
In no sector has the volume of lending increased more rapidly than in agriculture. The sharp increase has been accompanied by a marked diversification in patterns of lending. In the Bank's early years, the emphasis was on basic irrigation infrastructure, such as dams and canals. But, over the years, there has been a shift toward financing on-farm activities, such as provision of credit and technical services. During the last five years, the shift has accelerated. The Bank has also become more heavily Pnvolved in storage, marketing, seed multiplication, forestry and fisheries projects. The importance of agricultural research has been recognized both in individual projects and through support for international research institutions.
Many of the agriculture projects supported by the Bank in recent years offer an outstanding example of the more comprehensive approach. Although the move toward integrated projects which include some non-agricultural components is not wholly new, the number and scope of such projects has been growing. Recent projects for rural development or integrated smallholder development are increasingly directed at the overall development of a specific geographical area which has high potential and is of manageable size. The aim in these projects is not simply to increase agricultural production, by providing such inputs as credit, seeds and fertilizer, or supporting infrastructure in the form of roads, marketing facilities and soil conservation measures. The aim is to help improve the quality of life for the people of the area, by including also facilities for education, domestic water supply, health, or other social services.
As the scope of projects in agriculture has widened, there have been other activities that have been oriented towards development in the rural areas. Numerous education projects have been designed to benefit rural people— by creating agricultural colleges, secondary schools, training centers, or mobile training units. In the transportation sector, projects for feeder roads serving rural areas are becoming more prominent. To a lesser extent, the same is true of lending for power. Although there has been no large-scale support so far for village electrification as such, experimental village electrification components have been added to power projects to test the feasibility of greater involvement in projects of this kind.
Helping smaller farmers
An outstanding feature in recent years is that Bank lending for agricultural development has shown a trend in favor of smaller farmers. Between 1968 and 1972, the proportion of agriculture projects in which some participating farmers owned less than five hectares of land has risen from 17% to 50%; the proportion with some farmers owning less than 10 hectares has increased from 37% to 67%. At the other extreme, the proportion of projects in which participating farmers have over 100 hectares has declined from 27% to 21%, and for those owning over 1,000 hectares from 17% to 4%.
No precise estimate is possible of the number of farmers or people living in the rural areas that have benefited from Bank-supported projects. Some programs, such as research or seed multiplication, can benefit many millions. Others, such as capital-intensive irrigation works or large-scale ranching, might provide direct benefits for relatively few. In addition,
(0 The 25 countries designated as “least developed” by the U.N. General Assembly include Afghanistan, Botswana, Burundi, Chad, Dahomey, Ethiopia, Guinea, Haiti, Lesotho, Malawi, Mali, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda. Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Upper Volta and the Yemen Arab Republic, all of which have borrowed from the World Bank Group. They also include Laos (which is a member but has not yet borrowed) and Bhutan, Maldives, Sikkim and Western Samoa (which are not members).
U) Twenty-eight countries with a per capita GNP of up to S120 (according to the 1972 World Bank Atlas) which borrow from the Bank. They include the “least developed” countries (but not Uganda, since its per capita GNP is higher), Bangladesh, Burma, Gambia, India, Indonesia, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, the People’s Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zaire.
projects have secondary and tertiary effects which can benefit many producers as well as consumers, by influencing both prices and incomes. However, on the basis of rough estimates, it appears that anywhere from 3 to 5 million farm families, representing 15 to 25 million people, may have benefited directly from projects assisted by the Bank. Many millions more have benefited indirectly, increasing numbers of them having benefited within the past few years.
Development of education
In education, as in agriculture, the Bank's activities have been characterized by growth and diversification over the last five years.
When the Bank started providing assistance for the development of education a little over 11 years ago, it concentrated, as a matter of deliberate policy, on two fields. The first was vocational and technical education and training at various levels. The other was general secondary education. Other kinds of projects were considered only in exceptional cases.
Over the years, as the Bank gained more experience, it diversified its activities. A few years ago, it decided that it should broaden its approach further by determining priorities and selecting projects on the basis of a thorough examination of the education system as a whole. In particular, apart from projects which produce trained manpower directly, it should consider other types of projects which could have
important long-term significance for economic development. Such projects would be "designed to encourage changes which improve the relevance, efficiency and economy of education systems."
In the earlier years, the overwhelming proportion of the assistance was for educational "hardware"—for the construction and equipment of school buildings. But, more recently, ‘greater attention has been given to the "software"—to such aspects as improving the curriculum, producing better teaching materials, and planning systematically the education that is offered.
The greater emphasis on objectives of social equity is reflected in several of the education projects which have been financed during the last five years. It is reflected also in the studies and research which are being done. Both actual operations and studies reflect a new strategy, with greater stress on people in the traditional-transitional sectors of the economy which have hitherto been left outside education systems. The aim is to find appropriate ways to enable education systems to promote both economic growth and social justice. This has required a comprehensive approach at all levels and areas of both formal and non-formal education and training.
The Bank has sought to emphasize quality as much as quantity in the development of education. Thus, in Spain, it has supported a comprehensive education reform which will reach all population groups and make the entire system more relevant to the country's needs. In Ethiopia, assistance has been given for a comprehensive education survey conducted by the Government which could lead to far-reaching reforms designed to benefit all population groups in the country.
The Bank has continued to adapt its work for education as new needs and opportunities have arisen, Most projects continue to be in the established areas of lending—technical, agricultural and improved general secondary education, and teacher training. But increasing attention has been paid to agriculture, and to . the close links between training, extension and research in this sector. Assistance for non-formal education has grown; so has the proportion of technical assistance designed to , improve the quality and effectiveness of education systems.
Innovation and experimentation
In the last five years, a notable feature has been the greater commitment to educational innovation and experimentation. The Bank has been exploring ways of extending non-formal education, for adults as well as for children; making educational radio and television both economical and effective; using programmed learning, a system where the content of a course is organized in progressive steps so that
a student can proceed at his own speed with relatively little guidance from the teacher; organizing a better and cheaper supply of locally produced textbooks and simple teaching equipment; supporting institutions that could offer training in business administration and management; and financing facilities for the better planning and management of education, not only within individual projects, but over the whole range of management functions at the national and provincial levels as well as in individual schools.
. In collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco), the Bank has begun to finance a series of pilot projects designed to explore experimentally new ideas to maximize the contribution of educational systems to economic development. The first commitment for such a project was made in 1970 in the Ivory Coast; it was for a primary educational system based on the use of television for instructional purposes. Iraq, Malaysia, Thailand and Turkey are among the other countries where the Bank is supporting efforts to make educational radio and television more economical and effective.
In Turkey, assistance has been given to expand and improve an existing center for the local production of inexpensive science teaching equipment for primary and secondary schools; it will reduce the country's dependence on costly, and often unsuitable, imported equipment. In Indonesia, IDA is supporting the production and distribution of 138 million textbooks for primary education, and helping to finance a program for training 350,000 teachers to use the books. In Lebanon, the Bank is helping to provide educational opportunities more widely by supporting primary education.
The Bank is investigating how it might help countries more effectively in catering to the needs of those outside the modern sector. In particular, ways are being explored of extending non-formal education, for adults and for children. The Bank has, for instance, helped establish farmer training centers in Kenya and Tanzania, mobile training units in Somalia, and an industrial training unit in Chile. In Tanzania, "community education centers" are being established in a number of "ujamaa" villages to support an experiment in practical education and adult literacy. An Upper Volta project is to finance 120 rural education centers, organize 150 cooperative training groups, and study further possibilities for promoting training for rural development. In Turkey, the Bank is supporting non-formal management and adult technical training. A number of other projects include substantial elements of non-formal agricultural or industrial training for adolescents and adults.
Population planning
On the longer view, an important diversification of activity within the last five years is represented by the Bank's decision to enter the field of population planning. The decision is based on the conviction that rapid population growth is a major barrier to the economic and social progress of most of its poorer member countries.
The Bank and IDA have so far approved assistance totalling $65.7 million for seven projects — in India, Indonesia, Iran, Jamaica, Malaysia, Trinidad and Tobago, and Tunisia. Help is being given for preparing projects in another five countries. Within five years, the number of projects supported by the Bank and IDA is expected to rise to about 30. In a majority of cases, the support will probably be combined with assistance from other external donors under cooperative funding arrangements. Population planning is a field in which the Bank cooperates closely with the U.N. Fund for Population Activities.
The volume of lending, however, is an inadequate index to the Bank's activities in this sector. Much of the Bank's contribution is in the form of technical assistance. Advice may be offered on such aspects as the organization and planning of a program, its administration and evaluation, the training of personnel, and communications. The assistance is not always linked to a financial commitment from the Bank itself.
A large proportion of Bank funds for population projects has been used to construct clinics, maternity centers, maternity hospitals and training schools, and for the purchase of equipment and vehicles. More recent projects have devoted greater attention to communications, education, and evaluation and research activities. This comprehensive approach reflects the Bank's objectives in the sector. The objec-
tives are to help develop viable family planning organizations and programs, strengthen information and communication activities, and promote a deeper understanding of the many socio-economic factors that influence fertility.
The Bank is well aware of the complex and delicate problems in population planning. Some are rooted in political, social and ethical attitudes. Others are technical in nature. The Bank is, therefore, cooperating closely with several agencies—international, bilateral and private—in order to improve its understanding of the problems. It recognizes that it can provide assistance only to countries which are aware of the serious implications of excessive population growth, and are prepared to do something about it. The number of such countries has shown an encouraging increase. The Bank's activities in the sector are, therefore, expected to expand substantially in the years ahead. Work is also going forward to develop specific projects to combat malnutrition, a field in which the Bank's interest is growing.
Support for industry
The Bank's lending for industry in recent years has been marked by a number of new features. Firstly, the level of direct lending to industry has increased substantially, and within it support for government-owned industrial enterprises, which began in 1967. In fact, only four of the 21 specific projects financed in 1969-73 have been privately-owned. This is in accordance with a change in policy approved by the Executive Directors a few years ago, under which it was decided that the Bank would be willing to consider providing finance to government-owned industrial enterprises if satisfied that their managements were experienced and efficient.
Secondly, new dimensions have been introduced in the Bank's work on traditional "heavy" industries. Projects in such fields as mining, steel, fertilizers, and pulp and paper, are judged in the context of the optimal pattern of national and international development. The Bank is tending to become involved at earlier stages in the shaping and preparation of projects; and the effects of such industries on the environment are regularly assessed so as to incorporate appropriate safeguards.
Thirdly, to reinforce the support for agricultural development, the Bank has given more attention to fertilizer projects—in India, Indonesia, Pakistan and Turkey. An increasing number of projects in this and related fields are being considered. The Bank has also given new emphasis to the financing of labor-intensive small-scale industries and other industries that are primarily export-oriented. Increasing attention is being given to the impact which industrial enterprises have on employment and social goals.
The most notable feature, however, is that
the Bank's support for development finance companies (DFCs) has greatly expanded. In many countries, DFCs are playing a role which goes beyond merely providing finance; they may assist in developing local capital markets, as well as in encouraging local entrepreneurship and the acquisition of appropriate technology. The benefits of their activities—which are concentrated on enterprises far smaller than those that could qualify for direct Bank loans —tend to be widespread. In recent years, the Bank has helped DFCs to develop policies and approaches to meet the increased demand in developing countries for industrial and tourism finance. Several new types of DFCs have been encouraged; and greater attention has been paid to achieving an appropriate balance between the developmental and the financial objectives of these institutions.
Government-owned DFCs
Until 1968, only privately-owned DFCs were eligible for Bank Croup assistance. In that year, the policy was modified to enable the Bank and IDA to support government-owned DFCs. The result is that of the 47 DFCs now receiving Bank Croup assistance, governments have majority ownership in 16.
Another feature during the last five years is that the Bank Croup has assisted regional development institutions, including SIFIDA (for Africa), ADELA (for Latin America), and the East African Development Bank. Other proposals for regional DFCs are being examined. The Bank has begun to support the activities of DFCs designed specifically to foster expansion of sectors other than manufacturing, or to assist certain types of projects within the manufacturing sector. An example of the former is Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) in Morocco, a DFC set up specially to promote the development of tourism, as well as housing. In Mexico, the Bank has provided assistance to the Government's Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI), which was established in 1971 primarily to facilitate financing of medium-sized industrial enterprises producing for export.
Through DFCs, support has also begun to be given to small-scale industries, for instance, through the State Financial Corporations in India. Such industries can make a major contribution to the growth of employment and entrepreneurship. Their output and technology are often especially well suited to the circumstances of developing countries. The support given to them is, therefore, expected to increase.
Efforts to enhance the contribution of DFCs to development have not, however, been confined to the sphere of institutional innovation. The Bank has encouraged DFCs to use economic cost-benefit criteria, not as a substitute for financial and technical evaluation but rather as a necessary complement to these other forms of project evaluation. Another aim has been to
encourage DFCs to increase their promotional activity, particularly by seeking sound investment opportunities in the less developed parts of the country they serve. In Turkey, for instance, loans approved by the Bank-assisted Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi for enterprises in the less developed areas of the country have risen from less than 20% in the three years through 1970 to about 45% since 1970.
The Bank Group's basic philosophy in relation to DFCs remains rooted in the concept of building institutions that can apply sound techniques in selecting projects, be innovative in supporting the sectors they serve, and maintain financial standards that ensure their continuing viability as financial institutions. As DFCs undertake more complex work, the Bank plans to help them evolve new ways of strengthening the developmental impact of their activities in a manner consistent with their financial responsibilities.
In transportation, as in other sectors, the Bank is taking a more integrated approach. This has led to greater support for such sub-sectors as urban transport, aviation, shipping, pipelines and feeder roads. It has also resulted in projects which are as much concerned with policy issues—including pricing, taxation, regulation, administrative reform, and transport coordination and rationalization—as with physical facilities. At the same time, research is being undertaken to find ways in which transportation projects might be used to stimulate new economic activity and to improve patterns of income distribution, rather than merely respond to established demand. This work is at an early stage, but the first steps include a number of studies—for example, of how feeder roads can contribute to rural development, how highway design and labor substitution in civil works might promote employment and efficiency, and how a domestic civil construction industry can be fostered and developed. A recent highway loan to Liberia includes funds to assist small domestic contractors to participate in the project.
Electric power projects
The Bank has traditionally helped finance electric power projects with a view not only to providing a portion of the capital requirements, but also to promoting institutional and operational efficiency. Although its assistance has in the past been principally for generation and transmission facilities, it has sought to assure that the development of the sector is taking place on a balanced, coordinated basis. In many countries, significant improvements have been achieved in electric power institutions and in their efficiency.
The Bank now is increasingly directing its attention to the distribution aspects of the electric systems it helps to finance, with a view to stimulating concern for the welfare of the
lower income groups among the population. It is planned to seek opportunities to lend for distribution extensions at the margins of urban centers, in the countryside, and in smaller villages. Recognizing that there are benefits to society not adequately measured by the price which customers may be able to pay for electricity, the Bank has taken greater interest in such programs, and particularly in those for electrification of villages.
A loan to Ecuador, for example, provides funds for village electrification, and supports the plans of the local authorities to carry out studies so that the total economic and social value of this type of electrification scheme can fee better measured. Simultaneously, research to measure the benefits of electrification in low-density areas is being conducted with Bank sponsorship in El Salvador. Having found that pricing policies are sometimes regressive and/ or penalize certain classes of consumers, the Bank is helping electric utilities to evolve tariff structures which are not only economically efficient but which help to accomplish social objectives, such as access to service by low income groups, or income redistribution.
Electric power generation by nuclear means has been an economically attractive alternative where electricity requirements are on a very large scale and traditional fuels have been expensive. A combination of these circumstances
has been found in only a very few countries in the developing world. As a result, except for a modest installation in Italy in 1957, the Bank has not been associated with the financing of any nuclear power developments. However, as systems grow and as fossil fuel prices increase —a situation that has been very evident in the case of petroleum recently—the potential for nuclear power applications in the developing world is increasing, and the Bank is highly conscious of the fact. For example, together with other development financing agencies, it has sponsored a study by the International Atomic Energy Agency of the market for small and medium nuclear power installations in the developing world. The study is nearing completion.
Improving water supply
In the water supply and sewerage sector, as the number of projects has increased, a special effort has been made to extend the benefits to more people, particularly the poor. In most developing countries, among the top three causes of morbidity and mortality are the enteric diseases which are associated with unsafe and polluted waters and with poor sanitation —in both urban and rural areas. The provision of a safe and convenient water supply, and an improvement in sanitation, has usually done much to reduce the incidence of these diseases, particularly among the poor. The latter are frequently forced to use unsafe sources and are the most common victims of diseases transmitted by such water. They are, therefore, the ones who benefit most when properly designed systems are brought within their reach. In helping to build such systems, the Bank has been giving greater attention to the need to dispose of liquid wastes properly and to control pollution.
In the early years, the Bank's lending for water supply and sewerage projects was to a major extent on a city-by-city basis. But, in the last few years, increasing emphasis has been given to sector studies and to support for national programs which not only embody sound planning and long-range development but also attempt to serve groups of communities. Colombia, Israel and Tunisia are among the countries where such projects have been assisted. Projects are being developed in two other countries. Studies aimed at evolving the same approach are being financed in Indonesia. Under the cooperative agreement with the World Health Organization (WHO), signed in
1971,	greater attention is being given to ways in which water and sanitation facilities can be extended to rural areas.
Urban growth
Since 1970, the Bank has sought to develop an integrated approach to problems arising
from the explosive growth of urban centers in developing countries. Although much of the work is still in an experimental stage, several new types of urbanization projects are being developed. Among the most promising is that of "sites and services" to cope with the acute shortage of housing and other facilities for the urban poor — a shortage exemplified by the very rapid growth in the proportion of city populations existing in squatter settlements. An analysis of urban resources and needs has made it clear that, at least in the poorer majority of developing countries, the shortage cannot be overcome by providing conventional "low-cost" housing. It is necessary to help the urban poor to help themselves in building and improving their homes. To do so, the provision of sites with minimum services for houses, schools, markets and other social needs has to be closely related to employment and transport opportunities.
The sites and services project for the cities of Dakar and Thies in Senegal, and the sites and services component of the Managua reconstruction project, are the first of a series of such projects. They represent an entirely new field of Bank lending. In the case of Dakar, serviced building lots for about 140,000 people—the present population is about 550,000— are to be provided over a five-year period at costs and rents that the poor can reasonably afford. Community services such as primary schools and health dispensaries are included. The project is linked to development of an ongoing national program covering not only new sites and services areas but also improvement of existing squatter settlements. In the case of Managua, the residential sites provided both in Managua itself and in surrounding cities will be closely linked with the industries that are to be established under the project.
Urban transport has a particularly strong influence on the pattern of urban growth, so a start has been made on projects which link urban transport with urban spatial planning. The main emphasis is being placed on improving the public transport facilities that are used mostly by the poor, while restraining the growth in the use of private automobiles, for which costly urban highways are required.
In Istanbul, IDA is helping to finance the basic studies which are expected to lead to an integrated program of urban investments. The investments could range from urban transport, improving squatter settlements, and relocating the wholesale market, including redevelopment of the vacated central site, to developing new urban clusters on the Asian side of the city following the opening of the Bosphorus bridge. Bank lending for water supply and electricity distribution in Istanbul is being closely related to the overall planning effort.
Generally, Bank projects in such relatively traditional fields as water supply and sewerage, electric power and inter-city roads, as well as
the new field of tourism, are being increasingly analyzed for their relation to the complex of problems of urban development and their impact not only in physical terms but on different income groups in the cities. Urban development is still a very new sector of activity for the Bank. It is recognized that the Bank's investments will represent only a small part of total urban investments. But the aim is to structure the Bank's contribution in such a way that it has a catalytic effect beyond the confines of the physical projects it helps to finance.
Importance of tourism
The Bank began lending directly for tourism projects in 1969. The scale of lending is still small. But the Bank recognizes the important contribution which tourism can make to the foreign exchange earnings of a number of developing countries, and to the development of less developed areas within countries. Tourism assets, particularly beaches, are frequently in areas with limited alternative opportunities for development, as in Mexico and Yugoslavia. The development of these assets can reduce regional disparities in incomes and employment.
In its approach to tourism projects, the Bank has been very conscious of their social, environmental and cultural impact. It has also given considerable attention to some of the distributional aspects, for instance, by seeking to ensure that windfall gains do not accrue solely to private landowners when the development of a new resort is liable sharply to raise land values in the area.
An important study which the Bank has begun seeks to evaluate the benefits which developing countries derive from tourism. Such studies have been made for a number of developing countries. But more work needs to be done, and the concepts refined. The objective of the Bank's study is to derive improved techniques for evaluating the net benefits of tourism to the economy as a whole as well as of tourism projects which the Bank may be asked to assist.
Environmental impact
An important new aspect of the Bank Group's activities in recent years has been the growing concern for the environmental impact of the projects it assists. The concern is based on the recognition that the environmental problems of the developing nations are very different from those of the developed. To the extent that the former are rooted in rural and urban poverty, they have to be solved largely through development. But to the extent that they increasingly accompany the development process itself, they can be avoided through careful planning and the provision of environmental and health safeguards.
The Bank's approach is based on the belief
that developing countries cannot afford to ignore the threats to their ecology and to the health and well-being of their own people. The threats deserve early attention if such countries are to avoid mistakes that they themselves might, in the long run, find highly damaging and costly to remedy.
The work, begun early in 1971, now encompasses all projects that could conceivably result in environmental degradation or problems of public health and social well-being. It has not impeded the flow of assistance. In planning, formulating and appraising projects, environmental, health and social considerations are now viewed as integral elements to be evaluated and incorporated: the fundamental aim has been to add to economic development the new dimensions of ecological care. Experience so far has shown that the provision of environmental safeguards has in most instances not added greatly to the total cost of a project. Developing countries have generally shown an encouraging readiness to include such safeguards. The readiness is based, in part, on a growing realization that, in the long run, it is far cheaper to prevent environmental degradation than to remedy it—if, indeed, a remedy is possible.
The Bank's interest in the environmental impact of projects has taken a variety of forms. It has led to measures:
•	to avoid industrial pollution. In assisting the expansion of a steel plant in Turkey, provision has been made to control the flow of liquid wastes into the Black Sea, and gaseous
effluents into the air. In Botswana, where a nickel-copper mining complex is being built, provision has been made to ensure that gaseous effluents do not harm crops and cattle in the neighboring countryside.
•	to protect the health of people. In irrigation projects in Cameroon, Egypt, Malawi and Sudan, measures have been taken to reduce the dangers arising from a possible spread of bil-harzia and to control the snail population in the danger areas.
•	to protect the cultural environment. A feasibility study for a tourism project on the island of Bali, in Indonesia, pays close attention to the potential cultural impact.
•	to avoid or reduce water pollution. A modern sewerage system has been developed for the city of Dubrovnik, in Yugoslavia, in order to reduce pollution of the Adriatic coastal waters and also to ensure that a nearby Bank-assisted tourism project will not be imperilled by the raw wastes. In financing an iron ore marine terminal at Sepetiba Bay in Brazil, the Bank has investigated the measures required to keep free of pollution the waters that are of major importance to tourism and the local fishing industry. In Sao Paulo, the Bank has financed its first pollution control project, devised to cleanse the waters of the Tiete, previously a river of raw sewage.
The Bank cooperates with other multilateral and bilateral lending institutions in work relating to the environment. In particular, it has closely associated itself with the activities of the newly created U.N. Environmental Program.
Eastern Africa is a region of large resources but deep poverty. Ten of the Bank's 16 member countries there are classified by the U.N. as "least developed." Another—Zaire—has a per capita income of less than $120. In the remaining five—Kenya, the Malagasy Republic, Mauritius, Swaziland and Zambia—average per capita incomes are somewhat higher but large numbers of people have not shared adequately in the benefits of development.
By limiting the capacity to save and invest, poverty creates its own handicaps. This is in considerable measure responsible for the fact that Gross National Product (GNP) has increased by only 4% annually in recent years. In general, there has been a modest rise in farm productivity in the majority of countries in the region which depend mainly on agriculture. In Zaire and Zambia, where copper production contributes a large proportion of GNP, the depression in world copper prices in 1971 and
1972	has retarded the progress of the economy.
The population of the region as a whole is increasing rapidly, by about 2.5% per year. The trend implies that at the current rate of GNP growth, it would take more than half a century to double per capita income from its present meager levels. Some countries are beginning to recognize that the increase in population represents a major threat to their economic and social progress. But awareness of the problem, although growing, remains limited. The increase in population is accompanied by significant structural changes in its age composition. The ratio of dependents is high, being about 47% of the total population. This accentuates the pressure to increase consumption and, in part, affects the ability to mobilize savings. As more and more dependents move into the labor force—at a rate 50% higher than the overall rate of population increase — unemployment and underemployment are growing rapidly.
It is against this background that the Bank and IDA have substantially increased their assistance for economic development in Eastern Africa in recent years. In the last five years, the volume of lending has been over three times as high as it was in 1964-68. The volume of IDA credits for all countries in the region has more
than tripled. In fiscal 1973, it reached a total almost six times as large as the annual average for 1964-68. The extreme poverty of most countries in the region, and their limited ability to service conventional debt, underlines the importance of long-term development capital of the sort that IDA is able to provide within the limitations set by its own resources.
Compared with 1964-68, the growth in assistance during the last five years has been accompanied by significant shifts in the purposes for which it has been provided. The most significant is that lending for agriculture and education has risen markedly, although transportation has continued to account for the largest volume. Assistance for agriculture has been 10 times as large as the total for all of 1964-68. Support for education has more than doubled. During the last five years, greater attention has been given to such sectors as industry (including development finance companies), telecommunications and water supply, although their share of the total remains small. Support for industrial development has included the Bank's first loan in Eastern Africa to a development financing institution serving several countries, the East African Development Bank. Within the
transportation sector, lending has been diversified to include an airport project, in Nairobi.
Crucial role of agriculture
The sharp increase in Bank and IDA assistance for agriculture in recent years reflects the fact that the majority of the population is dependent on agriculture and agriculture is the mainstay of the region's economy. It accounts for 40% of the gross product and 45% of exports. About three-fourths of the 124 million people live in the rural areas. The sector thus plays a crucial role in development in terms both of generating foreign exchange, capital and food supplies, and of improving the living standards of large sections of society.
The Bank and IDA have adopted a flexible approach to agricultural development in the region. Their activities have ranged from promoting smallholder production at one end of the spectrum to assisting in the establishment of modern, commercially-oriented and sometimes publicly-owned farms on the other. The wide diversity of resources, climatic conditions and needs continue to determine the pattern within this range of opportunities. In some situations, for instance in parts of Ethiopia and Sudan, assistance has been given for mechanized farming since natural conditions and seasonal labor shortagesare such that development is best promoted in this manner. In others, more labor intensive technologies have been appropriate.
In the field of rural development, the Bank and IDA have helped to develop production of specific high-value crops such as coffee, tea, tobacco and cotton by smallholders within the framework of projects that also provide such elements of infrastructure as roads and domestic water supplies. Development is hampered by the fact that the demand for some crops is often inelastic, though there remains a potential for developing high-priced crops in certain areas.
The vast majority of small farmers in the region are engaged in the production of food or commercial crops like cotton or groundnuts. Although the recent success of research efforts provides the basis for increasing yields, the constraints are many. Many countries are therefore taking an integrated approach. Such an approach features extension services, input supplies, credit, marketing, road construction, water supplies, land tenure improvements and price incentives. Where appropriate, social facilities such as health and education are also included.
Integrated rural development
Some of the more interesting projects for integrated rural development are being implemented in Malawi. Although it is among the poorest of the developing countries, it has made impressive progress in agricultural development since it became independent in 1964. With 90% of the population depending on agriculture for much of its subsistence, the Government has focussed on increasing selfsufficiency in food staples and the introduction of cash crops. Integrated rural development projects, in which IDA has played a significant role, have made a major contribution to agricultural expansion in a number of areas.
One such project is in the Shire Valley in southern Malawi. It was launched with IDA assistance in 1968, and is nearing the end of its successful first phase. Not only is it being completed ahead of schedule; the costs have been lower and the benefits greater than originally expected. In fiscal 1973, IDA extended a new credit of $10.5 million to take the project into its second phase, during which another 16,000 farm families are expected to raise their incomes about ten fold by growing mainly cotton, but also food crops. This time, they will be helped to produce more beef cattle and fish in an area where malnutrition and disease are widespread. In addition, there will be measures
for wildlife protection, research and land registration. The project is typical of many rural development projects that are being launched in other very poor African countries. All such projects, however, are adapted to the particular circumstances of the area or country in question. No one "model" covers all needs.
Social framework
In Lesotho, for instance, an IDA credit of $5.6 million, extended in March, is to assist a project that has been carefully molded to fit into the social framework of the communities it is intended to serve. The project will support the Government's plans to raise rural productivity and living standards by enabling about
12,000	smallholder families to grow more food in the Thaba Bosiu area. In addition, integrated crop and livestock farming will be started on a pilot basis; the ultimate aim is to introduce it over the entire area. The first phase will concentrate on the increases in productivity that are possible within the existing social structure. But the Government is conducting an extensive educational campaign to promote the transition to new and better land usage and grazing patterns which it is hoped the people will adopt later. A notable feature is that IDA engaged a sociologist familiar with conditions in that part of Africa to help in appraising the project. Another sociologist will be attached to the evaluation unit that will monitor its progress.
The minimum package approach
A less intensive approach to rural development is being adopted in a project in Ethiopia, for which IDA approved a credit of $21 million in June. Described as a "minimum package” project, the essence of the approach in this case is to provide a selected group of key inputs which are most urgently required, so that the largest possible number of farmers can be assisted at a given cost. The project, which is expected to benefit 400,000 farm families by 1980, is the first of its kind to receive Bank Group support. It will utilize experience gained with the more intensive projects, but will concentrate on fertilizer, improved seeds, credit, extension services and essential roads. Although land reform measures are needed and are being considered by the Government, the project is expected to benefit small farmers, including both owners and tenants. It may well provide the basis for more intensive development in the future.
The provision of credit to small farmers is becoming an increasingly important part of Bank and IDA assistance for agriculture in Eastern Africa. Credit is among the inputs provided in projects for integrated rural development. But sometimes it may be provided by itself when supporting services are adequate.
Credit facilities are often essential if farmers are to make the on-farm investments without which productivity cannot be raised.
The Bank and IDA themselves are not in a position to invest directly in a large number of small enterprises. The assistance they provide in support of credit facilities is, therefore, channelled through intermediary institutions within the borrowing countries. Thus, in Kenya, IDA provided $6 million during the year for a project that will enable the Agricultural Finance Corporation to extend such facilities to 8,000 small farmers for producing crops, raising livestock and poultry, and buying farm equipment. Continuing a program first assisted by IDA in 1967, it will help increase employment in rural areas and raise foreign exchange earnings.
Livestock potential
A significant part of Eastern Africa's agricultural potential lies in its livestock resources. Bank and IDA lending for the sub-sector has risen substantially in recent years. Increasingly, such projects cover a wide range of activities. Often a major objective is to promote meat exports, for which the prospects are very promising. But the projects also help meet local demand, and thus reduce protein deficiencies that are responsible for the serious malnutrition afflicting the people of the region. In recent years, the Bank and IDA have supported projects for establishing ranches in countries like the Malagasy Republic, Tanzania and Zaire, as well as for improving productivity and marketing conditions for smaller cattle-owners in such countries as Ethiopia and Kenya.
Ethiopia offers a good example. It has larger livestock resources than any other country in the region, in fact the largest in Africa. But they make a disproportionately small contribution to the economy and to export earnings. In March, IDA extended a credit of $5 million for a project that could be the first stage of a program to develop Ethiopia's livestock resources both for domestic consumption and for export. In contrast to an earlier IDA-assisted project to expand the milk supply in the Addis Ababa area, a notable feature of the new one is that its benefits will be widely dispersed throughout the country's rural areas. The project is conceived on the basis that a large supply of meat can not only do much to improve the nutritional content of the Ethiopian diet, but is also one of the most promising ways of lessening the country's heavy dependence on coffee exports.
Water management
The Bank and IDA have been interested in supporting measures for water management that encourage the more efficient use of water resources. Although their assistance for irrigation remains substantial, its share in the total of
lending for agriculture in the region is still small. One reason is that in many of the smaller and poorer countries, it has been given relatively low priority. Another is that the scope for large-scale irrigation works in Eastern Africa is limited by geographical factors; the emphasis has been on the development of rain-fed agriculture. A third reason is that in many areas the prime need is not for water, but for complementary on-farm facilities that would enable farmers to make better use of the water they already have. Irrigation has often been a component of projects designed to benefit small farmers, to whom special attention has been given, but it has rarely been the main component.
One country, however, where promising possibilities for large-scale investment in irrigation have been found over the years is Sudan. In the early 1960s, the Bank and IDA helped finance the Managil Extension of the Gezira irrigation scheme, as well as the Roseires dam on the Blue Nile. In March 1973, IDA agreed to lend another $42 million—for a $100 million irrigation project on the east bank of the Rahad river. The project is expected to change large areas of semi-arid desert into productive farmland, and almost treble the incomes of 14,000 farm families. In addition, it will help provide seasonal farm employment for around 90,000 workers. The increase in agricultural production is expected to result in net foreign exchange earnings of about $27 million annually. The Rahad project offers a notable example of the Bank Group's concern for the environmental implications of development. The large increase in irrigated area could raise the incidence of malaria and bilharzia, which are endemic in the region. The project, therefore, seeks to safeguard the health of the people by providing the facilities required to check these diseases.
Assistance for education
As in agriculture, lending for education in Eastern Africa has significantly widened in scope. A primary objective is to gear the assistance to the specific manpower needs of the country in question, with growing emphasis on the training of middle and higher level personnel. A relatively new area of assistance, where urgent needs remain to be met, is medical and para-medical training—a field in which the Bank is benefiting greatly from its working relationship with the World Health Organization (WHO). In a number of cases, continued Bank and IDA support of general education at the middle level remains necessary if specific manpower training in the agricultural, medical, technical and other fields is to succeed.
Efforts have been made to give more emphasis to basic education and training for the majority of the people who have so far derived little, if any, benefit from the develop-
ment of the education systems, in particular the school-age and adult population in the rural areas. Assistance in this field is developing only gradually since the change in emphasis in national education plans and the preparation of programs is taking time.
During fiscal 1973 the Bank and IDA provided a total of $53.3 million for three projects —in Ethiopia, Tanzania and Zambia. The greater emphasis on "grass-roots” education is reflected in the Ethiopian project for which IDA approved a credit of $10 million in June. The project includes the financing of a training center for village priests, as a joint venture of the Ethiopian Government and the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, to make better use of the wide national network of learning centers at the village level. A new feature of the education project in Tanzania, for which IDA provided $10.3 million in April, is that it will establish community education centers in "ujamaa" villages. In all these centers, new programs in practical education and adult literacy will be developed and tested. In Zambia, as part of an education project which is to be assisted by a Bank loan of $33 million approved in May, farmer training will be expanded. The emphasis will be on food production, nutrition and child care to improve family health in rural areas.
Considerable emphasis is being given in the Zambian project to professional agricultural training through the establishment of facilities for a School of Agricultural Sciences at the University of Zambia. In the Ethiopian education project, support will be provided for training middle-level workers for agricultural and animal health services. A notable feature of the new Tanzanian and Zambian projects is the inclusion of training facilities for health. Under the Tanzanian project, additional facilities will enable the Faculty of Medicine to double the annual output of doctors. In Zambia, the greatest needs are at the middle level. The education project, therefore, concentrates on financing institutions for training such personnel as medical assistants, nurses, midwives, and radiological and laboratory assistants. In these projects also, WHO assistance has been valuable.
Scientific and technical training requires continued support. A major part of the latest education project in Ethiopia consists of the financing of a science center at Haile Selassie I University which will provide basic science training for students of agriculture, engineering and medicine, and for science teachers. The education project in Tanzania provides for the establishment of new vocational training centers.
Strengthening of local capabilities to plan and implement educational reforms, to revise curricula and syllabi, and to design and produce educational materials and books, remains a major objective of educational lending. These
activities account for a significant part of the technical assistance in recent Bank and IDA lending for education projects, in many of which the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) has provided the expert services required. In addition, the new education projects in Ethiopia and Zambia provide financing for buildings and equipment to establish educational service centers that would support viable programs to improve the quality of education.
Infrastructure facilities
The development of infrastructure facilities —transportation and power—has been a major object of the Bank's concern in Eastern Africa for more than 20 years. It still is. The first loan the Bank ever made for a project in the region,
in September 1950, was for transportation— specifically, for the rehabilitation of highways in Ethiopia. Adequate transportation is a prerequisite for agricultural and industrial growth, particularly in countries where transport costs can account for as much as 50% or more of the final price of goods. If transport is expensive because the facilities are inadequate or operated inefficiently, the economy as a whole suffers.
In recent years, attention has been increasingly given to developing secondary and feeder roads in rural areas to facilitate new agricultural development, as in Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania. A loan has also been made for an aviation project which is an entirely new sub-sector of Bank activity in the region. Lending for ports, a traditional sub-sector, continues to be important because adequate and well-run ports can make a major contribution to East African countries' efforts to increase their exports.
The Malagasy Republic offers an example of the Bank's strategy of a multipronged approach. The country—consisting of the fourth largest island in the world—has been severely handicapped by the inadequacy of its transportation network. In developing the system, the Government is anxious to provide links between the main urban centers; to build penetration roads in promising agricultural areas; to improve port facilities; and to strengthen the railroad in those areas and for those commodities for which it remains the most appropriate mode of transport. In conformity with this policy, IDA extended assistance in 1970 for a port project in Tamatave to provide an improved outlet for exports. In addition, the Bank and IDA have helped finance road projects designed to provide all-weather land connections in the central and northern regions of the country, and thus contribute to agricultural development. Last December, they jointly provided $30 million for a third highway project, which will continue this work in the central and western regions.
Sudan offers another example. Railways are the main form of transport there, and their development has been assisted by two Bank loans made in 1959 and 1966. The highway network is extremely limited: barely 200 miles of surfaced roads, mainly around Khartoum, in a country with an area larger than any other in Africa. Such roads as there are, furthermore, are in bad shape. An IDA credit of $7 million, approved last August, will now help the country to improve and maintain its road network, and prepare plans for building several hundred miles of new roads. The project will also help to improve road transport in southern Sudan— an area of extreme poverty which has suffered from the disturbances that ended in the early months of 1972, but where the Bank is now exploring a variety of development possibilities in transportation (especially river transportation), agriculture and other sectors.
Expansion of ports
Apart from highways, the year's operations included two in support of port projects in Eastern Africa. In Somalia, a country whose economic future depends heavily on the livestock and bananas that constitute 90% of its exports, an IDA credit of $12.95 million, provided in March, is to help build a deepwater port in Mogadiscio, the capital. The European Development Fund (FED) is providing a similar amount for this project. The present port depends on lighterage facilities, which are unsatisfactory and which often cannot be used at all during the monsoon season. Apart from new berths for general cargo, the project will provide special facilities for handling livestock exports from Mogadiscio's extensive hinterland.
The other port project will continue the phased modernization and expansion of the principal ports of the East African Community —Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda—run by the East African Harbours Corporation (EAHC). EAHC is one of four Community corporations which operate the railways, ports, telecommunications services and a regional airline as common services for the three partner States.
The expansion of EAHC ports is vital to the national economies of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda and some landlocked neighbors (Burundi, Rwanda and Zambia) which depend heavily on foreign trade for their continuing development. Previous projects financed by the Bank have considerably increased the capacity of East African ports to handle the growing volume of traffic. But the massive diversion of Zambian traffic from southern African ports to Dar es Salaam in recent years has strained the port's capacity to handle cargo. The project will raise Dar es Salaam's capacity to handle the much greater volume of Tanzanian and Zambian traffic that is expected, especially after the Tanzam railway link between the two countries, now being constructed with aid from the People's Republic of China, is completed. It will also help modernize and expand the ports in Mombasa and Tanga.
The Bank's support for the Corporations of the East African Community, and for the East African Development Bank, reflects its readiness to assist in promoting regional integration when the countries in question want it. These institutions have demonstrated that greater efficiency can be achieved in the supply of goods and services if productive facilities are integrated to serve the needs of several countries simultaneously. This is particularly true in Eastern Africa where national markets are small and per capita incomes low.
Program loan
In Zambia, copper production and exports account for 95% of foreign exchange earnings, 40% of GNP, and until recently 60% of tax revenues. A sharp drop in the price of copper
after 1970, together with a major mine disaster, greatly reduced these earnings and revenues, and threatened drastic cutbacks in the Government's investment program. In June, therefore, the Bank extended a program loan of $30 million to Zambia to assist it in maintaining the highest priority portions of its investment program.
Indicative of the Bank Group's increasing concern over unemployment was a project in Mauritius for which IDA approved a credit of $4 million in June. The project will assist the country to diversify its economy by establishing industries offering a relatively large potential for employment. It involves the construction of infrastructure and other facilities for an industrial estate to attract labor-intensive industries producing exportable goods or carrying out intermediate processes.
Cooperation in development
Much of the Bank's work in Eastern Africa is conducted in collaboration with other agencies, multilateral and bilateral. This could take the form of jointly financing a project or separately financing parts of the same project, aid coordination through consultative groups and technical assistance for the preparation of projects.
The East African Consultative Group held a meeting in January to discuss Tanzania's economic position and prospects. The Group recognized that external aid inflows would have to increase substantially and that, to avoid an excessive debt burden in the future, most, if not all, capital assistance would have to be made available on soft terms. A meeting of the Consultative Group for Ethiopia was scheduled for early July 1973 to discuss the programs, strategy and policy implications of the new Five Year Plan starting in 1974. This follows two comprehensive surveys, carried out with Bank assistance, on the education and agriculture sectors, which feature prominently in the new Plan. The Consultative Group for Sudan was reactivated and was scheduled to meet early in July 1973 to discuss, among other things, the needs of southern Sudan now that a political settlement had been reached and refugees had returned.
An important contribution to the Bank's work is made by its Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa, stationed in Nairobi. The mission helps governments in identifying and preparing projects in three sectors: agriculture, transportation and education. The supervision unit which was established in June 1972 as part of the mission has assisted governments in implementing ongoing agriculture projects. The Agricultural Development Service, which is associated with the Permanent Mission, continues to offer experienced personnel, on a reimbursable basis, for managing projects when governments in the region so desire.
The 20 countries of Western Africa include some of the poorest nations in the world. As they move into the second decade of their independence, there is a growing desire for self-reliance and for mobilizing their own limited local resources of human skills and capital. The conviction is spreading that economic expansion by itself is not enough, and that more must be done to extend the benefits of development to larger numbers of people. These attitudes are emerging despite the formidable obstacles to progress arising from the pervasive poverty of the region. The poverty to a large extent is responsible for the fact that government revenues and domestic public savings remain limited. The latter have been severely affected over the years by the deterioration in the terms of trade, although a sharp increase in the prices of such commodities as cocoa and coffee has recently improved the trade balances of some countries in the region.
Over the last five years, Bank and IDA activities in Western Africa have grown rapidly, both in volume and variety. As the accompanying table shows, despite yearly fluctuations, overall lending by the two institutions during 1969-73 has been almost three times as high as in the previous five years. The total number of projects has increased more than fourfold. Within the overall total, lending to the region's six "least developed" countries (Chad, Dahomey, Guinea, Mali, Niger, and Upper Volta) has increased dramatically, from $12.3 million in 1964-68 to $181 million in 1969-73. With the approval in fiscal 1973 of an IDA credit of $2 million for highway maintenance to Equatorial Guinea, all 20 countries in the region now share in the flow of Bank and IDA assistance.
No less important than the volume of lending, and its geographically wider distribution, is the shifting sectoral emphasis. Transportation still predominates, accounting for about 39% of Bank and IDA lending to the region in 1969-73. However, the share of agriculture in the total has risen from 6% in 1964-68 to 17%, and that of education from 7% to 15%. A start has been made in new sectors like urban development and water supply. The proportions devoted to power and industry have declined.
The changing pattern of Bank and IDA oper-
ations in Western Africa was reinforced during fiscal 1973. Several significant trends highlighted the year's record, among them:
•	Greater diversification of activities.
•	The adoption of more flexible lending policies and techniques to help individual countries strike at some of the most immediate and most stubborn bottlenecks to their development.
•	An increase in the special assistance offered to help identify, prepare and implement projects.
There were two notable examples during the year of diversification of Bank and IDA activities in response to the special needs of the region. The first arose out of the emergency created by the drought in the sub-Saharan belt which has driven tens of thousands of people from their homes in Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal and Upper Volta. The drought —the worst in 50 years—has not only led to widespread human suffering; it has caused
heavy losses of livestock and severe crop damage. Yields have fallen substantially even in a number of coastal countries. The Bank Group is trying to supplement the relief operations organized under the aegis of the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) with measures designed to help in restoring production and providing some protection against the worst effects of drought in the future.
, Special assistance is being considered for a variety of schemes, including the construction of wells, small-scale irrigation works and livestock disease control. It is intended that the countries in question should be allowed considerable flexibility in deciding how the money is to be used. In addition, the conditions of several earlier agriculture and livestock credits are being modified to make the funds available quickly for measures to soften the impact of the drought.
Control of river blindness
The second example concerns the Bank's role in the campaign for the control of river blindness (onchocerciasis) in the Volta river basin. The disease is transmitted by a species of black fly and ultimately causes partial or total blindness. It has forced thousands of people to move away from some of the most fertile river valleys, and has seriously impeded development in many parts of Western Africa. The Bank is, therefore, joining with three other international agencies—the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and FAO—in a program to bring the disease under control in a group of countries that are among the most seriously affected: Dahomey, Ghana, the Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta. An inter-agency steering committee, established
in 1972, has recommended that the Bank take the lead in mobilizing funds on an international scale for financing the first phase of the control campaign, which is due to start in 1974. The primary objective of this campaign is to eliminate the breeding of the fly in specific target zones. Plans will meanwhile be prepared for the resettlement and development of currently infested river valleys.
As a first step towards creating an international fund for controlling river blindness, a meeting of interested governments and international agencies was convened in Paris on June 26 and 27 under the Bank's chairmanship. The objective was to establish a consultative group for the control effort. Preliminary estimates indicate that the total cost of the program, at June 1973 prices, may be around $120 million, spread over 20 years. The cost of the first phase, extending over the six years from
1974	to 1980, would be about one-third of the total, or approximately $41 million. More than one-third of this will be directly accounted for by operations to control the fly that transmits the worm parasite, mainly through aerial application of insecticides. The rest will cover entomological surveillance, epidemiological evaluation, research, training, and costs of administration and technical support.
Rural development
As the Bank and IDA expand their activities in Western Africa in response to local needs, greater attention is being given to promoting the development of rural areas more effectively. About 70% of the people of the region live in these areas. The handicaps they face are formidable: low productivity, irregular employment, poor nourishment, debilitating diseases, low life expectancy and illiteracy. By its
very nature, rural development depends heavily on decentralized decision-making and selfhelp; it calls for greater emphasis on generating employment, especially through the use of labor-intensive methods of production. While much remains to be learned in this field, there have been some successful attempts to deal with low-income agriculture. The attempts constitute part of the process necessary to raise incomes and standards of living of the poor.
The broader approach implicit in rural development has remained an important feature in many of the agriculture projects for which Bank and IDA assistance was approved during the year. Four are aimed at developing food crops for domestic consumption. One will help increase output of palm oil to meet rapidly expanding domestic needs in Cameroon. A second will assist rehabilitation of sugar production in Ghana. Two others will increase rice yields by improving irrigation facilities in The Gambia and Senegal.
Rice is of particular importance to Western Africa, a region which imports more than
500,000	tons of it annually. Of this total, Senegal alone imports 300,000 tons, at a cost of $25 million. The country has suffered from being basically a one-crop economy, depending on groundnuts. The Government is anxious to diversify production by growing more rice, cotton and vegetables. Two years ago, IDA assisted a project to increase rice production in the Casamance region. In fiscal 1973, IDA agreed to lend $4.5 million for an irrigation project to develop rice production in other areas, mainly along the Senegal River in the north, and to introduce a new scheme for double-cropping rice and tomatoes. When completed in 1976, the project will help Senegal save $1.2 million a year by cutting down on its rice and tomato paste imports. It will benefit about 10,000 farmers, who are poorer than most others in Senegal, and raise their incomes by up to 300%. In addition, it will create work in areas where there are few employment opportunities.
Another two agriculture projects supported by the Bank and IDA in fiscal 1973 are concerned mainly or exclusively with production of crops for export. The first, in Senegal, is designed to improve groundnut and millet cultivation throughout the country, and to produce more rice, cotton and other crops in the south. The second is for developing rubber plantations in the Ivory Coast. The project will help open up an undeveloped area in the southwest, thus furthering the Government's objectives of balanced regional development and diversification of agriculture. The project illustrates the efforts that are being made to promote effective coordination of aid among various agencies. The French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) made the basic studies on which the project is based. Financing is being provided jointly by the Bank, the Ivory Coast Govern-
ment, the European Development Fund (FED) and the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Eco-nomique (CCCE) of France.
Educational policies
The development of sound educational policies is becoming a major preoccupation of governments in Western Africa. While the demand for educational opportunities is growing rapidly, governments realize that the sector tends to absorb a very high percentage of their resources and that major changes in existing educational systems are required to make them more economical and effective. With the assistance of the Bank Group, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco), and other international and bilateral aid agencies, a variety of experiments and investigations is being conducted to promote new educational techniques, including the use of national languages, to develop non-formal education and functional literacy programs for adults, and to adapt curricula and teaching methods to each country's needs.
Take Upper Volta. The country spends almost 28% of its annual operating budget on education, and 65% of that goes for primary education. Yet only about 10% of primary school age children are enrolled in school. In so poor and predominantly rural a country, the main problem is to adapt the primary school system to the needs of the rural masses. One of the most innovative and potentially far-reaching projects, for which an IDA credit of $2.85 million was approved in June, is designed to integrate rural education with agricultural credit and employment creation. Several attempts have been made in the past—by France, FED and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)—to deal with this problem. The IDA-assisted project draws on their experience and will, in certain aspects, complement assistance for rural education already being provided by FED. Specifically, the project will reconstruct or equip about 120 rural education centers that will provide over a three-year period a combination of basic literacy and training in handicrafts and practical agriculture to young people who have been bypassed by the formal education system.
After they have completed this training, these young people will have three options: to work immediately in agriculture, to become members of post-school cooperative groups, or to receive further training preparing them for more sophisticated productive activities in agriculture. The project will support three such upgrading centers. It will also give assistance to organize, and provide equipment for, about 150 pilot cooperative groups. Each group will consist of 15 young men who have reached the age of 18. It will provide members with additional earnings from improved farming techniques, better nutrition and other advantages.
Children at a school near Bouake in the Ivorv Coast. The school is among those that are expected to benefit from a project involving the use of instructional television which the Bank is helping to finance.
These youths could remain as permanent members of the cooperatives or later become selfemployed progressive farmers. An evaluation component built into the project will continue the Bank's research efforts started with a worldwide study of non-formal education for rural development. Based on this experiment, similar projects could be generated in other particularly underdeveloped countries or regions. The project will also include a study of practical ways to train managers for small and mediumsized development projects in Upper Volta.
In Nigeria, a $54 million Bank loan, approved in June, is to assist the expansion of secondary education, primary and secondary teacher training and related university education in the six northern states. The project will also support research and experimentation at the Institute ef Education at Ahmadu Bello University designed to develop a more relevant approach to primary (basic) education.
Importance of transportation
In any strategy for economic development, the adequacy of transport is crucial. It is particularly important in Western Africa, where many countries are landlocked. The predominance of transportation in Bank and IDA lending reflects the importance given to this sector. In fiscal 1973, assistance was provided for nine
transportation projects in seven countries. Of these projects, three—two in Mali and the other in Dahomey—are particularly noteworthy. In Mali, great distances separate its key development areas from the capital, which itself is about 750 miles from Dakar, in neighboring Senegal, the principal port for Mali's foreign commerce. Two IDA credits totalling $16.2 million, approved in April, will help improve the railway and highways. The railway is the only efficient link to Dakar, carrying 60% of Mali's external trade. The road system ties the main population centers and agricultural areas of the central region, and feeds into the highway networks of Upper Volta and the Ivory Coast.
In Dahomey, an IDA credit of $11.8 million, approved in May, will help improve accessibility in the north and, in addition, contribute indirectly to greater regional integration. Specifically, the project includes funds to rehabilitate 200 miles of the Parakou-Malanville road.
The road is part of Dahomey's principal transport link in the north for domestic trade. It is also part of the road-rail link from Niger to the port of Cotonou in Dahomey, which is the major outlet for the southwestern region of landlocked Niger.
Large regional or national transport projects are particularly appropriate for cooperation with other donors. Both the Mali and the Dahomey road projects were financed jointly with the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). A project for highway maintenance and development in Liberia offers another interesting example of increased collaboration among external aid agencies. A special conference of donors was held in Monrovia in October 1972 to consider the Government's 33
five year road maintenance and development program. Subsequently, assistance for a project designed to support the program was approved in May 1973. The Bank and IDA jointly provided $5.6 million. Additional financing was provided by the UNDP, the Federal Republic of Germany and USAID.
Urban expansion
The Bank and IDA are concerned about the serious problems of urban expansion, particularly in some of the more prosperous coastal countries. A Bank loan of $9.5 million to Gabon, approved in April, will help finance a water supply project specially designed to benefit the lower income groups among the population of Libreville. Simultaneously, an urban development study will be conducted, with particular emphasis on measures to improve living conditions in squatter settlements. In the Ivory Coast, the Bank has studied various aspects of Abidjan's urban infrastructure, and a joint mission of the Bank and the International Labour Organization (ILO) has investigated employment problems. Efforts are being made to develop a pilot project to assist small-scale enterprises, which, if successful, could serve as a model for several countries in the region.
Tourism in Western Africa has been growing rapidly in recent years. In the long run, the industry could well serve as a means of strengthening economies and alleviating urban unemployment. A Bank mission, in cooperation with the Societe de Developpement Touris-tique et FHotelier de I'Afrique de I'Ouest (HOTAFRIC), has reviewed the prospects of tourism in eight countries of the region. On the basis of the mission's recommendations, the feasibility study of a project in Senegal will soon be started with UNDP financing. An important stimulus to the tourism industry in that country will be given by the improvement of facilities at Dakar airport, for which the Bank approved a $3 million loan last November.
Project preparation
A major constraint in the region is the shortage of skilled local manpower to identify and prepare projects. The Bank Group works in several ways to help governments overcome this handicap. It provides funds for technical assistance, within approved lending operations, specifically for project identification and preparation. It works closely with other agencies, such as the UNDP, in identifying areas of productive investment. It provides specialized training, through the Economic Development Institute, for middle and senior government officials concerned with development programs and projects.
Most important, perhaps, is the work of the Permanent Mission for Western Africa, based
in Abidjan, which was established in 1964 to help governments identify and prepare projects for Bank or IDA financing. The mission has been expanding its activities, and works in a number of sectors, although agriculture is the most important. During the year, it helped to prepare projects for the development of agriculture, transportation and education in several countries.
A significant illustration of the work done to help countries identify and prepare projects is seen in Nigeria. During fiscal 1973, Bank staff and consultants assisted the Governments of three of the Northern States in preparing general agricultural development projects in cotton-growing areas. They also assisted four other States to prepare estate and smallholder oil palm projects. Simultaneously, the FAO-Bank cooperative program helped to prepare a smallholder rice project for the East-Central and South-East States. Thus, in all about a dozen projects have been identified and prepared. In the Northern States of Nigeria, 250,000 farm families representing nearly two million people will be directly or indirectly benefited by the projects; while in the South, 20,000 or
30,000	families will have the opportunity of substantially improving their present incomes. The projects provide for the development of infrastructure, including rural water supplies, roads and farm storage.
Innovation and flexibility
A central objective of the Bank and IDA is to deploy their financial and technical resources in cooperation with governments as well as other development agencies in a concerted attack on some of the most intractable but urgent problems of the region. In pursuit of this objective, innovation and flexibility are indispensable. Thus, in the Upper Volta education project, teaching in 15 of the rural education centers will be conducted on an experimental basis in the main national languages rather than in French. The Ghana sugar project responds to the transition now afoot in the world sugar market—from excess supply to excess demand. The same kind of innovation is evident in other lending operations approved during the year, such as the one to improve Dakar's airport—the first aviation project supported by the Bank in Western Africa.
Apart from helping to finance specific projects, the Bank and IDA work in other ways to provide a wide range of advice and assistance. For instance, at the request of the Ghanaian Government and creditor countries, the Bank has agreed to help in the search for a solution of the country's debt problems. A proposal for a medium-term debtsettlement was transmitted to Ghana by the Bank on behalf of the creditor countries in November 1972, and the Bank acted as intermediary in later negotiations between the two sides.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
The population of the Bank Croup's 24 current borrowers in this region is around 275 million, or about 15% of the population of all the Bank's developing member countries.(1) The economic structure and level of development of the 24 vary widely. At one end of the spectrum are Afghanistan, the Yemen Arab Republic and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen which are still on the threshold of development. At the other end are Finland, Iceland and Israel which have highly sophisticated economies but from time to time may need official assistance to meet specific development objectives. Bank Group lending in the region is concentrated mainly at the lower end of the per capita income scale. Such countries account for almost three-fourths of the total population of those classified as current borrowers. Income disparities in the region are wide—probably wider than in most other regions. The region also has a very wide range of socio-political systems.
During the past few years, there have been rapid changes in the development prospects of a number of countries. Several have expanded their economies rapidly, partly because good weather has helped their agriculture. In many, the growth in foreign exchange earnings has accelerated, with the result that balance of payments difficulties have become far less acute, or have disappeared altogether.
There are four main reasons for the rise in foreign exchange earnings. Firstly, the petro-.leum-exporting countries have greatly increased their oil revenues, from $5,800 million in 1970 to $11,600 million in 1972. Secondly, total export earnings (including oil) of the borrowing .countries in the region have risen from $16,600 million in 1970 to $22,000 million in 1972, mainly because of the increase in exports to the European Economic Community (EEC). Thirdly, tourism earnings have grown from $3,200 million in 1970 to $4,900 million in
1972.	Fourthly, some countries have been re-
(1) Four countries of the region joined the Bank during the fiscal year: Bahrain, Qatar, Romania and the United Arab Emirates. Following the internal reorganization of the Bank in October 1972, operational responsibilities tor Afghanistan and Iran were transferred from the former South Asia Department to the Regional Office for Europe, Middle East and North Africa.
ceiving large remittances from their nationals working abroad, mainly in western Europe. The remittances increased from $2,000 million in
1970	to $3,400 million in 1972 in five countries of southern Europe. In three North African countries — Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia — they reached $470 million in 1972.
The last of these factors is a byproduct of the fact that most of the migration across national frontiers which is taking place in the world today is from countries in the region. Last year, there were about eight million foreign workers in western Europe alone, mostly from such countries as Algeria, Greece, Morocco, Spain, Turkey and Yugoslavia. Migration within the Arabian sub-region has also been large, although its economic impact has been more limited.
Apart from contributing to the balance of payments, the migration has helped ease unemployment in the countries from which the workers come. Nevertheless, most of the Bank's current borrowers in the region, including almost all the labor-exporting countries, still have serious unemployment. The Bank is, therefore, directing its attention increasingly to employment problems in framing its lending programs.
Foreign exchange reserves
With improvements in the balance of payments, the foreign exchange reserves of the countries in the region have increased sharply, from $9,600 million in 1970 to $22,100 million in 1972. The increase of 130% compares with a rise of around 70% in the total reserves of all member countries of the International Monetary Fund over the same period. Much of the former increase has occurred in relatively high-income or petroleum-exporting countries where requirements for external financial assistance are marginal. But there has also been a marked change for the better in the reserve position of Bank borrowers like Greece, Spain, Turkey and Yugoslavia. In the case of the petroleum-exporting countries, the fise has been so great that they have figured prominently among those from which the Bank itself has borrowed funds in recent years. Thus, since April 1968 the Bank has floated bond issues totalling the equivalent, in current dollars, of $355 million in Kuwait, $30 million in Saudi Arabia and $34 million in Libya. In fiscal 1973, the first bond issue, of about $30 million, was made in Lebanon which, although not an oil exporter, is the major financial center of the region through which the petroleum-exporting countries chan-
nel their funds.
As capital flows into and within the region have grown, regional financial institutions have become more active. The Bank has sought to cooperate more closely with them. For instance, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) and the Bank have together helped to finance several projects in recent years in Jordan, Morocco, Sudan, Tunisia and the Yemen Arab Republic. The Bank has strengthened its relations with the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, which was established in July 1971; parallel financing by the two institutions for a water supply project in the Yemen Arab Republic is being considered. A technical expert has been seconded to assist the administration of the Arab Fund for Economic Development, which began operating in Kuwait in February 1972 with a membership of 16 countries. The prospective increase in oil revenues promises a further growth in intra-regional financing, and in the Bank's association with such financing.
The improvements in income and in the balance of payments of most countries in the region are offering new opportunities for accelerating economic development. Some countries, with an enhanced absorptive capacity, are eager to attract more financial assistance from the Bank Group. Others, which do not need to borrow abroad, are nevertheless anxious to get technical assistance for identifying and preparing projects and for strengthening the institutions necessary to conduct their development programs. These changes are having a significant influence on the Bank's activities in the region.
Bank and IDA activities, however, remain concentrated on the countries which seek both financial and technical assistance. The volume
and trend of Bank and IDA lending is shown in the accompanying tables. Total lending has more than tripled in 1969-73 compared with 1964-68, and the lending in 1973 actually exceeded the total for the whole 1964-68 period. Within the totals, assistance to countries with a per capita GNP of $120 or less has increased from $3.5 million in 1964-68 to $53 million in 1969-73. Lending to the two "least developed" countries—Afghanistan and the Yemen Arab Republic—has risen from $3.5 million to $47 million during the same periods.
Sectoral distribution
The increase in the total volume of lending has been accompanied by significant changes in its sectoral distribution. Until 1968, the overwhelming proportion of Bank and IDA assistance was for three sectors—transportation, industry (through development finance companies) and electric power. Since then, although the amounts invested in these sectors have remained large, the proportions devoted to education, agriculture and water supply have risen markedly. For the first time, support has been given to an aviation project in the region—to develop the airport serving Kabul in Afghanistan. In addition, assistance has been provided for three new sectors — population planning, urban development and tourism.
In the field of population planning, the Bank's growing interest was reflected in the assistance extended for a project in Iran. The interest is based on the fact that although in some countries the population is growing by less than 1 % per year, in others it is expanding by more than 2.5% annually. The latter include Algeria, Iraq, Jordan, Morocco and Tunisia. The first population project in the region, in Tunisia, was assisted by IDA in 1971. The $16.5 million Bank loan approved in May 1973 for an Iranian project is the second. It is designed to assist a country where population growth has averaged 2.9% per year from 1960 to 1970, and could accelerate to 3.9% by 1991 if fertility remains at its present level and mortality rates continue to decline. The project will help implement the cpuntry's family planning program more effectively by strengthening the organization of the program and providing some of the basic physical facilities needed to extend health and family planning services to the smaller towns. The number of family planning workers will be increased and their training improved. A study will be made for extending the program later to the rural areas.
Although no Bank or IDA financing was extended directly for tourism and urban development in fiscal 1973, development finance companies in the region continued to allocate funds from the Bank Group to finance hotel projects. A number of projects for direct lending in both these sectors were in various stages of processing. Preparation and appraisal work
was carried out during the year on projects for urban transport in some countries. In one case, the approach may be to help the municipal authority to make its urban policies and planning more effective, initially by creating a district planning and coordinating agency. The agency would be responsible for planning future transport, sewerage and other municipal investments. It could help meet the immediate need for improving public transport through provision of buses and modernization of a suburban railway line. In another case, the emphasis may be on developing urban transport to promote integrated urban planning as a primary objective. The efficiency of the public bus service would be improved for the direct benefit of the lower income groups, which cannot afford other forms of transportation. Two highway projects in Cyprus and Lebanon also include studies of urban areas to assure integrated planning and proper distribution of traffic from inter-urban roads. A project for the Istanbul metropolitan power distribution and transport authority in Turkey includes a study of the public bus service to be coordinated with an urban development project which IDA is assisting.
Educational needs ,
Apart from population planning and urban development, a notable feature of Bank and IDA activities in the region is the striking increase in lending for education. In 1969-73, such lending amounted to more than six times the total for the previous five years.
The educational needs of the countries in the region are great. They also vary widely, and are reflected in the unique set of priorities each country has chosen as appropriate to its particular stage of development. The Bank and IDA have sought to respond flexibly to these needs. Accordingly, there is a great diversity in the types and levels of educational institutions they have helped to finance. The institutions range from primary schools and farmer training centers to engineering universities. The assistance has had two principal objectives. The first is to help each country improve the relevance, efficiency and economy of its education system. The second is to strengthen its capacity to produce the trained manpower it needs for its own development.
Thus, in line with the first objective, the Bank in recent years has helped to implement major educational reforms in Iran and Spain. The reforms have included a basic restructuring of the education system to adopt more modern and practical curricula, to introduce more study options, and to provide more entry and exit points in the system. In support of the second objective, assistance has been given to establish or improve technical universities, diploma level industrial and agricultural institutes, multilateral secondary schools, and vocational training centers.
Although primary education has accounted for only a small proportion of total assistance so far, it represents the single largest element in a $16 million project in Lebanon, for which the Bank made a loan of $6.6 million in January. A central aim is to provide educational opportunities more equitably to all the people. Another is to shift the emphasis in education from the highly academic towards the practical and technical, in order to make the education system better suited to the country's needs.
An Algerian project, for which the Bank made a loan of $6 million in June, is very different. It supports the Government's efforts to expand and reorient technical education so as to help fill manpower shortages in critical sectors of the economy. The Government has given education a major role in its development strategy. Rapid industrialization has increased the demand for skilled manpower in such fields as natural gas, mining, metallurgy, plastics, construction materials, mechanical construction and electrotechnology. The need to balance these developments on the agricultural side has accentuated the need for large numbers of agricultural technicians.
To help meet these demands, the Government is developing a new kind of institution, the Institute of Technology. The institute departs from the normal educational pattern by recruiting on the basis of work experience rather than the level of schooling. Intensive practical training is offered over a school year of 11 months, interspersed with on-the-job training. Examinations are based on competence rather than academic proficiency. The project, estimated to cost $10 million, will provide for the extension of three institutes for training engineers and technicians for agriculture, mining and metallurgy, and the petroleum industry. The Institute of Agricultural Technology is particularly interesting in that it will train agricultural specialists in a highly practical way.
The Algerian project underlines the point that in countries where agricultural and industrial growth has been rapid, the demand for technically trained manpower has been rising. The proportion of technical education projects supported by the Bank and IDA has, therefore,
increased. During the past five years, technical education has represented 55% of total lending for education in the region, compared with the Bank Group's worldwide average of around 30%.
Growth of industry
The Bank Group has contributed substantially to the growth of industry in the region. In the last five years, Bank and IDA lending for the sector has reached a total almost three times as large as in 1964-68. Three main factors have contributed to the rise. The first is the higher priority given to industrial development in several countries, in recognition of the important contribution it can make to national income, employment and exports. The second is the greater scope for industrial investment created by the process of economic development as a whole. The third is the change in policy approved by the Executive Directors in the late 1960s, as a result of which the Bank and IDA began to provide finance to government-owned industrial enterprises and development finance companies (DFCs) if satisfied that the managements were experienced and efficient.
Since fiscal 1969, all direct lending for industry in the region by the Bank and IDA has been for projects in the public sector. Although some of the lending to DFCs has also been to wholly or mainly government-owned entities, the greater part of it continues to be channelled to private financial institutions. Such lending has expanded markedly, particularly since DFCs are playing an increasingly important role in a number of countries which have entered into association agreements with the EEC. The association agreements facilitate the entry into the EEC of industrial goods produced in associated countries. They also make it possible for EEC products to compete more strongly with locally manufactured goods. Development finance companies are helping industries in associated countries to remain competitive by modernizing and upgrading their installations, and to expand employment opportunities.
This is true, for instance, of three DFCs—in Morocco, Tunisia and Turkey—to which the Bank made loans totalling $78 million during the year. The three share some common features. None of them is government-owned. Over the years, each has been supported financially not only by the Bank, but also by 1FC. Each has played a major role in the growth of industry in its particular country. The first, the Banque Nationale pour !e Developpement Eco-nomique, will use a Bank loan of $24 million, approved in May, to extend its support for the industrial development of Morocco. The second, the Societe Nationale d'lnvestissement, accounts for roughly one-fifth of Tunisia's total _ investments in private-sector industry and tourism. The latest Bank loan of $14 million—the fifth in seven years—will provide a significant portion of the foreign exchange required to
-	finance investments by private enterprises in the country through the end of 1974. In Turkey, a Bank loan of $40 million, along with an IFC loan of $10 million, made with the Industrial Bank of Japan, will support the efforts of Tur-kiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. to stimulate industrial expansion and employment, especially in the poorer parts of the country to which it has recently been giving greater attention.
An important aspect of the Bank Group's support for DFCs is the technical assistance that is given on organization, management and
Wheat being harvested at an experimental station in the Ghazvin area of Iran. The Bank is assisting the development ot water resources and agriculture in the area.
operating procedures. Advice is offered in the course of reviewing subprojects above a certain size. The Bank Group helps train staff from DFCs, and promotes the exchange of information and experience among DFCs themselves. In general, the Bank seeks to establish a close and continuing relationship with the DFCs it finances, acting not simply as a creditor but also as a source of advisory services of various kinds.
This is particularly true of the younger DFCs, such as the Industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan (IDBA), which the Bank Group re-recently helped to establish. In April, IDA approved a credit to the new institution, while IFC participated with an equity investment. IDBA will provide institutional long-term finance for the first time to industry in Afghanistan. It will also offer technical assistance to new entrepreneurs.
In Egypt, IDA approved a credit of $15 million for use by the Bank of Alexandria, one of the four large commercial banks in the country. The Bank of Alexandria is building up its term financing capabilities to assist industrial development. The project is one of the few in-
stances in which IDA is not following the traditional route of a development bank, but is working with an intermediary which has its prime activity in commercial banking.
Assistance for agriculture
In agriculture, as in industry, an increasingly important objective of Bank and IDA lending is to spread the benefits of development more widely. Agricultural lending in the region rose to $289.4 million in fiscal 1973, bringing the total for 1969-73 to $636.1 million, or more than eight times the figure for the previous five years. The region now accounts for about 30% of all Bank and IDA financing for agriculture around the world. As in other regions, the proportion devoted to dams and major irrigation works has declined in recent years. Instead, the emphasis has been on extension services, on-farm development, and agricultural credit. Feasibility studies and technical assistance have been financed more often. Greater attention has also been given to the broader objectives of rural development and employment.
Several projects supported by the Bank and IDA in recent years have reflected an innovative approach: agricultural research in Spain, in-shore fisheries in Tunisia and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and new techniques in drainage projects in Egypt and Iraq. Agriculture in the region is so diverse, and so full of contrasts, that each year brings a new mix of projects. In some countries, farmers produce fruit, vegetables and flowers for the quality-conscious European market. In others, they wring a precarious subsistence from unyielding desert soils. Some countries have a competitive advantage in producing livestock for export. In others, fish are plentiful in the adjacent seas, but diets are seriously short of protein because the catch cannot be moved inland without modern transport and preservation facilities. Agricultural institutions provide similar contrasts. Some countries have modern and efficient agricultural credit banks. Others are taking the first steps towards providing credit to small farmers.
In the circumstances, Bank and IDA agricultural lending in the region has covered projects that have varied widely both in purpose and in size. Operations approved in fiscal 1973 ranged from an IDA credit of $3.5 million for development of fisheries in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen to Bank-IDA financing of $74 million for the Ceyhan Aslantas irrigation project in Turkey. In between, there were projects for drainage and irrigation in Egypt, Iraq and the Yemen Arab Republic; livestock development in Afghanistan and Ireland; forestry improvement in Finland; and grain storage in Iraq. In Yugoslavia, a $31 million Bank loan, approved in May, will help finance an agroindustry project in Macedonia, one of the nation's less developed republics. Part of the loan
A date plantation in southern Tunisia. The Bank and IDA are helping to create desert oases for plantations that will provide jobs for nomadic families.
will directly assist the development of private farms by channelling agricultural credits to them through the socialist agricultural sector.
Water resources
The projects designed to develop the water resources of the Tigris basin and the Nile valley attack, in different ways, a common problem. In Iraq, an irrigation system built centuries ago without proper provision for drainage has greatly increased the salinity of the soils. A Bank loan of $40 million will, therefore, help in modernizing the irrigation and drainage network in the Lower Khalis area between the Diyala and Tigris rivers, The value of produc-
tion is expected to increase sixfold as intensive cropping raises yields. The $78 million project will double employment opportunities for the 70,000 inhabitants of the area, and is designed as a model to guide further development along the Tigris and the Euphrates.
An IDA credit of $36 million, approved in June, will support a $116 million project for draining over 300,000 acres in the Nile Valley .in Upper Egypt. The project will help reverse the decline in yields resulting from waterlogging and salinization, and reclaim about 22,000 acres of barren land for cultivation. Reflecting
i	the concern of the Bank and the Egyptian Government for the environmental impact of the project, $8 million has been allocated for measures to control bilharzia so that the health of the people in the area does not suffer.
In countries which are smaller and poorer, projects may be smaller too, but they are not necessarily less complex for that reason. Under a $17.5 million project in the Tihama region, or coastal plain, of the Yemen Arab Republic, for instance, an ancient irrigation system is to be modernized and groundwater resources developed. But the country has virtually no agricultural infrastructure. It is proposed, therefore, to establish extension and research services and to set up the Republic's first agricultural credit institution. The project will be jointly financed by a credit of $10.9 million approved by IDA in May, by a loan of $6 million from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, and by the farmers of the area. Of the total, $3 million represents the technical assistance required to prepare a similar project for another part of the country.
Technical assistance is an important part of two other projects for which IDA assistance was approved during the year. The first, an $11 million livestock development project in Afghanistan, for which IDA agreed to provide $9 million, will establish a modern slaughterhouse, a refrigeration plant and a fleet of refrigerated trucks to produce chilled mutton for export to Iran and the Gulf States. The other project is designed to develop the fisheries in the coastal waters which are among the main natural resources of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. Costing $4.2 million, it represents the first attempt to increase the output of the traditional fleet for export and domestic markets. An IDA credit of $3.5 million, approved in May, will assist the effort.
Technical assistance
The importance of technical assistance in Bank and IDA operations in the region as a whole has increased markedly. Such assistance is usually offered as an integral part of Bank and IDA financing, not merely in agriculture, industry or education, but over the entire range of sectors. During the year, for instance, it was an important element in the Bank's first loan,
of $47 million, to the Turkish State Railways.
But the scope of the assistance is becoming particularly wide in very poor countries. Thus, when the Yemen Arab Republic joined the Bank in 1970, it lacked many of the institutions, skills and data essential for the development of its economy. The major focus of Bank and IDA activities there has, therefore, been on technical assistance. Such assistance has been provided not only at the project level, as seen in the agriculture credit approved during the year. It has been provided also at the macroeconomic level insofar as the Bank in
1971	made a grant of $200,000 to help finance, jointly with the KFAED, a team of planning and economic advisers for the country.
The Bank's approach in offering technical assistance is flexible, and is designed to suit the particular needs of each country, whether poor, not-so-poor or relatively rich. Thus, in Iran, the Government is anxious to accelerate agricultural development, and thereby help to reduce income disparities. In response to its request, the Bank has stationed a special task force in the country to assist in devising an appropriate framework of institutions, policies and projects to promote development in the rural sector during the current Five Year Plan. Special attention is to be given to the needs of small farmers.
A number of the higher-income countries in the Middle East which do not need the Bank Group's financial assistance have nevertheless sought its technical, advisory or training services. In Saudi Arabia, the Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed transport study which will formulate the basis for the coordinated development of all modes of transport in the country. The Bank is also taking preliminary steps to provide technical assistance in such countries for pre-investment planning, and possibly project identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision. In essence, the aim is to find the best way of providing the technical assistance that is usually given in connection with lending operations even when Bank Group financing is not required.
Aid coordination
The Bank continues to play a significant role in the field of aid coordination in the region. A meeting of the Consultative Group for Tunisia was held in October 1972. The Group felt that the amount of external resources required for the implementation of Tunisia's Development Plan for 1973-76 was realistic, and in particular, that it was consistent with the amounts of financing likely to be made available by potential lenders for priority objectives. The Bank also participated in a meeting in April of the Consortium for Turkey, chaired by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.
Agricultural setbacks have seriously affected economic growth in the region over the past year. During the five years from 1966 to 1971, economic development had made significant headway. The average annual increase in Cross National Product (GNP) was 4.6% in India and nearly 6% in Indonesia. Elsewhere, notably in the Republics of China and Korea and in Singapore, economic expansion, led by a rapid rise in exports, was even faster, averaging well over 10%. Aggregate growth in the region as a whole (excluding Japan) was almost 6% per year. East Asia advanced nearly twice as rapidly as south Asia.
In fiscal 1973, however, economic expansion slowed down because bad weather affected grain output throughout the region. The effects of drought were particularly severe in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia and, to a lesser extent, Pakistan, while floods and plant diseases reduced the rice crop in the Philippines. Thus, the five largest countries, together accounting for over 80% of the population of the Bank's current borrowers in Asia, were compelled to resort to grain imports at a time of global shortages.
In Bangladesh, Indonesia and Pakistan, the impact of grain imports on foreign exchange reserves was moderated by substantial inflows of multilateral or bilateral food assistance. India drew heavily on the large grain reserves it had built in previous years, yet had to purchase two million tons of food abroad. In the Philippines, where grain self-sufficiency was nearly being achieved, rice imports again reached 10% of consumption. Sri Lanka's problems were compounded by the fact that while food imports rose, the prices of its tea, coconut and, until recently, rubber exports fell. The outstanding exception in this bleak picture was Thailand: armed with large stocks of rice, it increased its exports sharply.
The year's agricultural setbacks in Asia brought the reminder that although the green revolution has yielded major benefits in the region, neither it, nor anything else, has made agriculture invulnerable to the weather anywhere in the world. An important insight into the nature of its impact is nevertheless offered by the Indian experience. The last time there
was a serious failure of the monsoon in that country, in 1965-66, grain production dropped by about 20% to 72 million tons. In 1972, the monsoon failure was again very serious; yet grain output, having increased rapidly meanwhile, dropped to an estimated 100 million tons, or only about 7% below the previous peak. Thus, while harvests continue to vary from year to year, the green revolution, combined with irrigation and drainage investments, has raised the overall level of production and made it less sensitive to the vagaries of the weather.
Growth of industry
In spite of occasional setbacks, the importance of industry in most Asian countries is growing. In India, one of the world's largest industrial producers, production has begun to recover after the recession of 1969-71. An encouraging feature is that the output and exports, as well as the sophistication, of its engineering products have been increasing.
Pakistan's industry, which was severely affected by the conflict of December 1971 and the loss of the market in Bangladesh, is showing signs of recovery, aided by a rapid increase in export earnings. With the rise of about 70% in its export earnings during the last two years, Pakistan's exports now are higher than the combined exports of West Pakistan and its former eastern wing (now Bangladesh) in any trade ^ear. Exports have provided a strong impetus to industrial growth elsewhere on the continent too, notably in the Republic of Korea and Singapore—two outstanding examples of ex-
*	port-oriented industrial growth. In Malaysia and Thailand, the expansion of industry has been satisfactory; they have also increased their industrial exports markedly, though from a low base.
Tourism is becoming a significant source of foreign exchange earnings throughout the region. It has acquired major importance in Nepal where the number of tourists has more than quadrupled since 1966. Both there and in Indonesia, the Bank Group is assisting projects to increase hotel capacity. In Fiji, tourism has overtaken sugar as the main foreign exchange earner. It is also the only growing source of foreign exchange receipts in Sri Lanka. There are few countries in the region where it is not now a significant industry.
Population and unemployment
Throughout Asia, greater attention is being given to the problems of population growth, unemployment and urban expansion. Except in the fastest growing economies, it has proved as
difficult as ever to provide gainful employment to labor forces expanding by 2% to 3% annually. Most countries now recognize the need for population planning; in probably no other region are family planning programs—albeit of varying effectiveness—so common a feature. They have been particularly successful in countries like the Republic of Korea and Singapore where production and incomes have grown rapidly. Elsewhere, although some success has been achieved, notably in India and Malaysia, the absolute increases in the population are larger than ever. More concentrated attention is, therefore, being given to methods of tackling unemployment directly, notably by promoting labor-intensive activities such as small-scale industries and rural works programs. India and Pakistan are among the countries where planning reflects the new preoccupations.
It is against this background that the Bank and IDA have substantially expanded their assistance for economic development in the region in recent years. In the five years through fiscal 1973, they have lent more than twice as much as in 1964-68. With the growth in the Bank's membership, the number of countries assisted has also increased. For the first time, commitments have been made in Indonesia— now a major borrower—as well as in Fiji and Nepal. After an interval of more than 12 years, lending to Burma has been resumed with credits for railway and inland waterway projects. The first credits have been made to the new nation of Bangladesh. Some reactivate, in revised form, projects for which IDA credits were originally extended to Pakistan for development in its former eastern wing. Others
are new: a credit of $50 million for a rehabilitation program, and two totalling $11.5 million for cereal seeds and technical assistance.
New sectors
In terms of financing by sectors, Asia offers a number of notable features. The first is that it is the only one of the five regions where over the past decade Bank and IDA lending for industry (including industrial imports financed through non-project assistance) has exceeded that for any other sector. Another is that, during the five years through 1973, the relative importance of agriculture and education has increased sharply compared with the previous five years. In absolute terms, there have also been large increases in lending for transportation, power and telecommunications. In addition, the first loans and credits have been made in three new sectors: population planning, urban development and tourism.
The Bank and IDA have provided financial assistance for population planning in three countries of the region so far. The first two projects, in Indonesia and India, were launched in 1972. In 1973, the Bank made a loan of $5 million to Malaysia for a third project, which is also assisted by a $4.3 million grant from the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA). The assistance is intended to strengthen a program under which the country planned to reduce its population growth rate from 2.5% per year at present to 2% by 1985. The project is designed to cut the rate to 1.5% instead. It will thus help, in time, to reduce unemployment, raise standards of living and promote the more equitable distribution of incomes. Although the growth rate of Malaysia's
11	million population has decreased in the last decade and a half, it is believed that further decreases will be much more difficult to achieve unless the family planning program is expanded and improved. The project will provide comprehensive assistance to the National Family Planning Board, notably for training, health and family planning education, and a pilot nutrition program. It will also help the Government extend the program into rural areas.
Urban development
Rapid population growth, combined with massive rural-urban migration, is responsible for the major urban problems facing Asia today. The Bank's interest in urban development has been growing. An important sign of the interest in fiscal 1973 was the large amount approved to help launch or reactivate water supply projects. The projects were for four cities: Bombay, Chittagong, Dacca, and Kuala Lumpur. One other project, however, was innovative in its approach to the problems of urban development in the region.
The project, for which the Bank made a loan of $16 million, is to expand urban transport in the Kuala Lumpur area. It is designed to improve access to the Malaysian capital from major centers of economic activity in the Klang Valley region, the principal area of industrial growth in the country. A notable feature of the project is that it will concentrate on improving public transport, and that special attention will be given to the needs of pedestrians, cyclists and bus passengers. The basic idea is that its benefits should spread as widely as possible.
This is in fact becoming a major objective of the Bank and IDA in other sectors as well, such as industry. The volume of lending for industry has increased very substantially in the five years since fiscal 1969. During this period, more than two-fifths of the total has been for industrial imports, which have helped ease the shortage of raw materials afflicting a multitude of manufacturers, large and small, in Bangladesh, India and Pakistan. A little less than a fifth has taken the form of direct lending for relatively large industrial projects, including Government-owned fertilizer plants in India and Indonesia. The remainder has been for development finance companies (DFCs), which have enabled a wide range of industrial enterprises to import capital equipment.
Small-scale industries
In fiscal 1973, lending continued in all three categories. A significant feature, however, was the attention given to small-scale industries, which make a major contribution to employment and incomes in Asia. In a number of countries, the Bank and IDA continued to work on new ways to assist such industries more effectively. As a result, there were two operations, in Bangladesh and India, underwhich IDA credits will be channelled to small enterprises through local financial institutions. In Bangladesh, an IDA credit of $3 million reactivates a credit originally made to Pakistan in 1970. It will permit the Small Industries Corporation to provide foreign exchange for importing equipment.
The IDA credit of $25 million to India represents the first time the Bank Group has provided assistance specifically for small-scale industries in that country. The credit will support the special efforts India is making, for both social and economic reasons, to develop its small labor-intensive enterprises which employ seven million people, account for about half the industrial production and make a significant contribution to exports. Many of these enterprises are located in rural areas. They are an important source of income and employment for the poorer sections of Indian society. Over the past four years, they have generated twice as many jobs as large-scale industries. But they cannot utilize thejr capacity fully; they are short of managerial skills and foreign ex-
change; and they have limited access to the latest technology. The IDA credit will help to ease these problems.
In agriculture, as in industry, the Bank and IDA have sought increasingly to direct their assistance to smaller producers. The results are seen in many of the projects for which loans or credits were approved in fiscal 1973.
In Indonesia, two projects are designed particularly to improve the production capacity and incomes of smallholders growing rubber and tea. Another focuses on improvements in Government sugar factories, but will provide for participation by small farmers. Yet another will support small private sector credit programs as well as Government ranches to increase livestock production. In Papua New Guinea, loans and extension services will be offered to smallholders for producing more beef cattle, pigs and poultry, thus meeting the growing domestic demand for meat. Bangladesh is to be assisted in meeting what at present is an especially urgent need through a project for the processing and distribution of cereal seeds. The Philippines is the scene of a relatively new kind of Bank Group project. In addition to providing credit for sea fishing, it will promote inland fish culture, and thus help to increase rural incomes and improve the diet of the rural community.
Irrigation projects
Two irrigation projects for which IDA credits were approved during the year reflect a similar trend. In both cases, the emphasis is on better
A dam on the Tjitarum River in West Java. IDA is helping Indonesia to restore and expand irrigation systems serving important rice producing areas.
water management on the farm level, which will be achieved by constructing irrigation channels and drains, as well as land levelling and land shaping. The first project is in Nepal, a "least developed" country where per capita incomes average around $90 a year and where well over 80% of the people scrape together a meager subsistence from agriculture. The project will increase incomes and employment for about 20,000 subsistence farmers in the Birganj area in the south by enabling them to raise food grain production by 100% to 300%. The project will provide high-grade seeds, fertilizers and related inputs; and, by completing the construction of an irrigation system, will permit double-cropping. The first integrated scheme supported by the Bank Group in Nepal, it is expected in course of time to lead to further projects to resettle hill farmers in the more fertile areas in the southern plains of the country.
The second project, for which an IDA credit of $5.5 million was approved in April, is in Thailand. It is intended to improve irrigation, mainly in order to enable 6,000 farming families in the northern Chao Phya plain to increase crop production. Better water management will make double-cropping possible on about
42,000	acres of land. When the project is fully developed in about eight years, employment
will increase almost threefold. The project is the first one assisted by the Bank Group in Thailand which directly finances on-farm development and dry-season farming. A feasibility study will also be made for a later project in the northern Chao Phya plain.
Two IDA credits to India, totalling $71 million, will help increase the flow of credit to small cultivators in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. A third, of $8 million, will assist in financing a five-year program for developing wholesale agricultural markets in Mysore State in the southern part of the country. It will increase the bargaining power of about 700,000 small farmers by helping to bring about fair trading practices, competitive prices and efficient handling of produce, and by reducing
wastage. The improvement in farm prices resulting from the project is expected to stimulate agricultural production.
Assistance for education
As in other parts of the world, much of the Bank Group's lending to Asian countries in such sectors as education and transportation is intended partly or mainly to support agricultural development. This is particularly the case in four of the five education projects for which assistance was approved during the year. One, for which IDA extended a credit of $12 million, will help India to develop agricultural universities in Assam and Bihar. They will closely follow the pattern of the universities in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab—which are themselves modelled on the American land-grant agricultural universities—and which have been highly successful instruments of agricultural development combining education, research and extension services. The credit is the Bank Group's first for education in India.
In Thailand, an IDA credit of $19.5 million will, by assisting schools, teacher training col-
leges and a university outside Bangkok, help to redress the imbalance of educational opportunity between Bangkok and the rest of the country. By providing these schools and colleges with appropriate buildings and equipment, it will enable them to relate their curricula more closely to the realities of rural life, and thus help strengthen the rural economy. Specialists will be engaged to plan the ^long-term expansion of the University of Song-khla and to study what part radio and television might play in the Thai educational system. Therein might lie the seeds of future projects. •-In the Philippines, part of a $12.7 million IDA credit will be used to provide equipment for agricultural high schools and to expand two agricultural colleges. It will also finance a new agricultural radio station, together with additional equipment for an existing station. The project is thus designed to improve agricultural education and bring it in line with the needs of the rural economy.
An important innovation is reflected in an education project in Indonesia, for which IDA approved a credit of $13.5 million in May. The credit marks the first time the Bank or IDA has provided support for the mass production of textbooks and, in so doing, given direct assistance to education at the primary level. It will assist the writing, testing and production of 138 million textbooks in basic subjects for primary school pupils, and the concurrent training of some 350,000 teachers in the use of those textbooks and relevant teaching aids. Paper for the books will be supplied by the Canadian Government.
Aid coordination
During the year, a number of meetings were held of the Consortia and Consultative Groups which help to coordinate the flow of aid to particular countries in the region. The India Consortium, meeting in June, agreed that, for the year which began April 1, 1973, commitments of non-project assistance, including debt relief, of about $700 million and of project assistance of about $500 million would be desirable. Most members indicated the contribution they had already made or would be able to make, subject to necessary approval, toward these aid goals, including debt relief, i Others expected to be able to do so later in the year and gave their support to the overall program.
The Consortium for Pakistan met in March. Its members expressed great satisfaction at the improvements that had taken place in the economy which, it could be hoped, would sustain rapid growth in the future. Indications in principle of proposed aid were made and it was agreed to complete discussions at another meeting.
Members of the Aid Group for Sri Lanka, meeting in February, indicated the fresh com-
mitments of assistance which they could provide in 1973. The Group noted that additional steps were needed to accelerate the mobilization of domestic resources for development, and expressed the hope that these steps would be taken as soon as possible.
The Consultative Group for the Republic of Korea, which met in December 1972, agreed that the Government's forecast of the country's official borrowing requirements for each of the next two years was reasonable, and that Korea deserved the continued support of capital-exporting countries and international organizations in pursuing its development targets, including increased emphasis on agriculture and rural development.
The Consultative Group for Thailand met in May 1973. The Group confirmed its support for the objectives of Thailand's Five Year Plan (1972-76). A review of the prospects of external assistance confirmed that the country should be able to obtain its requirements for the balance of the plan period.
The Consultative Group for the Philippines also met in May. It was agreed that the economy was recovering well after the setbacks created by the serious floods of mid-1972. The Group welcomed the economic and social reforms which had been announced in recent months. It agreed that greater attention would have to be given to broad-based programs for agricultural development in the coming years. There were indications that further substantial commitments of external assistance in support of the country's development program would be forthcoming in the year ahead.
The Bank participated in a meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia, held in December and chaired by the Netherlands Government.
In March, the Bank participated in an international conference on development of Bangladesh which was held in Dacca and chaired by the Bangladesh Government.
Regional mission
In October, the Bank opened a Regional Mission in Bangkok to serve Thailand, Malaysia and, through their association with the development of the Lower Mekong Basin, Laos, the Khmer Republic and the Republic of Viet Nam. In addition to being the Bank's representative in the region, the Mission is expected to work closely with the Governments of Malaysia and Thailand in their efforts to identify and prepare projects and programs, particularly in agriculture and transportation, so as to facilitate the flow of external financing from the World Bank Group and other sources to these two countries. Another assignment of the Mission is to maintain relations with the Governments of the Khmer Republic, Laos and Viet Nam, with a view to keeping itself broadly informed of developments in these countries.
With a population of about 275 million, Latin America and the Caribbean encompass about 15% of the population of all the Bank's developing member countries. In recent years, the region has achieved substantial progress. Over the last decade, it has moved farther and more rapidly toward self-sustaining development than most areas of the developing world. But not all countries and social groups have shared in this progress, and large areas of poverty remain.
The rate of growth of the region's Cross National Product (GNP) has been relatively high. It has averaged 5.6% per year over the last decade and accelerated to 7% in the last four years. The growth has thus been faster than in the industrialized countries. It has taken place in the context of pervasive social, political and economic change. Rapid population expansion, higher than in any other region, combined with massive internal migration to the cities, has within the short space of two decades transformed a society which was agrarian in character to one which today is predominantly urban.
This shift in the distribution of the population has been accompanied by a transformation of the economic structure of the region. The relative contribution of agriculture, both to the region's gross product and as a source of employment, has declined. The importance of manufacturing and of other dynamic sectors— construction, power, transportation and communications—has correspondingly increased.
Despite the rapid increase in population (about 3% per year), income per head has risen considerably, particularly in the last few years. The average per capita income in the region is now $590, compared to about $250 for all developing countries. But economic growth has been uneven, and there are wide disparities in the standard of living both between and within countries.
While the growth which has taken place during the past 10 years has been impressive, the pace of development will have to be accelerated if solutions are to be found to the complex problems that persist. It is estimated that the region's output will have to grow by 7% to 8% annually in the coming decade if
the rate of unemployment is not to increase. This will require greater domestic efforts and larger inflows of external capital than in the past. It will, in addition, require programs and policies specifically designed to expand the economic opportunities available to groups and regions that have tended to be bypassed by the growth process.
In fiscal 1973, Bank and IDA lending to Latin America and the Caribbean fell from the record level of the previous year, mainly as a result of the timing of some large projects. But this does not represent a trend. On the contrary, taking the five years 1969-73 together, the volume of lending to the region has more than doubled compared to the previous five years, and has exceeded the cumulative total of all loans made through fiscal 1968.
As of June 30, 1973, the cumulative total of Bank and IDA lending to the region stood at almost $7,000 million. It thus constituted more than one-fourth of the world total. Most of the
assistance consisted of Bank loans. Since income levels in Latin America and the Caribbean are generally higher than in the rest of the developing world, the share of IDA credits remains small, although their volume has more than doubled from 1964-68 to 1969-73. In fiscal 1973, IDA lending was higher than in any previous year, and was shared by four countries: Bolivia, the Dominican Republic, Nicaragua and Paraguay.
Reordering of priorities
Bank and IDA operations have been designed to respond flexibly to the region's development needs. Rapid change throughout Latin America and the Caribbean has given rise to new problems which have required a reordering of development priorities. In response to new opportunities in agriculture, urban development, education, industry and infrastructure, Bank lending in recent years has changed considerably in magnitude and emphasis.
Until fiscal 1963, the Bank and IDA provided assistance for only five sectors—mainly power and transportation, followed by agriculture, industry and mining, plus a little for water supply. By 1968, education and telecommunications joined the list. Since 1969, the diversification has continued: loans and credits have been extended for population planning, tourism and urban projects, as well as in support of general development and reconstruction programs (in Colombia, Nicaragua and Peru). The broad objective of Bank Group lending has been to promote economic growth and diversification of production, while at the same time assisting in building up institutions and promoting increased resource mobilization and efficient resource allocation.
As in other parts of the world, the Bank is becoming increasingly concerned about the problems of unemployment in the region. Over 42% of the people are less than 14 years old; and the population is thus younger than in most other regions. It is growing rapidly. As a result, the large annual growth in the labor force has so far exceeded the region's capacity to generate productive employment. Latin America and the Caribbean have depended increasingly upon the service sectors to absorb a major proportion (about 50% in recent years) of the growth in the labor force. This has resulted in low productivity and widespread underemployment in much of the services sector. In reality, there are two service sectors — the modern services with comparatively high levels of productivity and income, and the marginal services which absorb those untrained to work or unable to find jobs elsewhere in the economy.
In several countries, because of a variety of factors, unemployment has persisted despite rapid economic growth. But one essential precondition for the successful absorption of manpower into the productive process is that higher rates of investment and growth should be combined with measures aimed at promoting employment, including education and training.
Exodus to the cities
While the rural exodus to the cities has fueled the growth of the modern sector, it has simultaneously shifted the burden of absorbing marginal segments of the labor force from subsistence agriculture to industry and modern urban services where a more complex structure of labor skills is required. Continued expansion and reorientation of education and training systems is needed to smooth the tran-
sition to the high-skill levels and mixes characteristic of a modern labor force.
It is against this background that, starting from a low level in 1964-68, the Bank and IDA have increased their assistance for education fourfold during 1969-73. Special emphasis has been placed on vocational training and on comprehensive schools at the secondary level which provide prevocational training. The improvement of technical and agricultural skills has been an important objective of projects which have received support in this region.
A $19.7 million project in Trinidad and Tobago, for which the Bank made a loan of $9.3 million in October, illustrates the general pattern. The project is one of two assisted by the Bank in that country during the year—the other being a sugar rehabilitation project for which a loan of $12 million was approved in April. The education project will help the Government in implementing its 15-year educational development plan, 1968-83. In 1968, the Bank supported the launching of the plan with a $9.4 million loan which concentrated on general secondary education and teacher training. The latest loan will help complete the first phase by expanding the coverage of the reform in general secondary education to rural and urban areas which do not have enough educational facilities. It will also assist in extending the reform to technical education.
The training of adult farmers is an important feature of the project. Residential courses— short, intensive and production-oriented—will be offered, along with practical demonstrations through mobile units. These are intended to improve the skills of farmers, promote the introduction of better technologies on small farms, and support the government's policy of agricultural diversification and rural development.
The educational development plan, of which the project is a part, represents an ambitious attempt to reform the traditional educational structure of the country, improve the relevance and efficiency of the educational system, and provide a better distribution of educational opportunities. By correcting the academic bias built into the education and training system, and reorienting it toward modern science and technology, the reform will help provide the economy with the skills required to achieve the targets of economic diversification, employment generation, and national control of economic decisions. The Bank's interest in this endeavor was highlighted by a special mission which visited Trinidad and Tobago to study its unemployment problems, and discussed its report with the Government during the year.
In the region as a whole, the extent to which the lower income groups share in the benefits of growth continues to be limited. The inadequacy of educational opportunities is an important reason why sharp disparities in the quality of life persist. There is growing recog-
nition that investment in types of education that are geared to employment possibilities could have an important impact on the distribution of income.
Agricultural development
The incidence of poverty, unemployment and maldistribution of incomes is particularly acute in the rural areas. That is where much of the population is concentrated and where incomes are lowest. Per capita food production has expanded little over the last decade. Since agriculture still employs about 40% of the labor force, agricultural development is of major importance if the benefits of economic growth are to be distributed more widely.
The Bank Group has substantially increased its support for countries' efforts to develop their agricultural resources. During 1969-73, Bank and IDA lending for agriculture in the region has risen by 134% compared with the previous five years. In fiscal 1973, it continued to increase in both absolute and relative terms, reaching a record of $256 million and constituting 37% of total lending to the region. A considerable part of the rise in lending has been in the form of supervised crop and livestock investment credit which has proved to be an effective and flexible channel for increasing both domestic food consumption and export earnings. The Bank has been particularly anxious to ensure that the credit reaches those who need it.
A project for the development of agriculture, particularly livestock resources, in Mexico illustrates the Bank's desire to broaden the distribution of the benefits of growth, while at the same time continuing to support efforts to expand output. The project, for which the Bank made a loan of $110 million in June, consists of two parts. The first part will continue the highly successful operations conducted with the help of three previous Bank loans, under which private and official banks have channelled long-term investment credits to commercial farmers and ranchers, and have thus contributed substantially to the spread of advanced farming and ranching techniques in the country. The second part will apply the same system to a group of much poorer farmers and ejidatarios (cooperative farm settlers). The average net family income of this group is about $700 per year, which puts them among the poorest 25% of the population. The group in the past has had virtually no access to longterm credit, and will require a great deal of technical assistance. But the experience under this part of the project is expected to show how even poor farmers can improve their living standards. It could thus help to make supervised long-term credit an important and effective instrument in the Mexican Government's fight against rural poverty.
Giant pylons reach toward the sky as a railroad bridge nears completion at the iron ore mine at Belo Horizonte in Brazil. The Bank is helping to build facilities for mining and exporting the ore.
Northeast Brazil
A broader approach to rural development in an area which is particularly poor is illustrated by a project in Brazil—a country which, having received loans totalling $1,648 million since 1949, is now the largest single borrower from the Bank. The project, for which the Bank made a loan of $6.7 million during the year, is for land settlement in the Alto Turi area of northeast Brazil. About 30% of Brazil's population of 95 million lives in the northeast. Its per capita income is $180, or less than half the national average and an even smaller fraction of that in the industrialized center-south. A quarter of the labor force is unemployed or underemployed. The Government is concerned about the area's economic condition, and is making an effort to reduce regional disparities.
Although modest in size, the Alto Turi project is one of the approaches to agricultural development in the northeast and has been designed as a model low-cost, high-return land settlement project. It is expected to serve as a
pattern for future colonization efforts and to provide guidelines to limit the risks of spontaneous settlement now going on along the new highways that are being built. The Government has stated that one of its objectives is to settle 700,000 families in the Amazon region over the next 20 years. The Alto Turi project may become a possible alternative between highly directed and purely spontaneous settlements. It will help some 5,200 settler families to develop 100-acre farms for the commercial production of beef, rice and subsistence crops by 1978. It is also expected to serve as a starting point for the preparation of similar projects in the underdeveloped regions of Brazil.
The families to benefit from the project are at the subsistence level today, and net cash income per family will increase to about $460 in the ninth year of the project, which is about twice as much as would be the case without the project. The project will provide fuller employment for the settlers, and will benefit about
26,000	people in all.
Past growth in agricultural production in Latin America and the Caribbean has for the
most part come from expansion of acreage under cultivation. To some extent, this will continue. But the region will have to rely increasingly on higher yields to expand output and employment as the remaining supply of unused cultivable land of good quality declines. Better use of land and equity in its distribution are increasingly becoming the key issues in agricultural policy in many countries in Latin America.
Rural development could slow down the migration to the cities which is partly responsible for the unprecedented growth of urban centers that is compounding the complexities of the development task in the region. Employment, housing, basic urban infrastructure and municipal services, and rational land-use planning are essential if the intractable problems of the urban slums are to be moderated. In urban development, the Bank Croup's emphasis until recently was on lending for water supply and sewerage projects; they accounted for 7.3% of total lending to Latin America and the Caribbean during 1969-73, up from 2.3% in the previous five years. But in recent years considerable efforts have been made to develop programs which aim at alleviating the urban low-cost housing problem by providing integrated "sites and services" facilities.
Reconstruction in Nicaragua
Such facilities represent the most important part of a multifaceted $30.3 million project designed to help the people of Nicaragua to build for themselves a new life from the dusty ruins left by the devastating earthquake which struck the capital city of Managua in December 1972. The project, for which IDA approved a credit of $20 million in May, will provide sites and services to accommodate 6,500 low and mid-dle-income families who lost their homes as a result of the earthquake. About half of them will settle in the outskirts of Managua, and the remainder in secondary cities in the surrounding area. Of the IDA credit, $8 million will be used to fund this sub-project, which will also include primary education, health and other services for the new communities.
In Managua, where almost all school buildings suffered irreparable damage, part of the IDA credit will be used to provide prefabricated classrooms and to build two new permanent schools for secondary level students, along with a post-secondary technical institute. In all, these facilities will provide places for over 14,000 students. Water supply and power installations will be repaired, and the distribution networks expanded to take into account shifts of population and service areas. Small and medium-sized industries in cities other than Managua will be assisted with credit facilities for industrial sites and services. The facilities will also be extended for purchasing plant, equipment and buildings to help restore pro-
duction and create new jobs for the displaced people of Managua.
Expansion of industry
The Nicaraguan sub-project is only a small example, developed in response to the emergency following an earthquake, of the Bank's interest in the rehabilitation and development of industry in the region. The interest stretches back more than 20 years, and centers on the fact that industry has played a considerable role in providing employment directly and indirectly, increasing productivity, and raising the living standards of the urban labor force. While progress in industrialization has been impressive, many problems remain. Shortages of skilled labor, management, capital resources and entrepreneurship are common. In a number of countries, domestic markets are limited; so also is access to external markets. There is a need to transform protected, high-cost im-port-substitution industries into modern, more specialized and efficient export-oriented producers. In many instances, this will require a reorientation of industrial policy, including rationalization of the structure of protection policies, adequate export incentives, and measures to avoid balance of payments disequilibrium and maximize employment growth. The feasibility of policy shifts in this direction has been confirmed by the impressive achievements of several countries in diversifying their trade structure through promotion of non-iraditional exports.
The Bank and IDA have assisted such diversification and are anxious to continue doing so. The expansion and diversification of industry in Colombia is, for instance, the purpose of a Bank loan of $60 million, approved in May, for several development finance companies in that country. A number of similar loans for development finance companies in other countries are being processed. Seen in a five year perspective, Bank and IDA support for industrial growth in the region has increased sharply. The share of industry (including development finance companies) in aggregate lending has risen from 4.2% in 1964-68 to 13.6% of a much larger total in 1969-73, In supporting industrial expansion, the Bank and IDA have pursued several complementary objectives. One is to help countries create a competitive industrial structure. Particular attention has been paid to the promotion and diversification of exports; to strengthening local credit institutions; and to assisting in the establishment of interest rates conducive to a continuing flow of industrial finance and its efficient use.
Development of power
Despite the increasing diversification of Bank and IDA lending in Latin America and the Caribbean, the traditional power sector con-
tinues to absorb significant amounts of funds. Although lending for power has risen in absolute terms, it has fallen as a proportion of the total, from 57.1% in 1964-68 to 28.6% in 1969-73. A major reason is that, following the development of the last two decades, the power sector is now well organized in most countries and its finances have substantially improved. The Bank's role is less crucial than in the past, although the capital requirements of the sector remain so high that the need for Bank assistance will continue.
The Bank and IDA have assisted power projects in 19 countries of the region so far. Among the most recent is a project for the expansion of electric power generation and transmission facilities in El Salvador, for which the Bank approved a loan of $27.3 million in April. The project has two main components. One is the construction at Ahuachapan of a geothermal power plant. The other is the construction at Cerron Grande of a large hydroelectric plant, for which the Inter-American Development Bank is a co-lender. Special care has been taken to assure that the geothermal power station at Ahuachapan does not adversely affect the environment. Safeguards have been agreed upon to protect public health and ocean life from the effluent waters of the geothermal wells. A resettlement and employment program will be implemented to assure the welfare of about
10,000	people to be affected by the construction of the dam at the Cerron Grande site.
Regional integration
A major obstacle to economic, and especially industrial, growth in many countries of the region is that the size of markets is limited. The limitations are particularly severe in the smaller countries: the small size of national markets limits production and lowers industrial efficiency by precluding the use of plants large enough to achieve economies of scale. Diversification and expansion of exports can be accelerated by more rapid integration of national and regional markets. The increased market size resulting from integration would eventually be reflected in lower manufacturing costs, increased exports to countries outside the region, higher rates of investment, and more efficient use of resources through fuller utilization of industrial capacity.
Four integration groups are developing separately in Latin America. The largest and oldest is the Latin American Free Trade Association. It has focused on trade liberalization among Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela.
The most recent and perhaps most ambitious integration effort in the region is the Andean Group, consisting of Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela. Initiated by the Agreement of Cartagena in 1970, it aims at es-
tablishing an economic community by 1980. The Bank has maintained close contact with the Andean Croup both through the Group's Board (Junta) in Lima and through the Andean Development Corporation in Caracas, and is exploring the possibilities of assisting industrial projects that would promote regional integration.
Over the past five years, the Caribbean Free Trade Association has moved rapidly toward trade liberalization among its members. The Bank plans to assess the possibilities of assisting in evolving a coordinated approach to the economic development of the region and thus gaining a better understanding of how it might help. It is also working closely with the Caribbean Development Bank so that the two institutions might expand the scope of their operations in the area.
The Central American Common Market has in many ways been one of the more successful examples of regional integration in the developing world. Established in the early 1960s, it has contributed decisively to the development of the economies of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua. The World Bank has responded to the regional framework by focusing some of its operations on the region as a whole. The operations include projects to interconnect the power systems of Honduras and Nicaragua, and a highway linking northern Honduras to the Salvadoran border. Technical assistance is being provided to the Central American Bank for Regional Integration (CABEI), the pivotal development finance agency of the region, in several major fields of industry. A regional agricultural survey is also planned. The possibilities of providing financial assistance in support of CABEI's activities are being studied.
Aid Coordination
In their development activities in the region, the Bank and IDA continue to coordinate efforts with governments and international institutions which provide assistance to Latin American and Caribbean countries. This coordinating activity is carried out mainly through Bank and IDA collaboration with the Inter-American Development Bank, the Inter-American Committee on the Alliance for Progress and the United Nations Development Programme, for which the Bank is executing agency for several projects. Under the Bank's leadership, aid coordination for Colombia and Peru is also carried out through the Consultative Group mechanism, which consists of several European governments, the United States, Canada, Japan, and a number of international agencies. In June, the Bank conducted formal meetings of the Consultative Groups for Colombia and Peru which considered their development performance and prospects, and external capital requirements.
Bank and IDA-Supported Projects Approved in Fiscal 1973, by Sector
Agriculture
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$9 million. For a livestock project involving development of 1,200 sheep farms, construction of a slaughterhouse, provision of refrigerated trucks, access roads, a demonstration farm and technical assistance. Project will create new job opportunities in rural areas and increase annual meat exports by $7 million. Total cost $11 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$7.5 million. Forestab-lishment of a modern seeds industry, initially producing about 12,000 tons of high-yielding rice and wheat seeds annually. As a result, the country's annual output of wheat and rice should increase by 400,000 tons by 1979, with annual savings of $25 million in foreign exchange. Total cost $10.6 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$54 million. To supply funds for a program of credits to industries engaged in processing beef, oilseed, milk and other food and feed products. Project is part of a comprehensive program intended to meet domestic demand for agricultural products and to increase exports. Total cost $135 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$6.7 million. For a $11.5 million scheme to settle 5,200 families on 100-acre farms in the northeastern state of Maran-hao, and thereby increase agricultural output, employment and incomes. Will serve as a pilot project for future colonization efforts.
BRAZIL: Bank—$26 million. For livestock development in southern and central Brazil so as to double output to 50,000 tons carcass weight a year for the 700 participating ranchers. Project represents continuation of a livestock project assisted by the Bank in 1967. Total cost $52 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$30 million. For a $75 million project to expand grain storage capacity by 1.9 million tons. Will cut storage losses, improve marketing and transportation, reduce costs and provide employment for about 4,500 workers.
CAMEROON: Bank—$1.7 million. Will supplement Bank loan of $7.9 million made in
1969	for the commercial development of palm oil, mainly to meet Cameroon's expanding demand for edible fats. Two French agencies, Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), which are jointly financing the project, also increased their contributions.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: IDA—$13 million. For the construction, at a cost of $39 million, of irrigation works and ancillary facilities to provide water for about 68,000 acres. Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is also help-
ing to finance the project, which is expected to increase agricultural output, and save or earn $8.5 million of foreign exchange annually.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$36 million. For a drainage project to reduce waterlogging and salinity on about 300,000 acres of land along the upper Nile River, together with a program to control bilharzia in a more extensive area with a population of 3 million where the disease is most prevalent. Total cost $123.8 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$5 million. For improved livestock movement, marketing and hide and skin preparation. Will provide integrated market and stock-route systems in three important producing areas, slaughter facilities throughout the country, veterinary services, cattle trucks for demonstration purposes, technical assistance, staff training and preparation of future livestock projects. Total cost $7 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$17 million. To provide gravity irrigation for about 25,000 acres in the Awash Valley, initially for cotton production, but eventually also for other crops that are now imported. Total cost $23 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$21 million. To assist a program for the systematic provision of extension services, fertilizers, improved seeds and credit, to increase the productivity and incomes of small farmers. Total cost $28.9 million.
FINLAND: Bank—$20 million. For a forestry project costing $122 million that will increase timber reserves and harvesting. Will directly benefit 60,000 farmers, and improve rural employment opportunities.
THE GAMBIA: IDA—$1.3 million. To assist integrated agricultural development on some
3,000	acres of land. Will increase rice production, provide fuller employment and raise farm incomes. Total cost $1.48 million.
GHANA: IDA—$15.6 million. To expand sugar cane production, replace processing equipment, improve management and study possible future expansion. Project will save $5.2 million of foreign exchange annually, and increase farm employment and incomes. Total cost $24.8 million.
INDIA: IDA —$38 million. To support a three-year program for extending credit to farmers in Uttar Pradesh for on-farm investments that will raise agricultural output by $46 million per year and benefit about 70,000 farm families.
INDIA: IDA—$33 million. To support a three-year program for extending credit to farmers in Madhya Pradesh for on-farm investments that will increase agricultural output by
$22 million annually and benefit 44,000 farm families.
INDIA: IDA—$8 million. To establish modern facilities for marketing agricultural products in Mysore and train marketing personnel. By promoting fair trading practices, competitive pricing and efficient handling of produce, the project will benefit about 700,000 small farmers. Total cost $12 million.
INDONESIA: IDA —$5 million. To assist *18,000 smallholders in North Sumatra to increase rubber, palm oil and rice production, which will triple their incomes. Will serve as a model for a more extensive investment program to assist smallholders who now produce 70% of Indonesia's agricultural exports. Total cost $10 million.
INDONESIA: IDA—$7.8 million. For rehabilitation and replanting of tea by about 7,700 smallholders and 30 private estates. Includes tea factories, crop diversification, extension services, training programs and marketing studies. Total cost $15.4 million.
INDONESIA: IDA—$3.6 million. For a research and technology-oriented project to introduce livestock and mixed farming techniques on seven ranches as a base for the development of the livestock industry. Will help expand beef output in the outer islands of South Sulawesi and Sumba and lay the foundation for additional livestock projects. Total cost $7.2 million.
INDONESIA: IDA—$50 million. For rehabilitation of the sugar industry through modernization and expansion of factories, increasing acreage under cane, better transport, extension services and credit to cane-growers, and technical assistance. Annual foreign exchange savings are expected to reach $41 million by 1978. Total cost $81 million.
IRAQ: Bank—$40 million. For a $78 million irrigation and drainage project covering about
140,000	acres in the Lower Khalis area, northeast of Baghdad. Will help introduce intensive agriculture, and substantially raise farm employment and incomes.
IRAQ: Bank—$40 million. For silo construction and expansion to increase grain storage capacity by 560,000 tons and consultants' services. Together with other installations and measures to reduce marketing and handling costs, the project is expected to increase production and farmers' earnings. Total cost $92.4 million.
IRELAND: Bank —$25 million. To increase livestock production on 3,500 small and medium-sized farms through a credit program. It should improve social and economic conditions in rural areas as well as increasing exports. Total cost $56 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$8.4 million. For the first phase of a program to establish a 33,000 acre rubber estate that will benefit one of the least developed and sparsely inhabited areas of the country. At full development, annual
output of rubber will reach 30,000 tons. CCCE and European Investment Bank (EIB) joined in financing. Total cost $33.4 million.
KENYA: IDA—$6 million. To help finance about 8,000 loans to smallholders for improving crop, livestock, dairy, poultry and egg production. The $9.6 million project will increase agricultural output, employment and incomes.
LESOTHO: IDA—$5.6 million. For the Thaba Bosiu rural development project aimed at raising the standard of living of 12,000 smallholder families through cultivation of maize, soybeans, wheat and beans on 60,000 acres. Project includes the provision of farm inputs, credit and marketing services, soil conservation measures, improved roads, and training, extension services and research. Total cost $9.3 million.
MALAWI: IDA —$10.5 million. A second credit for the Shire Valley agricultural development project. Will enable 16,300 farmers to improve production of cotton, maize, rice, groundnuts, cocoa and livestock on 131,000 acres. Will also raise productivity of 1,000 fishermen. Total cost $13.5 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$25 million. For the final stage of the Jengka Triangle project, under which 10,000 families are being settled on
100,000	acres, mainly to increase output of rubber and palm oil. Total cost $49.8 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$110 million. Of the Bank loan, $25 million will support a $50 million credit and technical assistance program for farm cooperatives and small landholders, benefiting over 22,000 low-income farm families; $85 million will provide part of the $216 million to be invested through 10,000 sub-loans mainly for the expansion of livestock and crop production and of agro-industries, and will pay for studies and training.
NEPAL: IDA—$6 million. For integrated agricultural development near Birganj in southern Nepal including extension services and technical assistance. Perennial irrigation and modern agricultural inputs will facilitate intensive agriculture on about 78,000 acres, increasing incomes and employment for 20,000 farm families. Total cost $10 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$4.7 million. For the first stage of a long-range livestock development program to expand output, initiate new small dairy farm techniques and develop large-scale beef production. Project will assist about 570 cattle and dairy enterprises. Total cost $13.5 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IDA—$5 million. To improve smallholder livestock production and establish two training and six research centers. The $9.8 million project will save foreign exchange, help meet rising demand for meat, and diversify agricultural output.
PHILIPPINES: Bank — $11.6 million. For a four-year program to assist individuals and companies in developing marine and inland fisheries. Project is expected to increase fish production for domestic consumption by
48,000 tons annually, valued at $13 million. Total cost $18.5 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$4.5 million. For a $7.4 million project that will provide irrigation for more than 9,000 acres, improve farming'technology, raise rice and vegetable production, increase earnings of 10,000 farmers and save about $1.2 million of foreign exchange annually.
SENEGAL: IDA —$8.2 million. To provide funds for an agricultural credit program aimed chiefly at enabling farmers to purchase animal-drawn equipment needed to increase production of food crops and groundnuts. Total cost $11.5 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$42 million. For a comprehensive project for the development of Irrigated agriculture on 300,000 acres of semi-arid land along the Rahad River. Will treble the incomes of 14,000 farm families and provide seasonal employment for an additional 90,000 workers. U.S. Agency for international Development (USAID) and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) are lending $11 million each, and the World Food Program is providing $2.3 million in commodities. Total cost $100 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$18.5 million. For a broadly based, integrated livestock development project costing $24.7 million to improve beef production, marketing and processing. Will increase annual marketed output by about 21,000 tons and raise export earnings by approximately $6 million annually.
THAILAND: IDA—$5.5 million. For irrigation and on-farm development to enable doublecropping on 42,000 acres in the northern Chao Phya Plain. Will benefit a farm population of
40.000	and increase employment threefold. Total cost $10.6 million.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: Bank—$12 million. Will enable Caroni Limited, the country's main sugar producer, to re-equip its factories, acquire transport, harvesting and field equipment, complete preparation of land for mechanical harvesting, and improve management and operations. Project will help restore country's competitive position in world sugar market. Total cost $21.9 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$44 million; IDA—$30 million. For a multipurpose irrigation, flood control and power project in the Ceyhan Plain in southern Turkey. Will increase value of production by $35 million, and help earn $20 million annually in foreign exchange through cotton, fruit and vegetable exports. About
16.000	farm families will benefit. Total cost $326.6 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$3.5 million. For modernization of the fishing industry. Project includes construction of shore facilities, expansion of fishing fleet, and expert services for international marketing. Studies will be made for further development of fisheries, as well as for agricul-
tural and water supply projects. Total cost $4.2 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA —$10.9 million. To expand agricultural production, employment and earnings of 3,700 farm families and 2,500 laborers at Wadi Zabid in Yemen's coastal region. Project includes improvement of an irrigation system serving 42,000 acres, provision of credit, research and extension services, and a feasibility study for the development of an additional 150,000 acres. KFAED is participating in the financing. Total cost $17.5 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$31 million. For modernization and expansion of production and processing facilities of agro-industrial "com-binats" in Macedonia. Project is expected to increase significantly production of processed meat, milk, grapes, wine, fish and tobacco. In addition, it will help develop private farms which will receive credits and extension services from the "combinats." Total cost $62 million.
ZAIRE: IDA —$8.5 million. For expansion and improvement of three commercial ranches totalling 1.7 million acres in the Shaba region to increase beef production. Project includes the preparation of further livestock and agricultural projects and the training of Zairian agricultural technicians. Total cost $15 million.
ZAMBIA: Bank—$11.5 million. For development of 6,300 family farms, providing them with extension services, credit, roads, water supplies, schools and health services. The farmers will produce tobacco and maize, earn $8.5 million in foreign exchange, and increase incomes from $35 to $560 annually. Project will eventually provide employment for about
30,000	people. Total cost $15.3 million.
Development Finance Companies
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$2 million. To provide the foreign exchange needed over the next two years by the newly established Industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan (IDBA) for the term financing of industrial enterprises. Equity funding for IDBA has been provided by IFC, and by Afghan and foreign investors.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$60 million. The funds will be relent by the Banco de la Republica to private development finance companies ("financieras"), which account for a substantial part of institutional medium and long-term finance for private industrial investment. The loan will help the "financieras" to meet their foreign exchange requirements until mid-1975.
ECUADOR; Bank—$20 million. Will provide foreign exchange needed over the next two years by two development finance companies, one private and the other government-owned. The two are Ecuador's main suppliers of longterm credit to industry.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$15 million. The Bank of Alexandria, the only insti-
tution in Egypt providing term finance for industry, will use the proceeds to meet the foreign exchange requirements of industrial enterprises for the financing of equipment imports.
INDIA: Bank—$70 million. To increase the foreign exchange resources of the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI), which provides finance to private industry, and has contributed significantly to ’India's manufacturing output, exports and employment. Bank lending to ICICI now totals $335 million.
» INDIA: IDA—$25 million. To help meet the foreign exchange cost of medium and small-scale industrial projects sponsored through State Financial Corporations. The credit marks the first time the Bank Group has assisted the development of small-scale industries in India.
KOREA: Bank — $40 million. To cover the bulk of the foreign exchange requirements of the Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) for two years. Three earlier Bank loans totalling $55 million enabled KDFC to expand its lending, much of which is concentrated on export-oriented enterprises.
MOROCCO: Bank—$24 million. To provide part of the foreign exchange needed by the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Eco-nomique (BNDE) through 1974 for its long-term loans to industrial enterprises. This is the sixth Bank loan to BNDE, bringing the total lent to $121.5 million.
TUNISIA: Bank — $14 million. This is the Bank's fifth loan to the Societe Nationale d'ln-vestissement (SNI), the major source of longterm local and foreign exchange funds for private tourism and manufacturing enterprises in Tunisia. The loan will cover SNI's foreign exchange requirements through 1974.
TURKEY: Bank—$40 million. To provide part of the foreign exchange component of the Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi's estimated lending for industry over a two-year period.
Education
ALGERIA: Bank — $6 million. For the improvement of three technological institutes and a pre-investment study of a fourth. Project will contribute to the on-going expansion and reorganization of technical education to help » overcome manpower shortages in critical sectors of the economy.
COSTA RICA: Bank—$6.2 million. In support of the 1970-80 National Educational Development Plan, the project includes the construction and equipping of schools, workshops, laboratories and vocational training centers. Major objectives are to relate the educational system better to the socio-economic development of Costa Rica; to help redress urban-rural imbalances in educational opportunities; and to reduce the repeater and dropout rates. Total cost $9.4 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$10 million. For an interim project to meet urgent needs pending reform of the educational system. Includes better science teaching facilities, three new agricultural training centers, a center for training priest-teachers, extension of Animal Health Institute and expanded textbook production. Total cost $12.7 million.
GREECE: Bank—$23.5 million. To construct or extend facilities for training teachers, as well as technical, industrial, agricultural and merchant marine personnel. Includes technical assistance for development of the University of Patras. New facilities will provide places for nearly 12,000 trainees. Total cost $43.9 million.
INDIA: IDA—$12 million. To help finance the development of agricultural universities in Assam and Bihar at a cost of $19.4 million. The universities are being formed through a merger of existing colleges. They will produce better trained graduates and strengthen technical support for the "green revolution."
INDONESIA: IDA—$13.5 million. For preparation, testing, production and free distribution of 138 million textbooks for primary school pupils in four subjects—the national language, mathematics, science and social studies. About
350,000	teachers will be trained in the use of the textbooks and teaching aids. Project will improve the quality of primary education, which is essential to a reform of secondary education. The Canadian Government is furnishing paper for the textbooks. Total cost $39.2 million.
KOREA: Bank—$23 million; IDA—$20 million. To support the Government's efforts to reform the educational system so as to make it more responsive to the manpower needs of a rapidly expanding economy. Institutions providing training in agriculture, fisheries, industry, engineering, natural sciences and nursing will receive equipment, as will teacher training colleges and a merchant marine college. Preinvestment studies in health and management education are included.Total cost$70.2 million.
LEBANON: Bank — $6.6 million. To help finance construction of 66 schools and teacher training institutes, and to provide technical assistance. Project will assist Lebanon in creating a more modern educational system and in reorienting the highly academic approach to a more practical and technical one. Total cost $15.9 million.
MALI: IDA—$5 million. For buildings, equipment and services directed mainly at improving the quality of teaching in secondary schools; introducing domestic science and technology courses adapted to Mali's needs; and improving the planning and management of the educational system. Total cost $5.5 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$54 million. To meet the most immediate educational needs of the Northern States by expanding secondary schools, diversifying curricula, increasing the number of teachers, and undertaking research
to develop a primary school system better related to the North's economic and social requirements. Total cost $107.4 million.
PARAGUAY: IDA —$5.1 million. For constructing arid equipping eighty secondary schools, an upper secondary technical school and a vocational training center. Project will assist educational reforms designed to improve and broaden secondary and vocational education. Total cost $7.35 million.
PHILIPPINES: IDA —$12.7 million. For a $17.7 million project aimed at developing technical and vocational education, and improving curriculum development by establishing or expanding a variety of educational facilities.
TANZANIA: IDA—$10.3 million. The credit is the fourth in support of Tanzania's education program. Will help expand teacher training, diversify secondary education, expand medical education, and provide training in vocational skills. Includes an experiment in practical education and adult literacy in "ujamaa" villages through community education centers. Total cost $14.6 million.
THAILAND: IDA—$19.5 million. To provide physical facilities for 10 primary teacher training colleges, 32 secondary schools, a new National Curriculum Development Center, and the Faculty of Science at the Prince of Songkhla University. Includes a study of the use of radio and television for education. The objective is to increase educational opportunities in rural areas and to make the educational system more relevant to Thailand's needs. Total cost $39 million.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: Bank—$9,3 million. To assist a $19.7 million project for expansion of secondary education, teacher training, technical education and adult farmer training that will broaden educational opportunities. Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is also contributing to the project.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$2.85 million. To support the Government's efforts to provide rural youth with basic literacy and agricultural skills as an alternative to limited and relatively expensive formal education. Project will also strengthen teaching of science in secondary schools. Total cost $3.6 million.
ZAMBIA: Bank — $33 million. This is the Bank's third loan for the Government's educational program. Project will provide training facilities to increase the number of urgently needed medical and agricultural personnel; establish a more economical and efficient educational services center; and complete construction and equipping of 61 secondary schools and four teacher training colleges. Total cost $40.1 million.
Electric Power
BRAZIL: Bank—$20 million. To expand the electric power transmission and distribution systems serving the Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo metropolitan areas. Will improve reliability of service and permit connection of over 700,000 new customers. Total cost $382.6 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank —$56 million. For the construction of the 280-megawatt second stage of the Guatape hydroelectric power station to improve service, meet the growing demand and help rationalize the fragmented power sector. Total cost $98.2 million.
EL SALVADOR: Bank — $27.3 million. To help install 165 megawatts of hydroelectric and geothermal electric power generating capacity and associated transmission facilities, which are expected to meet the country's power needs for about 10 years. IDB is providing $38.1 million for the hydroelectric project. Total cost $97,7 million.
GUYANA: Bank —$6 million. To improve efficiency through frequency unification, interconnection and coordination of Guyana's isolated power systems. Parallel financing is being provided by the U.K. Overseas Development Administration (UKODA) and CIDA. Total cost $23.1 million.
INDIA: IDA—$85 million. To build about 2,500 circuit miles of transmission lines and 60 substations affecting systems in six states, together with communication and supervisory equipment for two regional load dispatch stations. Project forms part of India's 1972-77 investment program for power transmission. Total cost $151 million.
INDONESIA: IDA — $46 million. For construction of a 200-megawatt thermal power plant near Djakarta to help meet the increasing demand for electricity in West Java. Includes a feasibility study for a hydroelectric project, and a study for the development of the Java power system. Total cost $54.6 million.
IRAN: Bank—$51 million. To assist in constructing about 700 miles of transmission lines, which will link the 1,000-megawatt Reza Shah Kabir dam scheduled for completion in May 1974 with four major load centers and two southern cities. The expanded system will permit development of major generating facilities. Total cost $75 million.
JORDAN: IDA —$10.2 million. For a 78-megawatt steam-electric power plant at Zarqa to help meet Jordan's rapidly rising demand through 1977. KFAED is also providing $10.2 million. Total cost $24.7 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$6 million. To build transmission and distribution lines, together with associated substations and ancillary equipment to utilize power from two new generating stations being built with Bank Group assistance. Project will improve distribution of power in Colombo, connect 500 factories to the system, complete an electrification program for 500 villages, and initiate a new rural electrification program. Total cost $9.8 million.
TURKEY: Bank—.$14 million. To expand and
improve the electric power distribution system in Istanbul. Total cost $40.2 million.
Industry
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLICOF: IDA—$175,000. To meet the foreign exchange cost of initiating design and detailed engineering work for a rehabilitation project, which forms the first phase of a 10-year program for modernizing the cotton ginning industry. Total cost $225,000.
*	INDIA: IDA—$58 million. For modification and expansion of the Fertilizer Corporation of India's Nangal plant in Punjab. Will add production of 152,000 tons of urea a year to present 80,000 tons of calcium ammonium nitrate. This is IDA's third credit for fertilizer production in India. Total cost $106 million.
INDONESIA: IDA — $5 million. To supplement a $30 million credit approved in 1970 for the construction of the PUSRI fertilizer project in South Sumatra. Because of the redesigning of the system to supply natural gas for the plant, additions to the plant, and currency realignments, the cost estimates have increased by $22.5 million to $113.3 million. The IDA credit will cover part of the increased foreign exchange costs attributable to the currency realignments. USAID and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan, which participated in the original financing, are also increasing their contributions.
MAURITIUS: IDA—$4 million. For the establishment of an industrial estate at Coromandel, near the capital. Will promote the growth of export-oriented industries and create employment opportunities. Total cost $8 million.
Non-project Lending
BANGLADESH: IDA —$50 million. To provide foreign exchange to finance imports of equipment and materials for agriculture, transportation, communications, manufacturing and construction, in support of Bangladesh's efforts to rebuild its war-damaged economy.
INDIA: IDA —$100 million. Will finance imports of raw materials and components to permit fuller utilization of capacity in selected high-priority industries.
PAKISTAN: IDA —$45 million. Will help manufacturers in selected industries to make fuller use of existing capacity by enabling them to import raw materials, components and spare parts. Credit will cover part of the cost of these imports in 1973/74.
ZAMBIA: Bank — $30 million. Will provide foreign exchange for essential imports of capital and intermediate goods for the private and public sectors. The Government will use the domestic funds generated by the imports for its 1973 development program.
Population Planning
IRAN: Bank —$16.5 million. To build and equip 16 training institutions, along with 78
health centers that will extend family planning services to small towns and rural areas, providing preventive and curative health services as well. Includes studies to improve management and administration of Iran's family planning program which is being greatly expanded. Total cost $33.4 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank — $5 million. For a $14.5 million project to reduce the annual population growth rate to 1.5% by 1985 by extending family planning and health services to rural areas. Project includes medical training, education, research and evaluation.
Technical Assistance
BANGLADESH: IDA—$4 million. For preinvestment planning, feasibility, engineering and other studies to assist the Government in planning or implementing its programs of economic development and rehabilitation. Also includes advisory services and staff training for agencies responsible for project planning or implementation. Emphasis will be on agriculture and water development.
Tel ecommun i cations
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY: Bank—$32.5 million. A third Bank loan to expand and improve the Community's telecommunications services to keep pace with the growth of agriculture, industry, commerce and tourism in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Total cost $53.3 million.
INDIA: IDA—$80 million. To help finance part of a $534 million program for expansion and improvement of India's telecommunications system. CIDA is providing $11 million. Bank and IDA lending for telecommunications in India now totals $288 million.
IRAN: Bank — $82 million. To help finance Iran's telecommunications program during the first two years of the Fifth Plan (1973-78). Program aims at doubling network capacity to about one million lines, thus meeting 90% of forecast service demand. Project will improve connections between Tehran and 66 provincial centers and about 80 towns and villages en route, thus supporting the Government's efforts to decentralize development away from the capital. Total cost $194 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$5.5 million. To assist Nepal in improving and expanding its local, longdistance and international telecommunications services. Total cost $7.9 million.
SENEGAL: Bank—$6.25 million. For the second phase of a program to rehabilitate, modernize and expand the principal local and long-distance telecommunications network. Project concentrates on the Dakar network and northern provinces. Total cost $8.86 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$37 million. To help finance the first phase of the 1972-76 telecommunications development plan of the Telephone Organization of Thailand. The plan will
greatly expand and improve services, extending them to rural communities, principally for agricultural and business purposes. Total cost $102.8 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$4.5 million. This follows a credit made in 1969 for the development of an adequate telecommunications system in Upper Volta. It includes rehabilitation and modernization of local and long-distance facilities to improve services and meet expected demand through 1980. Total cost $5.6 million.
Transportation
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$2.5 million. For constructing and equipping a new flight information center at Kabul for control of international and domestic air traffic, assistance in establishing a new entity to provide efficient control services; and a feasibility study and detailed engineering of a new airport in Logar Valley to serve Kabul. Total cost $3.1 million.
ALGERIA: Bank—$18.5 million. For urgently needed road improvement, construction and maintenance works, and preparation of a road investment program to support Algeria's economic development. Total cost $33.1 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA—$8 million. To help finance maintenance, track, structures, communications, locomotives, rolling stock, spare parts and technical assistance for Bolivia's national railway in order to modernize operations and improve financial position. Total cost $11.6 million.
BRAZIL: Bank — $51 million. For construction, improvement and paving of over 400 miles of highways in southern, central and northeastern Brazil which will help meet increased traffic needs and reduce road-user costs. This is the fourth highway project in Brazil to be assisted by the Bank. Total cost $128 million.
BURMA; IDA—$16.3 million. For rehabilitation of inland water transport through modernization of dockyards, provision of engines and material for vessels, radio communications and navigational aids, new passenger vessels and technical assistance. Total cost $24 million.
BURMA: IDA—$16.7 million. To support a $44.2 million project for rehabilitation of the railway system through acquisition of diesel locomotives, rolling stock and other equipment and modernization of repair and maintenance facilities. The inland water transport and railway projects together will help complete programs for rehabilitation and thereby ease bottlenecks to economic development created by inadequate transportation.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF: IDA — $600,000. To supplement a railway credit of $6.3 million extended in April 1972.
COSTARICA: Bank—$1.4million. Fora$1.96 million feasibility study and detailed engineering for two new roads from San Jose to Puerto Viejo and Siquirres. The route to Siquirres will
link with the Siquirres-Puerto Limon road being built with Bank assistance.
CYPRUS: Bank—$5.4 million. For construction of a modern highway from the capital, Nicosia, to an agricultural area, strengthening institutional capability for planning, administering and executing highway projects; and feasibility studies for other high priority roads. Total cost $10.5 million.
DAHOMEY: IDA—$11.8 million. For reconstruction of 210 miles of the main north-south route and extension of the ongoing highway maintenance program by providing technical assistance and materials. USAID is providing $8 million in parallel financing for part of the project. Total cost $21.1 million.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY: Bank—$26.5 million. For construction of three berths at Dar es Salaam and provision of facilities and equipment to enable Dar es Salaam, Mombasa and Tanga ports to handle more traffic. Canada is providing Can$26 million on concessionary terms for the project, which will cost approximately $70.4 million.
EQUATORIAL GUINEA: IDA —$2 million. To establish an efficient road maintenance organization. Includes technical assistance to improve planning and administration, provision of equipment, workshops, garages and warehouses, and rehabilitation of 20 miles of road for demonstration purposes. United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is contributing $400,000. Total cost $2.7 million.
FIJI: Bank—$4.2 million. To supplement a $11.8 million loan made in 1971 for construction of 67 miles of the 130-mile Suva-Nandi road on the main island. Australia and New Zealand are financing part of the increased costs.
HONDURAS: Bank—$18.8 million. For construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga road, improvement of a secondary road and feeder roads, all mainly aimed at opening up or improving access to agricultural areas. Project includes feeder road studies, a staff training program and technical assistance for transport planning. Total cost $25.8 million.
INDONESIA: IDA — $14 million. For construction of a highway in North Sulawesi Province to open up agricultural lands; feasibility studies of a major highway in Java and related feeder roads; technical assistance to prepare a program for improving low-standard highways; and training in road maintenance. Total cost $19 million.
IVORY COAST: IDA—$7.5 million. For the construction of a 49-mile road to improve the highway network leading to the port of San Pedro, a bridge on the N'Zi river, and a feeder road study. Total cost $12.3 million.
JAMAICA: Bank—$9.3 million. For road improvement and maintenance works to avoid costly reconstruction of heavily traveled roads, includes resurfacing of 440 miles of arterial
and secondary main roads and resealing of another 250 miles of secondary roads. Total cost $17.3 million.
KOREA: Bank—$40 million. To help finance the Korean National Railroad's proposed investment of $265 million during 1972-74 for the electrification of lines; a new link to the Inchon port; renewal and strengthening of track and bridges; improving traffic control, repair and handling facilities; and procurement *of equipment and rolling stock.
KOREA: Bank — $80 million. For improvements and new works at the ports of Busan
•	and Mukho to facilitate the handling of cargo and passenger traffic. Total cost $131 million.
LEBANON: Bank — $33 million. For an expressway to relieve congestion on the coastal route between Beirut and Tripoli. Will also include building and equipping of a road maintenance center, feasibility study of a Beirut bypass, and detailed engineering of a road from Beirut to the Syrian border. Total cost $64.2 million.
LIBERIA: IDA—$2.6 million; Bank—$3 million. Joint financing with USAID, UNDP and Federal Republic of Germany for a project to facilitate access to the port of Monrovia and improve road maintenance operations. Involves construction, preinvestment studies, staff training and technical assistance. Total cost $14.1 million.
MALAGASY REPUBLIC: Bank—$15 million; IDA—$15 million. To develop Madagascar's transport system through the construction of about 260 miles of primary roads, engineering of an additional 125 miles of roads, and technical assistance. Total cost $43.9 million.
MALI: IDA —$6.7 million. To improve the Mali link of the Bamako-Dakar railway, FAC is contributing $1.8 million for the project which consists of track renewal, ballasting and welding; minor bridge repairs; acquisition of locomotives and rolling stock; and technical assistance. Total cost $9.3 million.
MALI: IDA—$9.5 million. To improve nearly 240 miles of two trunk roads and undertake detailed engineering for a third; training and equipment for an ongoing highway mainte-. nance and feeder road program; and a study of the trucking industry. USAID is providing $9 million. Total cost $20.5 million.
NICARAGUA: Bank—$11 million. The Bank's
*	second loan to expand and improve Nicaragua's only deep-water port at Corinto. Project will enable it to meet traffic requirements through 1985. Total cost $14.2 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA —$18 million. For a $34.2 million project to expand and improve the port of Karachi in order to alleviate congestion and provide for future traffic growth. Bank Group financing for Pakistan's main port now totals $49.8 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$8 million. For rehabilitating nearly 70 miles of roads, and improving road maintenance operations through provi-
sion of equipment and training. Includes preinvestment studies for rehabilitating a further 120 miles of roads. Total cost $11 million.
SENEGAL: Bank—$3 million. For lengthening the main runway at Dakar airport and providing additional installations and modifications at a total cost of $4 million. Project will enable large long-range jet aircraft to operate economically out of the airport, help Dakar retain its share of air traffic and increase transit flight income.
SOMALIA: IDA—$12.95 million. For building a new sheltered deep-water port at Mogadiscio to replace lighterage facilities. FED is making a grant up to a maximum equivalent to about $14 million. IDA credit includes refinancing of $450,000 for the engineering of the project. Total cost $25 million.
SPAIN: Bank —$50 million. For further development of the ports of Huelva and La Luz y Las Palmas begun under an earlier Bank loan of $40 million. Both ports are located in less developed regions of Spain. Will also assist modernization of equipment in other main ports to meet traffic demands until 1980. Total cost $97 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$7 million. For a $10.9 million project to upgrade the country's road construction and maintenance capabilities; identify and prepare high-priority projects; and provide road maintenance, workshop and laboratory equipment, spare parts, and technical assistance.
THAILAND: Bank—$28.6 million. To build and improve nearly 180 miles of national highways and 240 miles of provincial roads. Will support the Government's strategy of providing better transportation to and within distant regions to facilitate economic development. Total cost $58.6 million.
THAILAND: Bank —$15 million. To help finance the first stage of the 1973-76 investment program of the State Railway of Thai land which includes further dieselization. Involves strengthening tracks and bridges, remodelling yards, modernizing workshops and acquiring diesel locomotives and rolling stock. Total cost $69.3 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$47 million. For the first stage of a six-year program for the physical, administrative and financial rehabilitation of the Turkish State Railways to provide expanded and efficient long-haul transport, especially for bulk traffic from agriculture, mining and industry. European Investment Bank is providing $23 million and France $1.2 million. Total cost $223 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$560,000. For detailed engineering of about 90 miles of roads to link major population centers and markets and to assist agricultural development. Includes technical assistance to Public Works Department. Total cost $660,000,
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank — $59.4 million. For
construction of about 775 miles of pipelines, together with related facilities, for the transmission of natural gas to major industrial consumers in Serbia. Total cost $130.4 million.
Urbanization
MALAYSIA: Bank—$16 million. For an urban transport project which will improve access to Kuala Lumpur from major industrial centers, and relieve traffic congestion in the city. Total cost $31.6 million.
NICARAGUA: IDA—$20 million. For reconstruction after the December 1972 earthquake in Managua. Sites and services component will provide housing for 6,400 displaced low-in-come families. A related industrial credit program in cities outside Managua is expected to create jobs for more than 1,000 refugees. Educational, water supply and electric power facilities will be rebuilt or repaired. Total cost $30.3 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
COLOMBIA: Bank—$9.1 million. For improvement of water supply in seven mediumsized cities, and sewerage works in six of them. Will cater to growing demand, especially in lower income areas, ensure better sanitation, reduce pollution and generally improve services to encourage balanced urban development. Total cost $15.5 million.
GABON: Bank—$9.5 million. To expand and improve the water supply system in Libreville, Gabon's capital and largest city. Will provide potable water for 90% of the city by 1976, reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases, and increase productivity by raising health standards. Joint financing with CCCE. Total cost $19.9 million.
INDIA: IDA—$55 million. For the first stage of a ten-year program to expand and improve Bombay's water supply and sewerage system. Sewerage facilities will also be extended to the suburbs. Total cost $158.2 million.
ISRAEL: Bank—$30 million. For a $75 million project to improve sewerage facilities in 75 urban communities and three groups of communities in the Haifa, Ayyaion and Tel Aviv areas. Will help check environmental hazards,
preserve resources, and benefit agriculture and tourism.
JORDAN: IDA—$8.7 million. For further extension and improvement of water supply and sewerage services to meet Amman's requirements until 1982. Includes staff training, and studies for the development of Aqaba. Total cost $11.55 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank $13.5 million. A second loan for a long-range program to expand and improve the water supply system in the Klang Valley region, including Kuala Lumpur. Project will extend service in urban and rural areas, meeting their water needs until 1981. Total cost $26.2 million.
MEXICO: Bank—-$90 million. For groundwater and surface water projects to increase the supply of potable water in Mexico City. Groundwater project includes a multipurpose land reclamation, afforestation and irrigation scheme which will help reduce air pollution and make a desert area available for urban and agricultural use. All projects include some public works which will largely benefit poorer people. Total cost $194 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—-$48 million. For a $104.9 million project representing the first stage of a bulk water supply plan in the Atlantic coastal zone. Will help prevent potential water shortages in Rabat and Casablanca. Includes construction of a dam and related facilities, 58 miles of new pipelines, well and pipeline rehabilitation and consultants' services.
SYRIA: IDA—$15 million. To expand and improve the water supply system in Damascus. Includes technical assistance for studies of water pollution control and sewerage. Total cost $32.6 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—Eleven credits totalling $151.4 million were made to Bangladesh in fiscal 1973 reactivating, after reappraisal in view of Bangladesh's new priorities, ongoing projects begun before independence in the fields of agriculture, education, small-scale industry, transportation, telecommunications, and water supply and sewerage. Of the total amount, $6.6 million represented new lending to meet revised project requirements and about $44.1 million represented repayment of amounts disbursed under the previous credits.
Reactivated Projects
Technical Assistance and Other Activities
Technical Assistance
The provision of technical assistance to member countries is an integral part of the Bank's activities. Its importance and scope are growing. In the Bank's vocabulary, “technical assistance" is a comprehensive concept. It may be related to the pre-investment stage, involving, for example, help in identifying or preparing a project or testing its feasibility, or analysis of a particular sector of the economy and selection of priority projects within the sector. It may be provided at the investment stage. In this case, it may take a readily quantifiable form, as in the financing of consultants' services or the training of local personnel; or it may not be identifiable in any accounting sense, as when the Bank suggests improvements in the design of a project to make it more efficient. Finally, technical assistance may have no direct or immediate association with a specific project or program, for example, when the Bank responds to a country's request for advice on the organization of its planning machinery.
In fiscal 1973, $87.3 million was provided specifically for technical assistance in loans and credits totalling $2,218 million. Of the former sum, $25.3 million was for feasibility studies, $48.8 million for the services of experts and consultants, and $13.2 million for overseas training.
The Bank also provides technical assistance in its capacity as Executing Agency for many of the projects financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The reorganization of the Bank along regional lines has facilitated closer contact, both at headquarters and in the field, with the UNDP, whose organizational structure was similarly revised in 1971. During fiscal 1973, the Bank became Executing Agency for nine new projects for which the UNDP allocated a total of $3.1 millio'n.
As has been true in other years, about half of the new projects for which the Bank acted as Executing Agency were in the transportation field. But there was greater emphasis on general planning assistance projects: one such project was launched in Jordan, and preparatory work was in progress for two others, in Afghanistan and Sudan, which are expected
to become operational within the next few months. Provision of managerial assistance to development finance companies (DFCs) also assumed more importance: projects in Afghanistan, Nigeria and Kenya were approved daring the year or were likely to be approved soon thereafter. In the implementation of UNDP projects calling for provision of managerial and planning assistance, the Bank is making greater use of individually recruited or assigned experts, in contrast to teams provided under contract by consulting firms.
Economic Development Institute
The Economic Development Institute (EDI) continues to expand and diversify its activities in providing training for government officials at the middle and upper levels of responsibility who are concerned with development programs and projects. Since it was established in 1955, more than 1,750 officials have graduated as Fellows of the Institute.
Most have attended courses given by the Institute in Washington, but in fiscal 1973 a new category of Overseas Fellows was created to take account of the rising importance of courses which EDI is offering in member countries. Ten courses were held in Washington during the fiscal year, graduating a total of 250 Fellows, while overseas the Institute sponsored or supported nine courses with a total of over 200 participants.
The demand for projects courses has grown very rapidly, and they now account for the greater part of the Institute's activities. Most of the projects courses organized in fiscal 1973 were in industry, agriculture, education and transportation—the sectors previously treated at the Institute. But three were novel: a course on managing urban growth, another on water supply and waste disposal, and a seminar on econometric techniques of analysis in the agriculture sector. A general projects course was held in French, while one education and two agriculture courses were given in Spanish.
Overseas activities included regional courses (for participants from several countries) and national courses (for participants from a single
country). A regional development banking course was arranged in Bombay in partnership with the Bankers Training College of the Reserve Bank of India for participants from Africa and Asia, and support was provided for another development banking course given by the Asian Institute for Economic Development and Planning in Bangkok. A regional agricultural projects course was held for Latin American participants in association with the Government of Paraguay. The Institute also supported an agricultural course organized by the Agricultural Development Fund of Iran for Iranian and Afghan participants.
Among national courses, a general projects course, co-sponsored by the National Development Planning Agency and the University of Indonesia, was given for Indonesian university professors. In cooperation with the German Foundation for International Development, an agricultural projects course was held for field officers of the Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation. EDI also supported two industrial projects courses at the Center for International Studies of the University of Belgrade, and a general development course at the International Development Center of Japan. The courses in Germany and Japan were for officials and technicians associated with foreign aid programs.
Looking to the future, the Institute is trying to meet the rapidly increasing demand for training by associating its activities with institutions and governments of member countries. In this way, EDI and other institutions working in the same field can pool their teaching, administrative and financial resources to provide more and better training at lower unit costs.
In fiscal 1974, the Institute will join with the African Development Bank, the Economic Commission for Africa and the African Institute for Economic Development and Planning to organize two regional projects courses in Abidjan. The University of Ibadan, under its Planning Studies Programme, will give six courses for Nigerian Government officials concerned with planning, to which EDI will contribute through the teaching of project analysis and programming techniques. In Asia, the Institute has started to work with the Bangladesh Institute of Development Economics, and will continue its support of programs in Indonesia, Japan and at the Asian Institute for Economic Development and Planning.
In Europe and the Middle East, EDI will hold an agricultural projects course in cooperation with the Government of Iraq, and continue to support the training program of the Center for International Studies at the University of Belgrade. In Latin America, the first regional transportation course in Spanish will be given in association with the Training Center for Economic Development of the Brazilian Ministry of Planning and General Coordination.
Ten courses will be offered in Washington.
Of these, three will be new—industrial projects courses in French and Spanish, and a seminar on transportation policy. Diversification into languages other than English will increase, with a total of two courses in French and three in Spanish.
Aid Coordination
The Bank has for many years participated in arrangements for coordinating development assistance provided by a number of sources to individual countries or to institutions of an economic community. Each coordinating mechanism provides a framework within which the development potential, performance and aid requirements of a developing country can be assessed, its priority needs identified, and consideration given to the character and terms of assistance appropriate to the country's circumstances.
For most aid coordination groups, the Bank has served as both sponsor and chairman. It participates in and provides staff support for some coordinating mechanisms organized and chaired by another international institution or government. In one case, it has succeeded to the chairmanship of a group initially sponsored by another organization. Typically, at meetings of such a group, the members consider a report prepared by the Bank on the economic situation, external debt and aid requirements of the country concerned. They discuss the recent economic developments and prospects of the country. The country's delegation gives an account of the performance of the economy in the recent past and of the policies the government intends to follow to encourage economic development. To the extent feasible, members of the group may give indications of the type, amount and terms of assistance they expect to be able to provide.
During the fiscal year, there were formal meetings of 10 of the coordinating groups over which the Bank presides. These were the groups for Colombia, East Africa (Tanzania), India, the Republic of Korea, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Sri Lanka,Thailand,and Tunisia. In addition, the Bank provided staff support for two meetings of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia, for which the Government of the Netherlands serves as chairman, and for the Consortium for Turkey, sponsored by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The Bank was represented at a meeting of governments interested in providing development assistance to Bangladesh; the meeting was convened by the Government of Bangladesh.
Attention was directed during the year, particularly by the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD, to the coordination of aid for the 25 countries designated as "least developed" by the United Nations General
Assembly. For four of the 21 countries in this category which are members of the Bank Group (Ethiopia, Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda), the Bank sponsors consultative groups. In the case of eight others (Burundi, Chad, Dahomey, Mali, Niger, Rwanda, Somalia and Upper Volta), coordination is effected through frequent consultations with the European Development Fund, the UNDP Resident Representative and the African Development Bank. The Bank works closely with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development on the development problems of the Yemen Arab Republic.
During the year, the Bank cooperated in an experimental aid coordination effort undertaken in response to the request of the UNDP Governing Council that proposals for action concerning the "least developed" countries be submitted to it by January 1973. Six countries (Afghanistan, Haiti, Lesotho, Rwanda, Upper Volta and the Yemen Arab Republic) were selected for the experiment. The UNDP has decided to supplement its regular program funds for the "least developed" countries with additional resources aggregating $35 million between 1973 and 1976. The Bank has been working with the UNDP to develop projects to which this financing may be directed.
Inter-Agency Cooperation
The Bank maintains close working relationships with a number of other international agencies in the field of economic development, helping to avoid duplication of effort and to assure the mutual reinforcement of their independent activities.
A particularly close relationship, and the one of longest standing, is with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), both at headquarters and through collaboration in the field. Another particularly close relationship is with the UNDP, which deals with technical assistance and preinvestment. Both institutions recognize the need for cooperation, since the UNDP's principal function is the financingof pre-investment and the Bank's is the financing of investment— successive stages of a single economic process.
Formal arrangements for jointly financed programs have been established between the Bank and three of the specialized agencies within the U.N. system: the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) and the World Health Organization (WHO). Under the agreements establishing these programs, the agencies act, in effect, as supporting technical arms of the Bank, giving assistance to governments in the identification and preparation of projects for Bank Group financing, and providing staff support for Bank economic, appraisal and supervision missions. Costs of agreed work under the cooperative programs are shared,
25% by the specialized agency concerned and 75% by the Bank. Since the first of these programs began in 1965, the Bank's contribution has aggregated $17.6 million; it amounted to $3.9 million in fiscal 1973.
During the year, staff of the Unesco-Bank cooperative program participated in identifying or preparing 11 of the 18 education projects approved by the Executive Directors. Following expansion of the Unesco-Bank program a few years ago, Unesco staff has also prepared country briefs on the education sectors of selected developing countries. The Bank draws on these briefs in preparing its lending program for those countries. Special studies of operational concern to the Bank and Unesco are undertaken from time to time. The subjects of three in progress are education indicators; comparative costs and effects of university-based and non-university-based teacher education; and organization of curriculum development.
Staff of the FAO-Bank cooperative program participated in the preparation of about a third of the agriculture projects approved by the Executive Directors, and carried out 146 missions in 55 countries, mainly for project identification and preparation.
Fiscal 1973 was the first full year of operation under the WHO-Bank cooperative program, which functions in the fields of water supply, wastes disposal and storm drainage. Sector reconnaissance and study missions were carried out in nine countries, and project identification and preparation missions in five. WHO regional and country engineers provided assistance to special Bank missions in 12 countries.
The Bank and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) have agreed on the terms of a cooperative program. The agreement will become effective on January 1, 1974, after it has been approved by the Boards of Governors of the Bank and IDA. Meantime, the institutions are cooperating informally. As is the case under the other cooperative programs, a special unit has been established in UNIDO. It will provide industrial economists and other experts to help in identifying and preparing industrial projects for financing by the Bank Group; make available to governments technical assistance in commissioning and supervising project feasibility studies and in carrying out industrial projects financed by the Bank Group; and participate in industrial sector studies.
So far, the Bank has not entered into formal agreements with other U.N. agencies, but there has been extensive ad hoc collaboration with a number of them. The Bank has participated in the inter-agency multi-disciplinary missions concerned with employment policy sent to developing countries under the auspices of the International Labour Organization (ILO). During the year, the Bank took part in an interagency meeting convened by ILO to evaluate the results of the first four such missions. The
two institutions have held the first of what are to be periodic consultations on cooperation in economic work. In-service training was provided during the year for three members of the staff of the U.N. Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR).
The Bank Group maintains close working relations with various international institutions operating in the population field, in particular the U.N. Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), WHO and the Pan American Health Organization, as well as with bilateral agencies and private institutions. The Bank is actively participating in the planning of the U.N. World Population Year and the World Population Conference in 1974. Regular semi-annual meetings to coordinate population activities have been instituted with both UNFPA and WHO. The joint Bank-UNFPA project in Indonesia initiated in 1972 provided the first major experience of aid coordination on a project basis in the population field. A different coordination arrangement was made in the case of a project approved in fiscal 1973 for Malaysia. The project is being supported by a grant from UNFPA and a Bank loan, provided on a parallel basis, with each agency financing separate components within an integrated package. In Iran, the Bank-assisted project complements inputs provided by UNFPA. Bank staff were associated with a UNFPA mission to Bangladesh, in which a Unesco adviser also participated. WHO specialists in the medical and nursing fields participated in Bank missions to Egypt and Iran. WFHO and Unesco, and WHO and UNFPA, participated in Bank appraisal missions for family planning programs in the Philippines and Kenya, respectively. Under arrangements informally agreed upon, FAO will provide staff support through consultants, as needed, to help the Bank in the initial stages of developing nutrition projects.
The Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Inter-American Committee on the Alliance for Progress (CIAP), the IMF and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) continue to work together to improve the coordination of assistance to Latin American countries through the CIAP country review process. They cooperate through an InterAgency Advisory Group, which does preparatory work for the CIAP reviews, as a result of which the review exercise has been strengthened and improved. The Bank's economic reports and other documents comprise part of the documentation for these reviews, and are also used by the CIAP Secretariat as background and reference material for its own reports. This has required coordinating the schedules of Bank missions and of the CIAP reviews.
During the year, the Bank and the U.N. Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA) reached agreement on a program to design and develop transport information systems in three
or four Latin American countries, by assisting governments to create documentation and transport sector files into which information needed for national transport planning will be fed in a systematic way and on a continuing basis. The Bank is financing the services of a transport expert who is working on the project in Chile, under the supervision of ECLA. Agreement was also reached with ECLA on a joint study on income distribution in Latin America. The project is expected to last about a year and may lead to further analytical studies.
During the year, the Bank's association with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) has developed considerably. After consultation with the Bank, UNICEF is undertaking in Bangladesh and Egypt (with the assistance of ILO) training programs and studies of employment which the Bank will take into account in determining its lending to those countries. UNICEF inputs in fields such as nutrition and population have also become significant elements in the formulation of Bank lending programs. These developments are at least in part the result of consultation, exchange of documents and similar coordination efforts among senior UNICEF and Bank staff, at headquarters and in the field.
The Steering Committee set up by WHO, UNDP, FAO and the Bank in 1972, combined to coordinate their action in planning a river blindness control program in Western Africa. Further details are given in the "Western Africa" section of this Report.
At an Inter-Governmental Meeting on Jute early in 1972, producing governments agreed in principle to establish "Jute International" to plan and carry out a program for development and expansion of the world market for jute, sponsoring and financing programs of technical production and end-use research, as well as market research and promotional activities. The UNDP was asked to provide "preparatory assistance" in defining the organization of "Jute International," its terms of reference, the sources, magnitude and terms of possible financing for it, and an initial work program. The Bank joined with the UNDP in an exploratory mission which visited jute-producing and selected consumer countries in connection with formulation of the "preparatory assistance" project.
The Bank has almost continuous contact with regional development banks, particularly the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Asian Development Bank (AsDB), and the African Development Bank (AfDB). There are regular consultations and exchanges of information. World Bank missions to countries within the area of a regional bank's operating interests call in at the bank to discuss their findings. The Bank's Permanent Mission in Western Africa maintains active liaison with AfDB. Together with the UNDP and the U.N. Economic Commission for Africa, the Bank and the AfDB have
set up a coordinating committee for pre-investment studies. During the year, the Bank provided in-service training for staff members of the AfDB and the East African Development Bank. World Bank financing for a number of projects was extended jointly or in association with support from a regional bank. For example, the World Bank joined with IDB in providing funds for expansion of Brazil's flat steel products capacity, and with the Central American Bank for Economic Integration in financing the first interconnection between the power systems of Honduras and Nicaragua.
Economic reports on countries of common membership, appraisal reports on Bank and IDA projects in those countries, and the Bank's commodity studies have for a number of years been exchanged with or made available to the regional banks and to appropriate U.N. agencies. During the year, under a procedure earlier approved by the Executive Directors, arrangements were instituted for the reciprocal exchange of policy papers submitted to the Directors and to the Boards of the Inter-American Development Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank and the Asian Development Bank. The reciprocal exchange of a more limited range of such papers between the Bank and the Commission of the European Communities was also begun. It is hoped that similar arrangements may be instituted with the African Development Bank in the near future.
International Agricultural Research
The membership of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), established under the joint sponsorship of the Bank, FAO and the UNDP in 1971, has risen to 29; Australia and the Commission of the European Communities joined during the year. The Bank continues to act as Chairman of the Group.
At a meeting in December 1972, the Group accepted recommendations of its Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for financial support of six international agricultural research institutes: the International Center of Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) based in Colombia; the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) in Mexico; the International Potato Center (CIP) in Peru; the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Nigeria; the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines; and the newly founded International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) in India.
Individual members of the Group indicated intentions of making a total of approximately $24 million available for the activities of these centers in calendar 1973. Included in this amount were grants by IDA, to be made from funds transferred to it out of the Bank's net income for fiscal 1972. These grants totalled
$2.02 million, and comprised the following: $1 million to CIMMYT, $750,000 to IITA, $150,000 to CIAT, and $120,000 to IRRI, It was expected that the sums might be supplemented if allocations by other donors left shortfalls in the funds required by these institutions.
In addition, the TAC and the Consultative Group endorsed initiatives toward the establishment of research activities to improve cattle production in tropical Africa. At the end of the year, discussions were proceeding with African authorities and prospective donors with a view to setting up an International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases (ILRAD) and an International Livestock Centre for Africa (ILCA), of which ILRAD would become a part if efforts to create ILCA were successful.
The Commodity Problem
Trends in the production and marketing of primary commodities — agricultural products and minerals—have a major influence on the prospects of most of the Bank's developing member countries. The commodity situation and outlook for about 40 primary products which figure prominently in the exports of developing countries is, therefore, continuously reviewed by the Bank as a guide both to lending policies and to assessments of the prospects, problems and creditworthiness of borrowing countries.
During the year, the Executive Directors discussed a paper on “Development Policy for Countries Highly Dependent on Exports of Primary Products.'' The analysis pointed to two fundamental needs. The first is for many of these countries to diversify their production into lines where the demand prospects are more favorable. The second is for improved access to the major markets of the world for agricultural products, processed primary products and manufactures exported from developing countries.
It was agreed that the Bank could play an important role by helping developing countries to diversify their economies and take advantage of the economic opportunities open to them. The heavy dependence on exports of primary products with poor market prospects presents a particularly difficult problem for the smaller and poorer countries with their limited domestic markets. The Executive Directors, therefore, agreed that in its lending and technical assistance programs, the Bank should generally:
•	limit its financing of new production of primary products facing inelastic demand to countries with few export alternatives, in order to minimize adverse price effects on other exporting countries;
•	expand assistance to the “least developed'' countries in evaluating comparative advantage and formulating industrialization policies;
•	expand assistance for research in agricultural production, marketing and end-uses;
•	increase support for economic integration
and trade among developing countries; and	•
•	devote greater attention to export policies in country economic work and to export potential in project analysis.
The Bank's analytical work on commodities has been increasingly addressed to examining issues of investment policy. The Executive Directors considered three papers on "Market Prospects for Rice: Framework for Commodity Lending in 1973-74," "The International Tea Market: Review and Outlook for Bank Lending in 1973-74" and "Sugar: A Reappraisal of Investment Policies for Developing Countries." The papers analyzed the market situation and prospects in the context of the strategy for future Bank lending for the production of these commodities.
The papers on rice and sugar pointed to the need for expanding production in developing countries, whereas the paper on tea advocated a highly selective approach to new investments. In their discussion of the paper on sugar, the Executive Directors generally agreed that the Bank should proceed with financing sugar production where justified in terms of the country's comparative advantage. It was noted that supply and demand were difficult to predict in the medium and long term, and that the history of sugar markets had been characterized by sharp swings in prices. The view was, therefore, expressed that the Bank should continue to monitor market prospects closely.
New opportunities for stimulating exports from developing countries are receiving greater attention. For example, a staff paper on the "Tropical Hardwood Trade in the Asia-Pacific Region" concludes that systematic exploitation of tropical hardwood resources offers promising opportunities to foster economic development in Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines. Wood processing offers such countries additional advantages in that it is a labor-intensive activity providing an opportunity to industrialize remote areas on the basis of locally available resources.
A similar study is now being planned for Western Africa, following which it is proposed to analyze opportunities for developing the large forestry resources of Latin America and the Caribbean region. Consultations are in progress with other international institutions to identify and study market prospects for new products which offer a potential for export growth. Meat and vegetables are likely to be subjects for intensive study.
Evaluation of Operations
The Bank and IDA have continued to strengthen their work on evaluation of the effectiveness of their operations. Following the
completion of two reports undertaken earlier— one on the Bank's operations in Colombia, and the other on its experience with selected electric power projects in Africa, Asia and Latin America—the evaluation unit has moved into the second phase of its program. Reports have been prepared on a number of individual projects in the transportation and power sectors. Two larger studies of a sample of loans for highways and for development finance companies in various countries have reached an advanced stage. Systematic procedures have been developed for following up, with the operational departments, recommendations and suggestions resulting from evaluation studies.
Since the end of the fiscal year, on the basis of the experience derived from evaluation work, a start has been made with the introduction of a more comprehensive system under which reports will be prepared, within about a year of the final disbursement against a loan or a credit, on every project supported by the Bank and IDA. These reports will assess the extent to which the objectives of the project have been accomplished and the reasons for deviations. Deeper evaluation work will be concentrated on projects which these reviews show as deserving closer attention because of the complexity of objectives involved, the potential for deriving useful lessons or the need for comparative analysis.
The independence of the Bank Croup's evaluation has been formalized since the end of the year by making the Operations Evaluation Division of the Programming and Budgeting Department a separate department. The work of both the Operations Evaluation Department and the Internal Auditing Department is to be supervised by a Vice President having no other operating responsibilities.
Economic Research and Studies
The Bank Croup's program of economic research reflects its concern with a wide variety of economic and social problems. The program assists general country economic analysis and project and sector analysis by providing the necessary factual and conceptual basis and analytical techniques. It also helps to improve understanding of basic development issues and processes in a systematic way. Increasingly, the research is being cond.ucted in collaboration with national research institutes in member countries so as to promote the exchange of ideas and experience, and to concentrate the effort on the most important issues.
The program at present consists of over 50 studies, covering a wide range of subjects. The latter include economic planning, income distribution, agriculture and rural development, trade, international finance, industry, education, labor and unemployment, urbanization, regional development, transportation, public utilities, and financial institutions.
The program seeks to meet the priority needs for research in each of these areas. Special emphasis is being given to income distribution, employment, rural development, urbanization and regional development. Several studies have been initiated recently in these areas and more are being prepared. They are designed to assist policy formulation and operations in a number of ways. They generate and interpret basic data, examine the impact of policy instruments in both general and partial equilibrium settings, evaluate programs and projects in member countries, and suggest techniques of incorporating objectives other than economic growth in designing the Croup's operations.
Among the studies now in progress, one is reviewing in depth the experience with 13 rural development projects, including some partially financed by the Bank Group, in Cameroon, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mali, Nigeria and Tanzania. The projects include such aspects as smallholder agriculture, livestock ranging, rural industry and credit schemes. Other studies relating to the development of the rural sector are intended to evaluate the impact of feeder road projects in the Yemen Arab Republic and Ethiopia, village electrification in El Salvador, and rural public works in several member countries.
The program includes a significant amount of research on trade and industrial policies, and on economic planning in developing countries. Studies are being made of alternative incentive systems (such as tariffs, quotas and credit preferences), industrial capacity utilization, and industrial planning. A volume on "Multi-level Planning: Case Studies in Mexico," edited by Alan Manne and Louis Coreux, was published recently. Another study is intended to appraise the utility of economy-wide planning models on the basis of experience. It will consist of a series of review papers, with a common theoretical framework, covering specific planning problems in such areas as employment, trade, regionalization, and intersectoral consistency. The survey will help the Bank and its member countries in developing new approaches and techniques for country economic analysis.
Several studies are being conducted on educational policy. The subjects include the interactions of educational policies with labor markets, methods of educational financing, and design of rural education projects. A study on alternative learning technologies in vocational training is examining the circumstances under which non-formal industrial training schemes in developing countries might be preferable to training programs in formal institutions.
The studies begun earlier on highway design standards and capital-labor substitution in road construction and civil works are continuing. They are intended to provide primary data of basic importance to the planning of highways and civil works, and have attracted great interest in a number of member countries. Further
extensions of these studies are being considered.
Individual studies in the program are described in a publication entitled "World Bank Group Research Program," which first appeared in September 1972, and is to be issued annually. Many of the Bank's studies are published as "Staff Working Papers." Selected monographs are published by the Johns Hopkins University Press as "World Bank Staff Occasional Papers." Studies and publications are listed in the "World Bank Catalog" which is issued annually.
Considerable attention has been given to disseminating the results of Bank Group research more widely. An international meeting of Directors of Development Research and Training Institutes was sponsored by the Bank and-the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development in September 1972 in Belgrade to establish contacts and promote collaboration. Following the meeting, a program has been established for the regular exchange of research documents with development research centers.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
By June 30, 1973, 65 States had ratified the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes, and are thus members of ICSID. Three additional governments had signed but not yet ratified the Convention. The Centre's own Annual Report provides details of its membership and affairs.
International Investment Insurance Agency
In April, the Executive Directors decided to send to governments the most recent draft of the Articles of Agreement for an International Investment Insurance Agency together with a staff memorandum identifying the principal outstanding issues and to ask them whether they were interested in proceeding with the proposal. The Executive Directors also decided that unless enough governments, of both developed and developing countries, expressed positive interest, no further work on the proposal would be done in the Bank. Pending the receipt of indications of interest, discussions by the Executive Directors of the proposed Agency have been suspended.
Bank and IDA Membership
The Bank's membership increased to 122 and IDA's to 112. Bangladesh joined the Bank and IDA. Bahrain, Qatar, Romania and the United Arab Emirates joined the Bank. Fiji, Oman, and Trinidad and Tobago joined IDA. At the end of the year, action was pending on membership in the Bank for The Bahamas, Barbados, Malta
and Western Samoa, and in IDA for Malta and Western Samoa.
Reorganization of Bank Group
In January 1972, the Bank Group decided to undertake a comprehensive study of its organization to ensure that its structure was well suited to the projected scope and level of its activities. There were a number of reasons for undertaking the study. The Bank's structure had been designed in 1952. Although it had evolved in response to circumstances over the years, it had not undergone any fundamental change. Meanwhile, the size, scope and complexity of the Bank's activities had greatly increased.
The growth had been particularly rapid since 1968. Lending activities and staff had expanded substantially. The number of departments had increased. Some had grown to the point where they were beginning to become unwieldy. There was a basic need to speed up the process of decision-making, and to maintain the quality of work, especially since the expansion of the Bank's activities was expected to continue.
As a result of the study, major changes have been made in the operational structure of the Bank and IDA.(1) Previously, the structure consisted of seven "area departments"*2’ and eight "projects departments."<3) Broadly, the area departments were composed of "country experts"—loan officers and economists who had expert knowledge of particular countries, or groups of countries. In the projects departments, on the other hand, were staff with specialized technical skills in specific sectors who worked on projects in all parts of the world. Thus, agricultural specialists were centered in the Agriculture Projects Department, educationists in the Education Projects Department, and so on. All area departments reported to one Vice President; all projects departments to another.
Under the new structure, five Regional Offices*’0 have been established at the Bank's headquarters. Each office is responsible for planning and supervising the execution of the Bank's development assistance programs within its assigned countries. Each has under its direct control most of the experts—such as sector specialists, financial analysts, economists and loan officers—required to carry out its assigned responsibilities. The Regional Offices are headed by Regional Vice Presidents, who report to the Senior Vice President, Operations. Within each Regional Office are two Country
,n Since the Bank and IDA have the same organization, operating procedures and staff, all references to the Bank apply equally to IDA in this section.
(-‘ For Eastern Africa; Western Africa; Europe, Middle East and North Africa; South Asia; East Asia and the Pacific; South America; and Central America and the Caribbean.
(3> For Agriculture; Education; Transportation; Public Utilities; Industry; Population and Nutrition; Tourism; and Special Projects.
For Eastern Africa; Western Africa; Europe, Middle East and North Africa; Asia; and Latin America and the Caribbean.
Programs Departments, whose functions correspond broadly to those of the former area departments. In addition, there is a Projects Department, with its own sector specialists— for agriculture, education, public utilities and transportation/5' The Bank's missions stationed in developing countries report to the Regional Offices responsible for their area of operation.
Specialists engaged in relatively new types of project work and those that are too few in number for efficient decentralization are assigned to the Central Projects Staff (CPS). They are responsible for projects in industry, population and nutrition, rural development, tourism, and urbanization. The CPS is headed by the Vice President, Projects Staff, who also reports to the Senior Vice President, Operations.
The new "decentralized" structure is designed to serve three main aims. Firstly, it permits the Bank to maintain and improve the effectiveness of the development assistance it provides to borrowing countries as the growth in its activities continues. Secondly, it establishes the framework for closer working relations between the "country experts" and the "sector specialists," and thus enables them to gain a deeper understanding of the development problems, needs and opportunities of the countries they serve. Thirdly, the new structure permits better utilization of Bank staff in dealing with more complex programs which require a multi-disciplinary, team approach in preparing, appraising and implementing projects.
With the regionalization of the Bank's operating staff, provision has been made for a broad range of policy and operational support to the five Regional Offices. This includes policy formulation; the assurance of quality and consistency in Bank operations; and technical innovation. The support is provided by the new Development Policy and Central Projects Staffs. The latter also, as mentioned earlier, includes certain technical specialists who have not been decentralized.
The Development Policy Staff (DPS), including the Computing Activities Department, reports to the Vice President, Development Policy. The DPS deals with global and countrywide development policy issues and sector policies in industry, population and urbanization. It is responsible for the quality of the Bank's economic work. It operates the Bank's economic data systems, manages the program of research, handles commodity analyses, and provides operational support to the Regional Country Programs Departments. The major organizational change in the DPS was the creation of a Policy Planning and Program Review Department to coordinate the policy work of the Bank.
The Central Projects Staff deals with sector policy issues in the decentralized sectors and with project issues; it provides operational sup-
(S) Three of the Regional Offices also have their own technical
staff for development finance company projects.
port primarily to the Regional Projects Departments.
As a further measure to assure quality and consistency in the Bank's work, lending operations proposed by the Regional Offices continue to be reviewed by the Loan Committee. The Committee consists of the Senior Vice President, Operations; Vice President, Finance; Vice President and General Counsel; Vice President, Projects Staff; and the Regional Vice President responsible for the loan being considered. It is the responsibility of the Committee to ensure that each loan is financially $ound, and has been prepared in accordance with the Bank's policies and procedures.
A number of other notable organizational changes have been made during the year:
•	A new Vice President has been appointed to direct the activities of the existing Personnel and Administrative Services Departments and those of a new Organization Planning Department which provides "in-
house" management consulting services and guides the Bank's future organizational development.
•	A Director, External Relations, reporting to the President, has been appointed to lead the Bank's programs in the fields of information, public affairs and relations with international organizations.
•	The Secretary, in addition to his previous responsibilities, has assumed responsibility for liaison with the Executive Directors, and reports directly to the President.
The year has been one of significant structural change for the Bank. As a result of the reorganization, lines of authority and responsibility have been clarified and strengthened. Additional capacity has been provided for effective growth in the number and complexity of lending operations, and the staff support departments have been further rationalized. The new organizational structure is outlined in the chart on pages 72 and 73.
Borrowings and Finance
World Capital Markets—Calendar 1972
Sharp increases in borrowings by all categories of issuers lifted total borrowings on the world capital markets to a new peak in calendar
1972.	An aggregate of $11,133 million equivalent of long-term foreign and international'1’ issues was marketed during the year, a gain of $3,396 million or 44% over the total for the previous year. Included in these issues were obligations of the World Bank equivalent to $1,877 million, or 17% of total securities sold on the world capital markets.
Included in 1972 marketings were $6,917 million of international issues, up 63%; $1,941 million of foreign issues sold on various European markets, up 18%; and $2,276 million of foreign issues sold on the North American and other markets outside Europe, a gain of 24% over 1971.
In terms of U.S. dollars, a part of the increase can be attributed to further currency revaluations during the year. But the larger part reflects an actual increase in the real value of the securities sold.(2)
Issuers in the industrialized countries borrowed $7,124 million in 1972, equal to approximately 64% of total borrowings in the world capital market in the period, and a gain of $2,126 million over borrowings in the previous year. Borrowings by issuers in the industrialized countries of Europe amounted to $2,749 million in 1972, an increase of $552 million over volume reported for 1971; and borrowings by issuers in the other industrialized countries amounted to $4,375 million, a rise of $1,574 million over the total borrowings in 1971.
Borrowings by issuers in the developing countries exceeded the $1,000 million mark for the first time. Such borrowings totalled $1,053 million, a gain of $584 million over 1971. International development institutions increased
m The terms "foreign" and "international" in this context refer to issues sold outside the country of the borrower: foreign if sold in one national market, international if in more than one simultaneously.
'2> Non-dollar securities sold in calendar 1972 are expressed in U.S. dollar equivalents based on the exchange rate vis-a-vis the dollar at the time the securities were offered or placed.
their borrowings by $297 million to $2,125 million. As a result, borrowings for development in 1972 reached a new high and accounted for more than 28% of total obligations sold on the world capital markets during the period.
Through national markets and the Eurobond market, Europe — for the eighth consecutive year—was the principal supplier of long-term funds to external borrowers in 1972. Sales of foreign and international issues on these markets aggregated $8,144 million, an increase of $2,520 million.
As in 1971, Deutsche mark and Swiss francs were the European currencies most in demand in 1972. Issues denominated in Deutsche mark amounted to the equivalent of $1,814 million, or $548 million higher than in the previous year. Included were $1,238 million in international issues denominated in mark, and $576 million of foreign issues sold on the German market. Swiss franc issues amounted to the equivalent of $984 million, an increase of $157 million. All Swiss franc issues were sold on the market in Switzerland: $851 million through public offerings and $133 million by private placement.
Other European currencies were also in substantial demand during the year. A total of $510 million equivalent of French francs was borrowed, principally through the Eurobond market. Borrowings of Netherlands guilders equalled $497 million, virtually all of this sum being raised by means of private placements on the Eurobond market. The market in Italy supplied the equivalent of $198 million in lire, with development institutions and multilateral European agencies accounting for all the borrowings. Issues denominated in Luxembourg francs totalled $185 million, the bulk of them being sold by public offerings on the Eurobond market. Sales of debt obligations denominated in sterling fell during the year by the equivalent of $43 million to a total of $160 million.
Issuers in the industrialized countries again drew heavily on the European markets to meet their financial requirements by borrowing $6,503 million, an increase of $1,698 million over 1971. Included were borrowings of $801 million by European multilateral institutions, a gain of $359 million.
U.S. corporations and their European financial affiliates were the largest class of borrowers in Europe, as they have been for several years. The corporations sold on European markets foreign and international obligations amounting to $2,107 million, a gain of $727 million. Included were obligations convertible into common stock amounting to $967 million.
Private enterprises in the United Kingdom were the second largest borrowers in Europe vVith sales of $805 million equivalent of obligations, including $748 million sold in the Eurobond market. Other major borrowers in Europe were Canadian issuers with sales of $471 million; Danish, $239 million; South African, $281 million; Finnish, $182 million; Australian, $240 million; French, $236 million; and Swedish, $225 million.
The developing countries borrowed $650 million in Europe during 1972, or about $465 million more than in 1971. All such borrowings were made through the Eurobond market. Spanish issuers, both public and private, borrowed $117 million equivalent by public offerings and a further $11 million by a private placement. Brazil by means of three public offerings, including the only issue of the year denominated in European Monetary Units, borrowed $96 million. Other issuers in developing countries that raised funds in Europe were: Mexican, $80 million; Hungarian, $50 million; Singapore, $51 million; Philippine, $50 million; and Venezuelan, $39.8 million.
Foreign issuers sold obligations amounting to $1,513 million in the U.S. market, a gain of $170 million over 1971. Canadian issuers borrowed an aggregate of $925 million, an increase of $290 million. Of the Canadian borrowings, $775 million was accounted for by provincial governments and provincial power commissions.
The U.S. market supplied $588 million for development, or $120 million less than in 1971. The World Bank borrowed $250 million, and $338 million of obligations were sold by developing countries: Israel, $222 million; Mexico, $96 million; and Panama, $20 million.
Foreign and international borrowings in Japan expanded during the year. A total of $1,108 million equivalent was raised there, including $472 million of foreign currency issues privately placed: $407 million by governments and public and private enterprises in several industrialized countries and an international organization; and $65 million by issuers in three developing countries—Brazil, Greece and Iran.
Yen borrowings during the year aggregated ¥ 195,800 million, equal to $636 million. Included were public offerings by Australia and the Province of Quebec totalling ¥ 20,000 million and a private placement of ¥ 10,800 million by a U.S. shipping firm.
The World Bank borrowed a record ¥ 155,000 million, or $503 million equivalent. Three public offerings of the Bank amounted to ¥ 55,000
million; and the Bank borrowed ¥ 100,000 million from The Bank of Japan.
The Asian Development Bank borrowed the equivalent of $49.7 million in 1972 by means of a ¥ 10,000 million offering on the Japanese market and a Lit 10,000 million offering on the market in Italy.
The Inter-American Development Bank's borrowings aggregated $141 million equivalent. They were raised by means of a public offering of F 100 million on the French market, two public offerings totalling DM 200 million on the German market, an offering of SwF 80 million on the market in Switzerland, and by two private placements: one in Sweden amounting to SKr 30 million; the other a U.S. dollar issue amounting to $32.4 million placed on the international market.
World Bank Issues—Calendar 1972
Twenty-four issues aggregating the equivalent of $1,877 million were marketed by the World Bank in 1972. Included were 13 public offerings amounting to $853 million: three each in Germany and Japan, two in Kuwait, one each in Belgium, Italy, Switzerland and the United States, and one public offering of French franc bonds on the Eurobond market. Through nine private placements in Belgium, Germany, Japan, Switzerland and internationally, the Bank sold issues totalling $624 million equivalent. It sold a further $400 million of two-year U.S. dollar bonds by placement with some 65 central banks and with international organizations.
The Bank's Borrowings—Fiscal 1973
In the fiscal year, the Bank marketed 22 issues of its obligations in an amount equivalent to $1,723 million. This figure brought total marketings in the five years ended June 30, 1973, to $6,794 million, as compared with marketings of $2,450 million in the preceding five fiscal years. Net funds raised in the capital markets in the fiscal years 1969-73 aggregated $3,907 million, against a net of $1,007 million in the 1964-68 fiscal period.
In addition to issues sold during the fiscal year, the Bank, in June 1973, arranged for the largest single borrowing it has made to date in Switzerland. Settlement on the borrowing was scheduled for after the close of the fiscal year, so that it is not included in the total borrowings for the period. The borrowing, totalling SwF 450 million, consisted of three note issues of SwF 150 million each that were placed privately with Swiss banking institutions. Maturities ranged from six to eight years, with an interest rate of 63A% on the six year maturity and a rate of 61/2% on the notes maturing in seven and eight years.
Japan was the largest supplier of borrowed funds to the Bank in fiscal 1973. A total of ¥ 180,000 million was raised during the year.
Included was ¥ 90,000 million, drawn down in seven tranches under a loan agreement, signed in March 1972, by which The Bank of Japan agreed to lend the World Bank ¥ 100,000 million. The cost of funds drawn down ranged from 6.76% to 6.78%. The interest rate on all tranches was 6.74%. The average maturity of each tranche was 6V2 years. In fiscal 1972, a first draw-down of ¥ 10,000 million was made at a cost of 7.05%.
In February 1973, a second loan agreement, covering the largest single borrowing to be undertaken by the World Bank, was signed with The Bank of Japan. Under its terms, The Bank of Japan agreed to lend ¥ 135,000 million to the World Bank in the 12 months from February 1973 to February 1974. The average maturity of the borrowing is 6V2 years, and the interest rate on each draw-down is to be based on the yield to original subscribers to Japanese Government guaranteed bonds. Through June 30,1973, two tranches aggregating ¥ 40,000 million had been drawn down and are included in the total of borrowing for fiscal 1973. Interest cost to the World Bank for each tranche was 6.74%.
The remaining funds borrowed in Japan were raised through the public offering of two 7% 15-year bond issues, each amounting to ¥ 20,000 million; and placement, with a group of 13 Japanese financial institutions, of a 6.90% note issue with a final maturity of 10 years, amounting to ¥ 10,000 million.
Included in obligations sold in the year was the Bank's first issue of bonds in Lebanon; LL 75 million of 67/s% Five-Year Bonds which were placed with several Lebanese banks. After an interval of 11 years the Bank returned to the market in Italy with an offering of Lit 25,000 million of 7% Fifteen-Year Bonds.
World Bank issues in Germany in fiscal 1973 aggregated DM 1,163 million and equalled nearly 22% of all obligations sold in the year. Included were three public offerings amounting to DM 700 million, four private placements with the Deutsche Bundesbank totalling DM 438 million and a placement of DM 25 million with Deutsche Girozentrale-Deutsche Kommu-nalbank.
Additional funds were raised through two public offerings in Kuwait totalling KD 40 million and a SwF 100 million offering on the Swiss
market. Private placements were also made with groups of private banking institutions in Belgium and the Netherlands; and two U.S. dollar issues were placed with central banks, other governmental agencies and international organizations.
Total borrowings in fiscal 1973 included $1,205 million equivalent of obligations sold to obtain new funds and $518 million of refunding obligations. In fiscal 1972, new borrowings were $1,264 million and refundings $480 million. Japan supplied 50% of new funds raised in fiscal 1973, Germany 19%, Kuwait 10% and the Netherlands 5%.
The outstanding borrowings of the Bank were further increased during the year by delivery of $9.6 million of bonds sold in previous years on a delayed delivery basis. In the fiscal year, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Bank's outstanding debt was increased by $1,005 million as a result of the appreciation, in terms of U.S. dollars, of the value of non-dollar currencies in which the debt was denominated.
A total of $708 million equivalent of debt matured during the year; central bank bond issues, notes held by the Deutsche Bundesbank and serial obligations held by The Bank of Japan accounted for the bulk of the maturities. Included, however, were $75 million of 3% Twentyfive-Year Bonds sold on the U.S. mar-
ket in July 1947, the original amount of which was $150 million. This was the first bond issue ever to be sold by the Bank. A further $60 million equivalent of debt was retired in fiscal
1973	by means of sinking fund and purchase fund operations.
Distribution of Bank Debt
Outstanding borrowings of the Bank increased $1,931 million in the year to a total of $8,882 million on June 30,1973.
The estimated distribution of holdings of the Bank's debt by countries at the end of fiscal
1973	showed about 29% held by investors in Germany, 27% in the United States, 16% in Japan, 5% in Switzerland and 4% in Kuwait. The remaining 19% was held largely by central banks in about 75 countries.
The Bank's borrowing costs in the period, weighted by amount and maturity, averaged 6.93%, compared with 7.38% in the previous fiscal year. The Bank's lending rate continued throughout the year at 71A %, unchanged since September 1970.
Liquid resources available to the Bank on June 30, 1973, amounted to $3,777 million, an increase of $549 million during the fiscal year and of $2,376 million over the amount at the end of fiscal 1968.
Increase in Capital
The Bank's subscribed capital11* was increased by $691.1 million in fiscal 1973.
Included were the original subscriptions, aggregating $307.2 million, received from Bahrain, Bangladesh, Qatar, Romania and the United Arab Emirates, all of which became members of the Bank during the period. The remaining $383.9 million represented special increases in the capital subscriptions of 25 member countries, as shown in the table on page 77.
The increases were received by the Bank under a resolution adopted by the Board of Governors in December 1970, which enables the Bank to accept special increases in the capital stock of 75 member countries. Fifty-five had been accepted by the end of the fiscal year for a total of $1,665.8 million. This included increases by 30 members in the preceding two fiscal years. Total subscriptions to the Bank's capital on June 30, 1973, amounted to $25,197,300,000. A number of other members eligible for special increases were making preparations to take up additional capital stock. Authorized capital of the Bank remained unchanged during the year at $27,000 million.
Other Financial Operations: Bank
Loans held by the Bank on June 30, 1973, totalled $15,655 million, including loans not yet effective and $1,661 million in exchange adjustments resulting principally from changes in currency valuations during the last two fiscal years. Effective loans held by the Bank amounted to $14,331 million at the end of the year. These figures do not include $297 million of effective loans to IFC held by the Bank, on which $107 million had been disbursed.
For the second consecutive year, disbursements on loans to member countries were above the $1,000 million mark. Disbursements in fiscal 1973 were $1,180 million. In the five year period ended June 30, 1973, disbursements aggregated $4,794 million, or 41% higher than in fiscal 1964-68. Influencing the rising level of disbursements were both the effects of the doubling of loan commitments over the last five years, and the efforts of the Bank and borrowing countries to facilitate the disbursement process. These efforts are continuing. The undisbursed portion of effective and non-effective loans to member countries at the end of the year amounted to $6,086 million.
The Bank's borrowers repaid $578 million during the year, including $455 million to the Bank and $123 million to investors who had purchased portions of its loans. Cumulative repayments to June 30, 1973, amounted to $5,316 million: $3,284 million to the Bank and $2,032 million to purchasers of loans.
Sales of participations in loans which were approved or signed during the year, and of items from the Bank's loan portfolio, amounted to $51 million, bringing the cumulative total to $2,500 million as of June 30, 1973.
Income and Expenditure: Bank
Net income of the Bank for the fiscal year amounted to $186 million, representing a gain of $3 million over the preceding year. For the five years 1969-73, aggregate net income was $964 million, or 34% higher than in 1964-68.
Total income of the Bank was $758 million in fiscal 1973, a gain of $112 million or 17.3% over fiscal 1972. Income from investments rose $28 million to $215 million as a result of a further increase of $474 million in the Bank's investment portfolio and of a modest improvement in securities' yields during the year. Income from loans was up 19% to $537 million; and income from other sources remained unchanged at $6 million.
Expenditures by the Bank increased by $109 million to $572 million and largely offset the rise in total income for the fiscal year. Interest on the Bank's borrowings and issuance expenses were $97 million higher at $494 million.
The overall cost of funds to the Bank, despite the rising costs of borrowed funds, continues to be moderate because of the large amount of free funds available to it from paid-in capital and accumulated earnings. As of June 30, 1973, the average cost of all funds was about 4.4%, compared with around 4% on June 30, 1972.
Administrative expenses of the Bank in fiscal 1973 increased $12 million to $79 million, after deducting $31 million as a management fee charged to IDA and $1.5 million paid to the Bank by IFC as a service and support fee. The continuing rise in the administrative expenses of the Bank is attributable to the large increase in personnel as the Bank has expanded its operations, and to inflationary increases in the costs of doing business.
In December 1972, the Board of Governors approved a transfer of $110 million from the Bank's net income for fiscal 1972 as a grant to IDA. The Governors, on approving the grant, agreed that the equivalent of up to $3 million may be allocated by IDA for grants for agricultural research. The remaining $73 million of the fiscal 1972 net income was allocated to the Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and from Currency Devaluations.
Finances: IDA
New credits amounting to $1,357 million (excluding $145 million of reactivated credits to Bangladesh) were approved in fiscal 1973, bringing aggregate gross commitments by IDA to $5,907 million as of June 30, 1973. Effective credits held by IDA on that date totalled $5,010 million, including undisbursed portions of credits amounting to $1,801 million.
Disbursements during the year were $493 million, compared with $261 million in fiscal
1972.	Aggregate disbursements to June 30,
1973,	were $3,215 million, including a $485 million adjustment that reflected the devalua-
tion of the U.S. dollar in May 1972 and the prospective par value announced in February
1973.
Resources available to IDA increased $2,634 million during the fiscal year, in terms of current dollars. The bulk of the increase became available when the third replenishment of the Association's resources became effective on September 22, 1972. As of June 30, 1973, 18 Part I and 62 Part II countries had formally 'notified the Association of their participation in the third replenishment.
Under the replenishment, a total of $2,511 ;million was added to IDA's resources: $2,024 million in fiscal 1973; and $487 million in the form of advance contributions to the third replenishment that were made available by 13 Part I and two Part II countries in fiscal 1972.
IDA's funds were further increased by a loan of SwF 130 million, equivalent to $35 million current U.S. dollars, from the Swiss Confederation. The loan is interest free and its repayment terms parallel the terms of IDA credits.
On approval by its Board of Governors in December 1972, the Bank made a further grant of $110 million to IDA from net income for fiscal 1972. From the $110 million, IDA may, under the Board's resolution, provide up to $3 million in grants for agricultural research. By June 30, 1973, $2.02 million of such grants had been made, against which $1.74 million had been disbursed.
As a result of the further prospective devaluation of the U.S. dollar announced in February
1973,	funds available to the Association for commitment during the year were increased by $328 million, reflecting increases in the U.S. dollar value of undisbursed contributions of member countries. Other funds that became available during the year included $116 million from cancellation and refundings of existing credits; the $116 million included $113 million of credits made to Pakistan in earlier years for development projects in its former eastern wing, now Bangladesh. The credits were reactivated, in revised form, as credits to Bangladesh. The Association also received $4 million in repayments, $8 million of Part II members' _ 90% initial subscription made available for commitment, net income of $7 million, and $5 million from other increases as a result of currency revaluations. In addition, there was a
•	carryover of $2.5 million from fiscal 1972.
The resources available to the Association, including those provided by the third replenishment, are expected to be fully committed by June 30, 1974. Accordingly, at the 1972 Annual Meeting of the Board of Governors, the President of the Association announced that he intended to initiate consultations with the
member countries with a view to reaching agreement on a fourth replenishment of IDA resources in order to provide additional commitment authority by July 1, 1974. Discussions of a fourth replenishment began in December 1972 and are currently in progress.
Executive Directors
On April 1, 1973, in accordance with a resolution unanimously adopted by the Executive Directors in January 1972, Mr. Robert S. McNamara began his second term as President of the Bank, IDA and IFC, and as Chairman of the Boards of the three institutions.
The Executive Directors approved 73 Bank loans and 80 IDA credits during fiscal 1973. In addition, they approved 11 reactivated IDA credits to Bangladesh. They met 56 times in formal session and seven times for informal discussions. IFC's Board of Directors held 22 meetings and acted on proposals for 28 investments; they also reviewed IFC's operating policies.
The Executive Directors approved grants for international agricultural research to improve food production in the developing countries. They dealt with a variety of policy questions, including a review of the Bank's financial policies, IDA's lending policies, project supervision, preferential tariffs and Bank procurement, evaluation of Bank operations in Colombia, control of river blindness in Western Africa, and development policy for countries highly dependent on exports of primary products. In a series of seminars, the Executive Directors reviewed country economic reports on member countries, including Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Nigeria, Trinidad and Tobago, and Yugoslavia.
During fiscal 1973, a group of four Executive Directors visited Iran, the Republic of Korea and Singapore to view Bank Croup projects and the development process in these countries. Another group of four Executive Directors visited seven countries in Western and Equatorial Africa (Gabon, the Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, Senegal and Zaire).
A list of all Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors, showing their voting power and the countries they represent, with notations of changes since the last regular election of Executive Directors, appears on the following page.
Notes to Financial Statements	Appendix	F
June 30,1973 and June 30,1972
Note A—Translation of Currencies
The Association’s accounts are expressed in current United States dollar equivalents, translated as described below:
At June 30, 1973:
As to 84 members, at the par values, prospective par values or central rates as communicated to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and, in the cases of those members which have advised the IMF that the market rates of their currencies temporarily will not be confined within the announced limits, at market rates; as to the remaining 28 members, at the rates used by such members in making payments of subscriptions to the Association adjusted to reflect the prospective par value of the United States dollar announced in February 1973. Swiss francs are translated into United States dollars at the rate of SwF 2.92826 to one United States dollar.
Where amounts are expressed in United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1,1960, they have been translated at the prospective par value equivalent to $42.2222 per ounce of fine gold as announced by the United States in February 1973.
At June 30, 1972:
As to 78 members, at the par values or central rates as communicated to the IMF; as to the remaining 30 members, at the rates used by such members in making payments of subscriptions to the Association adjusted to reflect the devaluation of the United States dollar in May 1972. Swiss francs were translated into United States dollars at the rate of SwF 3.76172 to one United States dollar.
Where amounts were expressed in United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960, they were translated at the par value equivalent to $38 per ounce of fine gold as communicated to the IMF in May 1972.
The effect of taking into account the proposed devaluation of the United States dollar as announced in February 1973 and the exchange rate changes since June 1972 has been to increase in terms of United States dollars the Association’s assets, liabilities and supplementary resources and to decrease the accumulated net income as at June 30,1973, as compared to June 30,1972.
The principles followed in regard to the translation of currencies at June 30, 1973 and June 30, 1972 are substantially the same. However, at June 30, 1973, a large number of members had announced to the IMF that the market rates of their currencies would not be confined within the announced limits and therefore the currencies of those members at that date have been translated into United States dollars at market rates of exchange. If currencies which were not confined within the announced limits at June 30,1972, had been revalued at the then existing market rates, the net effect of such revaluation would not have been significant.
No representation is made that any currency held by the Association is convertible into any other currency at any rate or rates.
Note B—Restricted Currencies
Article IV, Section 1(a) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association provides that the currency of any Part II member, whether or not freely convertible, received by the Association in payment of the ninety percent portion of its initial subscription may be used by the Association for administrative expenses incurred by the Association in the territories of such members and, insofar as consistent with sound monetary policies, in payment for goods and services produced in the territories of such members and required for projects financed by the Association and located in such territories; and in addition when and to the extent justified by the economic and financial situation of the member concerned as determined by agreement between the member and the Association, such currency shall be freely convertible or otherwise usable for projects financed by the Association and located outside the territories of the member. Currencies paid by Part 11 members
for additional subscriptions under the third replenishment are, by agreement, subject to the provisions of Article IV, Section 1(a). The amounts of $59,276,000 ($60,102,000—1972) under the heading Due from Banks and Other Depositories and $192,927,000 ($168,046,000—1972) included under the heading Receivable on > Account of Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources are subject to such restrictions.
Note C—Maintenance of Value	-
Article IV, Section 2 provides for the maintenance as of the time of subscription of the value of the Association’s holdings of the currency (or substituted notes) representing ninety percent of each member's initial subscription, to the extent that such currency has not been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. This Section requires the member to make additional payments to the Association in the event of a reduction in the par value of its currency or if the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Association, depreciated to a significant degree and requires the Association to reimburse the member in the event of an increase in the par value of its currency or a significant appreciation of its currency in its territories.
The total amounts of supplementary resources of the Association and additional subscriptions under the third replenishment have, by agreement, the same respective rights and obligations as to maintenance of value as are set forth in Article IV, Section 2.
Certain members have communicated central rates to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). By action of the Executive Directors of the Association on June 19, 1972 it has been determined that such central rates represent the de facto value of such currencies for maintenance of value purposes. The Executive Directors further decided that with respect to any member currency functioning under a system under which the market rate is not confined within the announced limits, maintenance of value obligations for currencies disbursed would be determined on the basis of market rates in effect on the respective dates of disbursement. The equivalent of $27,034,000 is due from 30 members ($9,889,000 from 34 members—1972) and the equivalent of $2,529,000 is payable to eight members ($5,561,000 to four members—1972) in order to maintain the value of the Association’s currency holdings or notes substituted therefor as required under Article IV, Section 2 and in accordance with the above decisions of the Executive Directors. In the cases of those members which have proposed changes in their par values or have indicated their intention to maintain the parity of their currencies in terms of the United States dollar having the new par value, provisional amounts receivable or payable by the Association have been established based on the prospective par values. Similarly, in the cases of those members which have advised the IMF that the market rates of their currencies temporarily will not be confined within the announced limits, provisional amounts receivable or payable by the Association have been established based on the market rates of their currencies. The aggregate provisional amounts thus receivable = $170,946,000 ($11,062,000-1972) or payable $54,482,000 (nil-1972) by the Association have been included in Other Assets or Liabilities, respectively.
If and when new par values or central rates are established, mainte— nance of value obligations will become effective as described above.
Note D—Transfers from International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has authorized transfers by way of grants to the Association totalling $705,000,000 ($595,000,000—1972) from the net income of the Bank for the fiscal years ended June 30,1964 through 1972. Of this amount, $363,124,000 had been received as of June 30, 1973 ($306,385,000—1972). The resolution of the Board of Governors regarding the transfer of $110,000,000 by way of grant out of fiscal year 1972 net income provides that up to the equivalent of $3,000,000 may be used by the Association for grants for agricultural research.
As at June 30,1973, grants aggregating $2,020,000 had been made
against which $1,735,000 had been disbursed. The disbursed amount of these grants is not included in these financial statements.
Note E—Contribution from Non-Member
New Zealand, which is not a member of the Association, has made a voluntary contribution of $NZ 5 million (approximately US equivalent $6,755,000) to the Association, to be paid in five equal instalments. The first two instalments had been received prior to June 30,1973, the third instalment was received in July 1973 and the remainingtwo will be received in each of theyears 1974and 1975.
Note F— Loans from Swiss Confederation
*The Association has entered into agreements to borrow a total of SwF 182 million (approximately US equivalent $62,153,000) from the Swiss Confederation. The first loan for SwF 52 million, which was made in fiscal year 1967, has been received in full. The second ‘loan for SwF 130 million was signed in November 1972, and SwF 86.7 million has been received; the balance will be received in November 1973. The loans carry no interest and are each repayable in forty annual instalments commencing July 1,1979, in the case of the first loan and November 8,1983, in the case of the second loan. The first ten instalments in each instance will be at 1% of the respective principal amounts and the remaining thirty instalments will be at 3% of such principal amounts.
Note G— Development Credits
The principal amounts disbursed and outstanding on development credits and the accrued service charges are denominated in United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960. The equivalent is payable by the borrowers in currencies which the Association determines to be freely convertible or freely exchangeable by the Association for currencies of other members of the Association, except that such amount would be reduced if (a) there is a uniform proportionate reduction in the par values of
the currencies of all members of the International Monetary Fund or (b) the Association so decides because of a substantial reduction in the value of one or more major currencies of members. The foregoing does not apply to a development credit of $9,000,000 which is expressed and is repayable in legal tender dollars.
Note H—Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources
The Association’s Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenish-mentresolutions define subscriptions and supplementary resources in terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1,1960. On June 30,1973, all subscriptions and supplementary resources are expressed in current United States dollars unless otherwise indicated.
Note I—Accumulated Net Income
The accumulated net income has been charged during the current fiscal year with net translation adjustments of $1,506,000 (Credited with $17,644,000—1972) as a result of currency revaluations.
General—Third Replenishment of Resources
The third replenishment of the resources of the Association became effective on September 22, 1972. As at June 30, 1973, 18 Part I countries and three Part II countries with contributions and subscriptions aggregating $2,789,500,000 equivalent had notified the Association that they would participate in the replenishment. In addition, 59 Part II countries had notified the Association that they would take up additional subscriptions under the third replenishment aggregating $9,727,000 equivalent. As at June 30, 1973, an amount of $1,311,036,000 equivalent was receivable, of which $349,745,000 equivalent was past due and the balance, $961,291,000 equivalent, which was not yet due, is receivable as follows: $960,286,000 equivalent on or before November 8, 1973, and $1,005,000 equivalent on October 22,1974.