Cover: Bank assistance to Yugoslavia has supported development projects in many different sectors and in each of the country's six republics and two autonomous provinces. The cover photo shows the laying of a natural gas distribution pipeline in Sarajevo (left and back cover), farming in Montenegro (upper right), and the interior of an iron castings plant in Belgrade (lower right).
Frontispiece: Manufacturing handkerchiefs in Kenya. The World Bank is devoting increasing funds to providing job opportunities by helping finance small-scale and medium-sized industries throughout the developing world.
The World Bank
The World Bank is a group of three institutions, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Development Association (IDA), and the International Finance Corporation (IFC).
The common objective of these institutions is to help raise standards of living in developing countries by channeling financial resources from developed countries to the developing world.
The World Bank, established in 1945, is owned by the governments of 134 countries. The Bank, whose capital is subscribed by its member countries, finances its lending operations primarily from its own borrowings in the world capital markets. A substantial contribution to the Bank's resources also comes from its retained earnings and the flow of repayments on its loans. Bank loans generally have a grace period of five years and are repayable over 20 years or less. They are directed toward developing countries at more advanced stages of economic and social growth. The interest rate the Bank charges on its loans is calculated in accordance with a formula related to its cost of borrowing.
The Bank's charter spells out certain basic rules that govern its operations. It must lend only for productive purposes and must stimulate economic growth in the developing countries where it lends. It must pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Each loan is made to a government or must be guaranteed by the government concerned. The use of loans cannot be restricted to purchases in any particular member country. And the Bank's decisions to lend must be based only on economic considerations.
The International Development Association was established in 1960 to provide assistance for the same purposes as the Bank, but primarily in the poorer developing countries on terms that would bear less heavily on their balance of payments than Bank loans. IDA's assistance is, therefore, concentrated on the very poor countries—mainly those with an annual per capita gross national product of less than $581 (in 1977 dollars). More than 50 countries are eligible under this criterion.
Membership in IDA is open to all members
of the World Bank, and 121 of them have joined to date. The funds used by IDA, called credits to distinguish them from Bank loans, come mostly in the form of subscriptions, general replenishments from its more industrialized and developed members, special contributions by its richer members, and transfers from the net earnings of the World Bank. The terms of IDA credits, which are made to governments only, are 10-year grace periods, 50-year maturities, and no interest, but an annual service fee of 0.75% is charged on the disbursed portion of each credit. Although legally and financially distinct from the Bank, IDA is administered by the same staff.
The IFC was established in 1956. Its function is to assist the economic development of less developed countries by promoting growth in the private sector of their economies and helping to mobilize domestic and foreign capital for this purpose. Membership in the Bank is a prerequisite for membership in the IFC, which totals 109 countries. Legally and financially, the IFC and the Bank are separate entities. The Corporation has its own operating and legal staff, but draws upon the Bank for administrative and other services.
While the World Bank has traditionally financed all kinds of capital infrastructure, such as roads and railways, telecommunications, and ports and power facilities, its present developmental strategy places a greatly increased emphasis on investments that can directly affect the well-being of the masses of poor people of developing countries by making them more productive and by integrating them as active partners in the development process. This strategy is increasingly evident in the agriculture and rural development projects that the Bank and IDA help finance. It is also evident in projects for education and family planning and nutrition, and in the Bank's concern for the urban poor, who benefit from projects designed to develop water and sewerage facilities, as well as "core" low-cost housing, and to increase the productivity of small industries.
At the same time, lending for traditional projects continues, and is being redirected, to be more responsive to the new strategy of deliberately focusing on the poorest segments of society in the developing countries.
Summary and Background of the Year's Activities
The Year in Brief
In fiscal 1979, the World Bank, together with its affiliates, the International Development Association (IDA) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), made lending and investment commitments aggregating $10,435.9 mil-Iion.(1> The total was $1,686.8 million higher than in fiscal year 1978.<2)
The World Bank committed a total of $6,989.0 million; 142 Bank loans to 44 developing countries were approved during the year. In fiscal 1978, the Bank's commitments amounted to $6,097.7 million.
IDA commitments during the past year were $3,021.5 million. A total of 105 credits to 43 developing countries were approved. In fiscal 1978, IDA commitments totaled $2,313.0 million.
Total Bank and IDA lending in support of those projects whose total costs can be estimated amounted to about 34% of total project costs.
The IFC made 48 investments amounting to $425.4 million. Those investments were for projects in 33 developing countries. The Corporation made 41 investments worth $338.4 million in fiscal 1978.
Other highlights included:
—Disbursements by the Bank and IDA of $4,824 million ($3,602 million by the Bank and $1,222 million by IDA). The disbursement total was some $975 million higher than in fiscal 1978;
—A net transfer of resources (disbursements minus repayments of principal, interest, and other charges) by the Bank and IDA of $2,157 million, up $559 million over fiscal 1978;
—Co-financing of Bank-supported and IDA-supported projects amounting to $3,248 million, up $469 million from fiscal 1978;
—An increase in Bank net income, up $169 million from fiscal 1978 totals, to $407 million; and
—Bank borrowings of $5,085 million, of which $796 million was as an advance for the planned borrowing program for fiscal 1980.
All IDA commitments were to countries that have annual per capita gross national products (GNP) of $580 or less (in 1977 dollars); 79%
of the Association's lending was to countries with per capita GNPs of $296 or less. This distribution of IDA credits was virtually identical to that in fiscal 1978.
Twenty-seven percent of the Bank's lending was to countries in which annual per capita incomes are $580 or less. This, too, differed only slightly from the distribution of fiscal 1978 commitments.
Lending in the agriculture and rural development sector dipped from 39% of the total (fiscal 1978) to 25%; lending in support of transportation rose from 13% in fiscal 1978 to 19%; and commitments in support of water supply projects more than doubled those of the year before—from 4% of the total to 10%. Fiscal 1979 figures on the distribution of Bank and IDA commitments reflect only a one-year step in the evolution of the Bank's lending to its borrowing member countries, rather than a change in the institution's lending program. For a better appreciation of recent trends—as opposed to a one-year project "mix"—in lending by sector, readers are advised to consult the table on page 30 of this Annual Report. The drop in agriculture and rural development, for instance, reflects a drop in lending only, and not a significant decrease in the number of projects approved in the sector (84 in fiscal 1979, as against 88 in the previous year). In fiscal 1978, there were eight projects in the sector for which either the Bank or IDA made commitments of $100 million or more; in fiscal 1979, there were but three.
The IFC—the World Bank affiliate responsible for assisting the economic development of its developing member countries by promoting the growth of their private sectors and by providing and bringing together financing,
<J>The fiscal year of the World Bank, as well as of its two affiliates, runs from July 1 to June 30.
<~>Since the real value of loan commitments by the Bank and IDA is eroded to the extent that cost inflation occurs over the period of disbursements, it is the practice of the Bank to make allowance for inflation at the time of commitment. The deflator now used to express lending in real terms is a weighted average of the price levels assumed to be prevailing over the period of the execution of a project. If fiscal 1979 Bank and IDA commitments were to be expressed in terms of 197S dollars, they would be $9,440 million, or 12.2% higher in real terms.
Note on Dollar Amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of the Annual Report refer to current United States dollars. Where special drawing rights (SDR) amounts are used for the capital of the Bank, one SDR equals 1.29110 current United States dollars at lune 30, 1979 (one SDR equaled 1.23953 current United States dollars at June 30, 1978).
For a detailed discussion and the basis for SDR amounts used for IDA subscriptions and contributions, see Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix F.
technical assistance, and management needed to develop productive investment opportunities —publishes its own Annual Report. In brief, the IFC's fiscal year was highlighted by several developments.
Fiscal 1979 was the Corporation's first year of operations following the approval of a five-year program to expand and reorient significantly IFC's activities.
With the additional resources provided it by its recent capital increase, the Corporation continued to expand its investment activities, making 48 investments amounting to S425 million in 33 countries. This was a 26% increase in dollar volume and a 17% increase in the number of projects over the previous year.
With its increased activity and promotional efforts, the Corporation has been able to expand its investment program in its least developed member countries. About half of its projects were in countries with an annual per capita income of $580 or less.
The total cost of the ventures in which the Corporation participated is estimated to be $1,714 million.
In addition to its own funds, the Corporation was able to mobilize $198.6 million through syndications of its loans with other financial institutions, particularly commercial banks.
About 54% of its investments were in manufacturing ventures, 19% in agrobusinesses, and
8% in mining and energy development. The balance was investments in financial institutions and services.
The IFC's capital increase, approved by its Board of Governors in November 1977, is currently being subscribed to by member countries. Of the $480 million allocated for subscription, $306 million had been subscribed to by the end of the fiscal year.
During fiscal 1979, Botswana joined the Corporation, raising its membership to 109.
General Capital Increase
Late in fiscal 1979, the Executive Directors of the Bank agreed to recommend to the institution's Board of Governors that the Bank's authorized capital stock be increased by an amount equivalent to $40,000 million.
The increase—roughly a doubling of the Bank's current authorized capital stock—will enable Bank lending to continue to grow, in real terms, through the middle of the next decade.
The proposed increase will also approximately double the number of shares outstanding. It will not, however, result in a proportionate increase in the number of votes held by member countries, because membership votes are fixed by the Articles of Agreement at 250 votes per country. Because membership votes cannot be increased without an amendment of the Articles, a simple proportionate increase in each member's subscription would result in an unintended and unfortunate reduction in the voting power of the smaller member countries who benefit most from the existence of membership votes. Since the overwhelming majority of small countries are developing countries, this would have the effect of reducing the aggregate voting power of the developing countries.
To overcome this unintended effect of the General Capital Increase, the Directors recommended that a special allocation of 250 shares be made to each member country. These 250 shares would be separated from the General Capital Increase in two ways: first, no part of the subscription price would be paid in. The purpose of this provision is to avoid imposing a financial burden on those member countries who are intended to benefit most from the extra 250 shares. These countries need the membership votes precisely because their small size and relatively poor economies prevent them from taking up large subscriptions in the Bank. Second, in view of the purpose of authorizing these shares, the Directors agreed they should not be counted as part of the capital base of the Bank for purposes of determining lending authority.
This will enable the 250 shares to be outside the $40,000 million equivalent limit to the General Capital Increase and yet not create additional lending capacity.
The Executive Directors also recommended that 7.5% of the $40,000 million equivalent increase in authorized capital stock be paid in. The remaining 92.5% would represent, therefore, capital that is subject to call only if required by the Bank to meet its obligations on borrowings.
The agreement on the size of the increase in the Bank's authorized capital was reached two years after the subject was initially brought up for discussion within the Bank. Before discussion began, however, support for an increase in capital sufficient to permit the Bank to increase its future lending in real terms was forthcoming from both developing and developed countries. At the Annual Meetings of the Bank and the International Monetary Fund, held in Washington in October 1978, there was unanimous support among the Governors present for proceeding promptly to bring the negotiations to an early conclusion. Against this backdrop, the pace of the discussions quickened during the year, leading to the consensus reached in the Board in June of 1979.
Economic Developments: Fiscal 1979
In fiscal 1979, the World Bank continued to monitor world economic trends for their impact on developing countries. Analysis suggests that although the world economy had begun to settle down after the shocks of the mid-1970s, the economic atmosphere remains uncertain. Preliminary figures for calendar 1978 indicate that growth in industrialized countries continued to be less than 4% for the second year running.1" Even this growth rate was threatened early in 1979 by an expected slowdown of the US economy, but because investment levels in the other industrialized countries had been low since 1975, the time seemed ripe for a modest expansion, providing inflation could be kept at bay. By mid-1979, however, petroleum uncertainties began to cloud the future.
Until the oil price increases of 1979, global patterns of current account balances began to look much as they did before 1973. The industrialized countries had begun to return to a surplus position, the petroleum-exporting developing countries were spending most of their oil revenues on development programs, and the other developing countries (together with the centrally planned economies and the more developed primary producing countries) remained in deficit. The current account deficit
on the balance of payments of the petroleum-importing developing countries has been high in current prices, rising from $21,000 million in 1977 to about $32,000 million in 1978; a further substantial worsening, on the order of $10,000 million, is expected to materialize through 1979. Fn real terms, however, the size of the petroleum-importing developing countries' deficit has shrunk markedly, declining from about $43,000 million in 1973 (as measured in 1978 prices).
The aggregate rate of growth in 1978 for all developing countries, at 5.2% (4.9% excluding capital surplus oil-exporting countries), exceeded that of the industrialized countries as it has for every year in this decade. In the nine-year period, 1966-74, that preceded the turbulence of the mid-70s, this rate was much higher —6.2%. Since 1974, aggregate rates of growth for developing countries have followed no consistent pattern. From a low of 4.9% in 1975, they recovered to 5.7% in 1976. In 1977, growth declined to 5.5%. Figures for 1978, even though higher than for the industrialized world, provide no cause for rejoicing; they reflect more the slow growth in the industrialized world than developing world advances. Nor do the figures for the entire decade provide any hope that the so-called "gap" between the developing and industrialized worlds might be narrowing; even if the developing countries were to manage to double their per capita growth rate, while the industrialized world but maintained its, it would take almost a century to close the absolute income gap between them, so great are the differences in the capital and technological base of the two groups.
As in the recent past, figures of aggregate growth mask wide differences among regions. Growth rates continued to be smallest for sub-Saharan Africa (2.9%). Nor did the more advanced developing countries of the Mediterranean, with growth averaging 3.3%, fare well in 1978. However, the countries of South Asia maintained a growth rate well above 5% for the second year running, and Latin America and the Caribbean recovered somewhat to 4.7%. The East Asian countries developed rapidly, with growth rates rising to almost 9% in 1978. These trends are discussed in more detail in the various regional chapters of this Annual Report.
<a> See Statistical Annex. Table I. page 130 for growth and other economic indicators by region.
Levels of development already achieved, as well as domestic policies pursued, were clearly instrumental in the developing countries' growth. For the least developed countries, highly dependent as they are on one or two primary products, trends in prices and volume of trade were determinants of export growth, and played an important role in overall economic performance. For countries with more advanced and diversified economies, sound domestic policies and economic management led to high domestic investment, and generally, to a healthy export performance. This latter group of countries was able to build up reserves and borrow from private financial markets, thus adding to the external resources made available by high trade growth. If major economic and political upheavals can be avoided in the future, such conditions might be able to be created among a wider grouping of developing countries.
Final figures for 1978, together with preliminary indications observed through mid-1979, do not alter the conclusions reached in the World Bank's World Development Report for 1978: that
—progress made by developing countries has not been sufficient to reduce the numbers of people living in poverty; that
—the economic difficulties of the industrialized countries, the instability of exchange rates, and the prevailing atmosphere of uncertainty about the growth of international trade and the future movements of capital suggest that it will be more difficult for the developing countries to expand their economies in the coming decade than it has been in the past 25 years; and that
—even to maintain their present rate of progress, developing countries will need larger inflows of foreign capital, while undertaking vigorous efforts to withstand protectionist pressures and to stimulate the productivity of their agriculture sector.
Developments in International Trade
According to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) staff estimates, the volume of international trade increased by about 5% in 1978, up slightly from the 4% average annual rate for the period, 1973-77. The unit value of world trade, as measured in US dollars, was estimated to have risen by 9% for the second straight year in 1978.
A substantial part of 1978 increases in export prices reflects, however, the strong effective depreciation of the US dollar. The GATT
staff estimates that this effect contributed to roughly one-half of the increase in dollar unit value of world trade; effective price trends (both for primary and manufactured commodities) were thus far weaker in 1978 than in 1977.
World export prices of primary products (including petroleum) rose by roughly 3% worldwide, compared with the 10% rise in 1977 that mainly reflected the boom in tropical beverage prices. When the decline in beverage prices from mid-1978 is discounted, primary product prices (particularly minerals) grew quite strongly in terms of US dollars. World export prices of manufactures are estimated to have increased by 14% in 1978, compared with 9% in 1977.
The barter terms of trade for those developing countries that are still net importers of manufactures and net exporters of primary commodities deteriorated in 1978, but the effects were diverse within this group. Countries exporting tropical beverage products, particularly coffee, were the hardest hit, although it should be noted that their prices remained above 1976 levels in real terms. Countries exporting some food products (oil and oilseeds, beef, wheat, maize), agricultural raw materials (including cotton, rubber, and timber), and metals (particularly copper, lead, zinc, and the minor metals) have benefited from an upturn in prices that began in 1978 and continued strongly into 1979.
The experience of countries exporting manufactures has also been diverse, reflecting the product composition of their imports and exports. In general, they probably benefited from improved terms of trade during 1978; more recently, however, their terms of trade have begun to decline.
Against most expectations, developing countries' export earnings increased in the 1950s and 1960s, with the rise in the exports of manufactures being particularly marked. Export earnings fell in 1975, but again, against most expectations, they recovered sharply beginning in 1976. Total export earnings continued growing in the period, 1977-79, reaching about $310,000 million in 1977 and about $320,000 million in 1978. Fuels accounted for about 30% of developing country export earnings, other primary products 25%, and manufactures 20%. Nonfactor services (i.e., tourism, contractual services, shipping, and insurance) accounted for more than 20% of total export earnings. In addition, workers' remittances (from Europe, North America, and the Middle East) contributed roughly $10,000 million to the developing countries' balance of payments in 1977 and 1978.
The export growth of developing countries was facilitated by the industrialized countries' trade liberalization policies. By the completion, in the early 1970s, of the tariff reductions mandated by the Kennedy Round of multilateral trade negotiations, the trade regimes of the industrialized countries had become less restrictive than at any time since before 1914. Some restrictions survived, however, both in the form of relatively high tariffs and as nontariff barriers against the import of agricultural products, some primary processed products, textiles, clothing, and footwear. On the other hand, many developing countries, particularly the least developed, were given privileged access to industrialized country markets under the General Preference Scheme.
With the onset of the recession in 1975, however, protectionism, in several nontariff guises, has been on the increase. These measures have taken the form of "voluntary" export restraints, countervailing duties, subsidies and other assistance to domestic industries to sustain production above levels of demand, and government procurement procedures that favor domestic sources of supply. So far, these restrictions have been limited. Industrialized countries have made a serious effort to hold the line against protectionist attacks on developing country exports. Most of the restrictions that have been raised against the exports of developing countries—textiles, clothing, footwear, and electronic products—have been mainly directed against strong East Asian exports, whose total exports, nonetheless, have continued to increase. But these limited restrictions have had the effect of hurting small, new exporters and have discouraged planning for exports in the future. If continued and extended, they would lead to serious obstacles to developing countries' efforts at achieving economic growth through export increases.
The recent conclusion, after five years of negotiation, of the Tokyo Round of multilateral trade negotiations under GATT auspices could—despite its imperfections—have the effect of reducing, further, barriers against developing country exports. The agreement is expected to result in average tariff cuts of 35% to 38% over an eight-year period, although tariffs on imports from developing countries are expected to decline by only 25%, or some 10 to 13 points less than the average tariff reduction. But the most encouraging results of the Tokyo Round are to be found in the area of nontariff barriers to trade. This achievement has been accomplished by a strengthening of GATT codes, including important changes
with respect to codes covering customs valuation, government procurement practices, export subsidies, countervailing duties, and product standards. In addition, the agreement broadens the code regulating safeguard actions to attempt to bring them within the ambit of GATT. This issue has been left somewhat open, and it has been pointed out that without an active interest by developing and industrialized countries, the codes could provide legal cover for restrictive action. But, as the President of the World Bank pointed out in Manila, in May 1979, the most important point about the trade agreements could well lie in the environment and the spirit in which those agreements are implemented. If implemented in a positive way, the agreements could be an important step against the rise of protectionism, and the code revisions could well help stimulate developing country exports.
The developing countries' own restrictions on trade, in the form of exchange controls and tariff and nontariff barriers, are considerably tighter than those of the industrialized countries. It was for this reason that the expansion of developing country exports, particularly of manufactures, was directed to industrialized countries in the 1960s and early 1970s. The rate of growth of trade among developing countries began to rise only after 1973, when the markets of the petroleum-exporting countries opened up. This trade still makes up only about 20% of total developing country exports, with petroleum exports accounting for a major share. About 30% of developing country exports of manufactures and services are to other developing countries, with the oil-exporting countries providing major markets. As the centrally planned economies take only about 6% of these exports, the largest markets remain in industrialized countries. The developing countries, because of their relatively strong economic performance in the 1970s, have become more important markets for the industrialized countries, accounting for more than 25% of their total exports.
At the beginning of the industrialization process, the arguments for the protection of infant industries were strong. Recent actions on the part of developing countries suggest that the protectionism of the past is easing. Countries with relatively advanced industry sectors are weighing the costs of such protection against the benefits of a more liberal approach. Many have more confidence in their competitiveness, and they recognize that if they wish to export more to industrialized countries and to benefit from an increased international specialization of production, the
industrialized countries must also be able to increase their exports.
Trade liberalization in developing countries is, therefore, progressing. Recent actions by several developing country governments are indicative of this trend. Measures have included: (a) the Indian government's continuation of a liberalized import policy for capital goods, and the reduction of import duties on a number of consumer items; (b) a decision by Brazil to reduce the 100% ad valorem deposits on imports and the 100% tax rebates on exports by 5 % each quarter until they are phased out altogether; (c) the customs tariff reductions by Argentina that are also intended to stabilize internal prices; (d) an easing of regulations for foreign banks by the Republic of China; and (e) a three-year import liberalization program in the Republic of Korea, designed to bring 90% of import items under automatic approval.
If general economic conditions do not deteriorate so that the industrialized countries can not only continue to hold the line against protectionist pressures, but also liberalize trade further in the wake of the Tokyo Round, and if the developing countries continue to move along the path toward trade liberalization, the outlook for increased trade would be promising.
External Debt
The external public debt of 96 developing countries'4' increased by an estimated $51,000 million, or about 25% in 1978, to a total of $253,000 million. Private debt is estimated to have increased by no more than about $7,000 million. In the 87 nonoil-producing countries, increased borrowing in 1978 was accompanied by a small increase in their current account deficit'51 and a large increase in international reserves—about $17,000 million. The nine oil-exporting developing countries increased their borrowing as their current account position changed from a small surplus to a deficit; they also drew on their foreign exchange reserves. Borrowing from multilateral institutions and from international capital markets both increased appreciably. Funds were readily available in these markets, although interest rates rose during the year (see the chapter, "Borrowings and Finance," pages 116 to 126 in this Annual Report).
Full details are now available for all of the public debt and considerable detail for private debt owed by these same countries in 1977. External public debt of 96 developing countries during 1977 rose at about the same rate as in 1976. At the end of 1977, the total debt outstanding and disbursed was $201,083 million.
This total was $37,515 million—or 23%— over 1976, compared with an increase of $30,640 million—or 22%—in 1976over 1975. The total, including undisbursed balances, increased in 1977 by $50,250 million to $285,187 million, an increase of some 21% over 1976. These undisbursed balances, representing firm agreements to lend not yet made effective by disbursements, stood at $84,104 million, or about 30% of total debt outstanding, about the same percentage as at the end of 1976. As in 1976, these balances provided for the continuity of financing for projects under construction, as well as for some borrowing in anticipation of needs.
On.the basis of reports to the Bank and of estimates, total private debt for 42 countries amounted to about $48,500 million at the end of 1977, an increase of about 15%o over the end of 1976, compared with the 21% increase in public debt for these same countries. These 42 countries are believed to have owed about 90% of total private long-term debt outstanding at the end of 1977. Private debt is owed very largely by the more advanced countries in the Mediterranean region and by developing countries in Latin America and the Caribbean and in East Asia and Pacific. Amounts owed by countries in the other regions are relatively small.
Net public borrowing in 1977 was $32,965 million, higher by $3,322 million than in 1976; this was an increase of 11 % compared with 15% in 1976. Net private borrowing was approximately $6,000 million in 1977, about the same as in 1976.
Net public borrowing by the oil-exporting developing countries'6' expanded in 1977 quite sharply compared with 1976 ($7,650 million as against $4,690 million). A large part of the total increase was accounted for by the resumption of, or increase in, net borrowing, both in 1976 and 1977, by a number of these countries which, in 1974 and 1975, had made net repayments of external public debt. Overall, the nine oil-exporting countries had a current account surplus of only about $900 million in 1977, or $4,000 million less than in 1976; all but Iran, Iraq, Gabon, and Trinidad and Tobago were in current account deficit.
The balance of payments deficit on current account of the 87 developing countries that are
<'> For a list of the 96 countries and a full definition of public and private debt, as well as the other terms used, see the General Notes to Annex Tables, page 128.
<5> The current account balance is defined as the balance of goods, services, and private transfers.
<«> Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia. Iran, Iraq, Nigeria, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela.
not major oil exporters (the 96 countries listed in the General Notes to Annex Tables excluding those countries listed in footnote 6) narrowed in 1977 to about $30,300 million, down from about $33,700 million in 1976 and $45,900 million in 1975. As indicated in the Bank's Annual Report for fiscal 1978, this development reflected the adjustments made, in many of these countries, to the difficulties of 1974 and 1975. Net borrowing increased by only about $400 million in 1977 to $25,300 million. This was a far smaller increase than in the previous years; in conjunction with the reduction in the current account deficit of about $3,400 million, their borrowing facilitated an addition to official reserves of about $10,300 million (following an increase of about $6,700 million in 1976).
Because these 87 countries are so diverse, general statements about their combined external borrowing and balance of payments position are of limited value. In particular, statistics on external public debt measure a much smaller element of the external finance of the larger and more complex economies than of the poorer countries, which continue to rely mostly on official assistance. Other forms of external finance, including private direct investment, borrowing by the private sector without public guarantee in the borrowing country, and short-term transactions are important in countries with a relatively high per capita income. Generalizations about regional groupings are somewhat more useful, though they are still subject to limitations.
The more advanced developing countries of the Mediterranean17* rely least on external public borrowing as a source of external finance. These countries' per capita incomes are a good deal higher than most developing countries'; their combined current account deficit in 1977 was $11,760 million, about $1,100 million greater than in 1976. Net public borrowing was $2,748 million, a decrease of about 13% from 1976, and equivalent to only 23% of the current account deficit. Net private borrowing was estimated to be approximately $2,800 million. Other sources, including short-term borrowing and the use of reserves of about $300 million, provided the remaining finance. At the end of 1977, total disbursed public debt was $25,022 million, an increase of 16% over 1976. Private debt was estimated at about $16,000 million, an increase of 22% over 1976. About 70% of the total was owed by Spain and Yugoslavia. Private debt in Yugoslavia is the debt of the enterprise sector of the economy.
Like the countries in the Mediterranean region, the developing countries in the Middle East and North Africa*8'—other than major oil-exporting countries—experienced a widening (albeit a small one) current account deficit in 1977 to $5,400 million, up from $5,000 million in 1976. Net public borrowing increased sharply, from $2,546 million to $4,948 million. The increase was largely on account of increased borrowing by Egypt and Morocco. Borrowing was approximately equal to the current account deficit for the region as a whole. At the end of 1977, the external public debt of the countries of the region was $16,946 million, up more than 45% from 1976. Most of this debt and borrowing was from official sources; 74% of the debt outstanding at the end of 1977 and 69% of net borrowing during that year were from such sources.
With few exceptions, the countries of Africa South of the Sahara*9' have very low per capita incomes and have borrowed relatively little from private lenders. In 1977, the combined current account deficit of these countries remained at about $4,100 million, almost unchanged from 1976. Net public borrowing was $2,722 million, very slightly more ($147 million) than in 1976. Of this borrowing, almost two-thirds was from official sources. The total public debt outstanding at the end of 1977 of sub-Saharan countries was $ 17,411 million, of which just less than two-thirds was owed to official creditors. Most of this debt was on highly concessional terms. Several countries, nevertheless, have servicing difficulties. Public debt outstanding to private creditors at the end of 1977 was only $5,984 million, an increase of 24% over 1976. Of this amount, 90% was owed by four countries—Ivory Coast, Sudan, Zaire, and Zambia.
South Asia*10' resembles sub-Saharan Africa in that a large proportion of external public debt is owed to official creditors and that a high proportion of new borrowing was from official lenders. The countries of the region owed a
O) Cyprus, Greece, Israel, Malta. Portugal, Spain, Turkey, and Yugoslavia.
<s> Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Syria, Tunisia, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
<8> Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Empire, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Ethiopia, The Gambia. Guinea, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania. Mauritius, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Upper Volta, Zaire, and Zambia.
(if) Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Burma, India. Nepal. Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
total of $26,010 million at the end of 1977, of which 97% was to official creditors. Most of this debt was on highly concessional terms, either originally or as a result of successive rearrangements of the service payments on earlier loans. As in the case of African countries, this reflects: (a) the stated policy of official lenders to direct development assistance increasingly to very poor countries; and (b) the policies of the governments of the region. During 1977, net public borrowing, almost all from official sources, was $ 1,833 million, about $500 million lower than in 1976. The combined current account of these countries was almost in balance, as it had been in 1976. This reflected a second consecutive appreciable surplus year in India, offset by deficits in the other major countries in the region.
The external public debt of the countries in the Latin America and the Caribbean region— excluding the oil-exporting countries'11' was $62,558 million at the end of 1977, or about 38% of the total for all countries other than the oil exporters. Private debt was about $22,000 million. The rate of increase of external public debt fell to 20% from 27% in 1976. Private debt increased only 12%. Net public borrowing was $9,707 million, a decrease of $1,451 million from 1976. Private sources accounted for 69% of external public debt outstanding at the end of 1977 and 81% of net borrowing during that year. In Latin America, Brazil and Mexico together owed $38,429 million, or more than 60% of the public debt of the region. Together, these two countries also accounted for a high proportion of the private debt outstanding. The net public borrowing of both countries decreased somewhat in 1977 from 1976, about 10% in Brazil and 17% in Mexico; in each country, there was also a reduction of the current account deficit. Both countries added to their foreign exchange reserves. Net private borrowing was lower, as well. Argentina, which had an increased current account surplus in 1977, reduced its net public borrowing sharply, from $1,328 million to $475 million, and increased its foreign exchange reserves considerably.
Countries (other than Indonesia) in the East Asia and Pacific region*12' had public external debt outstanding of $18,588 million at the end of 1977, an increase of 28% over the end of 1976. Private debt outstanding at the end of 1977 was about $4,400 million. It had increased only 11% over 1976. Net public borrowing in 1977 was $3,358 million, an increase of only $154 million over 1976. The countries of this region reduced their current account deficit from more than $5,000 million in 1975
to about $1,800 million in 1976, and slightly more than $1,000 million in 1977.
The debt and borrowing of the 87 developing countries that are not major oil exporters may also be viewed by type of creditor. Of the total external public debt of these countries at the end of 1977 of $166,535 million, exclusive of undisbursed balances, governments were owed $63,197 million, an increase of 14% over 1976. Of this amount, 80% was owed on concessional loans with very long maturities and very low or no interest rates. The remaining $12,435 million was almost all accounted for by official export credits. Concessional debt increased by about 13% in 1977, slightly less than in 1976. Disbursements of concessional loans, net of amortization payments, were $4,012 million, a decrease of $2,296 million from a peak of $6,308 million in 1975 and $5,148 million in 1976. New government commitments of concessional loans in 1977 were also down, to $6,833 million from a 1975 peak of $9,501 million and $8,769 million in 1976. This decline was accompanied by increases in grants (not included in these statistics of external debt) and other changes in flows of development assistance that are discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report. The total amount of undisbursed concessional loans at the end of 1977 was $18,579 million.
Debt owed to international organizations by the 87 developing countries was $27,047 million at the end of 1977, an increase of 25% over 1976, and 51% over 1975. It accounted for about 16% of total disbursed debt, a share that has remained stable through the first half of the 1970s. Net borrowing was $5,229 million in 1977, a sharp increase of 43% over 1976, compared with a rise of only 6% in that year. New loans committed in 1977 were $11,255 million, an increase of 43% over 1976. Undisbursed balances of loans from international organizations at the end of 1977 stood at $24,212 million.
Loans from financial markets include loans from private banks, other private financial institutions, and bonds. Debt outstanding to financial markets at the end of 1977 was $62,670 million, an increase of 28% over 1976. This followed increases of 36% in 1976
'"> Argentina, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, EI Salvador. Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti. Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay.
(I2> Republic of China, Fiji, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines. Singapore, and Thailand.
and 38% in 1975. Public debt owed to these lenders represented 38% of the debt outstanding to all creditors in 1977; this share had increased steadily from 16% in 1970 to 36% in 1976. Net borrowings from financial markets decreased slightly in 1977, from $13,385 million to $12,796 million. New commitments by these lenders increased by only $1,178 million to $20,719 million, after having increased by about 45% in 1976. Undisbursed or undrawn commitments stood at $10,962 million at the end of 1977; in some cases, these were "standby" commitments that would be drawn only as needed.
Capital Flows from DAC and OPEC Countries
Preliminary data from the Development Assistance Committee (DAC)(13) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) indicate that Official Development Assistance (ODA) of $18,300 million by DAC members in calendar 1978 rose by about 24% in dollar terms, and by about 7% in real terms over 1977.(14> All 17 DAC member governments increased their outflow of ODA in dollars during the year, and 11 countries'13' also raised it as a share of their gross national product (GNP). As a percentage of their combined GNP, ODA from members of the DAC rose slightly, from 0.31%o in 1977 to 0.32% in 1978.
In 1974, Sweden became the first DAC country to meet the target of providing the equivalent of 0.7% of its GNP in the form of ODA. The Netherlands reached that target in 1975, Norway in 1976, and a fourth country, Denmark, in 1978. Sweden, the Netherlands, and Norway continued to provide ODA at a percentage of GNP greaterthan 0.7% in 1978.
Very preliminary data indicate that total flows of financial resources, which include export credits extended by official and private institutions, direct and portfolio investments, and grants by private voluntary organizations to developing countries by DAC members, were $56,600 million in 1978, compared with $49,493 million in 1977. According to DAC estimates, total flows in 1978 were equivalent to 1.00% of DAC members' combined GNP, compared with 1.05% in 1977. These figures exclude significant amounts in Eurocurrency borrowing by developing countries (discussed in the chapter, "Borrowings and Finance," in this Annual Report). Although most Euromarkets are located in DAC countries, the funds in any one loan do not necessarily originate in the country issuing it.
Although the statistics on the aid flows from members of the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC)'16' are much less firm than those for the DAC countries, DAC reports indicate that total net disbursements by OPEC members, which rose rapidly from $1,740 million in 1973 to $5,952 million in 1974, and to $8,164 million in 1975, and which were about $7,500 million in 1977, were about $6,700 million in 1978. These figures include both concessionary and nonconces-sionary resources. In 1978, approximately 72% of net disbursements were on concessionary terms. Total OPEC flows represented some 2% in terms of these countries' GNP in 1978, and concessional flows were about 1.5% of GNP. The major donors were Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the United Arab Emirates. In recent years, net disbursements of ODA, as a percentage of GNP, by these three countries have averaged about 5.5%,7%, and 11%, respectively.
The figures quoted for OPEC aid are based on the same statistical criteria as those applied by DAC countries, excluding not only transfers and payments for direct arms purchases, but also financial resources for economic purposes when the terms do not meet the recognized concessionality criteria for ODA.
Energy and Nonf uel Minerals Development
In July 1977, the Executive Directors of the World Bank considered and approved a program of lending by the Bank for the development of the petroleum resources of its developing member countries; they also approved an expansion of lending for coal and nonfuel minerals. The Bank had not previously financed oil and natural gas production, and the decision to do so, and also, to increase
<13> Includes Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States, and the Commission of the European Communities.
<") Official Development Assistance (ODA) is defined as all flows to developing countries and multilateral institutions provided by official agencies, including state and local governments, or by their executive agencies, which meet the following tests:
(a) They are administered with the promotion of the economic development and welfare of the developing countries as their main objective.
(b) Their financial terms are intended to be concessional in character with a grant element of at least 25%.
<ls> Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Japan, Norway, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and the United States.
<>«> Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela. Capital surplus OPEC countries are: Kuwait, Libya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.
lending for coal, recognized the urgent need of developing countries to exploit their indigenous sources of energy.
Because of the experimental nature of the program, the Executive Directors reviewed, in January 1979, the Bank's experience gained in this area since 1977, and approved an expansion of the program for petroleum development, including, for the first time, financing for exploration. The Directors noted the need for caution in providing finance in support of exploration activities. The need for increasing technical assistance for energy planning and surveys, research, and development of new and renewable forms of energy was also emphasized.
Recent figures indicate that by 1985, oil-importing developing countries may have an oil deficit of some 4.35 million barrels a day, and that the yearly costs of covering this deficit may total as much as $38,300 million— up from $14,300 million in 1975.
At the same time, however, a survey commissioned by the Bank on the oil and gas situation in 70 developing countries suggests that 23 developing countries (14 of which are, at present, nonproducers of petroleum) have prospects of finding "high" or "very high" quantities of petroleum, while a further 15 (13 of which are current nonproducers) have prospects of locating "fair" quantities.(17) It is not surprising, therefore, that the Bank's offer to assist in petroleum development has met with a positive response from a growing number of oil-importing countries. Since July 1977, the Bank has recruited energy specialists, has consulted national and private oil companies, and 50 Bank energy missions have visited over 20 member countries—particularly those in
which there is promise of an early project being prepared. (In fiscal 1979, four projects— two in support of oil production, and two for natural gas—were approved for a total of $112.4 million.)
From these missions, there emerged a clear need in many countries for assistance at all stages of petroleum development: national energy planning, data collection and evaluation based on expert surveys, exploration of promising geological structures, technical and managerial training, advice on legal and fiscal codes, and, in many cases, help in contract negotiations with foreign companies.
The need for assistance is the greatest in the smallest and poorest oil-importing countries, for only a few of them have national oil companies capable of undertaking themselves, or commissioning the work involved in petroleum development.
Given the magnitude of the capital investment required for petroleum development, and the need to draw on the technical know-how of the oil industry, one of the Bank's principal aims is to stimulate a greater flow of private funds to the oil-importing developing countries, particularly risk capital for exploration. To encourage this, it was decided that the Bank would help finance the host country's share of the cost of a program under-
t17> Potential resources are classified into categories on the basis of estimated recoverable quantities: "very high"— over 1,500 million barrels; "high"—between 750 million and 1,500 million barrels; "fair"—between 100 million and 750 million barrels. Measured by OPEC standards, even the "very high" category is modest. But in terms of domestic consumption, even the lowest category, "low" (less than 100 million barrels), may be significant. Most African countries, for instance, consume fewer than 5 million barrels yearly.
taken in partnership with a foreign oil company. In cases where national oil companies are technically and financially able to undertake exploration by themselves, the Bank will also be willing to assist. Strict measures to reduce the risks of exploration financing would be taken. Geological and geophysical surveys of high quality will be undertaken in all cases. Probability analysis, in financial and technical terms, of the risks and benefits must show favorable prospects for the discovery of petroleum in commercial quantities. Exploratory drilling will be carried out in stages and in limited areas, with a careful review of the findings at each stage before proceeding to the next, or, if the result were clearly unpromising, terminating the exploration program, and canceling the balance of the Bank loan or credit. Because the risk to the government would be substantial, the Bank would have a greater responsibility than is usual to make sure that proposals were carefully reviewed. In the case of a Bank loan, the Bank would apply its normal tests of creditworthiness to ensure that its total lending to the country remained within prudent limits.
The Executive Directors of the Bank, while agreeing that the Bank could proceed with caution into the funding of exploration activities, noted, however, that this was only part of a spectrum of activities—from planning to the discovery and production of indigenous fuels in developing member countries. Assistance, therefore, will fall into three categories: national energy planning, predevelopment activities, and fuel production.
National Energy Planning. The Bank-commissioned survey on the oil and gas situation in 70 developing countries reported that in about 60 of them, help was needed in developing national plans and policies for the sector, and in creating or strengthening a national energy authority. The Bank's present program of sector and subsector work for 35 of these countries will be extended during the next five years to cover the remainder. Help will also be given to resolve particular legal, technical, and administrative problems, and in training local personnel.
Predevelopment Activities. These activities may be subdivided into three categories: survey work, exploratory drilling, and project preparation. As far as the first named is concerned, the survey estimated that at least 54 countries need assistance in evaluating and updating data from earlier surveys or in commissioning new surveys. Where such assistance is unavailable from other sources, the Bank would be willing to finance such surveys with
technical assistance loans or credits. Possible Bank assistance in exploration has been discussed earlier. In the area of project preparation, the Bank would extend loans and credits to help finance preappraisal drilling for fuel mineral projects. Use could also be made of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility to finance preparation work within that Facility's $1 million limit. It is estimated that during the next few years, the Bank will be financing annually about 10 surveys and a similar number of predevelopment drilling projects.
Petroleum Development. It is estimated that in fiscal 1980, the Bank might finance about eight development projects and that this number will grow to about 12 by fiscal 1983.
Although more than 50 developing countries have coal occurrences, only 30 are producing at present, satisfying 22% of non-OPEC developing country energy consumption. Coal production in developing countries during 1977 amounted to only 176 million tons, or 6% of world production. Eighty-three percent of this output level was produced by only four countries—India, Yugoslavia, Turkey, and Viet Nam.
In developed countries, rapid increases in coal output are primarily constrained by demand; potential coal users are hesitant to expand coal consumption for power generation or industrial thermal uses because of the transport and environmental problems associated with coal and because of the presence of "public disbelief" that oil will remain in short supply for extended periods of time. In developing countries, on the other hand, supply constraints limit a rapid expansion of coal output in the short and medium term. This constraint on supply is a result of several factors.
First, the relative unattractiveness of coal compared with oil during the period of low oil prices led to a lack of geological survey and preinvestment work in all but the few developing countries with important coal mining sectors. Since the lead time for the construction of coal mines and associated transport averages three to five years, the lack of geological data and feasibility studies for coal projects has meant that many developing countries must add another two to four years of predevelopment work before investment decisions can be made. The resulting long lead time has limited the short-term growth of coal output in most developing countries. Second, while the economic/financial returns on oil
investments are high once oil is discovered, the return on coal development has remained moderate because of: (a) the large capital investments needed for mine development, bulk handling, and transport; (b) the technical/ geological characteristics of known coal reserves; and (c) the stiff international competition limiting coal export prices. Third, coal mine development and associated infrastructure can today require anywhere from $20 to $150 per ton of annual output, thus posing serious financing problems and competition with other high priority investment projects. Fourth, even where the geology of a coal deposit is well known, where feasibility studies have been prepared, and capital is available, the lack of managerial skills and technical know-how in coal production and coal utilization is a problem in all but a few developing countries. As a result of these short-term and medium-term constraints on the supply of coal, coal production in developing countries can be expected to grow by no more than 1% to 7.5% a year (from a very low base) until 1990, reaching 448 million tons of coal equivalent by that time.
To overcome these constraints, and to ensure long-term coal availability in developing countries: (a) coal exploration and preinvest-ment work must be accelerated in order to ascertain the extent and viability of coal resources; (b) coal exploration and preinvest-ment work must be encouraged whenever coal proves to be the most economic fuel; and (c) the implementation of coal mining projects and associated infrastructure for domestic coal consumption or export must be encouraged whenever economically feasible.
During the past two years, a pipeline of projects has been developed by the Bank that should permit lending for between two and four coal/lignite projects a year through 1983.
It is estimated that the total costs of these fuel exploration and development activities will require some $750 million in fiscal 1980 and about $1,500 million by fiscal 1983 (all in current dollars). Given the still relatively new character of this program, the Executive Directors agreed to monitor its evolution closely on an annual basis and to review yearly the measure of the Bank's participation in these activities. It was also agreed that allocation of funds for this program should not be at the expense of the institution's other activities, especially those of direct assistance to the poor.
In their July 1977 discussions, the Executive Directors also agreed to the expansion of the Bank's role in providing finance and technical assistance for mineral development in its member countries. Through the Bank's role in providing finance and technical assistance for mineral development in its member countries, it was thought that foreign investment—particularly risk capital—could become more readily available for mineral production in developing countries than it had been in the immediate past.
Since that decision, the focus of the Bank's activities in the sector has been to intensify the dialogue with interested developing country governments, potential co-lenders, and mining companies about the Bank's role, and to develop a sector and project work program to allow the financing of four to six mineral projects a year, including coal projects, beginning in the early 1980s. As in the case of the petroleum sector, staff have been hired, and more than four dozen missions mounted in more than two dozen developing countries to identify, prepare, appraise, and supervise projects in the nonfuel minerals sector. The experience gained during the past two years has confirmed that the Bank—through its technical, financial, and economic appraisals and subsequent participation in project financing —is well suited to play a catalytic role through its "presence." In the majority of the nonfuel minerals projects presently under preparation, Bank involvement has, in fact, been a condition of participation for foreign lenders and sponsors.
It was noted two years ago that though a number of nonfuel minerals projects had been prepared up to the financing stage, they had not been implemented because medium-term metal market prospects were not sufficiently promising to ensure the financial and economic viability of many of them.
Although prices for several metals have risen appreciably in the last few months, the overall situation has not materially changed in consequence. In fact, in the past 24 months, developing country governments, private mining companies, and international capital sources alike have remained hesitant to invest in new nonfuel minerals projects in developing countries. This hesitation is due, in the main, to the depressed medium-term metals market outlook and the slow economic recovery in industrialized countries. Only after metal prices and demand for nonfuel minerals have recovered will it be possible to ascertain more clearly whether an expanded program of technical and financial assistance by the Bank will
induce a substantially greater flow of investment in minerals exploration and production in the developing countries.
Lessons of Urban Development
Since fiscal 1972, the World Bank has undertaken a major commitment to alleviate urban poverty; the rationale for this initiative is understandable in the light of the realities that today face most of the world's developing countries.
—Over the last quarter century, the urban population in developing countries has increased at an annual rate of 5%, or nearly twice the growth rate of the population as a whole.
—The increase in the number of urban poor is two or three times as high. The World Bank estimates that almost a third of developing world urban dwellers lack the income, and therefore the consumption, sufficient to maintain a productive life.
—The population of cities in the developing world currently numbers 840 million, or 28% of the total population in developing countries.
—By the year 2000, according to United Nations estimates, another 1,200 million people in the developing world will live in an urban environment. Except for the poorest countries of South Asia and Africa, at least half of the population of developing countries will live in urban areas.
—By the year 2000, there may be as many as 600 million urban residents lacking reasonable access to minimal nutrition and sanitation, safe water, basic education, and shelter.
In the past seven fiscal years, the Bank has provided assistance in the amount of $1,114 million to help finance 42 urban projects costing a total of $2,542 million. But the magnitude of the urbanization process, combined with its attendant problems, is such that Bank-supported projects in the urban sector can deal directly with only a very small part of the problem. Urban projects, therefore, must be justified as much by their influence on urban policies and institutions in the longer run as they are by any measurement of direct benefits.
A review of those Bank-assisted urban development projects that provide either serviced sites or squatter upgrading to low-income urban residents suggests that despite difficulties in implementation, they can be justified on both grounds.
The evolution of urban development projects in the Philippines provides an example of how Bank intervention can influence events beyond the immediate provision of benefits.
In May 1976, the Bank approved a $32 million loan to the Philippines to help finance a slum upgrading/sites and services project'18' in the Tondo Foreshore area of Manila. Although the project was composed of many parts, its principal features were the provision of urban services (pathways, water and sewerage facilities, schools, health centers, community centers, etc.) for approximately 180,000 slum dwellers and the emplacement nearby of some 2,000 serviced sites for squatter families affected by the expansion of part of Manila's port area and the construction of a major thoroughfare.
The loan followed months of discussions between the Philippines government and the Bank—discussions that culminated in an agreement that substantive programs providing for urban services could be suitable only if care were taken to ensure their affordability and, hence, their replicability. Thus, in the Philippines, as elsewhere, more economical standards of design and construction for services and dwellings than those of conventional "low-cost" housing schemes were introduced, and efforts were made to make the most of existing structures rather than bulldozing squatter settlements and slums. In addition to affordability, replicability involved cost recovery from beneficiaries, who had to be given access to longer-term credit.
The 1976 project demonstrated the validity of these concepts. Available evidence appears to confirm that the project has brought the area to the "take-off" point, and that private investment by residents has been stimulated to an extent even greater than previously predicted.
Perhaps the most important contribution of the project, however, was its impact on government policy. The Metropolitan Manila area (population 5.5 million) is characterized by great disparities in income and living standards. Estimates are that almost one-third of the city's population lives in slums and squatter areas lacking in sanitation facilities, and characterized by high levels of malnutrition, infant mortality, and parasitic and intestinal diseases.
Following an initial period in which much of its resources were devoted to the relocation of squatters from along drainage canals and other waterways in Metropolitan Manila, the
<5S>A sites and services project is one that provides serviced (electricity and water and sewerage facilities) residential plots with core structures that can be expanded into houses.
Two views, taken 13 months apart, of the same home in the Tondo area of Manila. Housing material loans for the rehabilitation and upgrading of dwellings were made available to Tondo residents through Bank funds passed on to the Development Bank of the Philippines.
country's National Housing Authority established (and is now actively expanding) a nationwide program of slum upgrading. Some 450 prospective upgrading areas in the Metropolitan Manila area, involving a population of 1 million, have been identified, most with sanitation and health conditions similar to those in Tondo. In June 1977, two Presidential Letters of Instruction (LOI), which carry the force of law, were signed to establish slum upgrading as national policy. In addition, the LOIs specified that squatters could be displaced only by the installation of public infrastructure, and that no squatter was to be moved to a distant relocation site. Local governments of 14 cities and municipalities in the Metropolitan Manila area established permanent technical teams to undertake design and feasibility studies for upgrading slums, and similar teams were established in the regional cities of Cebu, Davao, Cagayan de Oro, and Baguio.
Other important new institutions recently established in the country are beginning to affect significantly the development of national urbanization policies. In addition to the National Housing Authority, which was established to consolidate government housing efforts that were previously dispersed among six separate national bodies, a Ministry of Human Settlements has been formed, with responsibility for national human settlements planning.
Recent discussions between the Bank and these government institutions have concerned the two overriding urban issues facing the Philippines and on which the Bank's urban lending strategy has become increasingly focused: the need to implement an effective urban/regional development strategy, and the need to reduce the great disparities in access to basic sanitation and public health infrastructure that characterize urban areas. From these talks, and growing out of the fiscal 1976 project in the Tondo Foreshore area, a further $32 million Bank loan was approved during the past fiscal year. The project, which emphasizes the development of important new institutional arrangements to alleviate the worst conditions of disparities in the level of services provided, will assist the government in developing affordable solutions to the problems of poverty, shelter, and environmental sanitation in the four most important urban areas of the Philippines (Metropolitan Manila, Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan de Oro). The slum improvement and resettlement component in the regional cities—comprising about 24% of total project costs—represents a continuation in the major shift in governmental emphasis
from costly and subsidized programs of resettlement to improvement in situ with recovery of servicing costs.
In those Bank-assisted projects currently being implemented in the developing world, some 1,250,000 poor urban dwellers are being provided with serviced sites; an additional 4.5 million are being covered by upgrading schemes. Already, enough projects are sufficiently advanced to show that the Bank's approach can provide acceptable dwellings, utilities, and other services at costs that most of the urban poor can afford and at a fraction of the cost of earlier public programs for low-cost housing. Moreover, health, education, and other facilities covered from local authorities' budgets can be provided at costs that those authorities can afford and that are well below the costs of earlier practices. Although the standards are economical, the projects clearly are resulting in a great improvement in the living conditions of the urban poor, and their low cost offers much better prospects for housing the unprecedented additions to urban populations.
Changes in governmental policy would probably not, in the Philippines as elsewhere, have come about so quickly had it not been demonstrated that urban projects can be designed with affordability, replicability, and cost coverage in mind—and that the living standards of the intended beneficiaries have, in fact, improved.
The earliest Bank-assisted projects for serviced sites were designed to reach not far below the median level of family incomes. Compared with conventional public housing programs, that was already an achievement. Bank-assisted projects have since been refined and adapted to reach urban families at much lower income levels, often excluding only the poorest 10% to 20%c of the population. The buildup of technical design expertise— not only among Bank staff but among consultants and local authorities as a result of Bank initiatives—has been a principal factor in this process. New methodologies and analytical tools have been developed, for example, to test trade-offs between alternate design features. Because market values of project sites often are well in excess of the costs, it has been possible to charge more for commercial plots and the plots allotted to higher-income families in the target group and to charge poor families correspondingly less than the share of the costs indicated by the plot size.
Projects for upgrading slums and squatter settlements can reach people even lower on the income scale. An outstanding example is the
Kampung Improvement Program in Indonesia, where three Bank-assisted projects are succeeding in reaching over 4 million inhabitants of the poorest quarters in five cities by providing basic improvements in living conditions at a cost of roughly $45 a person. Such projects for improving existing squatter areas provide an important supplement to the serviced sites, which increase the total stock of housing for an expanding population. Moreover, the projects providing serviced sites or upgrading squatter areas can benefit even those urban poor who cannot afford such modest dwellings. The provision of additional sites and the stimulus given to the construction of new dwellings or the expansion of old ones increase the availability of rented rooms which are often of critical importance to the very poor.
The economical layouts, the better location in relation to employment opportunities, and the improved facilities for transport, health, and education all contribute to urban efficiency even though the contribution is difficult, if not impossible, to quantify. The quick take-up of commercial and other employment sites indicates their success in fostering productive employment, if on a rather limited scale so far. The evident expansion of commerce and small-scale enterprises in project sites also indicates a significant addition to local output and employment, even though net employment gains from a project cannot be measured because of the wide secondary effects. Part of this local expansion of economic activity—which adds to net output, savings, and employment—is directly attributable to the construction associated with the projects; part is due to the indirect effects of improved access and transport.
The experience to date also demonstrates the need for a sequence of projects to overcome some of the inherent difficulties in developing appropriate programs and policies in this field. The general shortage of even poorly trained local staff, and the time required to alter basic procedures, particularly those related to land and tenure, make first projects especially difficult and limit the advances that can be made. Yet without the stimulus of initial projects, it is doubtful that many of the obstacles to a more rational approach to meeting the needs of expanding urban populations could be attacked, let alone solved, in the near future.
Clear examples of the problems that can be diminished through a sequence of projects are those relating to collections of monthly charges from site occupants and the development of alternative financing sources. The favorable experience in some Bank-assisted
projects shows that adequate collection systems can be instituted, particularly if there is advance discussion of obligations and more general public participation. However, it is usually necessary to see the development of appropriate collection systems as a process that may well not be fully achievable in an initial project. Similar observations apply to problems stemming from inadequate municipal financial resources and budget procedures, and to the raising of interest rates for housing loans to give a positive return. While considerable success has been achieved in raising interest rates in Bank-supported urban projects, the existence of subsidized interest rates for other housing schemes for richer groups, and the overall shortcomings of national interest rate structures tend to limit the extent of progress in any one project.
These considerations make it clear that the impact of serviced sites and upgrading projects extends well beyond the completion date, when project funds have been disbursed and the corresponding physical structures are completed, and well beyond the immediate project field. At the time of formal completion of projects, allottees may have only begun to occupy the serviced sites, and the longer-run implications, both for occupants and for the program and policy makers, will only be partially visible. It, therefore, will eventually be necessary to consider their impact over an extended period.
It was once feared that urban development projects would prove more difficult to implement than the Bank's more traditional operations. In fact, however, their implementation has generally been reassuring, even though many difficulties remain. The proportion of such projects considered to have major or moderate problems is no greater than that in other sectors. Although experience in these and other new areas of Bank lending is still too limited to permit firm conclusions, the evidence provides grounds for increased confidence that the evolution of Bank-assisted urban projects is not inconsistent with the maintenance of high standards of implementation.
The lessons learned from Bank operations since fiscal 1973 in the urban sector suggest, therefore, that the target for such Bank lending—by fiscal 1980, at least one-third of all urban-related lending will provide direct benefits to people living in poverty—can be attained. This 33% proportion roughly corresponds to the proportion of the urban poor in the developing world. If they can, indeed, be reached, it would involve a substantial gain
for them above their normal share of benefits from public investments.
Yet the lack of experience, both inside the Bank and among its borrowers, with poverty-oriented urban projects has limited the fast build-up of a program of urban development. Lead times for first projects in countries are inevitably long. But it has not been time lost, since first projects provide the necessary foundations for a sequence of subsequent projects.
In other ways, however, fiscal 1979 stands worlds apart from the time seven years ago, when the first Bank-assisted urban development project was approved. Though it is still too early to say that what was almost revolutionary as an approach in 1972 is now conventional, it can be said that the case for the approach on which the Bank program is based is now generally at least acknowledged, and has become increasingly adopted. There is a much greater appreciation for the fact that urban development does not have to imply development to benefit the "urban elite," but that there are serious problems of poverty to be faced within the urban areas and that development of a viable urban economy should be part of an overall strategy for regional development.
The Bank's program has played a leading role in this change in attitude—from the previously prevailing refusal to acknowledge the dimensions of the escalating urban problems, or the negative attempts to deal with them, towards a much more positive attempt to analyze and tackle the difficulties. The contribution of the Bank's program to this change in attitude is perhaps the largest of its achievements to date.
Environmental Affairs
With the installation, in 1970, of the post of Environmental Adviser (since expanded into the Office of Environmental and Health Affairs—OEHA), the World Bank became the first development assistance agency to screen development projects, on a systematic basis, for their environmental and health implications. At first, such screening, of necessity, occurred at the "eleventh hour," as decisions had to be made on projects that had already progressed far along in the Bank's project "cycle" (identification, preparation, appraisal, negotiation).
In time, however, environmental questions came to be handled as a routine and integral part of the analysis of each Bank project, and borrowers were urged to take environmental and health issues into account when identify-
ing projects. Today, the Bank's systematic environmental operations are comprised of several parts, four of which are described here.(19)
Environmental Monitoring of Projects. More than 700 Bank projects now in preparation are expected to have environmental implications. A monitoring system earlier installed by OEHA enables the Bank's operational units to consider these problems in a timely and appropriate manner. In addition, the more than 750 projects having environmental or health components are closely followed so that the effectiveness of the measures can be gauged, remedial action taken, and lessons learned applied to projects in preparation.
Environmental Screening of Projects. All Bank-assisted projects are subjected to a screening process that excludes many projects from further review since their environmental and health dimensions seem to pose no significant problems. The environmental implications of most of those that are not excluded are assessed in-house; the remainder—about 8% of all projects—need more extensive work. In all, more than 100 projects have been discovered to have major environmental or health problems demanding special attention.
Environmental Assessment. The intensive treatment given to those projects with major environmental ramifications usually includes an on-site environmental assessment that can last for a period of a few weeks—by a single consultant or Bank employee—to a far longer period, in which a team encompassing several disciplines may spend as many as five man-months in the field. Most special assessments have resulted in the incorporation of major environmental and health measures in the project design or the loan agreement.
Environmental Projects. In fiscal 1974, the Executive Directors of the Bank endorsed a proposal that permitted the Bank to lend directly for environmental projects. Since that time, developing country governments have given increasing attention to projects involving afforestation and reforestation, soil conservation, countering desert encroachment, flood control, range management, abatement of air and water pollution, and wildlife protection. A growing number of Bank projects, and a much larger number of project components, have been designed to help meet these needs.
<1;>>Other activities, not described, include the publication of guidelines and policy papers on issues related to the environment and occupational health and safety; technical assistance to governments, mostly on how to incorporate the environmental dimension into sectoral planning; liaison with other organizations in the UN system and with nongovernmental organizations: and education and training.
During fiscal 1979, the Executive Directors of the Bank reviewed the environmental policies and practices of the Bank, and gave their strong endorsement to the continuation of the policy that seeks, in the Bank's project work, to adapt standards of environmental protection and control to the circumstances of the project and the country, and to incorporate in its projects all appropriate environmental and health measures.
In the future, the Bank is determined to make greater efforts to undertake environmental "post-audits" of selected projects to determine the accuracy of ecological predictions, the efficacy of prescribed control measures, and the adequacy of its supervision over the environmental aspects of projects being financed. Such information, it was noted, is important to the improvement of the quality of the Bank's work, as some environmental problems may not appear for years after a project has been in operation.
In addition, the Bank will continue its attempts to persuade other lending institutions —especially development finance institutions, many of which currently give less rigorous consideration to the environmental consequences of proposed investments—to harmonize their policies and treatment of environmental issues.
The Bank's efforts to promote national environmental programs and the identification of environmental projects will also be expanded, especially in those developing countries whose environmental and renewable resources may have deteriorated to such an extent that remedial action is urgently required.
But attention will also be directed to those countries where the environment has not, as yet, suffered greatly from mismanagement. The growing realization on the part of developing country governments that a relatively small investment in prevention at an early stage is usually far less expensive, as well as more effective, than subsequent remedial actions that are certain to become necessary later on, has gone far in making this aspect of the Bank's work more welcome in recent years. Experience has demonstrated that it is possible to incorporate suitable environmental and health protection measures into development projects, and to do so at a cost—between 0% and 3%—that is both small and acceptable to the borrower and developing country governments.
Distributing Exchange Rate Risks
Over the last decade, the Bank has diversified the sources of its borrowings, moving away
from its previous heavy reliance on the private capital market in the United States to the capital markets of Germany, Switzerland, and Japan as well as to other countries, including those that export petroleum. In this process, the Bank has incurred nearly $16,000 million of obligations in currencies other than the US dollar. Since the proceeds of Bank borrowings are used for its lending, the currency diversification of borrowings has resulted in a diversified currency risk for its borrowers.
In recent years, exchange rates among the various currencies that the Bank borrows and lends have changed significantly. These changes have, for the most part, increased the debt service obligations of the Bank's borrowers in terms of both the borrowers' own national currencies and the US dollar, the currency in which the Bank's loan commitments are denominated. They have also accentuated the differences in exchange rate effects on individual borrowers that have always been part of Bank operations. In other words, because the degree of exposure to exchange rate changes is not the same for all borrowers, the large shifts in currency relationships in recent years have imposed uneven burdens on the Bank's borrowers, at least in the short term.
Several methods to equalize exchange rate risks among borrowers have been suggested: currency pooling, differentiation of interest rates, and change in currency allocation. After thorough investigation of the options, it was concluded that equity could be best achieved by the adoption of the first of these methods. Pooling is a concept that aims to solve the perceived inequities created under the present system by a change in accounting procedures.
The pooling system would assure the equalization among borrowers of the currency risk exposure of all loans included in the system. Participation in this scheme might be especially helpful to smaller borrowers whose balances outstanding are not large enough (or disbursements frequent enough) to permit a kind of "natural" pooling to operate.
Adoption of a currency pooling system was approved by the Executive Directors of the Bank during the past fiscal year, and its design and implementation are currently scheduled to be completed by July 1, 1980.
* * *
The nature of the operations of development finance companies (DFCs) is different in many respects from that of the typical Bank borrower. The DFCs are financial intermediaries whose function is to raise and relend capital for investment. They do not take foreign ex-
change risks themselves; rather, they either pass the foreign exchange risk on to the subbor-rower or the risk is borne by the government.
In the first case, DFC subborrowers are not protected by the sort of "natural pooling" that shelters large and frequent Bank borrowers. It was, therefore, understandable that many of them had become reluctant to take on a foreign exchange liability that may bear no relationship to the source of procurement or to their foreign exchange earnings. This reluctance was compounded by the fact that, under Bank procedures, subborrowers had no way of knowing at the time of commitment what their foreign exchange liability would be (i.e., whether it would be US dollars, Swiss francs, Deutsche mark, Japanese yen, or some other currency).
Many DFCs drew the Bank's attention to this problem, and some stated that they would be unable to commit any substantial portion of their loans from the Bank in these circumstances. The objective of Bank lending through DFCs to encourage productive investment in the private sector of member countries was, to that extent, being frustrated.
To resolve this problem, including those faced by DFCs under existing loans from the Bank, as an interim measure, the Bank decided, in fiscal 1979, to alter its disbursement proce-cedures. The change would affect only dis-
bursements made under existing or new loans to DFC borrowers that are obliged to pass on the full foreign exchange risk of a Bank loan to their subborrowers. With effect from March 15, 1979, each such disbursement has been made half in US dollars and half in one of three currencies—Deutsche mark, Swiss francs, or Japanese yen. This procedure does not, of course, eliminate the foreign exchange risk, but it does, however, reduce the effect of fluctuations among foreign currencies and, consequently, provides a firmer basis for entrepreneurs to assess the profitability of their investments. The interim procedure will be reviewed when the general currency pooling system goes into effect. Also still to be decided is whether the interim procedure should be applied to DFCs in countries where governments have agreed to carry the full foreign exchange risk themselves.
There are two or three agricultural credit institutions in middle-income countries that relend the proceeds of Bank loans mainly to agrobusinesses and that pass the foreign exchange risk on to subborrowers. The same disbursement procedure will apply to these borrowers. The great majority of agricultural credit banks to which the Bank lends are protected by their governments against the foreign exchange risk, however.
The Year's Activities, by Region
Eastern Africa
Given their heavy reliance on the export of a very narrow range of primary products and their dependence on rainfed agriculture for a major share of total income, it is not surprising that economic fortunes in the Eastern Africa Region continue to be strongly affected by the weather and international commodity prices. Fiscal 1979 was marked by varying weather conditions throughout the Region— heavier-than-normal rains in Kenya, Madagascar, and Somalia; floods in Sudan; and drought in Zambia and in parts of Ethiopia. In general, however, the weather did not adversely affect harvests, which were expected to be in the normal range. Encouragingly, food production continued to rise in usually food-short Tanzania; analysts gave as a major reason, increased price incentives offered to farmers.
Increases in agriculture production in the Region were offset, however, by major, adverse movements in the international commodity terms of trade. Copper exports, which account for nearly a third of regional exports in dollar terms, recovered somewhat in value, but the 1978 price level still remained far below the long-term average. Nor did tropical beverages, which constitute 12% of regional exports, fare well. Their prices fell sharply from the extraordinary peak reached in 1977. While the financial pressures accentuated by the economic turbulence of the period, 197374, had been relieved, in several countries, by the upswing in coffee and tea prices during 1976 and 1977, the sharp decline in beverage prices during 1978 (31% for coffee and 18% for tea) revealed, once again, the structural
weakness in government finances and the balance of payments. In 1978, the composite price index of Eastern Africa's exports declined by 5% (the fall in beverages was partially offset by the rise in beef, groundnut, sisal, and tobacco prices); commodity terms of trade deteriorated by 11%; and the persistent rise in import prices continued into 1979.
Adverse external conditions led to a decline in foreign exchange reserves in most countries, and several of them ended 1978 with a negative net foreign asset position. The decline in foreign exchange reserves prompted a number of governments to borrow in the Eurodollar market at interest rates well over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and with maturities of only five to seven years. Several others are reported to be in advanced stages of negotiating similar loans. While the recourse to commercial bank credit can inject quickly much needed funds into an economy, the attendant medium-term debt-servicing requirements could prove to be worrisome in some cases. Several countries have, in addition, accumulated large arrears in trade and other payments. A general, regionwide effort was made in fiscal 1979 to sustain the growth in imports by drawing down reserves, borrowing abroad, and accumulating arrears; in several cases, however, the effort proved futile. In
some countries, imports in 1978 declined in real terms; in others, only little growth was registered. Given the fact that many countries depend heavily on foreign trade taxes as a source of public revenues, the sluggishness of imports, combined with declines in export prices, had the effect of reducing the tax base. Though several governments both slowed the pace of development and acted to reduce recurrent expenditures, budgetary deficits continued to be widespread. Most countries of the Region experienced double-digit inflation.
These difficulties are expected to persist for some time. While prices of some primary exports are likely to rise soon (e.g., copper and sugar), recovery is not yet in sight in other cases, such as for tropical beverages. Furthermore, the rise in the price of imported oil and manufactured goods is not likely to be reversed in the short run. Neither is it likely that importing countries will quickly dismantle protective barriers impeding exports from the Region. The Region's shortage of foreign exchange has not been caused solely by adverse movements in its terms of trade; it is also due to persistent structural problems and continuing weaknesses in economic management, both of which have made diversification in production and exports difficult to achieve. In some cases, such as in Sudan and Somalia,
IDA has provided three credits, totaling $18.6 million, for road and highway development in landlocked Lesotho. In this photo, village members of a labor-intensive construction unit are building a road that will link up with a highway leading to the capital city of Maseru.
the emigration of skilled people, particularly to the oil-producing Arab countries, has meant that talented managers are particularly in short supply. The countries have, nonetheless, accepted the short-term problems associated with this emigration in exchange for the investments and remittances that have been returned to them. Furthermore, political uncertainty and intermittent warfare continue in several areas, acting to divert funds into defense and to distract attention from important development issues such as the need to reform taxes, tariffs, and delivery systems.
Reconciling Imperatives
The challenge is to resolve urgent liquidity problems without endangering the long-run process of social and economic development. Efforts have to be made to reconcile the imperatives of short, medium, and long-run policies. These efforts will not be easy; they will require changes in the politically sensitive
policies of the countries affected, a flexible and sympathetic response from countries and agencies that provide development assistance, and a willingness by all concerned to rethink traditional approaches to economic and financial problems such as those touching on the pricing and allocation of foreign exchange, the management of governmental, quasi-governmental, and private debt, the system of incentives for commodity production, and the fixing of fiscal priorities.
A good example of the fiscal priority problem is the treatment of recurrent government expenditures in the context of adjustment programs. The effective operation of agricultural extension services, education and health systems, and the regular maintenance of transportation networks is in danger of being impaired in the name of fiscal restraint. Such restraint is bound to be false economy. New projects have been started with foreign financing for imported capital equipment and technical assistance by expatriate personnel at a time when
fiscal restraint has denied funds, either for meeting local costs of "ongoing" projects, or for fully utilizing existing capital assets such as schools, clinics, roads, railways, and extension systems. Such anomalies in the allocation of resources can only compound the problems of adjustment and accentuate the already acute imbalances in the economy. Faced with the need to restrain expenditures, governments must examine all options carefully and pragmatically. Across-the-board cuts will seldom provide a good solution. In some cases, it may be wise to raise taxes or tariffs for government services rather than restrict public expenditures. There may well be occasions when the adverse impact on development of a slowdown in public investment will be less than from a reduction in high priority current expenditures. The Bank is attempting to draw this problem to the attention of both borrowers and financing agencies.
Bank and IDA Activities
Total Bank and IDA lending in the Region in fiscal 1979 reached $646 million, about 22% above the average of the previous five years. Thirty-five loans and credits were approved, about equal to the average of the previous five fiscal years. New IDA commitments, at $380 million, were 36% above the 1974-78 average. Major increases occurred in lending for agriculture and rural development and transportation; these two sectors accounted for 31 % and 41%, respectively, of total lending in the Region in dollar terms.
Continuing strong efforts toward cooperation and coordination by the Bank, other multilateral and bilateral financing agencies, and recipient countries resulted in a sharp jump in co-financing during the year. Funds committed by allco-financers under co-financing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached a record of $514 million, or 140% above last year's level, and 125% above the 1976-78 average.'1'
Not only did the number of co-financed projects increase; the average contribution of the co-financing agencies rose as well: $27 million per project during the year, compared with about $15 million in fiscal 1978 and $15 million for the period, fiscal 1976-78.
During the year, 21 agencies participated in co-financing Bank-supported and IDA-supported projects. While there were a few changes in the list, the most important contributors continued to be the industrialized countries of Europe and North America, the Arab oil-producing countries, and the African
Development Bank/Fund. A noteworthy addition was the EEC (European Economic Community) Special Action Account, established with funds contributed by the member countries of the Community and administered by IDA on their behalf.
Agriculture and Rural Development
Thirty-one percent (11 loans and credits) of the Region's lending was in the agriculture and rural development sector in fiscal 1979, compared with the identical average in the period, fiscal 1976-78. As in previous years, agricultural lending was, in the main, for programs of rural development. Though training represents a small share in total project costs, it has been accorded an increasing importance; training components were included in all the agriculture and rural development projects approved during the past fiscal year. Agriculture research also received increased emphasis. Of the 11 projects in the agriculture sector, six were provided with an applied research component.
An example of a project that includes both training and research can be found in one supported by a $10.5 million IDA credit in Somalia. The extension and training project will concentrate on the development of manpower required for the efficient operation of the National Extension Service for smallholders and the establishment of a Farm Management Advisory Service for large-scale (government and cooperative) farms. Practical preservice training for farm managers and extension staff will be offered at the Farm Management and Extension Training Center. A master plan for strengthening the national research system and its links to extension, strengthening the Agricultural Secondary School and the Central Department of Statistics, and training abroad for selected personnel are the main project components.
Some 90,000 farm families in Malawi are expected to benefit from the implementation of the first phase of that country's National Rural Development Programme (NRDP). The program seeks, over the next 20 years, to increase productivity—especially small-farmer productivity—throughout the entire country by providing farmers with agricultural inputs and extension services, and by developing
(1»Co-financing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval, and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
soil conservation, watershed management, and afforestation measures. Credit, marketing, and veterinary services will be provided, health facilities and roads will be built, and drinking water supplies will be furnished. Cultivation of new land will be discouraged and emphasis will be placed on obtaining higher yields from already cultivated areas through improved husbandry practices. The first phase of the program, to be aided by a $22 million IDA credit, will cover operations in eight new "development areas" of the country, each of which has a population of approximately 25,000 farm families. In addition, the NRDP credit will finance the consolidation phase of the 490,000-hectare Lilongwe Development Programme, which was begun in 1968 with IDA support; this phase will mainly involve the completion of that program's extension and credit activities.
In Sudan, a $15 million credit in support of the southern region agricultural project will provide a follow-up to the southern region rehabilitation project that was approved in fiscal 1974. The newest project aims at further increasing the production of food crops and at improved nutrition. Through further crop trials, by expanding smallholder rainfed coffee and cotton production, by strengthening the extension service, by providing input supplies and improving transport and marketing facilities, and by providing for a wide variety of services aimed at increasing livestock production, an estimated 44,000 farm families are expected to experience a substantial increase in their yearly incomes.
An important aspect of the project will be the role of a newly formed Project Formulation Unit that will help plan and monitor agricultural development activities throughout the region. That Unit, plus a monitoring and evaluation unit, will advise the southern Ministry of Agriculture on project proposals, will prepare district development plans, and, from these, will draw up projects for bilateral and multilateral financing.
In Burundi, a $4.3 million IDA credit will help the government's efforts to reverse the rapid depletion of its forests. As a first stage of a long-term program, two tree plantations will be developed—a 2,000-hectare short rotation eucalyptus plantation to supply charcoal, firewood, and construction poles for the inhabitants of Bujumbura, and a 5,000-hectare pine plantation to produce saw timber. Thirty nurseries will be established at the communal (tertiary) administrative level to produce eucalyptus seedlings for sale to communes and farmers.
It is estimated that, in about eight years, the project will help meet the fuel needs of about 6,000 farm families and, at the same time, allow agricultural residues (such as grain stalks and legume hulls), which would no longer be burned as fuels, to be returned to the land. This will alleviate soil degradation and erosion which are serious problems directly linked to the fuel shortage.
Much of the success of the project will depend on how quickly Burundi's Forestry Department can respond to the governmental emphasis on developing the country's timber resources. The project, therefore, includes measures for project management support, and a component designed to establish a systematic long-term training program so as to provide the forestry service with higher-level and intermediate-level Barundi staff. On-the-job training will be provided for lower-level staff, including extension workers.
Industry and Infrastructure
Lending for industry, directly or through financial intermediaries, accounted for about 12% of the Region's total lending during fiscal 1979, or approximately the same proportion as in recent years. The main emphasis continued to be on institution building, which, in the Eastern African environment, is crucially important. The Bank, through its financial and advisory assistance, endeavors to encourage the growth of specialized term-lending institutions that have the capability of pursuing sound investment policies based on proper economic and financial analysis of investment projects.
In Rwanda, a second IDA credit, this time in the amount of $5.2 million, to the Rwanda Development Bank (the only nongovernmental source of foreign exchange term financing in the country), will permit assistance aimed at the development of the industrial sector to continue to be channeled through an institution that has proven to be an efficient allocator of foreign resources for small and medium-sized projects. A feasibility study will also be financed through the credit to determine if the establishment of an audit firm in Rwanda—where, as in many other countries in Africa, though such firms do not exist, they are urgently needed—is justified.
As the Bank increases its support of the directly productive sectors (agriculture, industry) in developing countries, the importance to those sectors of an adequate infrastructural base has become ever more apparent. The Bank, therefore, is increasing its assistance for
projects designed to provide needed low-cost, efficient infrastructure — particularly roads, but also water supply facilities and power systems—consistent with its support to the directly productive sectors. In its lending for roads, the Bank's emphasis has shifted from support of national or main road networks to support of feeder and lower-class rural roads that help support agricultural development. Pilot programs have been established to identify the most suitable type of road organization needed at the district level to plan, construct, and maintain such roads. Studies have also been carried out to determine the most efficient labor/equipment "mix" for their construction and maintenance. And local staff have been trained so that organizations responsible for the care of roads serving the rural areas can be set up at the district level.
The first Bank "sector loan" made to Kenya will support the middle three years of the Kenyan government's comprehensive Highway Sector Development Plan for the years 1979-83. In this instance, Bank assistance, in the form of a $90 million loan, will embrace the entire spectrum of the country's road network: paved, gravel, and dirt roads, as the Sector Development Plan includes provision for the strengthening, reconstruction, and upgrading of 1,650 kilometers of trunk roads and 14,950 kilometers of primary, secondary, minor, and rural access roads serving rural areas. The plan also calls for a comprehensive road maintenance program and includes measures designed to improve traffic law enforcement and road safety. Development of the highway sector in Kenya, and the Bank's involvement in it, has reached the stage where sector, rather than project lending by the Bank is considered the most desirable and appropriate means of helping the government achieve its highway objectives. During the last 10 to 15 years, Kenya's plans and activities in the highway sector have become large and complex. In nine Bank-assisted projects that preceded the sector loan, the Bank had become actively associated with virtually all aspects of these activities, including construction, maintenance, and rehabilitation of major and minor roads, and planning and administration, and has assisted in strengthening and expanding the sector institutions. From these projects, the Bank's knowledge of the sector increased, and a close and continuing dialogue with the government was established. During the preparation of the sector plan, the Bank was able to participate in its overall formulation and to comment on the broader sector issues. Meanwhile, the government's institutional capacity
grew to the point where it could administer and implement a sector lending operation, including the ability to plan and process sound projects in a timely and efficient manner.
A $5 million IDA credit to help finance a highway project in the Comoros marks the Bank's first lending operation in that island country, which gained independence only in 1975, and which became a member of the Bank in December 1976 and IDA in December 1977. This operation also afforded other external agencies—the African Development Fund and the OPEC Special Fund, which were co-financers of the project—the opportunity to provide financial assistance to the Comoros. Improvement of the country's transport infrastructure is crucial to the Comoros' socioeconomic development—ports to facilitate foreign trade, and highways to help develop the island's agricultural sector. Many villages are not linked to the main road system or are, at best, connected to it by tracks that only four-wheel drive vehicles can negotiate. The project has three main objectives: institution building through a program of technical assistance and training of local staff, which is expected to improve the performance of the national road administration; a road maintenance and improvement program that will help finance the improvement, to all-weather standards, of about 120 kilometers of tracks and will set up one resealing and two road patching units; and the expansion of the main road network into one of the country's most densely populated and underdeveloped areas—but one with considerable agricultural potential. In addition, studies related to a second highway project and a possible integrated rural development project located in an area served by the present IDA-supported road project will be undertaken.
A $6 million credit for a water supply project in Lesotho will help finance the construction of water supply systems in seven towns, each of which is a regional population center with importance as the site of regional institutions such as hospitals, schools, and district administration centers. Six of the towns are in the region of the country where intensive agriculture, a prime objective of the national development program, is possible; the seventh town is located in an area with mineral potential. As a result of the project, it is expected that, by 1986, public water service will be provided to about 20,000 new consumers who now rely on unprotected sources; in addition, the reliability and quality of water now supplied to about 21,000 consumers will be improved. The project, furthermore, is providing
funds for the employment of accounting consultants to design and assist in the implementation of an accounting system for the Water and Sewerage Branch of the Ministry of Works; funds will also be made available to identify staffing needs of the Branch, and to train or arrange for the training of accounting staff.
Meeting Energy Needs
Energy requirements in Kenya have grown rapidly in recent years, and are expected to increase 8.5% yearly through 1985. The government's policy is to supply, as far as possible, all increasing needs through the development of domestic generating capacity. Kenya's economically exploitable hydroelectric potential is limited, however; surveys have shown no
significant coal deposits, and the geological structure of most of the country seems to preclude finding oil, except perhaps in a strip bordering Somalia in the northeast. The most attractive alternative, therefore, appears to be the geothermal potential that exists at Olkaria, in the Rift valley near Lake Naivasha.
Investigations, surveys, and feasibility studies of the site, financed by the United Nations Development Programme and the Bank, have indicated that available reserves may be sufficient for power development of up to 100 mW. However, before embarking on the generation project, further drilling is necessary to provide firm information on the volume of steam output and temperature and pressure variations. A $9 million Bank loan approved during the year will help finance the drilling for steam production wells from which the necessary firm information will be obtained.
Western Africa
The 23 countries'1' that form the Western Africa Region continue to present a highly diverse picture of economic and social condi-tions.(2) While in fiscal 1978, the external factors, which always loom large in deciding the fate of these widely open economies, were mostly unfavorable because of a general decline in commodity prices and poor weather in much of the Region, the same factors have been more neutral and, in some respects, more favorable in fiscal 1979 despite a continued decline in coffee prices. Thus, in their efforts to steer their economies away from turbulences that have so profoundly affected growth and social progress since 1973-74, the Western Africa governments have at least been able to count on generally good crops and, except in some limited areas of the Sahel, on adequate food supplies.
This, of course, does not mean that the food and nutritional problems of the Region have been solved, or that they are even beginning to be brought under control on a long-term basis. Of concern in this respect are an unchecked population growth, the lack of a proven and economically efficient technical "package" to sustain expansion of production in the rainfed agriculture of the Sudano-Sahelian belt, the slow progress and high cost of developing irrigation and, therefore, the
WDuring fiscal 1979, Cape Verde became the twenty-third member, having joined the World Bank on November 20, 1978.
<2'Thus, according to World Bank methodology, and based on 1977 data, there is about the same relative difference between the gross national product (GNP) per capita of Mali and Ivory Coast, on the one hand, and between Ivory Coast and the United Kingdom on the other hand, the ratio being approximately 1:7.
continued dependence of the Region on good weather conditions for an adequate supply of foodstuffs. (The cereal economies of the Sahel remain particularly sensitive to atmospheric conditions.) But there are encouraging indications in these countries of a growing awareness on the part of governments that food producers need proper price incentives and that cereal stocks must be built up to dampen the effects of normal variations in production.'3' Assistance from the international community will continue to be necessary to further this momentum and, in the case of bad weather, to provide help as needed.
Despite a more stable international environment, many countries have had difficulties in restoring the degree of external and internal balance necessary to permit a resumption of growth. They have also found it difficult to generate more resources to satisfy their basic needs—child and maternal health, nutrition, basic education, and urban renewal—which, according to all indicators, are met less well in Western Africa than in most other regions of the developing world. Thus, in addition to the long-term structural problems of widespread poverty, and the obstacles to the growth of production, these countries are still struggling with high inflation, strained public sector finances, balance of payments deficits, and mounting external debt of a nature and degree unknown heretofore. The ensuing macro-economic management problems represent enormous challenges to the still young administrations of Western Africa.
Not surprisingly, some countries have fared better, for a variety of reasons, than others in fiscal 1979. Among the smaller countries, Benin and The Gambia have maintained a financial balance despite having limited resources. Niger, although severely stricken by the drought of the early 1970s, has not met serious financial difficulties because of rapidly rising revenues from uranium exports; as a result, the government budget is now able to generate sizable surpluses for investment. The challenge in Niger is to choose judiciously those policies that can raise, in a sustainable fashion, the still very low standards of living of the majority of the population. In the past, through fairly conservative policies, Cameroon has managed to avoid acute domestic financial problems although its external position appears to have weakened recently. Ivory Coast has managed to resume growth at its historical rate of about 7% a year and, at the same time, reduce excessive levels of public investment associated with the heavy borrowings of 1976 and 1977.
Adjustment in Nigeria
To a great extent, fiscal year 1979 was a time of painful adjustment for Nigeria. Its economy, of course, experienced a rather dramatic expansion following the petroleum boom of 1973-75. Fiscal 1978, however, saw the boom reverse itself, as petroleum exports fell by 25% in volume and by an additional 4% in price. An important factor in its economic recovery during fiscal 1979 was the rapid revival of oil exports due, first, to more competitive pricing and, second, to the interruption of oil supplies from Iran. The Nigerian government also took a number of steps to bring expenditures into line with revenues. Those steps included a drastic reduction in public investments, the imposition and tighter enforcement of import restrictions, and borrowing $750 million in the Eurodollar market. (In fiscal 1978, such borrowing amounted to $1,000 million.) These various factors contributed substantially to a reduction in inflationary financing, to a check in the rapid rise in imports, and to a stabilization in the decline in foreign exchange reserves. Although monetary expansion was much smaller than in previous years, inflation continued at about 20%, mainly due to the rise in the domestic prices of imported goods and oil products. At the same time, the cuts in public expenditures directly affected the construction sector, particularly in urban areas, creating recessionary conditions and threatening an increase in urban unemployment. GNP growth probably did not exceed 4%.
Other countries, where financial imbalances —whether associated with rapid overall growth or due to other causes—had become the main obstacle to social progress, have mounted serious rehabilitation programs, generally with International Monetary Fund (IMF) assistance. These include Gabon, Ghana, Mauritania, Senegal, and Togo. Because of the magnitude of the problems, however, or the long history of imbalances, or both, recovery may be years away. Ghana is a good illustration of the kind of drastic—and, therefore, socially costly —action that may become unavoidable in such circumstances. The rate of inflation had reached 11 6% in fiscal 1978, the gross domestic product (GDP) had registered hardly any
(3>The interstate committee to fight the drought (Comite Inter-Etats de Lutte contre la Secheresse—C1LSS) of eight Sahelian countries, which was established in 1973 after the severe drought of the early seventies, is gradually becoming the forum for intergovernmental discussion and study of policy decisions, which as so often in this Region, could not be effective if applied by each country in isolation.
growth, and the country's external reserve position had become extremely weak. Though prices for Ghana's exports were high and rising, export volumes fell, and the country could not gain the full benefits from this situation. At the same time, the demand for imports was overwhelming, and the import licensing system came under severe strain. Threatened with financial crisis, the government launched a wide-ranging stabilization program. In August 1978, the cedi was devalued 58% in terms of the US dollar. This devaluation was soon followed by the imposition of a lean budget aimed at sharply reducing overall budget deficits. Reserve ratios and interest rates were raised to reduce the liquidity in the economy, and in March 1979, cedi currency notes then in circulation were demonetized to reduce the stock of money, dampen the inflation pressures, and bolster the stabilization efforts. The full impact of these measures is still to be felt but, in the meantime, there are encouraging signs of donor responses to these Ghanaian self-help efforts.
The fiscal year just ended has been important not so much because of any dramatic external shock to which the economies of Western Africa have had to respond, but rather because the absence of such disturbances has underscored—in a number of countries—the decisive role of domestic policies.
These policies should be geared to maintaining or restoring the conditions under which external public and private capital inflows can become instrumental in accelerating growth and promoting social progress. Most governments have well understood this and taken action. The task however, is incomplete; these governments and the international community must sustain their efforts.
Bank and IDA Activities
Bank and IDA lending to countries in the Region reached $556 million in fiscal 1979. Thirty-five operations were approved, as compared with the same number of operations, totaling $509 million, in fiscal 1978. Most of the growth was accounted for by an increase in IDA lending—from $206 million in fiscal 1978 to $239 million. About 40% of these IDA funds were approved for projects in the poorest countries of the Region—projects that are directed at improving production and transportation in rural areas, at ameliorating the conditions of low-income urban residents, and at increasing the supply of trained manpower. Guinea-Bissau, which became a member of the World Bank in 1977, received its first credit during the year; a roads project credit of $9 million will benefit some 22,000 rural families by improving their access to
Constructing a fishing vessel in Ghana. Bank and IDA lending in support of fisheries development has aggregated $198.1 million; 24% of that amount—$47.7 million—is accounted for by the approval, in fiscal 1979, of four such projects.
domestic markets and social services, and by strengthening the operational capacity of local roads staff and public works personnel.
In terms of five-year averages, the fiscal 1975-79 period resulted in a significant increase in Bank and IDA lending to the Region; amounts for both types of lending were more than double the averages for the period, fiscal 1970-74. In those countries eligible to receive credits, the Region's annual average per capita share of IDA funds rose from $1.35 to $2.60 from one five-year period to the other. Sectoral trends show that increasing emphasis is being placed on agriculture and rural development, a sector whose share increased from 20% between 1970 and 1974 to 41% between 1975 and 1979. Agriculture and rural development has thus become the Region's leading sector, replacing transportation, whose share fell from 40% to 27%. Moreover, within the transportation sector, a growing percentage of recent projects has concentrated on feeder and other rural roads that will benefit the countries' agricultural majori-
ties, or on other infrastructure that will serve the Region's several landlocked countries. New highway projects have been primarily for road rehabilitation and maintenance rather than new construction. Following transportation, projects for water supply and sewerage facilities ranked third in the overall fiscal 1975-79 sectoral distribution.
This marked increase in lending for water supply and sewerage was due to the fiscal 1979 approval of four projects totaling $115 million —a total that exceeded all previous lending for this sector in the Region. These projects constituted the first Bank involvement in the water supply and sewerage sector in Liberia, Guinea, Senegal, and Nigeria. In the first two countries, about 250,000 people, among the poorer residents of their capital cities, will be given better access to safe water; in addition, the incidence of waterborne diseases will be reduced. In Senegal, an engineering loan will cover all of the studies necessary to undertake a priority project to rehabilitate and extend water supply systems in 1 1 secondary centers
of the country. The $92 million loan to Nigeria was the largest single Bank loan ever approved for a country in the Western Africa Region. This water supply project will be implemented in Kaduna, a major industrial center in northern Nigeria with a population of about 600,000. The project will particularly benefit 400,000 mostly low-income consumers who are poorly served at present.
Although agriculture and rural development has become the Region's leading sector, its share of fiscal 1979 lending (31%) was lower than that of previous years, reflecting the particular mix of projects approved during the year. Thirteen projects were approved— about the same number as in fiscal years 1977 and 1978—but for several reasons, they cost less. Special emphases on technical assistance and training for the agricultural sector, concern for smallholder production, and the Bank's new involvement in lending to the forestry sector all necessitated an evolving series of sometimes small pilot projects.
The particular mix of fiscal 1979 projects also significantly affected the amount of co-financing secured for regional projects— about $112 million as compared with $185 million in fiscal 1978.(4> This decline does not indicate a lessening of the Region's present or future co-financing efforts. It simply reflects the sectoral blend of fiscal 1979 lending that included a large number of smaller projects and excluded large industrial, port, and power projects that traditionally absorb large amounts of co-financing. Based on present projections, co-financing in the Region is expected to play an important role in fiscal 1980.
Each co-financed project attracted an average of about $8 million in co-financing during the year, compared with about $11 million in fiscal 1978 and $25 million in fiscal 1977.
During the year, 13 agencies participated in co-financing Bank-supported and IDA-supported projects. The most important contributors continued to be the industrialized countries of Europe and North America and the African Development Bank/Fund.
Training and Technical Assistance
Sustained growth of agricultural production is critically dependent on qualified managers and extension specialists, skills that are still in short supply. To assist in this area, education and training for rural development received special attention during the year, as an IDA credit of $22 million for Senegal and a Bank loan of $9 million to Nigeria were approved. Both  projects  provide  for  establishing or
strengthening training institutes or centers designed to build up management capability at different levels in the rural development sector. In Senegal, the construction of the National College of Agriculture and a Management Training Institute will help meet the country's critical need for qualified technical and managerial manpower through the graduation of about 40 agriculturalists and 40 business managers a year.
In Nigeria, the establishment of an Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute will help meet the need to strengthen managerial capacity in the agricultural and rural sector where the Nigerian government plans significant investments. The Institute will offer courses for staff in middle management and second line supervisory positions, and, in particular, will instruct trainers from agricultural and rural administrative organizations. Annual enrollment at the Institute is expected to be about 560.
On a different level, in Togo, a technical assistance project (assisted by an IDA credit of $2.2 million) will provide the Ministry of Planning with two permanent advisers on macroeconomic management and project analysis, together with provision for short-term consultancies for special studies (agricultural pricing, for example).
In smallholder agriculture, a rubber project, assisted by a $7.6 million Bank loan, in Ivory Coast, and benefiting some 1,000 farming families, will support a government program to diversify the rural economy in the southeastern region. The project includes the planting of rubber trees for smallholders on 3,000 hectares of land manually cleared by participating farmers. Another 2,000 hectares will be planted as a government-owned nucleus industrial rubber estate that will be integrated with an additional 500 hectares of smallholdings. Training and extension services for participating farmers will be provided.
During fiscal 1979, the Bank broadened its geographic intervention in a relatively new subsector—forestry: a total of $59.5 million was extended to Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, and Nigeria for this purpose. In all four countries, the primary project objectives are to set up a proper framework for forestry development and management in very different institutional and ecological contexts, and to ensure that the people participate in, and benefit from,
<4>Co-financing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval, and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
the development of forest resources. The Nigeria project aims at establishing over 24,000 hectares of fast-growing gmelina (tropical hardwood) and pine plantations for the production of pulpwood and timber in Ondo, Ogun, and Anambra states. The Bank loan will finance $31 million out of a total cost of about $80 million. In Ivory Coast, a project, assisted by an $18 million Bank loan, involves a plantation development program of 68,000 hectares of hardwood over five years in logged areas; it also includes technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operational services in the forestry sector. As a result of the project, the government should benefit from increased revenues from forest taxes and improved management capability in its forest investment programs.
Assisting Small-scale African Enterprises
During the past year, the Bank sought to promote the development of small-scale African-owned and African-operated enterprises, both in industry and agriculture, through institution building and the provision of finance and technical assistance. In Ivory Coast, a $12.6 million Bank loan to the Credit de la Cote d'lvoire (CO) was approved. It was the first "repeater" operation in the Region of what had been an essentially experimental project (providing finance to assist small enterprises) in this field. The first line of credit benefited more than 100 small Ivorian entrepreneurs. The new loan will provide long-term financing for Ivorian-owned small and medium-scale enterprises and artisans' cooperatives.(r,) The training of CCI staff will also be financed. An $8 million IDA credit to Mauritania will help finance an innovative project benefiting three sectors: small and medium-scale industries, artisans, and irrigated small-scale agriculture under the control of village cooperatives. Expanded productive employment (about 500 new jobs), a dramatic increase in carpet production, and foreign exchange savings are expected to result from the subloans that are to be sanctioned by three principal financial intermediaries. The agricultural component should increase paddy production by about 3,000 tons a year, and may create about 70 additional days of work annually for each of some 1,800 small farmers.
the devastating effects of the Sahelian drought. The DRF projects were a regional operation whereby IDA, under one project, extended six lines of credit, totaling $14 million, to six Sahelian countries (Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta). In each country, a number of small operations was aimed at restoring the productive basis in drought-afflicted areas through the implementation of such subprojects as small-scale irrigation, reforestation, animal health measures, rural water supply, and administrative and technical support to key government services.
Due to IDA's willingness to waive normal preparation procedures, only a few of the sub-projects were identified and prepared at appraisal. Unidentified subprojects were selected by the borrowers on the basis of criteria agreed upon—fast generation of benefits, the reaching of a large number of people in the poorest areas, and a readiness on the part of beneficiaries to contribute through self-help and user charges. Most of the projects were completed in fiscal 1977 and 1978. Examples of sub-projects executed are: 320 wells for drinking water in Senegal and Upper Volta; equipment for, and training of two well maintenance units in Chad; rehabilitation or construction of small irrigation schemes on 2,200 hectares in Mali; conservation of 6,200 hectares of gum arabic stands in Niger; clearance of 610 kilometers of firebreaks in Senegal's forest areas; and repairs on 336 kilometers of feeder roads in Upper Volta.
IDA and the six borrowing countries learned from the DRF project that small projects could be prepared and implemented with little assistance by specialized government services. This experience was useful in the preparation of subsequent projects, such as the Rural Development Fund and Rural Projects Fund operations that now exist in several of the Sahelian countries.
Drought Relief Project Completed
In fiscal 1979, the Bank closed out most of
the Drought Relief Fund (DRF) projects that ,rw „-—..,.„.
...      . .    „     , ,     t      ,   f (J)A   small   business in the Ivorian context is one with
were initiated in fiscal 1974 to help overcome        total investments of $340,000 or less.
East Asia and Pacific
In fiscal 1979, the economic performance of the Bank's major East Asian borrowers— Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand—continued to build on its impressive record of the last 15 years. Per capita gross national product (GNP) growth rates were again substantially higher than the average for all developing countries. According to the main indicators of welfare, past GNP growth has been accompanied by broad advances in the satisfaction of basic needs in health, nutrition, education, and other services. This record of economic and social progress can be attributed to a number of factors: political stability, generally strong commitment to development, a large increase in investment levels, high priority given to the agriculture and export sectors, an unprece-dentedly rapid increase in international trade
and, last but not least, generally sound and pragmatic economic management.
An important influence on the longer-term prospects of these countries is their falling fertility rates. They all have active population policies; in addition, it is likely that the modernization process is influencing attitudes towards childbearing. While the effect of lower fertility is partially compensated by lower mortality (especially among young children), the net effect is that overall population growth rates have started to fall, in some cases rapidly. Because of the inevitable time lag, however, the growth in the working-age population has still been increasing at a rate well over 3% a year in all the major countries except Indonesia, where it is about one-fourth lower.
The Bank's analysis of the Region's major economic problems over the last several years
has concentrated on the relationships between economic growth, employment, and poverty. Especially in countries where land resources are scarce, it appears that a direct attack on poverty must be embedded in a general development strategy aimed at a rapid increase in employment opportunities. In such a strategy, available labor can initially be more fully utilized, thus increasing household incomes; this has already occurred in most of the Region's countries. Eventually, as the labor market tightens, the least productive activities are gradually eliminated, and the real wage rate is forced up; generally, this second stage has not yet been reached. As a consequence, while rapid overall economic expansion has had a significant impact on the economic position of the underprivileged in the Region, the distribution of the benefits of growth has remained generally unequal. Such unequal distribution is also occurring between regions within a number of countries, where, most notably, areas dependent on rainfed agriculture often lag behind. This situation has led the Bank to examine regional issues in more depth. Furthermore, now that the necessary financial and economic adjustments to the large year-to-year international economic fluctuations induced by the structural increase in oil prices and the international recession have been made, and the structural shifts in terms of trade have manifested themselves more clearly, it has become possible to reassess the capital requirements of the major East Asian countries as they relate to the need for a rapid expansion in employment and incomes.
Among the five major borrowers in the Region, Korea has the fastest growing per capita income. Though cultivable land was fully utilized long ago, the country has been extremely successful in developing an export-oriented light industry. Not only has economic growth been rapid, its structure has been such that many jobs have been created, thus enabling the benefits of development to be well distributed. Large balance of payment deficits in the early 1970s, as well as their recurrence in the difficult years of 1974 and 1975, have been overcome as exports soared. In more recent years, economic growth has been well over 10% a year, and investments have increased sharply. These investments have reflected the need for increased productive capacity, for large outlays in social and economic infrastructure as the country modernizes and urbanizes rapidly, and to achieve structural changes so that the country can take advantage of shifting patterns of comparative advantage. The government has recently liber-
alized imports which, on the one hand, has helped to combat inflation by increasing the availability of goods in the market, and, on the other hand, through the reemergence of a balance of payments deficit on current account, has contributed to a new inflow of foreign capital to help finance these investments. Over the coming years, the country can productively utilize and service gross inflows of foreign resources in the amount of $3,000 million to $4,000 million annually.
Malaysia is the most fortunate country in the Region in terms of land resources still available, although the productivity of those resources is limited. Traditionally, the country has relied heavily on exports of rubber, and it was hard hit when rubber prices declined structurally in the 1960s and the first years of the present decade as advances were made in the efficiency of synthetics. While Malaysia was successful in increasing productivity in rubber to counter the adverse trend in prices, the net result was a delay in the resolution of the country's poverty problems. As a result of active government policies, and aided by the international commodity boom, the situation started to improve appreciably during the period, 1972-74, as exports recovered and industrial investment, production, and employment grew rapidly. A subsequent lull in private investment (especially in manufacturing), together with increased oil revenues, led to substantial current account surpluses in 1976 and 1977. Since then, private investment in some sectors has been recovering, and the government has stepped up its investments in projects designed to reduce poverty (the field of concentration for the Bank). As a result of these factors, as well as favorable export prices, the incidence of poverty is now being reduced steadily. Poor weather and recovering investments eliminated Malaysia's current account surplus in 1978; in the future, moderate capital inflows will be necessary to amortize debt and build up reserves in line with imports.
In Thailand, existing land reserves have been rapidly utilized during the last 15 years as the country aggressively diversified into new agricultural products (maize, tapioca, and sugar). Under the influence, also, of increased industrialization, the incidence of poverty is estimated to have lessened from well over one-half to about one-third of the population during the 15-year period. At present, poverty is largely concentrated in the distant areas of the northeastern and northern regions of the country. Land reserves are now dwindling rapidly, however; as a result, the country's overall economic growth rate has begun to be affected.
At the same time, Thailand's balance of payments has swung into substantial deficit in the aftermath of the economic events of the mid-1970s. Fortunately, Thailand has low debt-service liabilities; it can, therefore, borrow substantial amounts over the coming years as it makes the transition to a more productivity-oriented growth strategy in agriculture while increasing labor absorption in the other sectors.
In the Philippines, land became scarce earlier than in Thailand. This scarcity, together with the skewed distribution of land holdings, has led to a formidable problem of rural poverty. The incidence of poverty has gradually spilled over into urban areas, as the manufacturing sector failed to generate job opportunities sufficient to meet the needs of rural emigrants. The government has been successful in accelerating economic growth in the 1970s through increasing public investment and improving agricultural performance by offering increased incentives to farmers, expanding irrigation and other inputs, and by making more available high-yielding varieties of seeds. A land reform program has also been initiated that has benefited tenant farmers in rice-growing and maize-growing areas; steps are being taken to improve supporting services for them. Since 1970, the growth of manufactured exports has also been impressive, albeit from what was initially a small base. As in
Thailand, the Philippines is likely to face substantial current account deficits over the coming years as a result of a structural terms of trade loss. Since the country already has a substantial external debt, careful balance of payments management will continue to be essential to support its export-oriented and employment-oriented strategy, especially in manufacturing.
Indonesia, the largest and most complex, but also one of the poorest countries in the Region, has made large strides forward since the economic dislocation of the mid-1960s. There is no doubt that a large majority of the population has benefited from the rapid economic growth that has occurred, partly as a result of increased oil revenues. Still, large problems remain, of which the uneven distribution of the population, dependence on imports of food, a low level of industrial development, and difficult transportation and communication problems in the far-flung archipelago are only a few. In an attempt to make its own nonoil (especially manufacturing) sectors more competitive, the government has recently devalued the rupiah. The Bank is assisting the government over a wide front to help alleviate the country's problems. While the need for investment capital is large, Indonesia is watching its debt service carefully, and the size of the foreign inflows it can absorb is, there-
Twelve loans and credits—the latest was approved in fiscal 1979—have supported Indonesia's irrigation subsector. The emphasis of these projects has been on the rehabilitation of systems built during the country's colonial period.
fore, closely linked to the borrowing terms it can obtain.
The economic conditions in the smaller Pacific island countries have recently been fairly favorable. The growth rate of Papua New Guinea's economy has picked up in the last two years after several years of slow growth. The main sources of the recent growth have been strong levels of private investment and expanding agricultural output. In particular, exports of coffee reached record volumes during 1978. In Fiji, Western Samoa, and the Solomon Islands, economic growth accelerated during the year. Increased export receipts, due to favorable prices for major commodities, as well as higher volume, and public sector spending, which reflected improved flows of both foreign grants and loans, were the main sources of growth. Tourism growth was also substantial.
In summary, economic prospects for the Region remain promising. Given continued large additions to its labor force, the imperatives for growth and employment creation, however, will also remain strong. Thus, the
Region will need, and will be able to utilize, large inflows of foreign capital. In gross terms, annual inflows will probably exceed the $10,000 million mark well before 1985. While most inflows will have to come from other official sources and from the private sector, the Bank can continue to play a significant role in fulfilling the Region's capital needs on appropriate terms.
Bank and IDA Lending
Lending by the World Bank to countries in the Region during fiscal year 1979 showed a 23% increase over the previous year. Eight IDA credits made up $338 million of the total of $2,130 million. Twenty-four of the 40 projects approved followed earlier Bank investments covering a broad range of sectors, such as irrigation, rural development, urban renewal, and water supply. While most of the lending was for projects in the five major countries, Viet Nam received its first IDA credit (for irrigation), and rural development projects were also approved for Laos and
Papua New Guinea. Lending for agriculture totaled $566.4 million; the 14 projects in that sector continued to have diverse objectives and to help finance a broad range of rural infrastructure—roads, schools, and health facilities, for instance—in addition to credit and more direct agricultural inputs. Infrastructure projects—transportation, power, telecommunications, and water supply—made up 48% of the lending ($1,022 million), while lending for education ($164 million) increased by 76% over the previous high, set in fiscal 1976. Lending for population increased to $57 million from $33 million in fiscal 1978 with the approval of two projects. Two small projects—a technical assistance credit in Indonesia and an engineering loan for a natural gas pipeline project in Thailand—will lay the groundwork for substantial future investment opportunities.
Funds committed under co-financing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached $497 million, or 126% above last year's level, and 83% above the 1976-78 average.
Each co-financed project attracted an average of $38 million in co-financing during the year, compared with about $22 million in fiscal 1978 and $41 million in fiscal 1977.
During the year, 10 official multilateral and bilateral agencies participated in co-financing Bank-supported and IDA-supported projects.
Urban Development
The needs of the poor in the large and expanding cities of the Region are great. The financing of urban infrastructure and affordable shelter for low-income families has been a regular feature of recent Bank lending. Two projects in fiscal 1979 seek to ameliorate urban living conditions in five large cities in Indonesia and in Bangkok. Indonesia's urban areas are severely deficient in essential infrastructure. Less than one-third of the population has reasonable access to safe drinking water, and one-quarter has no sanitation facilities. Building upon the success of the Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) initiated by the Jakarta city government in 1969, and supported by two previous Bank loans, a third urban project in Indonesia, assisted by a $54 million Bank loan, will help to finance roads; footpaths; and drainage, water supply, sanitation, and school and health facilities in low-income neighborhoods in five cities. This upgrading of infrastructure is expected to benefit 750,000 people. In addition, through the financing of the necessary infrastructure for the collection, transportation, and disposal of solid waste, about 1.5 million people in Jakarta and
500,000 residents of Surabaya will gain access to acceptable solid waste disposal services by 1985. Since flooding of kampungs is also a serious problem in Surabaya, the project will finance the dredging and desilting of about nine kilometers of main drainage canals, as well as the rehabilitation of pumping stations. Community health workers will be trained to advise kampung residents on environmental hygiene, maternal and child health care, immunization, and nutrition.
The Bangkok traffic management project, while quite different in emphasis, also faces up to serious problems of urban living conditions. Bangkok, a city of about 5 million people, suffers from substantial traffic congestion that seriously impairs the conduct of public and private business, particularly in the city center where there exists a mixture of residential, industrial, commercial, and government buildings. The government realizes that not only would investment in urban expressways and rail systems be prohibitively expensive, it probably would not be effective. The project, for which a Bank loan of $16 million was made, supports a number of policy measures, improvements in traffic management, and low-cost infrastructure. In consultation with the Bank, the government will introduce area road pricing, improved bus and minibus services, parking controls, and staggered working hours —all to be supported by improved signaling, road signs and one-way routing, pedestrian overpasses at seven critical intersections, and 10 short road links that will increase the capacity of the main road system. The project will also provide equipment and vehicles for a reorganized and expanded traffic police force. The benefits of the project will accrue to all classes of road users except certain private car travelers; major beneficiaries will be those who use the city's 4,700 buses and 10,000 minibuses.
Meeting Smallholder Needs
The Bank continues to diversify its lending to the rural sector, and projects approved in fiscal 1979 in Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand provide examples of attempts to meet the needs of small farmers. Basic needs such as food, education, health, clothing, and shelter are less adequately met in isolated Southern Highlands province than almost any other region of Papua New Guinea. The government's strategy for the rural sector
'^Co-financing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval, and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
aims at providing more equitable income distribution, better access to health care and education, and satisfaction of other basic needs. The productive basis of this strategy will consist of the development of farming systems that increase or sustain subsistence production, as well as provide increased earnings through cash crop farming. Accordingly, a rural development project, for which an IDA credit of $20 million was made, will finance field trials and demonstrations of new crops, varieties, and husbandry methods to enhance existing subsistence farming techniques. The project will also help support the development of coffee, tea, cardamom, and mulberry—the only cash crops that have a potential for expansion in this area of high rainfall and poor soils. Health services in the province will be improved by providing facilities for the training of nurses and health field staff and by constructing three health subcenters in two districts that have particularly inadequate facilities. The project will upgrade the province's existing 138 kilometers of main roads and improve about 900 kilometers of feeder roads to help reduce the isolation of people scattered in many small villages. The construction of two new high schools, the provision of teaching materials and transport facilities for non-formal education staff, and training courses for villagers are all aimed at correcting deficiencies in educational opportunities.
In Indonesia, the Bank assisted a second transmigration project that will launch a land development program along the trans-Suma-tera highway by resettling about 30,000 families from impoverished and ecologically threatened areas of Java and Bali (90% of the families), as well as from Sumatera. Additionally, the conditions of, and services provided to 4,000 transmigrant families who were recently settled in the same area will be improved.
The Indonesian transmigration program is one of the largest organized resettlement efforts in the world. Since 1905, government programs have transferred nearly 1 million settlers to relatively underutilized islands—particularly Sumatera. Transmigration is a central feature of the government's third Five-Year (1979-84) Development Plan.
A first Bank-assisted transmigration project was approved in fiscal 1977; the fiscal 1979 project, assisted by a $90 million Bank loan and a $67 million IDA credit, is designed to create new farms and open up upland food crop production on 36,000 hectares and increase crop production on another 4,800 hectares of land. Some 170,000 people are to benefit directly from the project.
Though most farmers in the Philippines are already in the cash economy, they need increased assistance to improve their living standards. Many tenant farmers have become owner-cultivators under the 1972 agrarian reform legislation, but not a few of them have been unable to take full advantage of their new status, as a number of early credit programs were not as successful as they might have been due to inadequate technical and supervisory support. A small farmer development project, for which a Bank loan of $ 16.5 million was made, supports the coordinated delivery, through the Land Bank of the Philippines, of technical assistance and improved infrastructure and credit to about 28,000 beneficiaries of the agrarian reform program. The project provides production credit for critical inputs such as fertilizers, agrochemicals, and seeds, as well as a modest expansion of marketing credit to cooperatives and private dealers handling small farmers' produce. Since the shortage of labor is serious during land preparation, planting, and harvesting seasons, medium-term loans will help finance the purchase of small power tillers. The purchase of rice threshers, driers, and light trucks will also be financed to help reduce losses incurred in drying, threshing, and transporting produce. Because diversification from rice is needed in rainfed and inadequately irrigated areas, term credit will be made available for backyard piggeries, poultry, and beef cattle, as well as for cottage industries such as those that deal in embroidery, garments, and fibercraft. The project will also help finance the construction of local feeder roads, flood control structures, and the rehabilitation of small, scattered irrigation systems that are outside the scope of large government development schemes. The number of Land Bank staff responsible for financial supervision and the coordination of other government advisory agencies in the field will be increased to a level of one coordinator for each 300 to 500 farmers.
In Thailand, the northern agricultural development project supports government programs to alleviate acute poverty, low yields, and degradation of natural resources in agricultural areas that are largely rainfed. Thirty thousand hectares of upland, farmed by shifting cultivation methods in eight provinces in the northern region, will be brought under stable cultivation using land clearing, conservation, and cultivation techniques tested over the past nine years in an Australian-assisted pilot project. The project also will assist about 6,500 hill tribe families living in remote highland areas by financing 160 very small irriga-
tion schemes and bench terracing for rainfed crops such as soybeans and coffee. Rehabilitation of forest areas degraded by shifting agriculture will be started when hill tribe farmers develop a permanent agricultural base in the valleys. Simple school buildings for primary and adult education and health posts will be established in hill tribe villages. In both upland and highland areas, village woodlots will be established to provide firewood and timber previously collected in the areas that are to be developed for stable agriculture. The project, supported by a $25 million IDA credit, will also assist the government's efforts to strengthen provincial planning capability and will provide funds for the testing of technology packages in rainfed areas and for the preparation of further programs and projects that are responsive to the needs of the rural poor.
A New Field
Of the four loans made in support of the industrial sector in fiscal 1979, the Korea electronics research development and engineering project represents a new field for Bank finance. The project is designed to stimulate and support growth in the Korean electronics industry by developing local capabilities in semiconductors and digital systems. To succeed in this field, however, Korea will have to concentrate initially on a few technologies that will allow it to upgrade the design and reliability of its products, and, simultaneously, to provide the core around which to build future technological capabilities. This effort requires substantial design and manufacturing know-how, as well as expensive technological infrastructure that would be beyond the individual capabilities and resources of Korean or joint-venture firms.
The project, supported by a $29 million Bank loan, consists of two components. The first—the development of the Korea Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET)—comprises specialized capital-intensive common facilities providing services that cannot be economically supplied by individual firms. These facilities will also be used to train engineers and facilitate the transfer of manufacturing know-how.
The second component—the Research Development and Engineering Program—will finance selected development projects, the costs and subsequent benefits of which the Institute will share with private industry. The program will aim at upgrading a significant segment of the electronics industry and will, in particular, encourage cooperative efforts among Korean firms.
Agricultural Education
A second education project in Indonesia, begun in fiscal 1972, and completed in the past year, made a major contribution to improving the quality of education at 14 secondary agricultural schools, the main source for new extension agents. The success of the project and its relevance to national agricultural priorities encouraged the government to seek Bank support for a follow-up project—approved during the past fiscal year—that will finance institutions in additional provinces and introduce new training programs in the fields of animal husbandry, fisheries, forestry, and rural home improvement.
The proportion of students successfully completing the three-year course at the second education project-supported schools has risen sharply, and graduates have had no difficulty in securing jobs. The multipurpose curriculum, with its emphasis on practical training and food crops, has proven to be appropriate at a time when agricultural development demands an increasing number of quality extension workers to accelerate food crop production. The project, aided by a $6,3 million IDA credit, also financed improvements at 13 in-service training centers for agricultural extension workers, two factory training centers, and the national agricultural training institute. The agency in the Agriculture Ministry that was established under the project, and which managed the project, demonstrated its capability to upgrade and maintain satisfactory standards of agricultural training in widely scattered institutions. Technical assistance specialists from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and from the Netherlands were instrumental in improving teaching methods at the project schools.
South Asia
In large parts of South Asia, economic trends were favorable in fiscal 1979. The improvement in economic conditions in much of the Region, India in particular, has now continued since fiscal 1976. The gains in output of agriculture, still the most important sector by far, were the result of a combination of generally favorable weather and—to an extent as yet difficult to quantify—of structural improvements, such as irrigation and extension, that have raised basic production levels. Continued expansion of industry and exports and rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad have, in addition, contributed to more abundant resources, including substantial increases in reserves of food and foreign exchange. Consequently, it has been possible to divert attention from short-term problems and to focus increasingly on more fundamental is-
sues. These broad findings, of course, need qualification in the light of differing trends in individual countries.
Recent improvements should not obscure the fact that South Asia, the world's most populous Region, continues to face massive development problems. Despite notable achievements over the past 30 years throughout most of the Region, per capita incomes have risen only modestly because of rapid population growth. The Region today is still coping with massive and extreme poverty; at least 350 million people, of whom some 250 million live in India alone, continue to be deprived of minimum necessities in terms of nutrition, unpolluted water, clothing, and shelter. For this segment of the population in particular, health conditions have remained poor, life expectancy short, literacy and voca-
tional skills low or absent, and unemployment or underemployment high. Improvements are only possible through prolonged and sustained development efforts on an expanding scale. Key priorities for most countries of the Region are to lower the population growth rate and to develop rural areas through productivity increases in agriculture and the creation of rural nonfarm employment.(1)
For the Indian economy, fiscal 1979 was another prosperous year. Overall economic growth is tentatively estimated at 3% to 4%, after 7% in the year before. Four consecutive years of healthy growth have now occurred, accompanied by a significant rise in per capita incomes. Total savings and fixed investments have also increased in relation to income. Even though agricultural production had reached record levels in fiscal 1978, and despite widespread flooding, output in fiscal 1979 rose by another 1.5% to 2%, and foodgrain production reached an all-time high of more than 126 million tons. The high output levels achieved since fiscal 1976 owe much to favorable monsoons. But there are growing indications that the "floor" level of foodgrain crops achievable with average weather has moved up substantially due to increased irrigation, better provision of other inputs (especially fertilizer), and improved extension services. Growth of industrial output is estimated at 7% to 8% after a generally sluggish performance in fiscal 1978. This increase occurred despite recurring shortages of basic inputs, such as steel and coal, and inadequate supporting infrastructure, such as a lack of railway wagons and a shortage of electric power.
India's external payments position remained strong, to which a continuing large inflow of workers' remittances contributed. With gross external reserves of over $7,000 million, a buffer stock of foodgrains approaching 12 million tons, and only mild inflation (reflecting adequate supplies and prudent monetary policy), the country has been able to step up its long-term development efforts through a larger utilization of accumulated reserves, primarily for investment purposes. There are indications of a growing absorption of external resources, as imports were further liberalized and rose by 13% in fiscal 1979. But the growth of external reserves has slowed abruptly, and, in the longer run, sustained growth of the Indian economy will continue to require a large and rising volume of external assistance.
In Bangladesh, improved economic and political stability made it possible, over the last several years, to focus increasingly on major developmental problems, in contrast with the
early years of independence when relief, rehabilitation, and stabilization were unavoidably the paramount concerns of Bangladesh's policy makers. From fiscal 1976 until recently, the country did not experience major floods, droughts, or cyclones. In the second half of fiscal 1979, however, drought conditions adversely affected agriculture. Growth in real gross national product (GNP) in fiscal 1979 was well below the rate reached in fiscal 1978 —mainly because of less favorable weather that had an adverse effect on foodgrain output. Domestic food stocks as of mid-1979 were well below target, and the food gap remained in excess of 1.5 million tons for fiscal 1979. The low stock position led the government to negotiate large additional food imports for delivery in the latter half of calendar year 1979.
Industrial production, although as yet only 8% of gross domestic product (GDP), rose about 10%, stimulated by a revival of consumer demand and a further liberalization of imports. The general supply of nonfood items, both producer and consumer goods, also improved considerably in the last two years in the wake of stepped-up imports. Despite this, inflation has again become a problem. The cost of living rose by 15% in fiscal 1978 and by perhaps even more in fiscal 1979, reflecting high rice prices, budgetary deficits, and more liberal credit for the private sector, including agriculture.
Because of the country's weak economic structure, including low domestic savings, capital requirements must still be met largely by external assistance; foreign aid finances 75% to 80% of an as yet modest level of public investment. Indications are that the greater development effort undertaken for fiscal year 1979 required a rise in net foreign aid by over $200 million, to surpass $1,000 million.
Pakistan's GDP rose by about 6% in real terms during fiscal 1978 after several years of low growth. Available evidence suggests continued expansion during fiscal 1979. There has been some revival, stimulated by new incentives and an upturn in world markets, in the important textile industry. Growth has been maintained in construction and services, while substantial workers' remittances from abroad (which rose further to an estimated $1,400
(1>Rural nonfarm activities include construction, commerce, services, transport, processing, and manufacturing. Though most activities are very small in scale, they form the major training ground in nonfarm work for rural people.
million in fiscal 1979) have sustained growth rates of incomes above those of output. However, agriculture has continued to experience setbacks. The most notable recent example was the 10% decline in the fiscal 1978 wheat crop, affected by disease, and which necessitated emergency imports. Although wheat harvests recovered during fiscal 1979 and rice production continued to expand, both the cotton and sugar crops were disappointing and overall agricultural growth rates remained low.
The economic outlook in Pakistan is uncertain. A deterioration in the country's finances is currently taking place, reflecting a large increase in the budget deficit, a sharp rise in imports, and continued rapid monetary expansion. Additional resources from abroad on the scale obtained during the mid-1970s from capital surplus countries of the Middle East or, more recently, from rising workers' remittances, are unlikely to become available, and careful demand management will be essential in order to avoid serious balance of payments problems and accelerated price increases, which, in the last two years, have inflated the GDP by about 10% a year. Careful management will be a necessary prelude to the tackling of fundamental longer-term problems, in particular near-stagnant productivity in agriculture and industry, a rapid growth in population (3% a year), and, consequently, slow improvements in average incomes and the provision of basic social services.
Improving Prospects
For Sri Lanka's economy, prospects have improved. The country benefited, in both calendar 1977 and 1978, from favorable monsoons which, after two years of serious drought, contributed to record paddy crops. Moreover, important policy reforms have been initiated since mid-1977 that have already begun to improve the economy's health. These measures include a unification of the exchange rate, the liberalization of import licensing and exchange controls, policy-induced increases in prices of essential commodities and services, including the procurement price of paddy, and the initiation of a range of new productive projects.
GDP growth in real terms in calendar 1978 was over 8%, up from 4% in 1977. Rice production which, in 1978, reached an all-time high of 1.3 million tons, was due to favorable weather, better production incentives, and improved availability of inputs, especially fertilizer. Tea, which comprises 49% of merchandise exports and accounts for over one-third of
tax revenues, did not share in the expansion, as it continued to suffer from past neglect, including inadequate replacement of overaged plants, declining incentives, and management problems in two-thirds of the acreage that is in the public sector. Industry is showing a strong response to the economic reforms, however. Heavy replacement investments and inventory replenishments were made in 1978, and considerable expansion of capacity is beginning to take place, as well. These factors contributed to a large increase in imports in 1978, but continued good prices for exports and a strong response to the policy reforms by aid donors have kept the overall balance of payments in surplus. Inflation was a relatively high 14%, due largely to one-time effects of the policy reforms.
The country's foremost economic challenges are: to reduce high unemployment, to lessen the dependence upon tree crop exports, and to restore long-term economic growth. To help achieve these goals, the government intends to increase investments significantly during the next five years. Public sector investment is to center around three major development schemes: the accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga development program/2' aimed at harnessing the island's substantial irrigation and power potential; the establishment of a free-trade zone for industry; and a major new housing and urban development program.
Burma continues to be a paddy-dominated economy, and over the last several years, rice has regained its position as the leading export, accounting for about half of the total value of exports. During the first half of the 1970s, growth in rice production was barely equal to population growth, but record crops in the last three years, helped by favorable weather and an increased supply of agricultural inputs, reversed this trend. Including other crops, agricultural output (value added) since fiscal 1976 has risen by about 5.5% a year in real terms. Substantial gains have also been posted by the industrial sector (in recent years, of 7% per year or more). Efforts are continuing to improve the efficiency of state enterprises through commercial guidelines and incentives for workers. Prices have been highly stable during the last two years, due to a larger output and, in fiscal 1 978, to a sharp rise in im-
<->Government assessments indicate that additional benefits to the economy made possible by the project's first phase (completed in 1978) in the last two years have been nearly equal to the project's capital costs.
ports made possible by import liberalization and a near tripling of long-term capital inflows. On the other hand, there continue to be shortages created by generally low levels of production and an inadequate distribution system. Exports are substantially below the level of a decade ago. A large potential remains for further gains in output through policy evolution and a more intensive use of the country's abundant natural resources, including teak, minerals, and oil.
Nepal's immediate economic prospects have brightened following abatement of adverse weather conditions which, in fiscal years 1977 and 1978, had caused a 10% drop in the output of rice, the country's leading crop and export. Real GDP growth in fiscal 1979 may reach 4% to 5%, almost double that of the two preceding years. And inflation pressures, which, in fiscal 1978, caused a rise in average consumer prices of over 10%, have subsided.
For many years, the subsistence needs of Nepal's growing population have been met by extending agricultural cultivation over larger areas. Methods of cultivation remained traditional, and yields were low. With suitable new lands becoming increasingly scarce and erosion accelerating, an early breakthrough is needed
in agricultural productivity to prevent a drop in per capita incomes and a reversal from the traditional rice surplus to a deficit position. Another key priority is the mounting of a more vigorous family planning effort to counteract the recent rise in the population growth rate.
The Maldives economy traditionally has been almost entirely dependent on the production and export of fish, but efforts to expand tourism and shipping industries have already met with some success. The government is also moving vigorously to provide some of the basic infrastructure in such areas as health, education, and communications. The Maldives (population 150,000) has been a member of the Bank and IDA since January 1978. A first $3.2 million IDA credit to the Maldives for fisheries was approved in May 1979.
Bank and IDA Lending
In fiscal 1979, Bank and IDA lending to the Region reached $2,077 million, compared with $1,648.9 million in fiscal 1978. The number of projects assisted remained unchanged at 36. Of total lending, 86% was on IDA terms, reflecting the poverty of South Asian countries and their very limited capacity to borrow on Bank terms.
Population planning in Bangladesh is being assisted by two IDA credits. Even if there were to be dramatic declines in both fertility and mortality rates, the country would probably have to support a population at least 60% more numerous than at present by the year 2000.
In conformity with the lending pattern of the year before, in fiscal 1979, agriculture and rural development ($542 million) and power ($468 million) received the largest allocations, together accounting for almost half of total lending. Lending to industry ($334 million) for fertilizer plants in Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan also supported agriculture. Transportation ($206 million) and water supply and sewerage ($304 million) accounted for most of the other lending. Nonproject lending ($100 million, including $25 million for fertilizer imports*3 >) took place on behalf of Bangladesh only, as it did during the previous two years. Because there have been no nonproject operations in India and Pakistan since fiscal 1976, that sector's share of the lending program has recently been less than 5%. Other lending in fiscal 1979 ($123 million) was spread over education, energy (oil), population, industrial development and finance, and technical assistance credits.
Funds committed under co-financing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached $423 million, or 194% above last year's level, and 228% above the 1976-78 average. All but $7 million in co-financing funds were accounted for by official sources.<4)
Each co-financed project attracted an average of $33 million in co-financing during the year, compared with about $29 million in fiscal 1978 and $25 million in fiscal 1977.
During the year, 15 official agencies participated in co-financing Bank-supported and
(3)In addition, Bangladesh received a $45 million nonproject credit from the EEC Special Action Account, mainly for fertilizer imports.
<4>Co-financing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval, and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
IDA-supported projects. In addition to the traditional bilateral donors to South Asian countries from Western Europe, the United States, Canada, and Japan, substantial funding was secured from newer multilateral agencies such as the OPEC Special Fund, and from the EEC Special Action Account.
Stimulating Agricultural Output
Over the years, the Bank and IDA have supported long-term agricultural development in South Asia, especially to increase food production and farmers' incomes, by providing large-scale finance for the exploitation and management of surface and groundwater resources and the provision of other inputs: fertilizer, seeds, extension, and research. In fiscal 1979, most of the agricultural lending was again devoted to these activities. The largest credits were those for the Punjab and Haryana irrigation projects ($240 million) in India, the salinity control and reclamation project ($60 million) in North West Frontier province of Pakistan, and a second paddy development project ($34.5 million) in lower Burma. As mentioned, substantial finance was also provided for fertilizer production and imports.
Among the projects assisted in India, the national agricultural research project, to which IDA contributed $27 million, deserves special mention. Beneficiaries are the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) and state agricultural universities. This project has been designed to ensure that regional research programs will be based on local needs, reflecting differing agro-ecological conditions, and will be linked to state extension services. The project will strengthen research at the state agricultural universities and ICAR's ability to support, guide, and coordinate such research. It will be an important complement to the series of IDA-assisted state extension projects approved over the past three years. Close links will also be maintained, through ICAR, with the 11 international research centers supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). ICAR is responsible for liaison between the international centers and local research efforts.
A new departure in lending for agriculture in India in the past year was the $30 million IDA credit to the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) for relend-ing to state cooperative banks (SCBs) in the states of Haryana, Orissa, and Uttar Pradesh. With some 325,000 societies and 80 million members, the Indian cooperative system is
the largest in the world. The main physical objective of this first project is to construct village-level facilities needed by cooperatives for storing agricultural inputs and outputs. Some 5.7 million farm families who are members of cooperative societies are expected to benefit. Also important, however, is the institutional objective of helping to strengthen the NCDC and state-level cooperative institutions, especially the SCBs, and to promote the discipline of sound project preparation, appraisal, and supervision in the cooperative sector.
Sri Lanka and Nepal were each beneficiaries of IDA credits for rural development in fiscal 1979. A $20 million credit to Sri Lanka will assist the development of one of the country's 24 districts, Kurunegala, in an integrated manner to raise agricultural productivity, employment, incomes, and living standards, making it a replicable model for rural development in other districts. This project is expected to benefit about 100,000 farm families directly and about 50,000 indirectly, two-thirds of them in the poverty target group. The credit to Nepal ($11 million) will help develop hill regions that are inhabited by those who are among the very poorest in the country. It is largely a first replication of a credit approved in 1976, and is based on an integrated, multisectoral approach. Benefits will be largely in the form of increased grain production (to meet subsistence needs) and, in the longer run, cash crops.
Increasing Energy Supplies
Expansion of energy, as a necessary element of industrial and agricultural growth and needed to upgrade living conditions in rural areas, continues to have high priority in South Asia. Because of its size, requirements are particularly large in India. In the field of electric power, India has shown impressive growth in generating and transmission capacity. Nevertheless, the country's per capita consumption of power, at 140 kWh, is still among the lowest in the world, and output has not expanded sufficiently to meet the rapidly growing demand. In the past, the Bank has made sizable contributions to India's power supplies. This effort was continued in fiscal 1979 through the commitment of $250 million ($200 million IDA and $50 million Bank) for the Ramagundam thermal power, project in the southern region and a $175 million IDA credit for a second rural electrification project. The Ramagundam project will expand thermal generating capacity by 600 megawatts and transmission by 1,200 kilometers. The new rural electrification project will help expand, in 14 states,
electrification of villages in selected areas and of irrigation pump sets, and small-industry connections.
The Bank is making a new effort to improve energy supplies by means of petroleum production and exploration. In fiscal 1977, $150 million was lent to India for the production, transportation, and processing of oil and gas in the Bombay offshore area. This project is progressing satisfactorily. In fiscal 1979, a $30 million credit to Pakistan for the Toot oil and gas development project became the Bank's second oil development project in South Asia. The United Kingdom and Canada are contributing an additional $20 million to help meet the costs of the project, which will assist in expanding oil output from the Toot field, help strengthen Pakistan's Oil and Gas Development Corporation in conducting its oil operations, and provide assistance for the evaluation and exploitation of the recently discovered Dhodak field. It is hoped that intensified exploration and production will enable Pakistan to reduce its oil import bill, which exceeded $400 million in fiscal 1978, by at least $200 million in the mid-1980s.
Opportunities in Education
Low levels of literacy in large parts of the South Asia Region inhibit agricultural productivity and economic development in general. The problem is exemplified in Pakistan, where the present primary educational system succeeds in making only one-fourth of each new generation literate. A $10 million credit to Pakistan for a primary education project constitutes the first phase of a program to overcome the country's major problems of primary education: inequitable access, high dropout rates, low achievement, and high costs. Experimentation and evaluation will be central features of the project which covers about 4,100 schools (7% to 8% of the national total). The project, in addition to helping finance physical facilities, aims at strengthening teacher training and supervision, and at improving instructional materials and curricula. Special emphasis will be placed on increasing the attendance and literacy of impoverished children, in particular girls, in rural areas. As part of the monitoring and evaluation process, progress in project areas will be compared systematically with conditions in non-project areas.
Although South Asia is a labor surplus region, widespread shortages that impede the achievement of developmental and production targets and of gains in productivity exist in
managerial and skilled manpower. These shortages have become more acute in recent years because of migration to the Middle East and, to a lesser extent, Europe and North America. Some serious shortages in industry and construction in Bangladesh are expected to be alleviated by a $25 million IDA credit for a vocational training project. The project provides for the establishment and operation of five new technical training centers, the improvement of two existing centers, additional facilities for in-plant training and retraining of workers, and the creation of a National Council for Skill Development and Training. In 1983, when facilities are expected to be fully operational, the total annual output from the expanded system of technical training centers is to be over 10,000 skilled and semiskilled workers in 18 different occupations, compared with the present output of about 2,000. The indirect output from in-plant training, which is very limited at present, is to be about 8,500 people yearly, of whom some 1,500 are to be apprentices and the rest production workers. By 1983, training supported by the project is to account for 85% of total output from the national vocational training system, and will meet about 40% of the total estimated skilled and semiskilled manpower needs of the nonagricultural sectors.
Reducing Population Growth
Lowering the population growth rate remains of great urgency in the South Asia Region, with the notable exception of Sri Lanka, which has already shown success in doing so. The urgency and enormity of the population problem stand out in the case of Bangladesh. Crowded into a land about one-third the size of California are 85 million people, over 90% of whom live in rural areas. The country's population density, at 590 persons per square kilometer, is exceeded in only a very few small countries. Projections indicate that if fertility and mortality rates change little from present levels, Bangladesh's population could rise to around 160 million by the year 2000; if there were dramatic declines in both rates, the country would still have about 130 million people by that time. By the turn of the century, therefore, Bangladesh will probably have to support a population at least 60% more numerous than at present.
A first population project in Bangladesh was inaugurated in 1975; IDA and six co-lenders (Australia, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom) contributed $15 million and
$25 million, respectively, to its financing. After initial delays, progress in project implementation is now satisfactory and funds are expected to be substantially disbursed by the end of 1980. Under a second population and family health project, approved in fiscal 1979, IDA will provide another $32 million and the same co-lenders, plus the Netherlands, a total of about $67 million. The second project aims, as did the first, at expanding and improving health care delivery and family planning services; training of health and family planning field staff; information, education, and motivation activities; and strengthening the program's
management, monitoring and evaluation, and research capacity. Included in the project is the establishment of 19 additional district (thana) health complexes, 700 family welfare centers, four medical assistants' training schools, and 19 training centers for paramedical workers. The program aims at recruiting, by 1983, about 4 million additional acceptors, or about 24% of the estimated married women of child-bearing age in the country. In addition, about 36 million women and children (or 56% of the total number of women and children in the country in 1983) would be reached by health care services.
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
The Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region consists of a mosaic of member countries, rich in the diversity of their economies, societies, and politics. This diversity is reflected in the developments that have occurred in the last year in these countries. Yet, in response to the rapid pace at which international economic interdependence is proceeding, most countries have started to undertake a fundamental reassessment of their development objectives, constraints, investment strategies, and economic policies. As the Second Development Decade draws to a close, the burden of experience with the pursuit of traditional patterns of growth has led one government after another to conclude that future development strategies must be founded on a greater concern for more direct attainment of significant
social objectives, such as employment, income distribution, rural and urban development, education, and health. In response to these concerns, the World Bank has found many countries of the Region to be interested in maintaining continuing discussions on these issues.
The urgency of this redirection of effort is the greatest in countries at the lower-income levels, such as Egypt, Afghanistan, the Yemen Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. In these countries, the Bank is closely involved in the implementation of innovative projects designed to help meet social needs. The shortage of domestic resources, administrative and institutional bottlenecks, and the low current levels of productivity in these economies, however, have made
the task of implementing viable, socially oriented projects complex and difficult. Nevertheless, all of these countries are undertaking a considerable expansion of their social infrastructure and are successfully reaching, for the first time, some of the poorest sections of their populations.
Social concerns have equally come to the fore of policy concerns of the middle-income and higher-income countries. Their ability to pursue new directions in economic activity is, to some extent, however, restricted by their still limited capacity to design and implement new-style development projects (such as low-cost housing, and improving the productivity of dryland farming). While middle-income countries have successfully undertaken significant initiatives in the social sector, they have also had to tackle a variety of problems that are largely of external origin. In several of these countries, governments have been handicapped by severe financial stringencies that have emerged, partly for domestic reasons, such as the institutional difficulties in mobilizing savings, reorienting investment, and promoting exports. The financial squeeze has been accentuated by the rise in the prices of imports from the industrial countries and by increased protection in some industrialized countries which has adversely affected export earnings. The growth of the current account deficit in the balance of payments of several of the middle-income and higher-income countries has been met increasingly by the continued expansion, during the last fiscal year, of commercial bank lending at significantly harder terms. This expansion has become a source of concern for the medium run.
Turkey's financial problems were well documented during the past year. Responding to that country's need for assistance to help finance imports of high priority commodities required to utilize existing industrial and agricultural productive and export capacity more fully, the Bank approved a $150 million loan to cover short-term import needs of selected items. In the agricultural sector, the loan financed the importation of herbicides and pesticides, and raw materials that go into the making of fertilizers. In the industrial sector, the loan helped to cover the costs of importing steel products, tin and tinplate, copper, aluminum, petrochemical and other chemical products, as well as spare parts. Most important for the longer run, the loan was designed to contribute to the government's efforts to maintain per capita output and employment at levels such as to make it politically possible for it to carry through its stabilization program
and implement its medium-term policies.
The three higher-income, nonoil-exporting developing countries of the Region are continuing major restructuring of their economies, a course of action necessitated by the changes that had their beginnings in 1974 in the world economic outlook. In the early years of the 1970s, Portugal, Yugoslavia, and Romania all experienced rapid economic expansion, based to a large extent on high rates of growth of exports. Portugal and Yugoslavia also benefited from high levels of workers' remittances and from tourism earnings. The success of these three countries in economic restructuring has been mixed. For Portugal, 1978 may well be remembered as the year in which its economy turned the corner; after several years of widening external deficits, high rates of export growth and of tourism earnings returned. Yugoslavia, too, experienced a turnaround, and its current account deficit was somewhat reduced from the previous year. Romania, however, found itself unable to sustain economic advances made in 1977; a poor agricultural harvest was a major reason. Aside from problems of short-run balance of payments deficits, however, these three countries have been able to undertake the priority investment programs that will be needed to ensure rapid growth in the longer term.
Led by the unabated worldwide demand for energy, most of the major petroleum-exporting countries of the Region continued to generate balance of payments surpluses, partly as a result of an increase in prices that went into effect in January 1979. There was also a modest increase in the overall volume of petroleum extraction and exports, even though individual shares in each varied. The temporary cutback in petroleum extraction in Iran contributed to the scarcity of international petroleum supplies, even though Saudi Arabia, and to a lesser extent Kuwait, increased extraction in an attempt to fill the gap. Broadly speaking, the petroleum-exporting countries were successful in fiscal 1979 in the pursuit of their development strategies that are based on the use of their oil revenues to diversify their economic structure. There was also a trend in these countries during the year to stabilize budgetary expenditures in an effort to contain inflation.
Bank and IDA Activities
In fiscal 1979, Bank and IDA commitments of $2,337 million helped finance 51 projects in the Region, compared with 44 projects for $1,856 million in the previous fiscal year.
Lending for agricultural and transportation development accounted for 27 % and 17%, respectively, of the total for the Region. As in the recent past, the Region remained one of the major recipients (about 27%) of Bank lending to industry and development finance companies.
Funds committed under co-financing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached $926 million, or 25% below last year's level, and 14% above the 1976-78 average.11'
Each co-financed project attracted an average of about $34 million in co-financing during the year, compared with about $62 million in fiscal 1978 and $37 million in fiscal 1977.
During the year, 19 official agencies participated in co-financing Bank-supported and IDA-supported projects. The most important contributors were the Arab oil-exporting countries, industrialized countries of Europe and North America, and Japan.
In a continuation of its program of providing technical assistance on a reimbursable basis to oil-exporting countries in the Region, the Bank has been assisting the governments of Kuwait, Libya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates in a number of important sectors such as national planning, industry, power, construction, housing, urban planning, education, productive services, public administration, and, in particular, manpower planning. Among the objectives of the manpower planning studies are the estimation of domestic demands for various types and levels of manpower over the decade, and the development of analytical and institutional capabilities within these governments to initiate manpower plans, evaluate alternatives, and evolve and update detailed policies and programs for meeting manpower needs.
Meeting Social Needs
In fiscal 1979, the Bank approved a $25 million credit on IDA terms for a second population project in Egypt to assist the government in reducing population growth. The project attempts to come to grips, on a significantly larger scale than any previous program in the country, with the problems that have hindered the wide-scale adoption of family planning practices. It provides for the development and expansion of a program of information, education, and communication in maternal and child health and family planning; improved training of medical and paramedical personnel to improve their knowledge and practice of community medicine and their management of an integrated maternal and
child health family planning program; expanded local health services through the construction and equipping of 48 rural health units and nine small urban general health centers; and research and evaluation activities. The project includes the first large-scale attempt to promote family planning by directly approaching potential users through a home visiting program. In cooperation with communities from which they are drawn, part-time home visitors are being selected and trained to visit "target group" households; each household will be visited at least once every two months. In addition, the project includes funds for innovative activities that may be developed during the course of its implementation. The project will concentrate on reaching the people in seven of Egypt's 25 governorates with a total population of 10 million, or approximately one-quarter of Egypt's population.
An urban development project, to be implemented in Tunisia's two largest cities, Tunis and Sfax, represents an innovative approach to the resolution of some of the most urgent problems facing Tunisia's urban areas today. Assisted by a Bank loan of $19 million, the project aims at making available, directly at the local level, an integrated and affordable (with limited subsidy) "package" of goods and services for low-income urban dwellers. The package includes the upgrading of existing low-income housing settlements, construction of new low-cost housing, social and infra-structural services, and the creation of jobs. As a result of this project, together with a water and sewerage project approved earlier in the year for the Greater Tunis area and Sfax, some 120,000 low-income people are expected to be provided with improved facilities.
Expanding Job Opportunities
In past years, the Moroccan government has favored the adoption of large, capital-intensive industrial projects rather than small-scale industries. Recently, however, the government has focused on the potential of small-scale industries for creating employment at relatively low costs, increasing exports, and opening up opportunities for small entrepreneurs. Two years ago, a pilot project was included in a Bank loan to Morocco's Banque Nationale pour le Devcloppement Economique (BNDE) as a line of credit reserved for small industries.
A $25 million Bank loan to Morocco, de-
^>Co-nnancing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval, and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
signed to take into account experience gained under the pilot project, was approved during the past year. Several ministries, commercial banks, and specialized financial institutions all joined in its preparation. The project will provide financial and technical assistance to over 200 small manufacturing firms and help create directly at least 5,000 jobs at a cost-per-job-created not exceeding $10,000. Participating institutions have simplified lending procedures for small industries, and access to credit will be eased through the establishment of a guarantee scheme. Cost monitoring during project implementation will allow for adjusting assistance provided to this newly developing subsector.
A $113 million Bank loan for a fourth education project in Morocco represents the largest Bank loan ever made in support of education. It aims at improving the relevance of the education and training system so as to help meet better the country's needs for skilled manpower. The project will establish the first Moroccan technical teacher training institution for the expanding system of technical lycees designed to produce middle-level technicians; it will also provide training for teachers of the "introduction to technology" courses that are to be introduced in the lower second-
ary curriculum; and will significantly increase the number of more highly trained technicians and engineers who will replace expatriates in line with the government's policy of combining rapid growth, modernization, and self-reliance. The project, which is viewed as a comprehensive effort to integrate the development of middle-level and higher-level technical education more closely with the needs of the country's economy, will create about 10,200 new places for the training of middle-level technicians, 660 for technical teacher trainees, 1,200 for higher-level technicians, and 2,400 places for engineers.
A $40 million Bank loan for industrial development in Kosovo province, the least developed region of Yugoslavia, where the incidence of chronic unemployment is especially high, aims to create urgently needed job opportunities, while contributing to the overall development and improvement of the standard of living of the region. It is estimated that more than 3,000 jobs will be either created or retained as a result of the project, which gives a new emphasis to creating the maximum number of jobs for each dollar invested. The proceeds of the loan are to be used to help finance projects that will promote diversification of the industrial sector of Kosovo away from
Seven IDA. credits, totaling $66.9 million, have been approved to help develop the agriculture sector of the Yemen Arab Republic. In fiscal 1979, a $15 million IDA credit in support of that sector was joined by $38 million in funds from co-financers.
basic industry, which is relatively capital-intensive, towards more labor-intensive enterprises. From such diversification, Kosovo industries should become better integrated into the overall Yugoslav industrial sector.
Energy and Mining Development
Turkey's major oil field at Bati Raman in the western part of the country has proven reserves of about 2,000 million barrels. Because of the heavy asphaltic nature of that oil and the field's geological structure, only 7% of the oil in place has been recovered, using primary and various secondary recovery methods, during the field's more than 25 years of exploitation. The Bank, therefore, readily responded to Turkey's urgent request for help, since the application of appropriate recovery techniques could provide the immediate possibility of increasing domestic oil production. A $2.5 million engineering loan, the first made by the Bank to Turkey's oil sector, will help the Turkish Petroleum Corporation undertake a comparative feasibility study of enhanced
recovery methods applicable to the Bati Raman field, in order to determine the best economic and technical method. Based on the findings of the study, the loan will also finance the design and engineering of a pilot plant to apply the selected technology and confirm that the chosen method is the most economical for the whole field. It is envisaged that both the pilot project and the eventual exploration project will be assisted by the Bank.
The implementation of the single largest industrial project ever undertaken in Jordan will be aided by a $35 million Bank loan to the Arab Potash Company, with additional financial support from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the United States Agency for International Development, the OPEC Special Fund, the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, the Iraqi Development Fund, the British government, the Islamic Development Bank, the Arab Mining Company, and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.
The $428.8 million project is designed to produce 1.2 million tons of potash a year from
Dead Sea brine. It consists of a solar evaporation and brine transfer system; a carnallite harvesting system (carnallite is a double salt of potassium and magnesium containing about 23% potash); a refinery to produce fertilizer-grade potash; utility facilities, consisting of power, water supply, and sewerage systems; and a town for workers. The existence of conditions favoring solar evaporation for projects of this kind makes the project location particularly suitable; the location will result in substantial savings in conventional energy requirements and enhance the project's competitiveness. At full capacity in 1985, the project is expected to contribute about $150 million yearly to industrial exports, or about 8% of the annual value of expected total exports, and will help diversify the industrial base of the Jordanian economy. Other expected benefits include the creation of 700 permanent jobs and the establishment of a new industrial area in a remote part of the country.
Agricultural Development
In 1969, the Bosanska-Krajina region in the northwestern part of the Yugoslav republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina was struck by a massive earthquake, resulting in severe physical damage and economic disruption. As one of the steps taken to reconstruct the area—in one of the country's poorest republics—a regional development plan was devised by the United Nations Development Programme with assistance from the TAO/IBRD cooperative program. A Bank loan of $55 million will support the program, which concentrates on improving productivity of groups of private farmers who have pooled their land and labor to operate as part of a social sector enterprise (agrokombinat). Though the ownership of the means of production—their farms—remains in private hands, the farmers utilize the technology of the agrokombinat, provide its processing facilities with produce on a contract basis, and receive a share of the profits of the enterprise. The cooperation between the individual and social sector is, therefore, highly integrated and mutually beneficial.
The Bosanska-Krajina project assists primary production by making subloans through the Bank of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina to 23 associations of farmers (involving about 12,000 individual farmers) for investment in livestock, cereal (maize, barley, wheat), fruit (apples, cherries, pears, strawberries), and vegetable (potatoes, peppers, cucumbers, beets) production. Subloans to social sector enterprises  for land  reclamation (through
drainage and clearing of bushes, trees, and hedges) and irrigation of both social and individual sector land will also be provided. Extension services are being made available to individual farmers through the agrokombinat, and investments are to be made by the agrokombinat in heifer, cattle, pig, and sheep farms and seed and nursery facilities—all designed to improve livestock breeds and crop varieties. Ten agro-industries, which process meat, milk, fruit, vegetables, and barley, will either be constructed or expanded. It is estimated that, at full development (in 1983), the average net income of 12,000 individual farmers will increase by 120%. Approximately 9,000 of these farmers currently have per capita annual incomes of less than $225, well below the republic's average ($957). A further'20,000 farm families will benefit from improved marketing outlets and technical assistance, and some 4,500 man-years of employment are expected to be created.
A $10 million IDA credit to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen will support a fisheries project that is expected to have a widespread developmental impact in the remote Sixth governorate, one of the country's poorest and least developed areas. The lack of infrastructure, the rugged terrain that isolates it from the rest of the country (and hence makes it inaccessible to markets for its abundant fish), and the absence of any other exploitable resource have all worked to deter the area's economic development. Through the construction of a fisheries and general cargo port, the construction of fish processing facilities, and the establishment of an efficient fish colle tion system, the project will help establish a link between the isolated governor-ate and the outside world. Provision of fishing vessels, outboard engines, fishing gear, and repair and maintenance facilities is also designed to increase the incomes of the traditional fishing community. An estimated 1,350 traditional fishermen and their 8,500 family members are expected to benefit directly from the project, for at full development in 1987, the per capita income of the traditional fishing population could increase, on the average, from the present $152 (compared with the country's per capita gross national product of $340 in 1977) to $339. In addition to the traditional fishing community, the entire population of 60,000 in the Sixth governorate is expected to benefit from the project, as the construction of the port at Nishtun will make the area more accessible and lead to its accelerated development through an increase in the level of economic activity.
A $16.5 million IDA credit for agriculture and rural development in Afghanistan aims to raise rural incomes and standards of living by increasing agricultural and livestock production in two provinces that include some of the poorest rural groups in the country. The project provides essential supporting services for the new government's program of restructuring society through land reform and more equitable income distribution. The project includes improvements in rural roads, irrigation water supply, access to credit, efficiency of, and farmer access to veterinary, extension, and cooperative services, and an increased use of fertilizers and improved seeds. An important project objective is to extend these services out into the villages where the need is greatest. The per capita incomes of some 62,000 farm families, including about 3,000 to 4,000 nomad and transhumant families, are expected to increase over the next four or five years by about 70%, from an average of about $60 to over $ 100. As with all rural development projects, the full benefits cannot be measured in quantifiable input-output terms, and at least an additional 100,000 people may benefit indirectly, through the provision of clean drinking water supplies and an expansion of farm and nonfarm employment opportunities created by on-farm labor requirements and through increases in marketing, commercial, and transport activities.
Highways and Forests
Help in financing the highway master plans of five of the least developed areas (three republics, two autonomous provinces) in Yugoslavia will be forthcoming as a result of a $148 million Bank loan. The project is designed to help meet the total highway needs in each jurisdiction and not single highways on a piecemeal basis. This "total" approach is the culmination of 16 years of close cooperation between the authorities and the Bank, or ever since the Bank approved a first loan for improving critical sections of the Adriatic and
Trans-Yugoslav highways. In the earlier years of that relationship, Bank loans generally helped finance improvements on main highways which were essential to the country's overall economic development and integration. In recent years, however, project emphasis has shifted to assistance to the less developed regions. During the whole period, the Yugoslav authorities and the Bank have devoted considerable efforts to improving project preparation and highway planning. These efforts have resulted in the countrywide adoption of a uniform methodology and criteria for project analysis, the preparation of comprehensive master plans, and the introduction of a system of rolling planning.
Responding to a request by the Greek government to assist in preparing and financing one last development project in this increasingly high-income member country, the Bank approved a loan of $25 million to cover part of the foreign exchange financing needs of a major forestry development project. Commercial sources are being tapped by Greece for another $25 million of foreign exchange. The project will help Greece develop its substantial overly mature and underutilized forests in the western half of the country so as to reduce its rapidly rising imports of wood and wood products. A substantial institution-building and technical assistance effort, aimed at introducing advanced mechanical logging methods and modern forestry management systems, will also be undertaken. About 5,000 kilometers of forest roads will be built or improved, 25,000 hectares of trees planted, and equipment and training provided for new methods of plantation establishment and timber extraction. The project also provides assistance for preparing a future regional development project that other external donors may wish to consider financing. Living standards for about 25,000 villagers who live in or near forested areas, and who have incomes significantly below the national average, are expected to improve, and development in one of the country's poorest regions will be stimulated.
Latin America and the Caribbean
For the Region as a whole, calendar year 1978 represented a continuation in the process of adjustment to, and recovery from the adverse developments that have affected the world economy since the early years of the present decade. Overall expansion of real output in the Region increased from 4.2% in 1977 to about 4.7% in 1978. Although this growth rate was well below the average levels of the period 1965-74, signs of more vigorous growth and improved financial and economic management are apparent in many countries.
Recoveries in Brazil and Mexico greatly influenced the regional average. In Brazil, gross domestic product (GDP) increased by 6.3% as a result of vigorous growth in the manufacturing sector and despite adverse weather conditions that affected agricultural output. Mexico's 6.5% growth in real output was a
consequence of both a strong recovery in the industrial sector that took place following the stabilization measures of 1976-77 and the dynamic growth of the petroleum sector. Other countries also fared well: Colombia, Honduras, and Paraguay achieved growth rates of 8% and higher, and Chile and Costa Rica both reported increases in output of 6% or more. In the oil-exporting countries, real GDP continued to expand rather rapidly, with both Ecuador and Venezuela reaching growth rates of close to 7%. Growth in Trinidad and Tobago was 5.3%. To an extent, however, these advances were offset by declines in GDP in Argentina, Guyana, Jamaica, and Peru— all of which were in the process of implementing programs of economic stabilization.
Based upon data for 17 countries accounting for 95% of the Region's population and
a larger share of output and trade, aggregate output reached $464,000 million and investment expenditures reached $99,000 million in 1978. Imports and exports of $63,800 million and $58,900 million, respectively, resulted in a resource gap of $4,900 million in 1978, compared with $2,300 million the previous year. Principally because of interest payments on external debt, the current account deficit in the balance of payments reached $14,100 million for the year, well above the $9,600 million level recorded in 1977. Interest and other factor service payments thus accounted for a larger part of the current account deficit than did the resource gap. While this 1978 deficit represents a new high in absolute terms, it is no more than 3% of the Region's GDP; by contrast, the smaller nominal current account deficit of $13,800 million in 1975 was 4.1% of that year's GDP.
The larger current account deficit in 1978 was also partly the result of both a regional deterioration in the terms of trade and the consequence of higher interest rates on an increasing volume of debt. The fall in coffee prices had a major effect upon the Region's export earnings; this decline represented, however, a return towards more normal long-term prices following the extraordinary levels reached in 1977. Prices for some other important commodities, such as beef and copper, improved, although relatively poor sugar prices continued to create problems for several countries. Price increases and decreases roughly offset each other, and export prices were, on the average, almost unchanged from 1977. As import prices rose by over 6%, the Region's terms of trade deteriorated by about this same amount.
Taking into account the trends in interest rates and commodity prices, the Region's balance of payments results in 1978 must be considered, in general, as satisfactory.
In view of the liquidity in the international capital market, the countries of the Region had, with a few exceptions, no difficulty in financing their current account deficits. The aggregate net inflow of long-term capital for the group of 16 countries (excluding Venezuela) exceeded $19,000 million, compared with $13,400 million in 1977, and was adequate to cover the current account deficit, plus a small net outflow on other capital account items, and still allow for a $7,500 million increase in net international reserves. Brazil and Mexico continued to account for the largest part of the capital inflow; the increase in reserves was especially noted in Brazil and Argentina. The
latter was the only major country in the Region to register a large current account surplus.
A positive development in the economic evolution of the Region in calendar 1978 was the continuing progress registered in the fight against inflation. To a great extent, progress was the result of stabilization programs undertaken in several countries in the recent past. The average rate of price increases (measured by consumer price indices) for the Region as a whole was just over 40%, down from nearly 50% in 1977 and 75% in 1976. Among the countries showing progress, Chile, Colombia, Guatemala, Mexico, and Uruguay registered the most dramatic improvements, while the situation in Brazil improved moderately. On the other hand, inflation in Argentina reached the same high level as in 1977. Jamaica and Peru had increasing inflation rates and constituted the main exceptions to the general trend. In these two instances, the price increases, in large measure, represented corrective price adjustments (arising from postponed exchange rate adjustments and the reduction of subsidies) that were necessary parts of their programs to restore financial stability.
On balance, the year was a satisfactory one for the Region as a whole. This is obviously true in the sense that there was, on average, a significant improvement over the previous year. Equally important, however, was the fact that in most of the cases where there was an apparent decline in output or an increase in inflation, the event was associated with the adoption of economic stabilization measures that should lay the basis for greater financial stability and renewed economic growth in the near future.
Trends in Social Indicators
Although social indicators do not usually shift significantly from year to year, there have been some important changes during recent years that merit attention. While the Region's overall population growth rate had been increasing in the 1960s, it has lately begun to decline. The most recent figures indicate an average growth rate of 2.6%, compared with the 2.7% reported in 1970. The decline is so far concentrated in a limited number of countries and is associated with higher indices of per capita income, urbanization, and both education and employment of women. The death rate has continued to decline (life expectancy in the Region now averages 63 years), and the birth rate has dropped even more rapidly. The increasing official support for family planning services has been impor-
tant in reducing fertility, although programs are still relatively limited in most countries. The fact that some countries in the Region have reached turning points in their population growth rates does not indicate that population-related issues are no longer a major concern. As a result of past population growth rates and the increasing employment of women, the labor force is sure to expand rapidly, and, thus, more jobs must be created. Moreover, longer-term projections suggest that, even under optimistic assumptions about future trends in fertility rates, the population in most countries of the Region will double or triple before stabilizing.
The continuing rapid shift of the population from rural to urban areas adds to the potential social problems. The Latin America and the Caribbean Region is already the most heavily urbanized of the developing areas. Recent estimates indicate that 59% of the population now lives in urban areas, compared with 54% in 1970. In the same period, the share of the labor force employed in agriculture has fallen from 41% to 37% of the total. At the same time, productivity in agriculture is improving so that average food output per capita is above the levels of the early 1970s; on average, the supply of calories is about 106% of estimated requirements, compared with 103% in 1970.
In its analysis of longer-term development concerns, the Bank's attention is increasingly centering around two issues: (a) expanding
productive work opportunities, both to provide jobs for the new entrants into the labor force and to bring into the development process those groups and areas that have tended to be left out; and (b) managing the continued trend toward urbanization. Experience in the Region suggests that without high growth rates and reasonable overall financial stability, these problems can become increasingly intractable and the broader socioeconomic objectives can often be frustrated. More attention is also being given to specific measures, especially policies to expand employment opportunities.
Practically all the countries of the Region contain substantial sectors or regions where poverty is a serious problem; specific programs and policies are being studied to meet basic needs in areas such as nutrition and health, housing, water supply and sanitation, and education. In each of these cases, it is not simply a question of raising current consumption levels, but of investing in human resources in order to improve the productive potential of individuals. In the case of major urban centers, the Bank is looking at ways by which the needs of present populations might be met and future growth moderated. Growth might be moderated, in part, by encouraging the building of alternative urban centers and, in part, by seeking to hold a larger share of the growing population to rural areas through developing nonfarm employment opportunities and expanding programs that benefit small farmers.
Since fiscal 1967, when the Latin America and the Caribbean Region's first Bank loan for education was approved, loans totaling more than $400 million in support of the sector have been approved. The photo shows Colombian students in a secondary school library.
The Caribbean Region
For the Caribbean Region, a significant development was the establishment of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development in fiscal 1978, as reported in last year's Annual Report. The Bank chaired this Consultative Group in association with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The Caribbean area is made up of countries that often have few common interests. Countries in the Group include the members of the Caribbean Common Market (Caricom),n) as well as the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and the Netherlands Antilles. The Group is concerned with mobilizing capital inflows to support the economic development efforts, particularly those involving regional cooperation, of the countries in the area.
The Bank, in cooperation with the other international agencies, has prepared a series of reports on individual countries and on issues
of common regional concern that serves as a basis for the Group's discussions, while the UNDP coordinates technical assistance activities. In addition to more conventional project assistance, the Group is concerned with mobilizing quickly disbursing programs and commodity assistance in support of stabilization programs undertaken by some countries in the area. The Caribbean Development Facility (CDF), established at the same time in 1978, coordinates financial support for these programs and helps finance common services, particularly for the smaller countries in the East Caribbean Common Market.(2)
After a first formal meeting of the Group in June 1978, a second meeting took place in Washington, DC in June 1979. Representatives at that meeting reviewed the economic
(''The 13 members of the Caribbean Common Market are Antigua, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago.
(2>The East Caribbean Common Market consists of Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent.
situation of the Caribbean countries during fiscal 1979. Though that situation had improved during the past 12 months, progress varied substantially from country to country. Barbados and St. Lucia led the countries of the Group in economic advances, while adjusting their economies to the changing international economic situation. Jamaica and Guyana were able to comply with the main financial targets of the economic programs they instituted in fiscal 1978; nonetheless, investment, production, and employment did not increase as planned. The real growth of GDP in the Dominican Republic was about 3.6% in 1978, lower than in previous years; continued low sugar and mineral prices, combined with declining coffee prices, contributed to a current account balance of payments deficit equal to 8% of GDP. In Haiti, the poorest country in the hemisphere, the economy performed reasonably well, with GDP real growth in 1978 estimated at 5.5%, largely as a result of a good harvest.
During the meeting, new pledges, totaling $ 183 million, for CDF type of financing, were received. In addition, consensus was achieved on the establishment of an Ad-hoc Advisory Committee. To be formed by government representatives of recipient and donor countries, the Committee will receive the regional proposals prepared by international institutions in the various sectors. The Committee will hold initial formal discussions on proposed regional schemes, and will consult with other governments as necessary, thus providing a systematic way of linking the technical work on regional matters with the policy makers in member governments.
Other issues of a regional focus were also discussed and acted upon. These included an agreement to prepare a proposal for a long-term regional export promotion program; to establish a working group to prepare a plan of action for regional tourism promotion and development; and discussion of three schemes designed to help, specifically, the less developed countries of the Caribbean Community. Those schemes involve food aid, a revolving fund for agricultural inputs, and a basic needs trust fund.
Bank and IDA Activities
Bank and IDA lending to the Region totaled $2,265 million in fiscal 1979, up from the $2,110 million provided in the previous fiscal year. Of the total, $32 million was lent on IDA terms; these credits went to Bolivia, Guyana, and Haiti. In total, 19 countries were
recipients of the 50 loans and credits approved. Transportation activities were the most important in terms of the amounts lent; 21% of the total went to projects in this sector. In fiscal 1978, transportation accounted for but 9% of lending in the Region. Projects in the agriculture sector ranked second and accounted for 18% of the total. Urban projects, including water supply and sewerage, and power projects each made up 15 % of the total. Development finance company (including small-scale enterprises) projects accounted for 11%; and 8 % of the total went to industrial and mining projects. Program loans represented 7% of the total, and the remaining 5% was divided among projects for education and tourism.
The program loans had an important place in the Region's lending activities during the year, as operations were approved for Peru ($115 million), Jamaica ($31.5 million), and Guyana ($10 million). In each case, these loans were for the purpose of supporting national programs to restore financial stability and renew economic growth. The programs had been worked out by the countries concerned in cooperation with both the International Monetary Fund and the Bank, and thus benefited from the financial support of both institutions. In the cases of Peru and Guyana, the program loans will finance a variety of needed imports, and, in so doing, are expected to generate local currency funds to help finance priority projects in investment programs for the public sector. A previous program loan to Jamaica (approved in December 1977) had been of a similar kind, but the present, second program loan is directed mainly at establishing a revolving fund that will assure the supply of raw materials and other imported inputs needed by Jamaican exporters of manufactured goods.
In fiscal 1979, six projects for power development were assisted by the Bank. The projects—two in Colombia, and one each in Brazil, Costa Rica, Haiti, and Honduras—involved a total of $346 million in loans and credits.
The one credit, of $16.5 million, was to Haiti, where the Bank continues to: (a) assist in the formulation of a national power development plan; (b) help the country develop the sector by using, to the extent possible, the country's own energy resources; and (c) assist the national power authority to become more efficient and financially sound. Through the expansion of one power station and seven substations, the building of three new substations, the construction and rehabilitation of distribu-
tion lines, and through staff training and the provision of consulting services, the Bank will be able to continue to pursue these long-term objectives.
Funds committed under co-financing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached $776 million, almost exactly the same as last year's level, and 25% above the 1976-78 average.<3)
Each co-financed project attracted an average of about $37 million in co-financing during the year, compared with about $52 million in both fiscal 1977 and 1978.
During the year, 12 official agencies participated in co-financing Bank-supported and IDA-supported projects. The most important contributors were the industrialized countries of Europe, Canada, and the Inter-American Development Bank.
Agriculture and Rural Development
During the fiscal year, 13 loans were approved for projects for agriculture and rural development, more than in any other single sector. The Bank's approach to lending in this sector has increasingly emphasized income distribution, as well as strictly productive objectives, particularly through more direct approaches to help small farmers. Lending of the more traditional type—e.g., broad credit programs aimed at reaching a large number of farmers on a national scale—can be effective when sufficient infrastructure and the necessary institutional base exist. When this is not the case, some areas tend to be bypassed by development. To reach such areas, where the small farmers often live, it has been necessary to design area development programs and projects. Their objective is to improve, simultaneously, agricultural productivity, supplies, roads, education, and other critical elements influencing productivity and standards of living. Their success depends heavily upon synchronized and coordinated government action to provide all of the needed inputs and services.
An increasing share of the Region's agricultural loans has been of this type. During fiscal 1979, loans were approved for such projects in Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Panama. In Mexico, a $60 million Bank loan has been designed to increase agricultural and livestock production through the execution of about 250 irrigation and drainage and livestock subprojects that will benefit some 30,000 low-income families. Average annual incomes are expected to increase from the present $500 to $2,300 at full development (four to five years) of the irriga-
tion and drainage subprojects, and from $200 to $1,400 as a result of the livestock sub-projects. In Ecuador, an $18 million loan in support of the Tungurahua rural development project aims at improving productivity, incomes, and general living conditions of 16,000 poor rural families (about 83,000 persons). The project components include credit and the building of storage facilities to improve agricultural production; construction and improvement of rural roads; rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation works; rural electrification; and social services, such as the provision of potable water and health services. A $19 million loan to Panama is expected to improve the productivity of agrarian reform settlements and small farmers and increase the production of key tree crops. Long-term financing will be provided for the renovation of 1,500 hectares in coffee; for the renovation of 600 hectares and the planting of an additional 1,900 hectares in cocoa; for the planting of 1,000 hectares in bananas on land worked by three agrarian reform groups; and for the planting of 3,000 hectares in oil palm, principally on land worked by agrarian reform groups, and the construction of the first stage of an oil processing plant. Included are consulting services to train local technicians to care for these crops and to assist in operating an evaluation system for assessing the impact of the cocoa and coffee programs, and the purchase of vehicles and equipment for local extension staff. Direct beneficiaries will include about 2,000 smallholder farmers and their families (cocoa and coffee), and slightly more than 1,000 farm families and local landless laborers aided by agrarian reform legislation (bananas and oil palm).
Experience indicates that in designing these and other rural development projects, it is essential to keep in mind the ability to implement them effectively. Although the concept may be simple, the integrated approach is complex to implement and calls for a large and coordinated effort on the part of the country and the Bank. As experience is gained by both the borrowers and the Bank, it has been possible to design projects that promise to be effective because they take into account the particular practical constraints in each country, while, at the same time, incorporating the broader objectives of improving the distribution of the benefits of growth.
<3>Co-financing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval, and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
Transportation: Land and Air
In its fiscal 1979 lending program for the Region in the transportation sector, loans were approved for road (Brazil, Jamaica, Mexico, Paraguay, and Uruguay), air (Colombia and Honduras—as a tourism project component), and rail transport (Argentina) development.
A SI20 million Bank loan will support the more than SI,000 million highway investment program for the period 1979-82 of Mexico's Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works. Road transport plays a predominant role in the development of Mexico, and the realization of the country's development objectives over the next decade will depend, among other factors, on the continued availability of reliable and effective road transport. The Bank's loan will help implement an effective highway program that takes into account the financial constraints imposed on the Ministry— a substantial portion of public resources has been allocated to the agriculture and energy sectors—and that gives special emphasis to the maintenance and improvement of existing roads. The direct impact of the Ministry's program will be felt first by the road transport industry (a major employer of semiskilled and unskilled labor). Savings on the operations of not-for-hire freight vehicles as a result of the project will directly reduce production costs, and savings by for-hire trucks and buses are expected, in the long run, to be passed on to the rest of the economy.
In Colombia, significant savings in costs for domestic and international air transport through the more efficient use of aircraft and improvements in the reliability of services are expected to accrue as a result of a $61 million Bank loan in support of aviation development.
The project includes: (a) improvements to Bogota's airport so as to provide adequate capacity for forecast traffic through the early 1990s; (b) construction of a new airport, together with auxiliary facilities and equipment, near to, and serving the city of Medellin; and (c) improvements needed at the Cartagena airport to enable the existing airport to accommodate projected traffic through 1990. Technical assistance and special air transport studies will also be financed.
A $96 million Bank loan to Argentina aims at helping the government realize a major objective: to organize the railways into an efficient long-haul bulk carrier, capable of efficiently aiding its attempt to increase agricultural exports. Through the rehabilitation of track, bridges, communications equipment, and wagons, and the purchase of line, shunting locomotives, passenger coaches, specialized wagons, and spare parts, as well as the provision of technical assistance, it is hoped that the Argentine Railways' financial dependence, through subsidies, on the government might be reduced, if not eliminated.
Projects Approved for Bank and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1979, by Sector
Acronyms Used in This Section
ADF—African Development Fund AfDB—African Development Bank AFESD—Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development AsDB—Asian Development Bank CABEI—Central American Bank for
Economic Integration CCCE—Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique CDB—Caribbean Development Bank CDC—Commonwealth Development
Corporation CIDA—Canadian International
Development Agency EDF—European Development Fund EEC—European Economic Community EFTA—European Free Trade
Association EIB—European Investment Bank FAC—Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation GTZ—German Technical Assistance
Corporation IDB—Inter-American Development
Bank
IFAD—International Fund for
Agricultural Development KFAED—Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development KfW—Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederaufbau NORAD—Norwegian Agency for
International Development ODA—Overseas Development
Administration OECF—Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund OPEC—Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries SFD—Saudi Fund for Development SIDA—Swedish International
Development Authority UNDP—United Nations Development
Programme UNIDO—United Nations Industrial
Development Organization USAID—United States Agency for
International Development WFP—World Food Programme
Agriculture and Rural Development
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$16.5 million. The incomes and living standards of some 62,000 farm families—including 3,000 to 4,000 nomad and transhumant families—will be raised through investments in irrigation systems, agriculture extension, veterinary services, establishment of 150 cooperatives, and a range improvement center. About 400 kilometers of minor roads will also be upgraded and water supply systems installed in about 100 villages. Co-financing is being provided by the UNDP ($1 million) and IFAD ($13 million). Total cost: $39 million.
ALGERIA: Bank—$42 million. To ensure an increased supply of animal protein in the country, about 150,000 head of sheep will be fattened on 120 farms located in the underutilized high plateau areas of the country. Cold storage and meat processing facilities will be built to handle increased imports of meat. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $105 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$19 million. An increase in foodgrain production sufficient to meet the needs of approximately 300,000 people will be made possible by a flood control and drainage project designed to benefit three of the country's poorest areas. Net farm incomes will increase by 40% to 100% and a net annual savings of $12 million in foreign exchange is expected. Total cost: $28 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$6 million. Some 600 fisherman families will benefit through an agriculture development program focusing on a cluster of six underexploited lakes. Carp production will be increased and hatchery facilities, access roads, water supply facilities, telephone services, and electricity will be financed. Total cost: $7.5 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA—$3 million. Credit will be provided for on-farm investment, about 50 kilometers of feeder roads improved, potable water supply and waste disposal facilities built, and technical assistance provided to help improve the living standards of some 6,000 families living in the Altiplano. Co-financing ($4 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $9.3 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$40 million. An integrated package of credit, extension, research, and seed
supply will benefit 15,540 small farmers in Pernambuco state. Social and physical infrastructure will benefit 40,000 families in the project area, and technical assistance will help raise the production of 2,700 small nonfarm enterprises and create additional employment opportunities. Total cost: $116.7 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$28 million. About 3,000 families, mostly with incomes below the absolute poverty level, and living in Alagoas and Sergipe states, will benefit through the development of cooperatively owned family farm plots, irrigation facilities, and education and health services. Total cost: $74.7 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$26 million. The living standards of about 8,400 farm families in Sergipe state will be raised through the expansion of agricultural extension services, improved health and sanitation facilities, upgrading of feeder and access roads, and the construction of marketing facilities. Total cost: $76 million.
BURMA: IDA—$34.5 million. Some 19,500 farm families will benefit from a project designed to protect existing cultivated areas from floods and saline water inundation and reclaim abandoned paddyland in lower Burma. The project replicates an earlier one approved in June 1976. Annual incremental production from the project at full development is estimated at 90,000 tons of rice, 2,000 tons of jute, and 19,000 tons of pulses, groundnuts, and other crops. Total cost: $56 million.
BURMA: IDA—$4.5 million. Fifteen government rubber estates will be rehabilitated, rubber processing capacity expanded, and staff training and technical assistance provided. By 1993-94, incremental production is expected to reach 3,600 long tons, valued at $3.3 million annually. Co-financing is being provided by the UNDP ($600,000). Total cost: $8.7 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$4.3 million. Through the establishment of 30 nurseries in rural communes for the production of eucalyptus seedlings for farmers, a 2,000-hectare eucalyptus plantation, and a 5,000-hectare pine plantation, and through a program of technical assistance and training, the supply of fuelwood and building poles will be increased, and a sound basis will be set for a long-term forestry development program. Studies and trials will be carried out, in particular, to improve charcoal production. Co-financing is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($1.2 million), the UNDP ($700,000), and FAC ($1.9 million). Total cost: $8.83 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE: IDA— $2.5 million. Livestock production will be developed and the nutrition and living conditions of about 50,000 people from one of the poor-
est segments of the population—the M'Bororo herdsmen—will be improved. Co-financing will be provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($500,000), IFAD ($2.5 million), and the ADF ($3.3 million). Total cost: $11.4 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$20 million. The productivity, employment, and incomes of about 7,600 farm families will increase from land reform and colonization programs. Credit for on-farm development, as well as for up to about 60 small agro-industries will be provided. Consultant services, training, and equipment provided to the Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform will also be financed. Total cost: $50 million.
CYPRUS: Bank—$11 million. The incomes of some 400 farm families will increase and about 470 additional jobs will be created for farm workers through an irrigation project designed to develop fruit and vegetable production in a previously rainfed area. Other irrigation facilities and two dams will be constructed and more than 300,000 persons will be provided with potable water. Co-financing ($5.3 million) is being provided by the KFAED. Total cost: $30.1 million.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Bank — $27 million. The living conditions of some 3,200 rural families will be directly improved and another 13,000 families will indirectly benefit through the expansion and rehabilitation of the country's existing irrigation system. On-farm development works, extension and agrarian reform services, equipment* and consulting services will also be included. Total cost: $50.6 million.
ECUADOR: Bank—$18 million. Some 16,000 rural families living in Tungurahua province will benefit from the provision of agricultural support services, including credit, the rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation facilities, the construction of roads and electrification networks, and the provision of potable water and health services. Total cost: $30 million.
GREECE: Bank—$25 million. The construction and improvement of forest roads, the establishment of industrial plantations and seedling nurseries, and the provision of logging equipment, transport and housing facilities, and training programs are part of a long-term program to introduce intensified forest management in the northwestern and western sections of the country. About 50,000 villagers, forest owners, and logging cooperative members will benefit.'Total cost: $144.6 million.
GUYANA: Bank—$10 million. Through the establishment of logging and sawmilling operations to produce 17.4 million board feet
of sawn timber, export earnings in the forestry sector may be increased from $3.9 million to $11 million by 1982. Other project components include port facilities, a power plant based on waste wood, and a township for some 1,500 people. Co-financing is to be provided by the EDF ($7 million) and the IDB ($5 million). Total cost: $30.5 million.
INDIA: IDA—$129 million. Existing irrigation systems will be modernized and expanded to increase the annual production of foodgrain and cotton. A foreign exchange savings of about $160 million annually is expected, and employment for some 40,000 farm workers and an additional 30,000 other workers will be generated. Total cost: $257.5 million.
INDIA: IDA—$111 million. Haryana state will be helped to complete modernizing (mainly by canal lining) about 30% of its surface irrigation systems. In addition, supplemental groundwater will be developed, development of irrigated agriculture in the Jui Lift Irrigation Command Area will be accelerated, produce markets and village link roads will either be constructed or improved, drinking water will be provided to about 175 villages, and technical assistance will be furnished. Total cost: $222 million.
INDIA: IDA—$30 million. Some 5.7 million farm families will benefit through the construction of adequate storage facilities needed by cooperatives in three states. The National Cooperative Development Corporation will be strengthened, and about 46,000 man-years of employment will be created during the construction period. Total cost: $63.9 million.
INDIA: IDA—$27 million. Research on higher-yielding, more resistant seed varieties and improved cropping patterns will help farmers increase production of crops. A permanent mechanism for appraisal, financing, and supervision of regional research projects and the facilities to provide technical assistance to less developed institutions will be created in the Indian Council for Agricultural Research. Total cost: $54 million.
INDIA: IDA—$25 million. Crop production and farm incomes will increase in Gujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka states as a result of a project designed to provide improved extension services to farm families and to increase the ability of the central government's Directorate of Agricultural Extension to provide continuing technical and administrative assistance to states seeking to reform and strengthen their agricultural extension services. About 6.8 million farm families in the three states will be serviced by the reformed extension services
provided. Total cost: $53.4 million.
INDIA: IDA—$23 million. In Uttar Pradesh, tree plantations will be established on about 52,000 hectares of land along roads, rails, and canals, on village commonlands unsuitable for cropping, and on degraded forest reserves in need of rehabilitation. The trees will provide a much needed source of energy to the villages, raw materials to cottage industries, and greater stability to the environment. Total cost: $44.8 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$90 million; IDA— $67 million. Some 30,000 of the country's poorest families will be resettled on newly created farms in Sumatera. Upland crop production will be made possible and employment opportunities generated. Co-financing ($5.5 million) will be provided by the EEC Special Action Account. Total cost: $242 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$77 million. About 425,000 families will benefit and food production should increase by 425,000 tons yearly from a twelfth irrigation project designed to assist the government's program of upgrading further its irrigation systems and, through the improvement of access roads, facilitating the movement of agricultural products, inputs, and services. Total cost: $118.5 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$50 million. Through a flood control project in the lower Cimanuk basin, the loss of lives and damage to property will be minimized. The resulting increase in rice production is expected to raise farm incomes considerably. Total cost: $77 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$18 million. By providing for land clearing and preparation of 20,000 hectares of high forest for replanting with forest trees; planting and maintenance of 22,000 hectares of existing plantations; and with technical assistance to the Ministry of Water and Forests; forest management planning and operations will be improved, timber production increased, and additional employment created. Co-financing ($12 million) is being provided by the CDC. Total cost: $39.4 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$7.6 million. Through a project aimed at developing 3,000 hectares of smallholding rubber groves, 2,000 hectares of a nucleus industrial estate, and 500 hectares of smallholdings in association with the estate—all in the southeast part of the country—the government's program for agricultural diversification and for rural development in the southeast will be furthered, and experience gained in large-scale smallholder rubber production. Co-financing is being provided by the CDC ($3 million) and the CCCE ($1.5 million). Total cost: $16.1 million.
JAMAICA: Bank—$12 million. Through the transfer and acquisition of about 20,000 hectares of land for pine plantations and for new plantations, replanting, and plantation maintenance within that area, by constructing a sawmill and rehabilitating another, by establishing forest roads, and through the development of road building, logging, and log transport operations, the country will be helped in its attempt to become self-sufficient in wood and wood products. Technical assistance is included. Co-financing is being provided by the CDC ($11.56 million) and the ODA ($1.48 million). Total cost: $31.72 million.
KENYA: Bank—$72 million. Some 10,800 smallholder families will benefit and $30 million in foreign exchange will be saved yearly through a sugar rehabilitation program that includes the improvement of outgrower and nucleus estate sugar production, factory rehabilitation and expansion, provision of modest staff housing, drainage, irrigation, and research. The AfDB is providing co-financing in the amount of $6 million. Total cost: $128.4 million.
KENYA: IDA—$27 million. Agricultural credit, extension services, and training facilities for factory staff will help up to 70,000 coffee farmers throughout the country increase their productivity and incomes. About 15,000 hectares of neglected coffee plantings will be rehabilitated, and more than 6,000 farm jobs created. Heavy river pollution by coffee factory effluents will also be eliminated. Co-financing ($15 million) is being provided by the CDC. Total cost: $62.2 million.
KENYA: IDA—$13 million. This first stage of a long-term program for development of mixed farming in Narok district to utilize better a high potential agricultural area includes provision of agricultural credit, the improvement of extension services, development of feeder roads, soil conservation measures, and a wildlife control program. CIDA is providing co-financing in the amount of $1.4 million. Total cost: $18.8 million.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: IDA—$10.4 million. More than 42,000 poor farm families will benefit from an increase in rice, feedgrain, and vegetable production in Vientiane province. Improved seeds will be provided, a state feedgrain farm developed, and agricultural technicians and specialists trained. Co-financing is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($2.7 million) and the UNDP ($1.3 million). Total cost: $14.4 million.
LIBERIA: IDA—$6 million. By providing the Forestry Development Authority (FDA)
with increased staff, buildings, equipment, staff training, and technical assistance, and through the establishment of a 1,600-hectare industrial trial plantation of fast-growing commercial species, the FDA will be strengthened, a proper framework for forestry development and management will be introduced, and Liberians trained in forestry sector work. The AfDB and the GTZ will provide co-financing in the amounts of $5 million and $1.8 million, respectively. Total cost: $17.5 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$12 million. The average annual incomes of some 3,200 farm families will increase from $220 to about $800 through the completion of an irrigation system that serves 10,000 hectares in the lower Man-goky valley. Rice and cotton production will be developed, and new employment opportunities created for approximately 8,500 people. IFAD is providing co-financing in the amount of $6.5 million. Total cost: $26.4 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$22 million. The consolidation phase of the Lilongwe Land Development Programme will be completed and new smallholder farming schemes developed. The annual incomes of about 90,000 farm families will increase by at least 40%, and approximately 4 million man-days of employment will be generated. Co-financing is being provided by CIDA ($2.6 million), the EDF ($13.1 million), the ODA ($11.7 million), and the GTZ ($6.6 million). Total cost: $66 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$31 million. The productivity and incomes of some 60,000 smallholder farm families in the Muda irrigation area will be raised through improved irrigation and drainage systems, construction of farm roads, and provision of agricultural supporting services. Total cost: $69 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$26.5 million. The productivity and incomes of some 24,000 smallholder families in Perak state will be increased through the rehabilitation and improvement of existing irrigation systems. Employment opportunities will be generated for about 2,500 agricultural laborers, and the reduction of rice imports will create a net foreign exchange savings of approximately $15 million annually. Total cost: $60.2 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$19.5 million. Some 19,200 coconut smallholders will receive technical assistance, planting materials, fertilizers, livestock, and livestock production facilities from a project designed to improve the productivity and incomes of one of the poorest segments of the society. The beneficiaries' annual incomes are estimated to increase from about $800 to over $1,700 at full development. Total cost: $44.2 million.
MALDIVES: IDA—$3.2 million. The incomes of some 5,000 fisherman families will increase by about 60% through increased fisheries production. The mechanization of about 500 sailing vessels and the construction of five engine maintenance and repair centers are included in the project, as well as technical assistance to implement a training program for skippers and master fishermen. Co-financing ($300,000) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $3.9 million.
MALI: IDA—$4.5 million. A three-year program of technical assistance and a pilot program of rehabilitation works (irrigation infrastructure) will be carried out. The technical assistance aims at strengthening the Office du Niger—the country's largest productive enterprise—which is a major producer of rice and sugar. Total cost: $5.2 million.
MALI: IDA—$4.5 million. The supply of fuelwood and building poles to urban areas will be increased through the establishment of more than 3,400 hectares of rainfed tree plantations. Modem forestry techniques will be promoted among the rural population and three forestry nurseries will be established and another rehabilitated. FAC and the CCCE are providing co-financing in the amounts of $1.3 million and $1.4 million, respectively. Total cost: $9.4 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$92 million. The productivity of 196,000 hectares of farmland in Rio Sinaloa and Rio Fuerte districts will increase through the construction and rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage systems and the reclamation of saline lands. More than 20,000 families will benefit from increased incomes and better employment opportunities. Total cost: $249.7 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$60 million. The average annual incomes of some 30,000 low-income farm families will be increased substantially through 250 irrigation, drainage, and livestock subprojects. Approximately 8,300 man-years of permanent employment and 11,700 man-years of employment during the construction period will be created. Total cost: $143.7 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$25 million. Supplemental finance will be provided the Rio Panuco Irrigation Project, approved in fiscal 1974, bringing the loan amount to $102 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$70 million. The standard of living for about 475,000 farm families will be improved through increased agricultural productivity, decreased dependence on imports, expansion of the Caisse Na-tionale de Credit Agricole, and the creation of about 115,000 man-years of rural employment.
Co-financing is being provided by IFAD ($25 million) and the KfW ($50 million). Total cost: $737.2 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$14 million. An irrigation system will accelerate agricultural development in an area now heavily dependent on rainfall. Landless laborers and smallholders, who account for about two-thirds of the approximately 70,000 farm population in the area, will also benefit by the generation of 2,000 jobs. Total cost: $17 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$11 million. Agricultural and livestock production that will benefit more than 53,000 families living in three remote districts of the Mahakali hills will be increased through minor irrigation development, strengthening of agriculture extension and animal health services, training, and improved availability of farm inputs. Investments will be made in erosion control, health care, improved water supplies, education and community facilities, and a study of cottage industry potential and prospects will be undertaken. Co-financing ($1.1 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $13.5 million.
NIGER: IDA—$15 million. Some 30,000 people will benefit from a project designed to expand cereal and vegetable production along the Niger river and create an appropriate structure for the development of the country's irrigation program. Agricultural services will also be provided to farmers established on a neighboring irrigation scheme. The KfW is providing co-financing in the amount of $6 million. Total cost: $21 million.
NIGER: IDA—$12 million. More than 200,000 farm families will benefit from a livestock development project designed to provide a package of services to pastoralists, including animal health supplies and advice on animal husbandry and range management techniques, selective extension of stock water points, and human health services and foodstocks. The project also includes the constitution of formal associations of pastoralists, delineation of pastoral units, and construction and operation of five pastoral centers that would serve as the main structure for delivery of these services. Total cost: $15 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$31 million. More than 22,000 hectares of commercial gmelina (tropical hardwood) plantations in Ondo and Ogun states, and 1,600 hectares of pine and eucalyptus trials in Anambra state will be established, and the state and federal forestry services strengthened. In addition, the living and working conditions of 1,500 forestry workers and their families will be improved, and food production increased. Total cost: $79.3 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$27 million. Farm support services—extension advice, improved seeds and fertilizers, and physical infrastructure—will benefit some 90,000 families in Kwara state. Technical assistance will be provided, as well as funding for feasibility studies relating to 13 other proposed (post-1982) agricultural projects in the country. Total cost: $64.4 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$23 million. About 60,000 farm families living in the southern part of Niger state will benefit from an agricultural development project that provides for extension advice, crop protection measures, fertilizers, better seeds, improvement and maintenance of feeder roads, and the rehabilitation and improvement of existing irrigation schemes. Total cost: $64.4 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$9 million. Management skills throughout the agricultural sector will be upgraded by establishing facilities for the training of managers and supervisors employed in a wide range of agricultural institutions. Furniture, equipment, and vehicles will be provided, as well as technical assistance. Total cost: $18.2 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$60.million. Irrigation improvements, drainage relief, and the reclamation of abandoned lands in North West Frontier province will be provided in an effort to increase agricultural productivity in the region. The project also includes the improvement and strengthening of agricultural extension services and research. Co-financing ($25 million) is being provided by CIDA. Total cost: $150 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$9 million. Farmers in the 12 rural districts of Sind will benefit from an increase in foodgrain production that is expected to result from the reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension services and research. Co-financing ($600,000) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $14.3 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$19 million. The productivity and incomes of more than 2,000 small farmers and about 1,000 agrarian reform beneficiaries and landless laborers will be improved through a project designed to increase the production of coffee, cocoa, bananas, and oil palm. Total cost: $38 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IDA—$20 million. A rural development project, to be located in Southern Highlands province—one of the country's poorest—will provide improved access to education and health services, will lay the foundation for improved agricultural practices and nutrition, and will help raise cash incomes of farmers. Total cost: $32.2 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank—$25 million. By supporting on-farm development of 940 ranches and small livestock farms through the provision of credit, helping consolidate the development of 16 land settlement schemes through the construction of rural roads and provision of credit for 3,000 farmers, and improving the food crop marketing system through the construction of a wholesale market in Asuncion, the country's export capacity will be increased, small farmers' incomes will be improved, and additional employment will be generated. Co-financing ($1.2 million) is being provided by the UNDP for the technical assistance elements of the project. Total cost: $51.8 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$35 million. Nearly 5 million rural families, among them a large number of low-income smallholders, will benefit by the expansion of agricultural extension services. The project will help improve crop and livestock farming practices, and provide for better infant nutrition, employment opportunities, and home management and cottage industry skills. Total cost: $70.1 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$21 million. About 77,000 people will benefit directly from increased agricultural production and consequent employment as a result of a second stage irrigation scheme that forms a part of the Magat river multipurpose project. A dam, irrigation and drainage facilities, and pumping stations will be built, consulting services provided, and vehicles and equipment procured. IFAD is providing co-financing in the amount of $10 million. Total cost: $62 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$16.5 million. About 28,000 families will directly benefit from increased rice and maize production and the expansion of employment opportunities for small farmers spread throughout the country, but concentrated in the central Luzon area. The equivalent of 11,900 man-years of employment, suited to the rural poor and the landless, will be generated at full development. Total cost: $37 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$75 million. A second livestock project will increase pork production through the construction of slaughterhouses, cold storage and processing facilities, and the addition of new fattening and production farms. A line of credit will be provided to individual producers, and new jobs for 9,800 people will be created in production and processing plants. Co-financing in the amount of $100 million is expected to be provided by private foreign commercial banks. Total cost: $435.5 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$70 million. Agricultural production will be increased and stabi-
lized in the Mostistea and Calmatui areas through the construction of irrigation and drainage systems and other related facilities. Total cost: $409.2 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$8.7 million. Some 65,000 low-income people living in the Mutara region will benefit from soil conservation measures aimed at preserving the production potential of the area and increasing agricultural production, the development of efficient animal health and production services to increase range and herd productivity, and the provision of social and technical services. Co-financing ($1.6 million) will be provided by the EEC Special Action Account. Total cost: $11.8 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$10.5 million. Agricultural extension services will be strengthened and a farm management advisory service established that will directly benefit some 195,000 individual farm families, as well as farm workers on state and cooperative farms. Co-financing is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($1.5 million), US AID ($7.6 million), and the ADF ($8.9 million). Total cost: $32.4 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$8 million. Better veterinary services, the provision of nonformal and formal education, improved livestock water supplies, and the strengthening of the National Range Agency's administration is expected to improve rangelands and livestock productivity, and increase the incomes of some 400,000 pastoralists. Co-financing is being provided by IFAD ($9 million), USAID ($15 million), the ODA ($4 million), and the WFP ($4.3 million). Total cost: $46.3 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$20 million. Some 170,000 farm families in Kurunegala district will benefit through the rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes and from stepped-up programs of replanting and intercropping of smallholder coconut plantations. Credit and transport facilities will be improved, as well as rural electrification, health care, educational facilities, and drinking water supplies located in remote areas. Total cost: $30 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$15.5 million. As many as 1.4 million farm families will benefit from a project that will help introduce a "training and visit" extension system throughout the country. In addition, adaptive research will be strengthened, and the training of extension officers improved and expanded. Total cost: $22.4 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$15 million. Some 44,000 subsistence farmers in the southern region of the country will benefit from increased production of foodcrops, better nutrition, and a
decrease in livestock mortality through improved animal disease control. Co-financing is being provided by IFAD ($15 million), the ODA ($18.5 million), and the GTZ ($1.9 million). Total cost: $56 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: Bank—$30 million. An estimated 23,000 farm families will benefit through improved agricultural production on about 75,000 hectares along the lower Euphrates river. Tubewells, pumping stations, surface drains, access roads, and transmission lines will be financed by this drainage project aimed at halting the spread of salinity. Total cost: $52.5 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: Bank—$21 million. A new oilseed processing factory will be constructed in the northeast and three others in the northwest will be modernized in an effort to increase processing capacity. In addition, an increase in cottonseed cake byproducts will provide some 500,000 livestock farmers with an inexpensive supply of feed for the dry season. Consultant services and technical assistance are also included. Total cost: $43.8 million.
THAILAND: IDA —$25 million. The standard of living of some 21,500 rural families in the north of the country will be improved through increased agricultural production, the provision of social infrastructure such as education and health facilities, and forestry development that will provide fuel and building materials. Co-financing will be provided by Australia ($900,000) and the ODA ($300,000). Total cost: $47 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$17.5 million. Approximately 21,000 farm families will benefit from an irrigation project designed to make year-round cultivation possible in the northeast part of the country. Additional employment—about 4.3 million man-days—will be generated, and annual family incomes are expected to increase from $500 to about $2,000 at full development. IFAD is providing co-financing in the amount of $17.5 million. Total cost: $80 million.
TOGO: IDA—$14 million. Through the replanting of 7,500 hectares in coffee and 4,000 hectares in cocoa to produce increased exports, better extension services, and rehabilitation of 300 kilometers of feeder roads, the incomes of some 17,000 farm families will be increased, as well as the government's foreign exchange earnings. Co-financing is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($4.6 million), the CCCE ($7.7 million), and FAC ($3.5 million). Total cost: $34.2 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$28.5 million. By providing new boats and through the construction
of urgently needed port infrastructure and shore facilities, a second fisheries project will help increase coastal fisheries production by 8,000 tons a year. The incomes of some 2,000 fishermen will be increased and about 2,000 new jobs will be created. Total cost: $67.6 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$85 million. Grain handling and transport efficiency will be improved and the costs minimized through the construction of port storage facilities, the improvement in rail-handling equipment, and training of silo staff in grain marketing and silo management and operations. Total cost: $206.1 million.
VIET NAM: IDA—$60 million. Some 21,000 farm families, or about 110,000 people, will benefit from an irrigation project in the southwest that includes the construction of an earth dam and its appurtenant works on the Saigon river, and the construction of a gravity irrigation system for about 42,000 hectares of currently rainfed land, including an adequate drainage network, inspection and access roads, and two low-lift pumping stations. About 30,000 seasonal jobs will be created during the construction period. The KFAED and the OPEC Special Fund, as well as the Netherlands, are helping co-finance the project, with loans of $10 million each. Total cost: $110 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$15 million. The incomes and living conditions of some 53,000 persons in the Wadi Mawr area will be improved through the construction of flood diversion structures and feeder canals, and the installation of tubewells. Gravel access roads will be constructed to reduce the area's isolation, and agricultural credit and extension and veterinary services, as well as technical assistance, will be provided. IFAD, the EEC Special Action Account, the KFAED, the KfW, and the ODA are providing co-financing in amounts equivalent to about $12 million, $3 million, $13 million, $9 million, and $1 million, respectively. Total cost: $87.6 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$10 million. A fisheries and general cargo port and fish processing and storage facilities will be constructed at Nishtun —located in one of the poorest and most remote regions of the country—to help raise directly the living standards of some 10,000 people and benefit indirectly the entire population of 60,000 in the area by improving its accessibility. A 19-kilometer road will be built to link the new port with nine area fishing villages. Co-financing is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($3 million);
Libya is also expected to participate in the financing. Total cost: $32 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$82 million. Irrigation water will be provided to increase agricultural production on 20,300 hectares, enabling a more than fivefold increase in net farm incomes, as part of a long-term irrigation development program for the Pelagonija plain. Approximately 5,500 individual farm families and 3,600 families in social sector agriculture and processing will benefit. Total cost: $188.8 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$55 million. One of the least developed rural areas in the country will benefit from a project designed to extend agricultural production, provide improved livestock and machine repair services, and increase the processing capacity for meat, milk, fruit, and vegetables. The average net incomes of some 12,000 farm families will be raised by about 120%, and more than 4,500 new jobs will be created. Total cost: $203.8 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$6 million. The real incomes of an estimated 600 smallholder families in Northern province will be increased by the rehabilitation and development of coffee production. A similar increase in Northwestern province is also expected. National coffee research institutions will be strengthened, and annual employment for about 64 skilled and semiskilled staff and 900 unskilled workers will be provided. Total cost: $8.3 million.
Education
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$21 million. Basic education will be expanded and improved through the construction of teacher training institutes, technical support in education planning, school mapping and administration, and through a training program. Feasibility studies and preinvestment designs for specialized training institutions are also included. Total cost: $32 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$25 million. The number of skilled and semiskilled workers will be increased from about 2,000 annually to over 10,000 when the project is completed, through the construction of training centers, provision of furniture, equipment, training materials, and technical assistance. Total cost: $32.4 million.
BARBADOS: Bank—$9 million. An education project will enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the education system, make possible the effective application of modern and relevant curricula, and will provide for
more equitable distribution of education opportunities. The project also will strengthen existing programs in management training and advisory services to small-scale enterprises, and introduce an in-plant worker-training program. Total cost: $14.5 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA— $40 million. A second education project will improve the relevance of education, increase and upgrade training, and expand education and training opportunities for the urban poor. The construction of buildings and the provision of furniture, equipment, and technical assistance are included. The ADF and the United Kingdom are providing co-financing in the amounts of $8.9 million and $1 million, respectively. Total cost: $85.2 million.
EL SALVADOR: Bank—$23.5 million. Basic education and training opportunities for the general population will be expanded through the construction, furnishing, and equipping of 356 schools, equipping of a teacher training school, construction of textbook production facilities, the printing of about 1 million textbooks and teaching guides, and technical assistance. Total cost: $33.6 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$8 million. This first education project will increase the number of qualified instructors in secondary polytechnic institutes and improve the training of skilled workers for the industrial and public works sectors of the country. The Ministry of Education's educational planning and project implementation capacity will also be strengthened. Total cost: $8.9 million.
INDONESIA: IDA—$49 million. An effective system for managing and developing technician training, including the provision of six polytechnics that will increase the annual number of graduates by 45%, will be established to help meet the country's demand for engineering technicians. Four accountancy development centers will also be established to improve the quality of accountancy training and practices. Total cost: $104 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$42 million. By upgrading 12 existing agricultural development schools and establishing five new national schools in the same field, through the revision of curricula, by establishing or upgrading 10 agricultural in-service training centers, and through provision of technical assistance, the shortage of qualified middle-level manpower, which is one of the major constraints to the implementation of the government's plans for the development of the agricultural sector, will be minimized. Total cost: $71 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$14.5 million. Access to primary and secondary education for students
in disadvantaged rural areas will be improved and expanded through the construction of schools, provision of textbooks, improvement in teacher training facilities, and the establishment of a correspondence college for secondary school students who are unable to enroll or continue in the regular school system. Co-financing ($7.5 million) is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account. Total cost: $25.7 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$38 million. A fifth education project will help equalize the opportunity for lower secondary education throughout the country by providing school places for about 46,500 children from low-income districts. Five administration training institutes will be developed and a long-range plan for occupational training prepared. Total cost: $121.1 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$113 million. Through the construction, furnishing, and equipping of 11 technical secondary schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering, and an extension to Mohammedia Engineering College, the supply of middle-and higher-level technicians and engineers will be increased so as to help meet the country's urgent manpower needs. Total cost: $216.6 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$10 million. Help in developing the experimental first phase of a long-term program to effect improvements in the primary education system through strengthening of the teacher service, provision of instructional materials, assistance to develop improved materials and curricula, and provision of classrooms, training facilities, and teachers' residences will be financed. Total cost: $17.2 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$22 million. The project is designed to: increase the supply of high-and middle-level technicians and managers required for the modem agricultural and industrial sectors; improve and expand secondary technical and vocational education; and improve the quality of primary education and establish a solid base for its future expansion, especially in rural areas. Co-financing will be provided by the CCCE ($4.5 million) and the EEC Special Action Account ($4.5 million). Total cost: $33.1 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$12 million. A sixth education project will help consolidate and strengthen the country's existing vocational training program and will lead to an increase of about 70% over a five-year period in the output of middle-level accountancy manpower. In addition, through adding 160 hostel places
to each of four existing technical secondary schools, the potential of women's participation at that level will rise from about 3% to 25% by 1983. Total cost: $14.4 million.
THAILAND: IDA—$35 million. Job-oriented education will be provided to some 50,000 secondary students annually from disadvantaged economic areas. A national educational radio network will be set up to help equalize the quality of, and expand access to, basic education to people living in remote areas. Total cost: $70.3 million.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: Bank—$20 million. Physical facilities for 9,320 primary students and 4,200 secondary students will be built, curricula will be reoriented to meet the needs of the labor market, and curriculum research and development and teacher upgrading facilities enhanced through a third education project designed to improve the quality and relevance of education and to correct inequalities in access to education. Total cost: $54.6 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$10 million. Secondary schooling will be diversified by providing agricultural and livestock secondary schools and extending public administration training through the construction of two regional training centers. Studies, laying the basis for future projects in basic health services, health training, and postsecondary education, as well as improving educational planning in the Ministry of Education, will be prepared. Co-financing ($1 million) is being provided by USAID. Total cost: $21.4 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$4 million. Three vocational training centers will be established and equipped to train skilled and semiskilled workers in the industrial, agricultural, and commercial sectors. At full development, the annual output from the institutions will be about 500 skilled workers, or approximately 6% of the vocational training needs of the country. Total cost: $4.4 million.
Energy
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank— $75 million. Part of the foreign exchange costs of gathering, processing, and transporting gas from oil fields in the Gulf of Suez will be financed in order to develop an energy source and increase the country's exportable surplus of fuel oil and natural gas. Total cost: $167 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$30 million. Drilling services for development wells, surface facilities, equipment, and consultant services will
be provided to the Oil and Gas Development Corporation in an effort to increase the country's domestic oil supply through the expansion of operations in existing fields and the evaluation of recently discovered fields. Co-financing is expected to be provided by CIDA and the ODA in the amounts of $8 million and $12 million, respectively. Total cost: $73 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$4.9 million. The project is the first phase in the development of the country's natural gas potential and comprises preparatory work to enable construction of a gas pipeline by 1981. Project components include project management, engineering, financial management, and training and advisory services; and a study to confirm the adequacy of gas reserves following delineation drilling. Total cost: $5.71 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$2.5 million. Financing will be provided for a comparative evaluation of enhanced oil recovery techniques to select an optimal oil recovery method to be applied to the Bati Raman oil field in the southeast part of the country. The application of enhanced recovery techniques to this oil field provides the immediate possibility of increasing domestic oil production until exploration results in the discovery and development of new commercially exploitable reserves. Total cost: $3 million.
Industrial Development and Finance
CYPRUS: Bank—$5 million. Foreign exchange-earning manufacturing industries, including small-scale industries, as well as tourist facilities, will be financed through a third development bank project that will cover about 25% of the total foreign exchange needs of the Cyprus Development Bank through mid-1981.
ECUADOR: Bank—$40 million. Support of the development of the country's capital market and additional long-term financing for industry will be provided through a fourth development banking project. About 80 sub-projects related mainly to food processing, beverage, textile, and forest products will be financed.
GHANA: IDA—$19 million. Foreign exchange will be provided through the National Investment Bank to expand and rehabilitate the country's manufacturing and agro-industrial capacity. Through the development of nontraditional exports and better domestic linkages with agriculture and other sectors, the long-term viability of the manufacturing sector will be enhanced, and reliance on im-
ported inputs reduced. Co-financing is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($6 million) and the EDF ($900,000). Total cost: $25 million.
HONDURAS: Bank—$15 million. The amount of medium- and long-term loans available to industries will be increased, and the capacity of participating financial intermediaries to select, appraise, and finance efficient projects built up. The project is also expected to create more than 4,000 new jobs. Total cost: $28.4 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$50 million. In support of the Bank Pembangunan Indonesia's efforts to provide financial assistance to small and medium-scale enterprises, this loan will help cover a major portion of its foreign exchange requirements for the next two years. Direct imports of machinery and equipment will be financed, as well as the foreign exchange component of domestically produced capital goods, civil works, and the cost of locally procured vehicles.
IVORY COAST: Bank —$12.6 million. Long-term financing for small and medium-scale enterprises and artisans' cooperatives will be provided. Employment for about 2,300 people will be generated, including 100 jobs specifically for women potters.
JAMAICA: Bank—$7 million. The development of small-scale enterprises (SSEs) will be promoted by providing medium- and long-term credits to SSEs for investment and working capital needs, and by strengthening institutions (both commercial banks and a newly created institution, the Small Enterprise Development Corporation) by providing financial and technical services to them. Total cost: $11.65 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank —$100 million. This seventh loan to the Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) will help cover the foreign exchange requirements of subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the next two years. Twenty million dollars is earmarked for financing small and medium-scale, relatively labor-intensive enterprises, and up to $10 million is to be made available to the Korea Development Leasing Corporation, a KDFC affiliate that leases industrial machinery mainly to small and medium-sized enterprises that cannot afford outright purchases.
MALAWI: Bank—$3 million. The growth of medium- and large-scale enterprises in the country will be assisted by providing funds to the Investment and Development Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK) for financing the for-
eign exchange component of industrial projects. The IFC is making a share capital investment of $562,000. The project also seeks to improve the operational policies of INDEBANK and, through IFC's representation on INDEBANK's board, to provide technical assistance to management. Total cost: $18.9 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$8 million. The productivity and incomes of the country's disadvantaged populations in both rural and urban areas will be increased through the provision of financial and technical assistance to operations in three sectors—small and medium-scale industries, artisans, and small-scale irrigated agriculture. Total cost: $9.3 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$175 million. Foreign exchange will be made available to the Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial to provide medium- and long-term financing to industrial enterprises for machinery, services, and equipment related to investment projects in industry; in addition, a training program for financial intermediaries and studies on human resources for future industrialization will be financed.
MOROCCO: Bank—$25 million. Development finance will be provided to over 200 small and labor-intensive firms, and at least 5,000 jobs will be created as a result of the country's first integrated small industry development program.
PANAMA: Bank—$15 million. Productive private and public sector enterprises in the manufacturing, services, and tourism sectors will be able to acquire fixed assets and working capital as a result of funds provided them by the Corporacion Financiera Nacional (COFINA). Up to $1 million will be earmarked for supporting a small-scale industry lending program. Technical assistance to COFINA is included.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$25 million. About 11,500 new jobs will be created in rural and urban areas, and 510 projects will benefit from support given to the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF) lending program over a two-year period. In particular, IGLF's effectiveness will be improved through a series of institutional and policy changes, as will the ability of participating financial intermediaries to mobilize and allocate resources to small and medium-scale industries.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$45 million. Financial and technical assistance will provide for the creation, restructuring, and expansion of selected small and medium-scale enterprises, will create more employment, stimulate industrial exports, develop industrial estates in less
developed regions of the country, assist the government in developing technological support to industry, and help prepare an investment plan for the textile subsector. Co-financing is being provided by the KfW ($4.7 million), the EFTA ($1.1 million), and UNIDO ($80,000). Total cost: $ 116.42 million.
RWANDA: IDA —$5.2 million. About 67% of the foreign exchange requirements of the Banque Rwandaise de Developpement (BRD) for 3979 and 2 980 will be financed; some 400 new jobs are expected to be created, and the appraisal and supervision procedures of the BRD further developed.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$16 million. Credit will be made available to small and medium-sized manufacturing and service industries. Technical service agencies will be upgraded to provide promotion, technical, marketing, and management services to assist such firms to expand and improve productivity and thereby generate employment and increase exports. Total cost: $27.9 million.
TANZANIA: Bank—$11 million. A line of credit will be provided to the Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd. to finance lending to medium-scale industrial enterprises and related services, and agro-processing and tourism development projects through 1981.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$60 million. Three loans of $20 million each have been made to Privredna Banka Sarajevo, Stopanska Banka Skopje, and Investiciona Banka Titograd to help finance the foreign exchange costs of investments in small and medium-sized industrial subprojects among which are labor-intensive subprojects in three of the less developed regions of the country.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$40 million. Benefiting Kosovo, the poorest of Yugoslavia's regions, industrial subprojects will be financed, including subprojects with a labor-intensive orientation, in small and medium-sized industries. In addition, three large subprojects will be financed. Institution building support is also provided.
Industry
BANGLADESH: IDA—$29 million. Supplemental finance will be provided the Ashu-ganj fertilizer project, approved in fiscal 1975, bringing the credit amount to $62 million. The EEC Special Action Account will finance an additional $3 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA—$7.5 million. The National Mineral Exploration Fund will be assisted in its efforts to expand mineral pro-
duction and exports and reduce mining costs. Jobs will be created in isolated, economically depressed areas, and ore production increased. Equipment, technical assistance, and consultant services will be provided. Co-financing ($3.8 million) is being provided by the GTZ. Total cost: $16.5 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$98 million. The project will finance an aluminum smelter plant with a capacity of 86,500 tons per year that relies on the country's hydroelectric resources for power and bauxite for raw material. Co-financing is being provided by Chase Manhattan Bank N.A., as agent for a group of commercial banks ($90 million), and Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Rio de Janeiro ($34 million). Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD), Shell Brasil S.A., and Reynolds International, Inc., will provide equity financing ($148 million). Total cost: $370.1 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank— $ 11 million. The foreign exchange costs of establishing a small experimental mine at the site of the New Valley phosphate deposit will be financed, as will the costs for further studies on both the technical and economic viability of converting phosphate rock into phosphoric acid or other phosphate intermediates and of the infrastructure requirements for such investment. Total cost: $13 million.
INDIA: Bank—$250 million. A fertilizer plant, including infrastructure and auxiliary and offsite facilities, will be constructed in Maharashtra state. A savings in foreign exchange, due to reduced fertilizer imports, is expected, and about 1,500 permanent jobs will be created. Co-financing ($45 million) is being provided by the ODA. Total cost: $739.3 million.
JORDAN: Bank—$35 million. A potash project—the largest industrial project ever undertaken in the country—will help diversify the industrial base of the economy; contribute about $150 million annually to industrial exports; and lead to the creation of 700 permanent jobs, as well as 1,000 additional jobs during construction. Co-financing is being provided by USAID ($38 million), the KFAED ($35 million), the ODA ($20 million), the AFESD ($15 million), the Iraqi Development Fund ($15 million), and the OPEC Special Fund ($7 million). Equity will also be held by the Arab Mining Company ($48.3 million), the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank ($10 million), and the Islamic Development Bank ($12 million). Total cost: $428.8 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$29 million. Assistance to the Korea Institute of Electronics Technology, including the construction
of physical facilities, the purchase of technology, the promotion of its research, development, and engineering program, and the financing of training programs will help stimulate and support the development of technological capabilities in the electronics industry. Total cost: $62.9 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$80 million. The expected increase in the country's demand for fertilizer products will be met through the construction of a manufacturing complex at Lazaro Cardenas, a new industrial development "pole" on the west coast of the country. The plant will be located near its main market and favorably situated with respect to raw materials. Total cost: $301.3 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$50 million. The expansion of phosphate fertilizer production facilities at Safi, a region where employment alternatives are few, will provide training and job opportunities for some 1,200 people, as well as increase the net export value of the existing plant to about $200 million yearly. Co-financing in the amount of $13.7 million is being provided by Poland. Total cost: $ 124.4 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$55 million. The country will be helped in meeting the growing demand for nitrogenous fertilizer by the construction of a urea plant with a capacity of 1,725 tons per day in Punjab province. Co-financing is being provided by Haldor Tops0e A.S. ($5 million), USAID ($40 million), the KfW (DM95 million), Denmark ($5 million), the Islamic Development Bank ($10 million), and Italy ($7.4 million). Total cost: $260 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$58 million. Some obsolete fertilizer plants will be replaced and a study of fertilizer use will be made in an effort to develop agriculture to its full potential. The expected increase in total agricultural output will reduce imports and improve the incomes of farmers. The EIB is providing co-financing in the amount of $21 million. Commercial banks are expected to participate in financing with loans of up to $29 million. Total cost: $242.1 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$40 million. A "Pil-ger" mill, the first of its kind in the country, will be built to help meet the growing demand for large seamless pipe products by the oil and gas exploration, chemicals, machinery, and shipbuilding industries. Foreign exchange earnings will increase, and about 900 jobs will be provided in a region that has relatively little industry. Total cost: $139.4 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$40 million. The construction of a 30,000 metric tons-per-year
acetylene unit will help meet the growing demand for methane-based chemical products. Employment will be provided for about 1,100 people, and the country will be able both to earn and save scarce foreign exchange. Total cost: $156.6 million.
TANZANIA: Bank—$30 million; IDA— $30 million. A pulp and paper mill will be constructed that is designed to supply a substantial proportion of the country's paper needs. Logging roads, paper machines and finishing equipment, steam and power generation equipment, and some supporting infrastructure are included. Co-financing is being provided by the CDC ($20 million), the KfW ($34 million), the KFAED ($18 million), the Nordic Investment Bank ($12.5 million), the OPEC Special Fund ($10.5 million), and SIDA ($45 million). Total cost: $251.7 million.
Nonproject
BANGLADESH: IDA—$75 million. Foreign exchange will be provided for the purchase of industrial components, chemicals, and spare parts needed by selected high priority industries to reach their full production potential. The credit also includes a program designed to improve export development.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$25 million. This credit assists in meeting fertilizer import requirements, and complements a program agreed with the government for improving fertilizer distribution and marketing, and establishing a more effective incentive pricing system for encouraging grain production.
GUYANA: Bank—$5 million; IDA—$5 million. Foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and capital and intermediate goods will be provided to support the government's economic program.
JAMAICA: Bank—$31.5 million. Foreign exchange earnings will be increased through the establishment of a revolving Export Development Fund to finance imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, and spare parts for producers of nontraditional exports and their domestic suppliers. Technical assistance is included.
PERU: Bank—$115 million. Foreign exchange will be provided to help finance imports of industrial raw materials, intermediate goods and spare parts, as well as agricultural, electric generating, mining, and forestry equipment, and inputs for existing preventive health programs.
TURKEY: Bank—$150 million. Foreign exchange will be provided for the purchase of plant protection materials, fertilizer, raw mate-
rials for agricultural use and steel products, copper, aluminum, chemicals, and spare parts for manufacturing industries.
Population and Nutrition
BANGLADESH: IDA—$32 million. In support of the government's Seven-Year Population Control and Family Planning Program, maternal and child health and family planning will be improved in about 270 districts. Health complexes will be constructed, medical workers trained, and vocational training and family planning education programs made available to about 100,000 women. Co-financing will be provided by CIDA ($5 million), the KfW ($18.2 million), the Netherlands ($8 million), NORAD ($20 million), and SIDA ($8 million); Australia and the United Kingdom are also expected to assist in project financing. Total cost: $110 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA— $25 million. A second population project will improve the provision of family planning and maternal and child health services in an effort to reduce population growth and improve the health of an area that includes about 25% of the country's total population. The ODA is providing co-financing in the amount of $8 million. Total cost: $60.3 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$17 million. A second population and family health project will help further strengthen the national family planning program in order to achieve its demographic goal of reducing the birth rate to 26 per thousand and the population growth rate to 2 % by 1985 in peninsular Malaysia, and to extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for the improvement of maternal and child health. The project would assist in recruiting about 800,000 new acceptors during the period, 1978-85, to help meet the demographic target. Total cost: $37.7 million.
PHILIPPINES: IDA—$40 million. The country will be assisted in its efforts to reduce fertility levels over the next five years, and to improve the health status of at least 6 million people through a second population project that provides for population and health training, advisory services, vehicles, equipment, fellowships, and the construction of health service buildings. Total cost: $72 million.
Power
BANGLADESH: IDA—$28 million. The project will strengthen and expand the power distribution facilities in the area of Khulna and its environs to meet the growing demand for
industrial power in the area. Training facilities and teachers for the Bangladesh Power Development Board's training center will be included. Co-financing ($8.5 million) is being provided by the OPEC Special Fund. Total cost: $44.2 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$109 million. Electricity will be made available to about 415,000 new consumers, including about 45,000 households in low-income urban areas and 50,000 rural consumers in the service area of Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica in Parana state. Total cost: $361.66 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$84 million. To help meet the country's projected growth in power requirements, a hydroelectric facility consisting of two surface powerhouses, totaling 600 mW, will be constructed. The project also includes remedial work on the Sesquile dam to strengthen it against possible future earthquake damage, an asset valuation study, and technical assistance. Total cost: $260.8 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$72 million. The second phase of the San Carlos hydroelectric power project that forms part of the Inter-conexion Electrica S.A. (ISA)'s 1978-85 expansion program will be assisted. The project will provide about 15% of the planned increase in generation capacity. Total cost: $156.1 million.
COSTA RICA: Bank—$34 million. A sixth power project, consisting of the installation of transmission lines, substations, subtransmis-sion and distribution works, engineering and other studies, provision of construction and laboratory equipment, and training, will help meet part of the anticipated demand for greater and more reliable electricity supply throughout the country. Co-financing ($1.3 million) is being provided by the IDB. Total cost: $56.2 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank-Si 02 million; IDA—$37 million. To help meet the country's demand for electricity, a thermal power station will be built at Shoubrah El Kheima, on the Nile. Technical assistance is included. Co-financing will be provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($35 million), USAID ($100 million), the EIB ($35 million), the OECF ($25 million), and possibly the OPEC Special Fund ($10 million). Total cost: $465.9 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$1.1 million. Preparatory work on a large power rehabilitation program for the city of Conakry will be completed. The project will finance a feasibility study, repair work, replacement and spare parts, and will also provide technical assistance to the Societe
Nationale d'Electricite for auditing and accounting procedures. Total cost: $1.2 million.
HAITI: IDA—$16.5 million. The Varreux power station at Port-au-Prince and seven additional substations will be expanded. Three new substations will be financed, as well as the construction and rehabilitation of distribution lines, staff training, and consulting services. Power stations in three provincial towns and distribution networks in three other towns will be renovated and expanded. Co-financing is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($6 million), and is being considered by CIDA ($14.5 million). Total cost: $43 million.
HONDURAS: Bank—$30.5 million. Through the construction of a hydroelectric plant and a diesel plant, the preparation of a national electrification master plan, a prefeasi-bility study of a promising hydro development site, and the costs of equipment, consultants' services, and a training program, the country's electricity requirements will be met through 1983, and the institutional capacity of the National Electrical Energy Company increased. Co-financing is being provided by the CABEI ($3.5 million). Total cost: $58 million.
INDIA: Bank—$50 million; IDA—$200 million. A power station, together with ancillary equipment, will be built in Andhra Pradesh state. Mechanical and electrical equipment, turbo generators, boilers, coal transportation and handling equipment, and consultants' services will be financed. Total cost: $511 million.
INDIA: IDA—$175 million. Agricultural output will be increased and the quality of life in rural areas improved through the electrification of about 500,000 pumps for about 2.5 million families in 15,000 villages. Small farmers and small-scale rural industries will also benefit as electrification progresses. Landless laborers will benefit through an increase in employment opportunities generated by irrigation-induced double cropping. Total cost: $400 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$175 million. Site preparation and arrangements for a thermal power station in West Java will be financed, as well as the installation of a generating unit, oil handling and storage facilities, equipment, and training, as part of an expansion program to provide base load generating capacity in the country. Total cost: $374.2 million.
JORDAN: Bank—$15 million. The power needs of three major industrial projects and 46,000 people in 33 villages will be met through the construction of transmission lines
and associated facilities. Technical assistance to the Jordan Electricity Authority is included. Co-financing ($500,000) will be provided by the AFESD. Total cost: $53.5 million.
KENYA: Bank—$9 million. An engineering loan in support of a power project, designed to develop the geothermal potential at Olkaria, about 100 kilometers northwest of Nairobi, includes the financing of drilling equipment, supplies, consultants, and the training of local personnel. In order to implement the geothermal project, the availability of adequate quantities of steam at appropriate temperatures and pressures must be proved. Total cost: $15.5 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$42 million. Access to electricity will be extended to more than 300,000 people living in 220 rural villages in 17 provinces. Migration from rural areas is expected to decrease with improved living conditions, increased agricultural productivity, and more job opportunities. Total cost: $85 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$14.8 million. Supplementary finance will be made to a $26 million credit approved in January 1976 for a hydroelectric project. Additional financing will be made by the EEC Special Action Account ($3 million), the KFAED ($7.2 million), the UNDP ($1 million), and the OECF ($1.1 million).
ROMANIA: Bank—$70 million. The country's anticipated increase in demand for power over the next five years will be met through the construction of a thermal power station—a second stage extension of the station atTurceni —and transmission lines that will connect the Turceni plant and the city of Cluj. Total cost: $482.7 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$80 million. The country's growing demand for electricity will be partially met through the construction of a power plant, two substations, and 110 kilometers of transmission lines. Equipment and engineering services will also be financed. Co-financing ($22 million) is being provided by the KFAED. Total cost: $297 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$10 million. By providing additional high- and low-voltage distribution lines and cables for about 40,000 new and rehabilitated consumer connections, by supplying service vehicles, communications equipment, and electricity meters, and through consultancy services and a training program, the urban electricity distribution networks in the country's three main cities will be improved and expanded, and the organization and effectiveness of the Yemen General Electricity Corporation will be improved. Co-financing is to be provided by the Netherlands ($9 million). Total cost: $59.6 million.
Technical Assistance
BANGLADESH: IDA —$10 million. A third technical assistance project will provide for preinvestment planning, feasibility and engineering studies, consulting and advisory services, and training to assist the country in project planning and preparation and improving project implementation capacity. Total cost: $12.5 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$2.5 million. A second technical assistance project will help reorganize and strengthen the planning and project preparation units of the ministries of agriculture and industry, thus increasing the number of viable and effective investment projects in the country. Total cost: $3 million.
INDONESIA: IDA—$10 million. A five-year technical assistance program will finance various studies and the preparation of specific projects or components that aim at creating employment, fulfilling basic needs, and alleviating poverty.
TOGO: IDA—$2.2 million. Technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Planning for a three-year period in an effort to promote sounder investment and public finance policies. Consultant services, office equipment, and supplies are also included. Total cost: $2.4 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$5 million. To help strengthen the government's ability to implement its development program, 70 man-years of expert and consultant services will be provided to the Planning Commission and operational ministries. Local staff will be trained, and project-related equipment, vehicles, supplies, and other operating costs will be financed. Total cost: $5.6 million.
Telecommunications
KENYA: Bank—$20 million. Through the installation of additional lines of local automatic exchange equipment, long distance public call offices, eight microwave and three UHF radio systems, and 11 long distance automatic exchanges, the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation will be assisted in extending local services and long distance circuits of high quality, and basic telecommunications facilities will be provided to poorly served rural areas. Total cost: $63.5 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$90 million. Telecommunications services, particularly in the rural areas, will be improved through the expansion (by 45,000 regular lines and 200 new long distance links) of existing facilities. The installation of an additional 140,000 lines in
Bangkok will provide access to public pay telephones to the lower-income population. The management and operational capabilities of the Telephone Organization of Thailand will also be strengthened. Co-financing in the amount of $62 million is being provided by the OECF. Total cost: $307 million.
Tourism
BARBADOS: Bank—$8 million. Tourist accommodations at an oceanfront site near Speightstown will be built and leased to Barbadian hotel operators who will share common services and facilities such as central management and marketing, purchasing, and recreation facilities. The project will also stimulate the development of the northern part of the island, and will increase demand for agricultural products and other local services. Co-financing ($3.2 million) is being provided by the CDB. Total cost: $17.2 million.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Bank —$25 million. A line of credit will be provided for the construction of about 1,600 hotel rooms, restaurants, shops, and other tourist facilities. Urban works, including a better sewerage collection network, and an artisan center to train about 50 people each year will also be financed. Total cost: $71 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA— $32.5 million. As many as 6,000 new permanent jobs will be created and foreign exchange earnings increased through the improvement of tourism facilities at Luxor and at nearby archaeological sites. The Egyptian Museum in Cairo will be renovated to conserve irreplaceable antiquities and provide better research facilities, and the guesthouse at Abu Simbel expanded to provide better tourist accommodations. Total cost: $59 million.
HONDURAS: Bank—$19.5 million. Foreign exchange earnings will be diversified and about 1,500 direct permanent jobs, as well as additional indirect employment, will be created through a tourism development project in which funds will be re-lent through financial intermediaries to hotel and other tourism enterprises. In addition, two airports will be improved, land tenure uncertainties regularized, an environmental control plan established for Roatan Island, the Copan archaeological park enhanced, and technical assistance provided. Total cost: $38.3 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$14.2 million. About 3,000 permanent jobs will be created through the provision of tourist accommodations in Abidjan and other parts of the coun-
try. A wildlife program, as well as technical assistance, will be financed. Co-financing ($26.9 million) will be provided by financial intermediaries, and private investors are expected to contribute $21 million. Total cost: $63.6 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$14 million. In order to reverse the deterioration in tourist facilities and services, hotels will be rehabilitated, adequate hotel training provided, the promotion of the country's tourist attractions intensified, anti-poaching activities strengthened, and transportation infrastructure improved. Total cost: $18.3 million.
Transportation
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$17.6 million. The country's existing primary road network will be strengthened, and the government's program of maintenance and improvement of secondary and tertiary roads supported through a third highway project. Technical assistance is included. Co-financing ($4.4 million) is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account. Total cost: $33.2 million.
ALGERIA: Bank—$126 million. A third highway loan will help finance the foreign exchange costs of a maintenance program, strengthening of 270 kilometers of roads, reconstruction of 51 kilometers of one of the major national roads, and training of maintenance personnel. Technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Public Works to prepare road development plans and investment programs, including feasibility and engineering studies. Total cost: $239.2 million.
ARGENTINA: Bank—$96 million. Equipment, materials, and spare parts for the Argentine Railways will be financed, and technical assistance will be provided. Total cost: $748.9 million.
BENIN: IDA—$8.3 million. Supplementary finance will be made to an $11 million credit approved in June 1978 for a transportation project. Norway has bought a participation in the full amount of the supplementary credit.
BRAZIL: Bank—$110 million. Through a second feeder roads project, isolated areas will have better access to markets and to storage and processing facilities; agricultural development will be encouraged; and social, health, and education services will be more accessible. Total cost: $338.5 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$38 million; IDA— $10 million. A fourth highway project will help improve the government's capacity to maintain
roads; domestic contractors will be promoted; axle load limits enforced; and road planning will be improved. Savings in road transport costs, as well as an expansion of agricultural development in many rural areas, are expected. Total cost: $83 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$27 million; IDA— $20 million. A fourth railway project includes the construction of a marshalling yard at Douala, railway equipment, a major workshop expansion, the first-phase construction of a locomotive running shed in Yaounde, and rolling stock maintenance and training facilities. In addition, consulting services and technical assistance will be provided to improve railway operations, management, and training. Total cost: $59.2 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE: IDA— $15.5 million. A third highway project will provide better access to the ocean by reconstruction of the Bangui-Bossembele road, a major import/export route to Cameroon. Agricultural development will be stimulated by improved access to markets and reduced costs of supplying inputs. The KFAED and the ADF are providing co-financing of $3.6 million and $5.6 million, respectively. Total cost: $25.7 million.
CHAD: IDA—$7.6 million. Through support of a four-year road maintenance program, the regraveling of about 400 kilometers of main roads, a training program for staff of the Directorate of Public Works, construction of four ferry boats, a study to prepare a rural roads project, completion of an improvement program for cotton feeder roads, and technical assistance, road maintenance will be improved, and transport planning and operations will be strengthened. Co-financing is being provided by USAID ($9 million) and the ADF ($5.1 million). Total cost: $21.9 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$61 million. Improvements in the Bogota and Cartagena airports and construction of a new domestic airport at Medellin will help meet rapidly growing air transport demand and increase the amount of time during which aircraft can operate safely. Technical assistance and training is being provided to the Civil Aeronautics Administration Department. Co-financing ($100,000) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $97.8 million.
COMOROS: IDA—$5 million. A highway project will benefit one of the country's most densely populated and underdeveloped areas by strengthening its road administration and upgrading and expanding the main road network, thus providing increased accessibility and reduced transport costs for rural popula-
tions. The ADF and the OPEC Special Fund are providing co-financing in the amounts of $4.5 million and $1 million, respectively. Total cost: $11.06 million.
GAMBIA, THE: IDA—$5 million. A four-year maintenance program for 780 kilometers of high priority roads will be established. Equipment, vehicles, spare parts, and other materials will be financed, as well as technical assistance and training for public works department employees. Co-financing ($1.7 million) is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account. Total cost: $6.7 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA—$9 million. The incomes of rural families are expected to increase through a road rehabilitation and maintenance project that will provide improved access to markets. Equipment, materials, spare parts, and technical assistance will be provided. Total cost: $10.15 million.
INDIA: IDA—$190 million. The operational efficiency of the Indian Railways will be improved through rationalization and modernization of maintenance, removal of existing bottlenecks in manufacturing capabilities, and support of research and development activities related to improvement in motive power. Construction of a wheel and axle plant in Karna-taka state will generate jobs for about 1,200 workers. Total cost: $459 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$130 million. Reduced transport costs and better mobility throughout the country are expected through the improvement of about 800 kilometers of roads, bridge replacements, programs to improve highway activities in eight provincial public works departments, a highway safety program, maintenance equipment, feasibility studies, and advisory assistance to highway authorities and other agencies for transport planning. Co-financing ($800,00) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $249.5 million.
JAMAICA: Bank—$16 million. Through the improvement of 539 kilometers of roads, provision of highway equipment, and better maintenance operations and management, the Ministry of Work's Five-Year Road Maintenance Program will be supported; through the reduction in vehicle operating costs and improvement in farm-to-market roads, small farmers will be better able to transport their produce to market. Total cost: $25.7 million.
KENYA: Bank—$90 million. A highway sector project will support road development, reduce vehicle operating and road maintenance costs, help to determine an intermodal transport coordination policy, and open up areas of the country for agricultural development through new road construction. Road safety
and traffic law enforcement will also be improved. Total cost: $277 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$143 million. A fourth highway project will provide for the construction and improvement of about 1,230 kilometers of roads located in many regions of the country. General transportation and communications will be improved and vehicle operating costs reduced. Approximately 300,000 man-months of employment will be created during the construction period. Total cost: $378 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$9 million. About 1,800 kilometers of roads will be rehabilitated, and 24 kilometers newly paved through a third highway project. Consultant services and technical assistance are also included. The EEC Special Action Account is providing co-financing in the amount of $2.2 million. Total cost: $12.6 million.
LIBERIA: Bank—$10.7 million. More than 300,000 persons living in rural areas will benefit from the construction, improvement, and maintenance of about 540 kilometers of feeder roads. The project will help reduce transport costs, improve access to health and education facilities, and contribute to the expansion of agricultural production. Total cost: $16.3 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$24 million. Through the rehabilitation of about 500 kilometers of paved roads, construction of bridges, and improvement in road maintenance, vehicle operating costs will be reduced, the road transport industry will become more efficient, and some 1.2 million people living in the isolated northern part of the country will have year-around access to other parts of the country. Co-financing ($10 million) is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account. Total cost: $40.92 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$13 million. Railway facilities will be renewed and modernized, and the efficiency of operations improved through the replacement of locomotives and workshop equipment, track renewal and improvement, and a better financial management and accounting system. Co-financing ($20.5 million) is being provided by the CCCE. Total cost: $43.7 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$120 million. The road network will be modernized and expanded through the construction and rehabilitation of federal and state highways and urban bypasses. Equipment and vehicles will be purchased, and consultants' services provided. Total cost: $1,110 million.
NIGER: IDA—$10 million. About 1,000 kilometers of feeder roads that serve agricul-
tural development areas will be improved and maintained. The project will finance materials, spare parts, equipment, and labor, as well as technical assistance. Total cost: $13 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank—$39 million. A sixth highway project will provide for the construction of a route linking two major cities and 500 kilometers of feeder roads to reduce vehicle operating costs and support agricultural development in two regions in the hinterland of the Parana river. Co-financing ($7 million) is being provided by Lloyds Bank International, Limited. Total cost: $65.5 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$100 million. A central equipment depot and various workshops will be constructed, maintenance and other equipment will be provided, and more than 400 kilometers of national and feeder roads constructed or improved. In addition, 8,400 kilometers of deteriorated road sections will be restored to a condition where routine maintenance can be undertaken. Total cost: $205 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$40 million. In an effort to lower transport and maintenance costs, a second highway loan will finance the rehabilitation of national roads and training and fellowships for highway authority staff. Total cost: $114.7 million.
SENEGAL: Bank—$7 million. A second aviation project to strengthen Dakar airport's main runway and taxiway and provide for modernization of navigational aids at two other airports will help the government increase foreign exchange earnings, improve utilization of its domestic airline fleet, and promote its growing tourism industry. Total cost: $9.1 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$5.5 million. A conventional tanker pier—to be used for receiving inbound crude oil for the Mogadishu oil refinery and for outbound refined products—in Mogadishu's deep water harbor will be provided; as a result, ship waiting time will be reduced, and general cargo berth capacity released. Total cost: $6.6 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$16.5 million. Through a project designed to arrest the deterioration of the country's road system by a program of enhanced routine and periodic maintenance and execution of future works, the transport of goods and passengers will be facilitated, and road transport costs reduced. Total cost: $28.75 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$41 million. A second highway project will reduce transport costs and travel time in the Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim corridor, thus facilitating the export of agricultural products and providing access to isolated areas.
Technical assistance, equipment, spare parts, and fuel will also be provided, along with assistance for the Southern Regional Ministry of Transport. Total cost: $51.7 million.
SWAZILAND: Bank—$11 million. The country's transport network will be improved by the construction and upgrading of two main road sections to paved standards. Technical assistance and training will be provided to the Roads Branch, as well as the procurement of maintenance equipment and workshop equipment and tools. Consumers, traders, and producers—including small farmers—will benefit from the project. Total cost: $15.1 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$20.5 million. About 2,700 kilometers of primary roads will be rehabilitated and maintained through a fifth highway project designed to upgrade the country's road network and reduce transportation costs. Equipment, spare parts, tools, and materials will be provided. Total cost: $25.71 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$16.7 million. A fifth railway project will help meet the country's increasing demand for railway services, as well as improve services and performance through the acquisition of diesel locomotives, passenger coaches, and freight cars, and the rehabilitation and replacement of track and telecommunications systems equipment. Co-financing for locomotives, in the amount of about $32 million, is being provided by the Federal Republic of Germany and France. Total cost: $100.9 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$75 million. Ten main public ports will be rehabilitated, institutional and financial improvements made in port operations, and master planning and feasibility studies undertaken to help meet traffic requirements through 1984. Co-financing ($1 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $155.6 million.
URUGUAY: Bank—$26.5 million. The reconstruction of 140 kilometers of a major road linking Montevideo, the capital city and major port, with Brazil will lower vehicle operating costs, save time, and reduce road maintenance costs. Consulting services and technical assistance will be provided to strengthen and improve transport sector planning. Total cost: $61.2 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$148 million. A tenth highway project will provide funds for the construction and rehabilitation of roads in the four less developed regions and in Vojvo-dina, the country's most important agricultural region. The project will affect, in particular, local traffic and, therefore, the farming communities served. In several cases, remote areas
will be opened for agricultural development, and light processing industry and social services will be provided. Total cost: $794.6 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$26 million. An estimated 40,000 kilometers of roads will be rehabilitated and maintained, bridges replaced, workshops and warehouses constructed, and equipment, spare parts, and fuel provided to help meet minimum transport requirements in rural areas to support agricultural production and reduce vehicle operating costs. Co-financing will be provided by CIDA ($6.5 million), the EEC Special Action Account ($15.5 million), the KfW ($23.6 million), the SFD ($33.9 million), the ODA ($2.2 million), USAID ($700,000), FAC ($200,000), and Belgium ($100,000). Total cost: $136.5 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$20 million. To help meet transport demand in the southern half of the country, track rehabilitation and equipment will be financed, as well as spare parts for locomotives and rolling stock, staff training, and consultant services. Co-financing is being provided by the SFD ($35 million), the KfW ($25 million), the OPEC Special Fund ($7 million), and the AfDB ($9.6 million); an additional $9.3 million is expected to be provided by the government and other bilateral sources. Total cost: $157.8 million.
Urban Development
BRAZIL: Bank—$93 million. More than 80,000 low-income families will benefit from improved housing and better health and education facilities through a sites and services and low-cost housing project in two northeastern states and in Greater Sao Paulo. Total cost: $265.7 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$70 million. Living conditions will be improved and incomes increased for the mostly poor residents of eight medium-sized cities by providing central food warehouses to support retail grocers in poor areas, stalls for open-air markets, industrial parks for small enterprises, technical assistance to small enterprises and cooperatives, water supply and sewerage systems, flood control programs, and community facilities, including nurseries and primary schools. Total cost: $200 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$13.5 million. More than 95,000 people in the city of Cartagena and in a nearby village living below the relative poverty minimum, will benefit from an urban development project that includes the provision of landfill and drainage in flooded areas, water supply and sewerage, and housing and community facilities. Co-financing ($2 million) is
being provided by the IDB. Total cost: $35.3 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$54 million. Some 4.5 million low-income people in five major urban areas will be provided with water supply, sanitation and garbage disposal services, schools, health facilities, and other basic infrastructure through a third urban development project. The project also includes drainage facilities to alleviate flooding in about 1,000 hectares of developed land and training and materials for 800 community workers. Total cost: $96 million.
MALI: IDA—$12 million. Shelter services, improved health and sanitary conditions, and market facilities will be made available to some 44,000 low-income residents in Bamako; water supply and sanitation services will be provided in three secondary cities; and vehicles and equipment will be financed for urban development institutions. Total cost: $15.3 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$32 million. The basic needs of more than 180,000 low-income people living in the Dagat-Dagatan area of Metropolitan Manila and in three secondary cities will be partially met through this second urban development project. Funds for employment promotion in the Dagat-Dagatan area will be provided. Technical assistance will also be furnished. Total cost: $69.9 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$16 million. In order to increase travel speeds and to increase person-trip capacity of Bangkok's existing transportation system, urban traffic management will be strengthened, specific policies to discourage the use of low-occupancy vehicles will be implemented, low-cost measures to increase the capacity of the urban road network will be introduced, and the management and operation of public transport will be improved through technical assistance and training. Total cost: $34 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$19 million. To help meet the needs of people living in low-income urban areas in Tunis and Sfax, five settlements will be upgraded, education facilities provided, a small business assistance program inaugurated, and improvements made in waste collection and disposal systems. Technical assistance is also included. Co-financing ($2.4 million) is being provided by the Netherlands Ministry for Development Cooperation. Total cost: $45 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$16.5 million. In conjunction with ongoing projects, of which this project is an integral part, some 630,000
people—70% of Kabul's urban population— will be supplied with clean drinking water through a second water supply and sewerage project. In addition, the beginnings of a sewerage system and improved sanitation services will be provided. Co-financing ($1.6 million) is being provided by CIDA. Total cost: $22.5 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$22 million. More than 300,000 urban poor in Dacca will be provided with safe water supply and sewerage facilities through the provision of additional connections and sewers. Consultant services and feasibility studies for a follow-up project are included. Total cost: $41.7 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$100 million. An estimated 3.5 million people living in three northeastern states will be supplied with water supply and sewerage facilities. Tariff studies and consultancy services will also be included. Total cost: $303 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$31 million. Water, through house connections, will be provided to about 473,000 people in 19 cities by 1983, and sewerage services to 654,000 people in 14 cities (about half of whom belong to the poorest population) as a result of a project that also focuses on increasing the institutional capacities of participating water and sewerage companies. Total cost: $71.9 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$30 million. Extension of sewerage facilities and household water supply connections will provide better sanitary conditions for 1 million people in Bogota. Proper drainage systems will also be built in areas that periodically flood. Long-range plans for sewage disposal and reduction of river pollution will also be financed. Total cost: $62.6 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$12.5 million. Some 200,000 people living in low-income areas of Conakry will gain access to safe water and sanitation through the rehabilitation and expansion of water production facilities. The AfDB is providing co-financing in the amount of $6 million. Total cost: $21.9 million.
INDIA: IDA—$196 million. The construction of facilities required for the treatment, transmission, and distribution of 450 million liters of water a day, and for the improvement and extension of sewage collection, treatment, and disposal will benefit most of Bombay's slum population of about 2.5 million people. In addition, the incidence of waterborne diseases should decrease. Training and technical assistance are included. Total cost: $411.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$48 million. Some 2.4 million people, mostly in the lower-income group,
will benefit from a water supply and sewerage project in Maharashtra state that includes the construction of water treatment, transmission, and distribution facilities; provision of public standpipes; repairs to water mains and meters; provision of sewage collection, treatment, and disposal facilities; training; and technical assistance. Total cost: $95.8 million.
INDIA: IDA—$38 million. Two million people will benefit from a project designed to improve and expand water supply and sewerage facilities in eight industrial towns in the Punjab. A free supply of safe water from standpipes will help meet the needs of the urban poor, and about 10,000 jobs will be created during the construction period. Total cost: $77.6 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$36 million. Safe water will be provided to about 850,000 urban poor in seven cities through a second water supply project. In addition, seven water enterprises will be developed, staff trained, and future projects prepared. Total cost: $63.7 million.
KENYA: Bank—$20 million. Through the construction of 33 rural water supply schemes, convenient, safe, and reliable water will be provided to a rural population of about half a million. The Ministry of Water Development's operation, maintenance, and direct labor sections will be strengthened, and technical assistance provided. Total cost: $26.8 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$125 million. The growing demand for industrial, municipal, and irrigation water supply will be partially met over the next 20 years through the construction of dams, a power plant and associated transmission facilities, the relocation of roads and railways, and other related works. The OECF is providing co-financing in the amount of $70 million. Total cost: $510 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$6 million. Through constructing extensions to the water supply systems of seven towns and by providing necessary technical assistance and engineering consulting services, the country's water resources will be developed, sector institutions strengthened, and domestic water supplies upgraded. Total cost: $6.96 million.
LIBERIA: IDA—$8 million. A reliable supply of potable water and increased access to service for the Monrovia population will be provided. A coordinated and systematic approach to the provision of service outside Monrovia will also be initiated. Management improvement and staff training will be provided to the Liberia Water and Sewer
Corporation. At least 50,000 new low-income consumers in Monrovia will be included among the beneficiaries. Co-financing is being provided by the AfDB ($2.9 million) and the CDC ($2 million). Total cost: $16.1 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$49 million. The expansion of bulk water production and transmission facilities along the mid-Atlantic coast and in the Greater Agadir area will provide access to safe water for about 300,000 people living below the poverty level. In addition, an expanded standpipe network will provide water to about 900,000 shantytown residents. Co-financing ($33.3 million) is being provided by the KfW. Total cost: $182.5 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$92 million. The Ka-duna city water supply system will be expanded and improved through the construction of a raw water intake and pumping station, a water treatment plant, storage reservoirs, transmission mains, distribution pipelines, and about 250 public standpipes to serve an additional 400,000 people in mostly low-income areas. Total cost: $158.4 million.
PERU: Bank—$8.8 million. A long-term solution to Lima's water supply problems— which are particularly acute in the city's slums—will be prepared, and studies for a major hydropower plant will be completed. Total cost: $11.1 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$88 million. Some 4 million people in Metropolitan Manila will be provided with safe water; service to another 3 million, who are inadequately served at present, will be improved. In addition, 10,000 jobs for 30 months will be provided during project construction. The AsDB is providing co-financing in the amount of $100.3 million. Total cost: $397.1 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$16 million; IDA— $22 million. About 1 million people—40% to 60% of whom are in the "absolute poor" group—in 50 provincial cities and 580,000 people in 1,000 rural communities will benefit from a water supply project designed to provide the population with safe drinking water, thereby reducing the incidence of waterborne diseases and the possibility of epidemics. Project components include the construction of low-cost water supply systems, technical assistance, staff training, equipment, and vehicles. Total cost: $64 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$2.5 million. Economic, financial, and technical studies for the preparation of an investment project for the rehabilitation and extension of the water supply and sanitation systems of 11 secondary centers, including six regional capitals, will be provided, as well as feasibility and financial studies updated, and technical assistance to strengthen planning in the sector. Total cost: $3.2 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$26.5 million. Through a second stage development of sewerage facilities for Greater Tunis, improvement and extension of existing sewerage facilities for Sfax, and provision of technical assistance, the government's overall policy of extending sewerage facilities to match the national program of water supply expansion will be supported. Total cost: $77.5 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$25 million. Some 600,000 people will be provided with safe water through the expansion and improvement of the water supply systems in selected rural areas and in low-income urban areas. Total cost: $72 million.
External Coordination and Cooperation
Economic Development Institute
Fiscal 1979 saw the beginning of the Economic Development Institute's (EDI) five-year program for the period, fiscal 1979-83. The program envisages: (a) increased support for training institutions overseas through teaching, advice on training methods, course planning and administration, and the supply of training material prepared by EDI staff; (b) an increased number of national and regional courses, especially in Africa; and (c) the introduction, testing, and development in its Washington teaching program of new courses and short innovative seminars.
In line with this strategy, EDI offered, during fiscal 1979, 11 courses and three seminars for about 400 participants in Washington, and supported 33 overseas courses and seminars given to about 850 participants. One-third of the overseas courses and seminars were regional, serving officials from countries sharing common linguistic, cultural, or geographic backgrounds. The rest were for nationals of particular countries.
In the Washington programs, two courses were given for the first time: one on population and development and the other on the preparation, evaluation, and management of railway projects. A development banking course was also offered in Spanish for the first time. The rural development projects course was given in French for the second time, and, for the second consecutive year, the United Nations Institute for Training and Research joined EDI in conducting a seminar (this time, bilingual English-French) on economic development and its international setting for the staff of diplomatic missions to the United Nations. A seminar on teaching methods and curriculum design was also given for the second year in a row, and a new, two-week seminar was held for chief executives of development banks.
Overseas, EDI continued its cooperative programs with various training institutions. Regional courses and seminars included: a rural credit projects course in Los Banos, co-sponsored by the University of the Philippines and the Southeast Asian Regional Center for
Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture; a general projects course in Baghdad, with the Arab Planning Institute; an industrial projects course in Tokyo, with the International Development Center of Japan; and three transportation courses in different regions—one in Brasilia (Brazil) with the Training Center for Economic Development; another in Arusha (Tanzania) with the East African Management Institute; and a third in Dacca with the Bangladesh Irstitute for Development Studies. After the transportation course in Dacca was completed, an experimental seminar was held in Kathmandu, Nepal, for the supervisors of South Asian participants in previous EDI transportation courses that had been held in Washington, Bangladesh, and Pakistan. In South America, EDI joined the Association of Argentine Banks in a new training program for the countries of the River Plate basin (Argentina, Boliva, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay), with a first seminar held in San Nicolas for senior public and private officials, followed by a first course on agro-industrial projects in Buenos Aires. EDI also helped organize a second seminar for Ibero-American training institutions held in Brazil.
At the request of the Nigerian government, EDI assisted the Nigerian Institute of Economic and Social Research which offered training courses for officials involved in the preparation of that country's fourth national five-year development plan. EDI also joined local institutions and government departments in giving courses on general projects in Libya and Spain; on industrial projects in Bangladesh and Iraq; on transportation projects in Egypt, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Romania; and on urban development in India. In Pakistan and India, two other courses were held on special topics concerned with development policy analysis, decision making, and implementation. In Egypt, a one-week seminar for senior transportation officials was jointly sponsored by EDI and the Egyptian Ministry of Transport.
In seven other national courses, EDI, while providing little or no direct teaching, helped in planning and designing the curriculum, in identifying lecturers, and in supplying training materials. These were a rural development
projects course in Bangladesh; a water supply projects course in Chile; two courses on general projects and on agricultural and agro-industrial projects in Indonesia; an industrial and agro-industrial projects course in Tanzania; an agricultural and industrial projects course in Venezuela; and a highway projects course in Yugoslavia.
The number of officials spending some time at EDI continued to increase. Many were interested in applying EDI experience in the training activities of their own institutions or government departments. In the past year, EDI staff produced several collections of training materials that can be used independently by other institutions in developing countries. Efforts in this direction will increase in the next few years as part of EDI's five-year program.
Coordination of Assistance
At the request of both donor and recipient governments, the Bank has continued to take the lead in organizing various aid coordination mechanisms for a number of developing countries that receive assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources. During the year, 10 aid coordinating groups held formal meetings that were sponsored by the Bank. These were the country groups for Bangladesh, Burma, India, Kenya, Korea, Pakistan, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Thailand, and the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development. The Bank also participated in a meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia, chaired by the Netherlands.
The large number of projects that the Bank and IDA helped to finance jointly or on a parallel basis with other national and multilateral organizations is an indication of the close cooperation that exists among the various development assistance agencies. Projects were co-financed with the United Nations Development Programme, the World Food Programme, the European Investment Bank, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the Islamic Development Bank, the OPEC Special Fund, and various regional financing institutions (the African Development Bank and Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the Central American Bank for Economic Integration, the Inter-American Development Bank), as well as with aid agencies in Abu Dhabi, Australia, Canada, Finland, France, Germany, Iran, Japan, Kuwait, Libya, the Netherlands, Nor-
way, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, Venezuela, and the European Economic Community. Co-financers of individual projects are named with each project in the chapter, "Projects Approved for Bank and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1979, by Sector," beginning on page 73.
In May 1978, an Agreement was signed between the European Economic Community and its nine member countries and IDA, establishing the Association as administrator of a "Special Action Account" to provide assistance to low-income countries whose development prospects have been seriously reduced by external factors and which face problems of resource transfers. Under this Agreement, which became effective January 1, 1979, IDA is responsible for the commitment and disbursement of the equivalent of about $385 million. Approximately $175 million was committed in 24 "Special Action Credits" as additions to Bank and IDA projects during fiscal 1979. The balance of the "Special Action Account" is expected to be committed during the first half of fiscal year 1980.
The Bank also continued its efforts to stimulate private investment in Bank-sponsored projects. Since fiscal 1975, an increasing number of projects have been co-financed by private commercial banks in borrowing countries. During the past year, such co-financing continued to play an important role in the Bank's operations.
On a regional basis, the Bank continued its active participation in the country reviews sponsored by the Permanent Executive Committee of the Inter-American Economic and Social Council. It furthermore maintained close working relations with regional financing institutions and the Commission of the European Communities, which helped assure the coordination of development assistance activities.
Formal consultations were held during the year with the Ministry of Economic Cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, as well as with the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan and the Export-Import Bank of Japan in order to review questions of common interest and to discuss country and project matters and possibilities for co-financing. With the purpose of determining potential co-financings, regular contacts were also maintained with the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the Islamic Development Bank, the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development, the OPEC Special Fund, the Saudi Fund for Development, and the Venezuelan Investment Fund, as well as with the financing agencies in countries in North America and those that are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
Interagency Cooperation
The Bank has long-standing relations with UN agencies and programs concerned with various aspects of development work.(1) In some cases, these relations are defined by formal agreement; more often, cooperation proceeds ad hoc, taking the form of joint missions, country/sector/project consultations, etc., to make the most effective use of the information, experience, and expertise available within the UN system.
Four Cooperative Programs are based on formal interagency agreements approved by the Bank's Board of Governors. Each consists of an agreed work program of country sector surveys and of project identification and preparation carried out by a unit housed in the partner agency. The Bank bears about 75% of each program's costs. For fiscal 1979, the Bank's aggregate share was S7.3 million.
The Cooperative Program (CP) between the Bank and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), now 15 years old, accounted for 60% of the total cost. During the year, the CP staffed and carried out 169 missions in 48 countries, continu-
ing its focus on projects benefiting the poorest segments of the rural population, on institution building, and on local participation in project formulation. The CP assisted countries in the preparation of about one-third of the agricultural projects approved for Bank financing during the year. Twelve of these were co-financed with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).
The CP with the UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (Unesco), the second largest and oldest CP, continued to emphasize education sector reviews and project identification and preparation, and undertook or assisted in 41 missions to 32 countries. In addition, the CP helped to appraise six education projects and an industrial development finance project, undertook three evaluation or completion missions, and advised the Bank on the establishment of population education and communications programs.
The main emphasis of the CP with the World Health Organization (WHO) continued to be on the implementation of the 1977 UN Water Conference resolution calling for safe drinking water and adequate sanitation for all by 1990. With this objective in view, CP staff continued the preparation of "rapid assessment" reports analyzing the current state of
'''The Bank's relations with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) are discussed in the next section ("Technical Assistance") of this chapter.
water supply and sanitation facilities in over 100 member countries, and assessing the needs and priorities required to meet the targets of the "International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade" that begins in 1980. It helped to prepare Interregional Cooperative Projects, to be financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and by bilateral donors, that are aimed at facilitating the coordination of national water development plans. The CP also participated in sector and project identification missions and in a survey of manpower and training needs in Western Africa. Apart from the CP, the Bank continued its association, as fiscal agent and co-sponsor, with WHO's Special Programme for Training in Tropical Diseases and with the long-standing Onchocerciasis Control Program to combat riverblindness in Western Africa.
The CP with the UN Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) essentially maintained last year's level of activity, carrying out or participating in 11 Bank missions in as many countries. In addition, the CP supported Bank-sponsored initiatives for the development of small-scale employment-generating enterprises, particularly in Africa, South Asia, and Latin America, and helped to strengthen the construction industry in five African and Middle East countries. CP staff participated in a UNIDO-sponsored project identification effort directed at certain European firms interested in transferring to developing countries the technology for certain labor-intensive production processes no longer competitive in Europe's high-wage environment. In a parallel activity, the Bank/UNIDO Group on Fertilizers continued its work to provide data for monitoring the fertilizer industry's capacity developments. The Bank and UNIDO joined in organizing a global symposium on "Development Banking in the 1980s" to assess the future role of a large number of development finance companies, already established or to be established, in the developing countries.
Other interagency cooperation involved a number of areas and organizations. In the sector of manpower and training, the International Labour Organization (ILO) provided a wealth of information, in particular on country analyses of manpower needs, employment in small enterprises, urban management, rural vocational training, and income-generating skills for women, for use in vocational and entrepreneurial training projects in the nonfarm sector. The Bank and ILO continued to cooperate in improving country statistics on wages and employment. ILO staff took part in several Bank country and sector missions.
In the population sector, the Bank drew on reports on "needs assessments" by the UN Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA). The Bank and UNFPA consulted on a number of projects, and a system of briefings was instituted for newly appointed UNFPA field coordinators. The UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) collaborated in appraising a population project in the Philippines and will co-finance the project's primary health care component. Staff of the United Nations Population Division assisted in reviewing a proposed population project in Tunisia, while Bank staff cooperated in the appraisal being made by that Division of progress in the implementation of the World Population Plan of Action adopted by the 1974 World Population Conference. The Bank co-sponsored, with the Development Centre of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the Government of Upper Volta, a seminar on migratory population movements in Western Africa. A publication, "Changing Approaches to Population Problems," which examines shifts in strategies on population issues by national governments and donor agencies since the 1974 World Population Conference at Bucharest, was jointly prepared by the Bank and the Development Centre. The Bank and UNICEF also worked together on a number of projects in the nutrition field, while the World Food Programme provided "food for work" in several Bank-assisted projects in Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean.
To give practical effect to the results of recent Bank research, the Bank has become executing agency for a UNDP-financed Global Project to demonstrate the feasibility of repli-cable low-cost water supply and waste disposal techniques in rural and urban fringe areas; projects are already being developed in eight countries, drawing heavily on local expertise. In the transport sector, the International Civil Aviation Organization cooperated in two aviation projects in Bolivia and Colombia.
In the field of energy, Bank staff participated in meetings of the International Energy Agency, at which it presented the Bank's expanded programs for oil and natural gas development and discussed the organization of worldwide energy data.
The Bank and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) joined in a sector mission to study the telecommunications needs of Cameroon. Senior Bank staff took part in ITU seminars for developing country technicians held in India and Europe. Bank staff discussed ways to provide technical assistance to nonagricultural extension services for the bene-
fit of small-scale enterprises with the ILO, the European Development Fund, bilateral aid agencies, and private institutions. Linkages between rural and urban development were the subject of a joint study—partly financed by the Bank—with the OECD Development Centre. Aspects of regional development were reviewed with UN regional commissions: Bank staff participated in meetings organized by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) on economic projects and models in the Asia and Pacific Region and co-sponsored with the Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA) a conference on "A New Latin America in a Changing World Economy."
In the trade area, cooperation with the UNCTAD/GATT International Trade Centre (ITC) on export projects and measures to increase exports in individual countries and in selected trade regions stepped up sharply. An export promotion project was initiated in Portugal with joint Bank-ITC financing. The Bank organized an interagency meeting on the effects of inflation and exchange rate fluctuations on trade analyses and on the establishment of a common unit in international price series and index deflators for export earnings and trade growth. It consulted with GATT regarding a system being established at the Bank for the continuous monitoring of trends in protectionism.
Improvement of the data base is a continuing feature of interagency cooperation. In addition to cooperation with the Inter-Organization Board for Information Systems, the Bank agreed to co-sponsor a major UN endeavor—the "National Household Survey Capability Program"—designed to build national capability in the developing countries to gather economic data by households. The Bank also agreed to join in an effort to formulate standard nomenclature among all UN agencies dealing with socioeconomic development; this will facilitate integration of the agencies' research into a common fund of development knowledge. As a consequence of the continuing cooperation between the Bank and the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), the Bank's Economic Development Institute added to its curriculum a course on Environment and Development, environmental training components were introduced in several Bank-assisted projects, and seminars were organized to make staff more aware of environmental issues. The Bank, UNDP, and UNEP launched a program to encourage development finance institutions to adopt sound environmental guidelines in their lending.
The Bank continued to participate in various aspects of the work of the OECD and its Development Assistance Committee (DAC). Bank officers and staff participated in more than 120 OECD and DAC meetings, dealing with a range of issues from the North-South dialogue to aid statistics. Also important were the consultations with the European Communities on country and sector problems in the areas in which Communities' aid is concentrated. The exchange of country and economic reports with the Communities was considerably expanded.
Relations with nongovernmental, nonprofit organizations (NGOs) engaged in development cooperation were strengthened. Two Bank-organized meetings provided information on Bank operations and policies with a view to stimulating parallel NGO efforts, particularly in the sectors of education and rural and urban development. NGO field experience was drawn upon in the preparation of nutrition projects in Africa and for consideration of various socioeconomic problems, ranging from environmental protection to the role of cooperatives in agricultural development, and from the application of low-cost technology to migration.
A Bank delegation participated in the Fifth UN Conference on Trade and Development, which was addressed by the President of the Bank. The Bank was represented at the International Conference on Primary Health Care at Alma Ata (USSR), sponsored by WHO and UNICEF, and contributed to the preparatory work of the UN Conferences on Science and Technology for Development and on Agrarian Reform and Rural Development. The Bank provided the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) with information on its techniques of project appraisal, assistance in the recruitment of experts, and access to relevant data for the preparation of the UN Transport and Communications Decade in Africa. As its contribution to the International Year of the Child, the Bank published the World Atlas of the Child, providing socioeconomic data on the conditions of children throughout the world.
In other developments involving cooperation with elements of the UN system, the Bank:
—contributed the World Development Report as an aid in the formulation of a new International Development Strategy which is to be adopted by the UN General Assembly for the decade of the 1980s; and
—opened an office in Geneva, Switzerland, in order to strengthen liaison with the UN, Geneva-based agencies of the UN system, and other UN organizations in Europe.
Technical Assistance
Most Bank activities involve some form of technical assistance. Country and sector work carried out by Bank staff in the course of normal operations provide borrowers with material for economic policy formulation, definitions of priorities, and choices of development strategies. At the project level, Bank lending results in transfers of production techniques, extension and monitoring programs, institution building and the like, as well as of capital. All these technical assistance activities are an integral part of lending operations.
In many cases, however, Bank technical assistance takes a discrete, identifiable form. In fiscal 1979, technical assistance components included in loans or credits amounted to $359 million for 181 operations, compared with $324 million and 175 operations the previous year. Two-thirds of this amount was devoted to consultant services, about one-fourth to training programs, and the remainder to feasibility studies. The largest technical assistance operations were in connection with an irrigation project in Indonesia, a sugar rehabilitation project in Kenya, and a potash plant in Jordan.
Five operations—credits to Bangladesh, Burundi, Indonesia, Togo, and Zambia—were approved exclusively for technical assistance purposes for a total of $29.7 million. In fiscal 1978, there were three such operations, aggregating $20.3 million.
As Bank lending has increased in the newer sectors, weaknesses in borrowers' capacities to complete project preparation and the need for support for the entities responsible for preparing or carrying out the projects have become increasingly apparent. The Bank created its Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in 1975 to help overcome this problem. Under the facility, the Bank advances funds to meet gaps in project preparation and for institution building. The advances are repaid out of the loan for the project concerned as soon as the loan becomes effective.
In the past fiscal year, the Executive Directors approved both an increase in the limit of individual PPF advances, from $500,000 to $1 million, and a $15 million increase in the overall commitment authority of the facility, bringing it to $37.5 million. During the year, 34 PPF operations were approved, involving advances of $12.6 million.
The Bank is acting as executing agency for a growing number of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)-financed projects. During fiscal 1979, an additional 37 such projects were approved, involving commitments of
$42.9 million; this compared with 26 new projects for total commitments of $16 million in fiscal 1978. New projects included a global program to test and demonstrate small-scale, solar-powered pumping stations; a general study of low-cost water and sanitation methods; and a study of river valley development in Togo and Benin. UNDP-financed, Bank-executed projects generated Bank lending amounting to $401.5 million in calendar 1978.
Technical assistance is extended also to countries that do not need Bank financial support. In fiscal 1979, the Bank and Kuwait entered into a technical cooperation agreement under which the Bank will extend, on a reimbursable basis, assistance for the preparation of a set of overall economic and sectoral long-range development strategies. The Bank continued to implement other similar arrangements agreed to in previous years with oil-exporting countries that do not borrow from the Bank.
During the past year, the Bank continued to act as executing agency for planning advisory projects financed by the UNDP in Liberia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Sudan, Swaziland, Uganda, and Zaire. Similar assistance was provided to Burundi and Mauritania under IDA credits. Two new UNDP-financed, Bank-executed planning projects became operational in Lesotho and Jamaica.
The demand for planning projects reflects the growing effort by developing countries to rationalize investment, improve sectoral coordination, and implement growth-conducive socioeconomic policies. Planning projects are also intended to bring about better distribution of the benefits of development, both socially and geographically. They are usually accompanied by a variety of training programs, on-the-job, in-country, or overseas. These programs are designed to improve the technical and managerial expertise of national staffs, thus reducing dependency on expatriate assistance. In fiscal 1979, over 150 such programs were carried out.
International Agricultural Research
Increasingly, the need to improve and expand food production in the developing countries is recognized to be of highest priority. Population in most of the largest and poorest countries continues to grow faster than the production of food. The development of appropriate agricultural technology making possible significant increases in crop yields continues to be fundamentally important.
The development of high-yielding dwarf varieties of wheat and rice has been among the most important technological innovations in agriculture in the past decade. It exemplifies the part agricultural research can play. Within 10 years of their introduction in the mid-1960s, those varieties were being grown on over one-third of the total area given to these cereals in the developing countries. This represents 55 million hectares, greater than the entire cereal-growing area of Latin America.
These varieties were developed initially at the two oldest of the 11 international research centers currently supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). The CGIAR, which the Bank continues to serve as Chairman and to sponsor jointly with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), was organized to help improve the quantity and the quality of food production in the developing countries. Organizations that comprise the CGIAR network continue their research on developing high-yielding varieties of the major food crops and on farming practices and systems that will make substantially increased production possible. At the same time, they are increasingly giving emphasis to the development of technologies that will stabilize crop yields through resistance to pests, diseases, and drought, while requiring a minimum of purchased inputs, such as fertilizer and pesticides.
While research on wheat and rice has already had a large and widespread impact on production, superior varieties of such crops as cassava and maize are now also being distributed, and these are expected to cover larger areas in the future. New tillage methods for humid soils are now being tested on a pilot scale in Western Africa. Socioeconomic research programs are being expanded; these provide the biological scientists with a better understanding of the farmers' problems and enable them to design improved technology and to monitor the impact of this technology on the social and economic well-being of the farmer.
The research programs supported by the members of the CGIAR continued to expand in fiscal 1979. The 29 contributing members of the CGIAR are expected to provide $100 million in calendar year 1979 to the 11 organizations funded by the Group. This is a 15% increase over the previous year. The Bank's contribution, made from its profits transferred to IDA, will be in the amount of $10.2 million as authorized by the Board of Governors.
This contribution is customarily made in two tranches—the first in February, and the second later in the year, allocating, up to the total amount authorized, the amounts required to meet the needs of individual centers after the other donors have made their commitments. The centers and programs supported by the Group, together with the amounts—if any— granted to them by the Bank in its first tranche for 1979, are:
—the International Center for Tropical
Agriculture (CIAT): $600,000; —the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT): $800,000;
—the International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture (IITA) : $1,400,000; —the International Rice Research Institute
(IRRI): $350,000; —the International Livestock Center for
Africa (ILCA): $800,000; —the International Laboratory for Research
on Animal Diseases (ILRAD):
$1,257,000; —the International Board for Plant Genetic
Resources (IBPGR): $150,000; —the International Center for Agricultural
Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA):
$1,600,000; —the West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA); —the International Potato Center (CIP);
and
—the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT).
The research activities conducted at the international centers encompass crops and animals that account for 75% of the food supply of the developing countries, and for a still higher proportion of their protein intake. Initially, the international research centers develop crop varieties and farming practices that are applicable over wide environmental regions. This technology is then adapted to the particular circumstances within a developing country.
It has long been recognized that a developing country can obtain the full benefit of the centers' research only if its own research efforts can effectively refine and adapt their technology. The CGIAR is, therefore, establishing a new organization to begin operations in 1980—the International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR). ISNAR will complement the activities of other organizations and aid donors in providing technical assistance to developing countries, at their request, to strengthen their national agricultural efforts so they can more effectively contribute
to the application, by farmers, of improved technology, appropriately adapted to their local circumstances.
Economic Research and Studies
The Bank's formal program of economic and social research has been in existence since 1971. From that time to the present, approximately 73 research projects have been completed; a further 72 are continuing. In fiscal 1979, 11 new projects were started. The results of completed research projects appear in a variety of formats, including articles in professional journals, books published under World Bank auspices or by independent publishers, and World Bank Staff Working Papers. The World Bank Catalog, issued annually, provides detailed information on publications issued by the Bank, including reprints of selected articles by Bank staff. Information on current research projects is provided by the publication, World Bank Research Program: Abstracts of Current Studies, also issued annually. The results of Bank research are also disseminated through internal seminars and international meetings.
Research is undertaken by the Bank's own research staff, usually in collaboration with outside researchers who are mainly from developing countries. Projects are typically initiated by the Bank on topics of relevance to its operations. The Bank does not provide research grants to outside individuals or institutions.
As the Bank's lending increasingly involves complex processes of social and economic change, better understanding is needed of the mechanisms by which various policies have their impact. Also needed are techniques to measure as carefully as possible the magnitude of that impact. This may involve understanding a whole network of socioeconomic relationships. Last year's Annual Report gave as illustrations research in health and rural development. Similar work is under way in other areas, including urbanization and industrialization.
The Bank is committed to assist in improving the welfare of the urban poor in most of the countries to which it lends, and many of
its loans and credits are for projects located in or near cities. Nevertheless, the analysis of such projects continues to be carried out on a sectoral basis, and little is known about their effects on the welfare of urban households. A major study financed by the Bank and undertaken in collaboration with several institutions in Colombia aims at establishing the spatial and economic impact of a variety of policy measures. The research focuses on five components of the urban economy: housing, transportation, employment location, the labor force, and the public sector, and analyzes the behavior of these components as well as their relationships in the case of Bogota, Colombia. Parts of the analysis are also being undertaken in Cali, Colombia, for the purposes of comparison. The research will assist in the better design of urban policies in Bogota. In addition, its aim is to develop techniques of analysis that will make it easier for project analysts in a variety of sectors to take better account of the spatial consequences of their project decisions.
In addition to its role as a lending organization, the Bank plays a significant role as an adviser to developing country governments. To provide better advice to these countries on the prospects for their manufactured exports, a program of studies has been initiated that will analyze certain effects of significant increases in imports of manufactured goods on product and factor markets in developed countries. The studies will attempt to identify the economic, social, and other factors that lead to the rise of protectionist pressures in importing countries.
An extensive review of all aspects of the Bank's program of economic and social research is nearing completion. Six specialized external panels have reviewed past Bank research in particular fields, and an overall external panel is completing a comprehensive assessment, based in part on the findings of the specialized panels. The result of this effort will be a broad evaluation of past research and a set of recommendations on the objectives of future research, the dissemination and application of its results, the relationship of the Bank to other research institutions, and the size and balance of the research program.
Internal Activities
Operations Evaluation
The Bank's Annual Report for fiscal 1978, in discussing the Bank's system for evaluating its operations, identified three major areas of development. These included feeding the lessons of past experience, as they emerged from the evaluation process, more effectively into the design and implementation of future Bank-supported operations; increasing borrower participation in the Bank's evaluative process and encouraging the establishment of borrowers' own evaluation functions; and the publication of the Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results, prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). Further progress continues to be made in these areas even as new fields for evaluation are being tested.
The feedback process has now become part of the Bank's established procedures. In all performance evaluation efforts, whether those of individual projects or in deeper studies of special issues, a tripartite exchange of views takes place among the Operations Evaluation Department, the concerned operating staff of the Bank, and the borrower and its agencies. This intensive exchange provides an opportunity for the lessons of experience to be absorbed in the thinking of the various officials concerned even before the performance evaluation conclusions are formalized. The implications of observed experience for future operations in particular sectors are also reviewed periodically by relevant operational staff.
The Bank's concern to involve the borrowing countries in the evaluation process is made manifest at three levels. One of the problems encountered in evaluating the results of individual operations in a number of countries has been the inadequacy of baseline data and of institutional capacity to observe and analyze change, making it difficult, therefore, to evaluate the impact of projects. Special efforts are continuing to be made by the Bank to introduce monitoring and evaluation units at the project level, especially in sectors such as agriculture, education, and urban development. Learning from experience with the earlier project monitoring and evaluation units,
the Bank has become increasingly attentive to the design of units that would be more economical and appropriate for the purpose intended. At a secondary level, borrowers are being offered help in various ways to produce a project completion report that would constitute the basic document for the evaluation of individual project experience. By encouraging this borrower involvement, it is the intention of the Bank to lend support to the development of an evaluation function in borrowing countries, as well as to improve the quality of each project performance audit. Finally, a second regional seminar on evaluation for senior borrowing country officials was held in February 1979 for officials of anglophone member countries of Africa; the first such seminar was held for francophone African members in February 1978. Requests have been received from countries in other regions that similar seminars be held in their areas.
OED has also begun to take a "second look" at completed projects by revisiting selected projects some years after their completion in an effort to assess their direct and indirect socioeconomic effects and the views of beneficiaries.
The evaluation system in the Bank remains comprehensive in its coverage of completed projects. Some 100 projects were reviewed in fiscal 1979. A computerized search system was introduced to facilitate the retrieval of the points of special interest emerging from the individual project performance audit reports.
OED's Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results was published for the second time during the year. This Review covered the experience of 109 operations supported by the Bank with loans and credits of approximately $2,200 million. Including domestic financing, the projects represented total investments of the order of $8,500 million.
The Annual Review concluded that most of the projects had been implemented successfully and were in operation. The Review emphasized the diverse and complex microprob-lems of development and, in that context, once again underlined the need for adequate understanding of the local conditions in which the Bank operates. The Review noted the active
Bank response to lessons of past experience, but stressed the need for extra caution and the desirability of undertaking pilot projects in new areas of Bank endeavor. The Review also made a case for the development of local capability and for a greater role by the borrower in the process of project identification, preparation, and implementation requiring a unique knowledge of the particular situation.
The Joint Audit Committee of the Board of Executive Directors has maintained continuing oversight of the OED work program and of its effectiveness. The conclusions of the Joint Audit Committee, the report of the Director-General, Operations Evaluation, on the status of the Bank's evaluation system, and OED's annual review of project performance audit findings were all reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Internal Auditing
Internal auditing is an independent appraisal function within the World Bank that examines and evaluates Bank activities by providing management with information about the adequacy and effectiveness of its overall system of internal control and the quality of performance in carrying out assigned responsibilities. The Internal Auditing Department (IAD) reports to the Senior Vice President, Finance, and its Director has direct access to the President and the Joint Audit Committee of the Bank's Executive Directors at all times. IAD provides department directors and other levels of management with periodic, independent, and objective audits, appraisals, analyses, recommendations, and information concerning the activities within their respective areas of responsibility, including identifying possible means of improving the efficiency and economy of operations and the use of resources.
In carrying out each operational audit, IAD's examination and evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the related systems of internal control generally cover such aspects of internal control as: (a) reviewing the reliability and integrity of financial and operating information and the means used to identify, measure, classify, and report such information;
(b) measuring the extent of compliance with governing agreements or instruments and related decisions, regulations, policies, plans, and procedures of the Board of Governors, Executive Directors, and Bank management;
(c) reviewing the means of safeguarding Bank assets from various types of losses; and (d) appraising the economy and efficiency with which resources are used. IAD has no direct
responsibility for developing and installing changes in systems, procedures, and internal controls which it would be expected to review in a subsequent audit.
The Department's work program covers a wide range of financial, administrative, and other Bank activities, including the supervisory aspects of project implementation. Some activities are reviewed annually, whereas others are reviewed biennially or every three years depending on the materiality, volatility, or risk aspects of the activity. During the past fiscal year, IAD extended its review function to include visits to selected countries to review the auditing standards applied by borrowers' external auditors and to review related internal auditing and financial reporting standards of the borrowers.
In carrying out each assignment, the Director of the Department and members of his staff, as appropriate, have unrestricted access to all Bank records, documents, and personnel relevant to the activity under review. Where relevant, IAD coordinates its annual work program with the Bank's external auditors. Its working papers and reports are made available to the external auditors to assist them in planning and conducting their examinations of the annual financial statements of the Bank. Liaison is also maintained with the Joint Audit Committee of the Executive Directors, which is responsible for satisfying itself that the Bank's internal audit is adequate and efficient.
Membership, Bank and IDA
The Solomon Islands joined the Bank on September 22, 1978, and Cape Verde became a member of the Bank and IDA on November 20, 1978, bringing the total membership of the Bank to 134 and of IDA to 121.
At the end of the year, action was pending on membership in the Bank for Djibouti, Dominica, St. Vincent, and Seychelles, and in IDA for Djibouti, Dominica, the Solomon Islands, and the United Arab Emirates.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
During fiscal year 1979, the number of Contracting States increased by four to 75. By June 30, 1979, an additional five States had signed the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States, but had not yet ratified it.
At the 1978 Annual Meeting, the Administrative Council authorized the Secretariat to
administer, at the request of the parties concerned, certain proceedings between States and nationals of other States that fall outside the scope of the Convention. They are: (a) conciliation or arbitration proceedings for the settlement of investment disputes arising between parties one of which is not a Contracting State or a national of a Contracting State; (b) conciliation or arbitration proceedings between parties at least one of which is a Contracting State or a national of a Contracting State for the settlement of disputes that do not directly arise out of an investment; and (c) fact-finding proceedings.
The Centre's own Annual Report provides details of its membership and activities.
Staff Developments
One of the major efforts of the Bank in its recruitment activities is to ensure the presence of highly qualified staff and a wide spread of nationals from its member countries. In its promotional recruitment activities, the Bank works through national contacts designated by member governments and through informal means. Visits are regularly made by the Bank's European recruitment office to sources in nearby countries, and recruitment missions are regularly undertaken in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. During fiscal 1979, some 600 employees joined the Bank, of which almost half filled specialist-level positions. The majority of these employees were highly successful mid-career professionals in their countries. Personnel most widely recruited during the past year included technical staff, economists, and financial analysts.
Employment of Women and Nationals of Developing Countries
As a particular feature, the Bank aims at strengthening the representation of staff members from developing countries and of women in nonsecretarial positions. In its earlier years, most of the Bank's specialist staff came from developed countries, and were mainly males.
The special efforts made in the last few years to change the nature of this representation resulted, by the end of fiscal 1975, in female specialist staff numbering 168, or nearly 9% of specialist staff. By the end of fiscal 1979, their numbers had increased to 272, or 11.4% of the total. Further efforts are being made to increase the number of women in the staff in specific project specialties. The Bank has recently been successful in placing women as loan officers and as economists. This aspect of recruitment will remain an important activity.
The increase in the number and percentage of nonsecretarial staff from developing countries has also been encouraging. At the end of fiscal 1975, there were 550 such staff from the developing countries, or 29.2% of the total. By the end of fiscal 1979, their number had increased to 775, or 32.5%. Bank staff come from 75 developing countries and 22 developed countries.
Young Professionals Program
The effort to increase the share of female and developing country representation is also apparent in the activities of the Young Professionals Program. This program is the channel through which the Bank recruits professional staff below the age of 31. Although most Young Professionals are highly trained economists or financial analysts, many other skills are represented in their number. In fiscal 1979, 48 men and women were given appointments in the Program. Seventeen men and eight women are from 10 mostly industrialized countries; 19 men and four women are from developing countries. Three developing countries (Singapore, Venezuela, and Zaire) were represented in Young Professionals recruitment for the first time.
Staff Compensation
The determination of appropriate compensation for an international institution, with staff drawn from some 100 countries with
widely differing pay levels, is both a complex and delicate task. Because the annual staff compensation review was becoming time consuming and divisive, the need to formulate a soundly based policy framework that would be broadly acceptable to all parties with a legitimate interest—staff, management, and member governments—and within which decisions could be made quickly and rationally, became an urgent one.
Accordingly, in August 1977, the Executive Directors of the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) established a Joint Committee on Staff Compensation Issues under the chairmanship of Alexandre Kafka (an IMF Executive Director) to examine the principles that should govern staff compensation, in all its aspects, in the Bank and in the IMF. The report of the 13-member committee, which was completed in January 1979, embodies a set of far-reaching recommendations on the complex issues involved. The Executive Directors of the Bank, after discussions on the report, later agreed on a new framework within which staff compensation decisions will be taken with a greater degree of automaticity and less scope for controversy than hitherto
and which has now been put into operation. In accordance with this system, a survey of compensation of comparator organizations will be set in motion before the end of calendar 1979 as the basis for establishing a compensation structure consistent with the principles now established. The Executive Directors agreed to approach once more those few member governments whose Bank staff members are liable for income tax to exempt these nationals from taxation, or at least to compensate the Bank for the expenditure it incurs by the fact that it reimburses income tax paid by its staff. It was further agreed that should the governments decline to exempt their nationals from taxes on Bank income, then the system of tax reimbursement allowances, which applies to approximately 25% of Bank staff, and which amounted to about $21 million in fiscal 1979, will be changed as of January 1, 1980. The Executive Directors agreed, furthermore, to some improvements in the benefits package, while commissioning further studies in other areas. Finally, the Executive Directors urged the speedy conclusion to a study on the feasibility of establishing an independent Administrative Tribunal to adjudicate staff grievances.
Executive Directors
Executive Directors
With the exception of certain powers specifically reserved to them by the Articles of Agreement, the Governors have delegated their powers for the conduct of the general operation of the Bank to a Board of Executive Directors that performs its duties on a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters. There are 20 Executive Directors: as provided in the Articles of Agreement, five are appointed by the five members having the largest number of shares, and the rest are elected by the other members. The President of the Bank is the Chairman of the Board.
Policy is decided by the Executive Directors within the framework of the Bank's Articles of Agreement. The Directors consider and decide on the loan/credit proposals made by the President. They are also responsible for presentation to the Board of Governors at its Annual Meetings of an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and the Annual Report on the operations and policies of the World Bank, and any other matter that, in their judgment, requires submission to the Board of Governors at the Annual Meetings or otherwise.
The most important policy action, reflecting more than two years of deliberations, was reaching agreement on the size and terms of a general capital increase to be proposed to the Board of Governors, to permit the continued growth of the Bank's operations. In arriving at their consensus on this matter, the Executive Directors reflected the strong support expressed previously by representatives of the developing countries, the heads of government of major developed countries, and participants in the North-South dialogue on an increase in the capital base of the Bank sufficient to permit an increase in lending in real terms. The Executive Directors approved a report to the Board of Governors providing for a $40,000 million equivalent increase in the Bank's authorized capital stock; the corresponding draft resolutions authorizing the increase will be voted upon by the Governors. (See also, page 10.)
Other important and innovative operational policy matters on which action was taken dur-
ing the year included: a lending program to accelerate petroleum production in the developing countries, the financing of national mineral exploration funds, a system to distribute exchange rate risks equitably among borrowers, and a currency scheme for disbursement of loans to certain development finance companies to stimulate industrial lending.
The Executive Directors decided that in fiscal 1979, the Bank should continue to adhere to the same guidelines for grace periods and final maturities on loans as were applied in fiscal 1978, but allow for greater flexibility in their application to individual countries; also, that the preference for domestic contractors in the evaluation of bids for construction contracts, following international competitive bidding, be continued for a further three-year period and be reviewed again at that time. Major policy decisions that the Directors take annually include the allocation of the Bank's net income, the Bank's lending program, administrative budgets, staff compensation, and the Bank's research program.
In fiscal 1979, the Executive Directors met on 54 occasions in formal session, during which they reviewed and approved 142 Bank loans totaling $6,989.0 million and 105 IDA credits totaling $3,021.5 million. The latter included $175 million from the "Special Action Account" that IDA administers on behalf of the European Economic Community and its nine member countries. The Account is designed to meet the immediate needs of low-income countries, especially those whose development is being hampered by the lack of foreign exchange. Also reviewed and approved were 16 grants for international agricultural research and one grant for control of onchocerciasis in Western Africa. The Executive Directors also approved borrowings totaling $5,084.8 million.
As part of their continuing attention to the appropriateness and soundness of the Bank's policies, practices, and procedures, the Executive Directors maintained their interest in the operations evaluation of the Bank. Among other things, they considered the third annual report of the Director-General, Operations Evaluation, the Fourth Annual Review of
Project Performance Audit Results, and they considered and approved the fiscal 1979-80 operations evaluation work plan. Other annual reports with which the Directors dealt related to project implementation and supervision, the activities of the Joint Audit Committee, the Bank's financial statements, the Economic Development Institute, and the Staff Retirement Plan. The Executive Directors considered a progress report on the Bank's environmental activities and generally endorsed the Bank's approach.
Responding to market needs and the strong interest expressed by users, the quarterly publication of the operational summary of proposed Bank and IDA projects, which was approved by the Executive Directors, is now published monthly with the business edition of the publication, Development Forum, which is published by the United Nations in Geneva. (The monthly summary is also available separately, on a subscription basis.) The Asian Development Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank have expressed interest in joining in this broader information venture.
The Executive Directors discussed the first of the World Development Reports, a system of annual major studies of development issues, strategies, and problems begun by the Bank in 1978, and agreed that the Report should be transmitted to the Development Committee for its consideration at its ministerial level meeting in September. In addition, they discussed the joint Bank/Fund study on "Stabilization of Export Earnings," which was considered by the Development Committee at its Washington meeting, and in which the Directors participated. The Directors considered a review of the performance of the Development Committee which, with a corresponding draft resolution, was transmitted to the Governors for a vote during the 1978 Annual Meetings. They also received a status report on the World Development Report for 1979.
The Directors received a briefing on discussions concerning the Sixth Replenishment of the Resources of IDA, and reports on a number of international meetings, including the Conference on Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries, the sessions of the United Nations General Assembly, the United Nations Development Programme's Governing Council, and the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization, and of the meeting of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development. They also met informally as frequently as required; topics covered included the report
of the External Advisory Panel on Education and the Bank's borrowing program.
A list of the Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors, showing their voting power and the countries they represent, with notations of changes since the last regular election of Executive Directors, appears on page 198.
Joint Audit Committee
The Joint Audit Committee was established in 1970, essentially to represent the Bank's shareholders in maintaining vigilance over the soundness of the Bank's financial practices and procedures. In pursuing its responsibilities during fiscal 1979, the Committee nominated a firm of private, independent, internationally established accountants to conduct the annual audits of the Bank, IDA, and IFC, discussed with them the scope of their examination, and reviewed with them the annual audited financial statements and the opinions thereon. In addition, through meetings with the Bank's senior financial officers, the Committee sought to ensure that the Bank's financial affairs are properly conducted. It clarified issues relating to the valuation of the capital of the Bank and IDA in order to facilitate future Board discussions on this subject.
The Committee is also charged with the responsibility of satisfying itself that the Bank's internal audit and operations evaluation are adequate and efficient. It, therefore, reviewed the work programs of the Internal Auditing and Operations Evaluation Departments, the work in progress, desirable standards, and procedures of reporting. It reviewed most papers produced by the Operations Evaluation Department, and identified those giving rise to policy issues that may be considered by the Executive Directors. Through a subcommittee, it gave special attention to Project Performance Audit Reports to determine how well the Operations Evaluation Department carries out its assessment of individual projects.
The Committee provides a continuing channel through which the internal and external auditors may communicate with the Executive Directors should the need arise. It meets as frequently as necessary, normally once a month. The Committee consists of six Executive Directors appointed by the Board for a term of two years after each regular election of Executive Directors. In December 1978, Earl G. Drake succeeded Timothy J. Thahane as Chairman of the Committee.
Borrowings and Finance
Income, Expenditures, and Reserves: Bank
The Bank's gross revenues increased by $478 million in fiscal 1979 to a new high of $2,425 million. The level of gross revenues has continued to rise during the past decade as loans and investments have expanded. The figure in fiscal 1979 was almost five times greater than in fiscal 1970.
Compared with fiscal 1978, the outstanding loan portfolio grew about 18% during 1979, reflecting the higher loan commitments made during recent years. Together with the higher return on investments, the income from this increased loan portfolio resulted in a 25% increase in gross revenues, while operating costs rose only 18.1%. Net income of $407 million was 71% over that of fiscal 1978.
The Bank does not trade in the currencies of its member countries for its own account. Under present policies, adjustments arising from translation of currencies to US dollar equivalents would not now, or in the future, result in realized gains or losses such as would result from the actual conversion into US dollars. A more detailed explanation of these policies is given in the "Notes to Financial Statements" (page 162).
Because of this policy, the General Reserve, rather than net income, was credited in an amount of $137.5 million in fiscal year 1979, representing translation adjustments arising from currency appreciations and depreciations. This compares with a credit of $123.6 million in fiscal 1978. Following the effectiveness on April 1, 1978 of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, the Bank decided for purposes of the financial statements to express its capital stock on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR). As a result, the 1 % portion of the Bank's capital stock that was paid in US dollars, together with the 9% portion of the capital stock that has been released by certain member countries for lending in US dollars, has been revalued at the rate of exchange of the US dollar to the SDR at June 30, 1979. The compensating adjustment resulting from this revaluation, amounting to $22.8 million, was charged against the General Re-
serve. Of the $238 million earned in fiscal
1978, the Bank allocated $138 million to the General Reserve, and the Bank's Board of Governors approved a transfer of $ 100 million as a grant to IDA. On June 30, 1979, the General Reserve of the Bank amounted to $2,206 million.
Investment income totaled $744 million, up $130 million, or 21.2% in the year. The Bank's investments rose $962 million to a total of $9,738 million on June 30, 1979. Average total return on investments, including realized capital gains or losses, was 7.6%, up from 7.0% in fiscal 1978. This reflected higher interest levels in the major capital markets.
In fiscal 1979, income on loans rose to $1,669 million, compared with $1,325 million in fiscal 1978. The average return on outstanding loans in the period was 7.8%, compared with 7.6% the year before. The Bank's lending rate formula now requires a positive spread of 0.5% between the cost of funds borrowed by the Bank during the preceding 12 months and the interest rate charged on the Bank's loans to member countries. Since the formula became effective (July 1, 1976), the lending rate, which is reviewed quarterly, has ranged from a high of 8.9% in the first quarter of 1977 to a low of 7% in the third quarter of fiscal 1979. During the final quarter of fiscal
1979, it was set at 7.9%. These changes in the lending rate at which the Bank's loans are committed reflect the variations in the approximate cost of borrowings to the Bank in the world's capital markets.
Other income of the Bank was $11.8 million.
Expenditures of the Bank amounted to $2,018 million, an increase of $310 million, or nearly 18%. A rise of $286 million in interest and issuance costs on the Bank's borrowings, to a total of $1,846 million, accounted for most of the increase in expenditures in the year. The continuation of the borrowing program that has added $11,634 million to outstanding borrowings in the last three fiscal years was the principal cause of the rise in fixed charges.
Continuing inflation and an expansion in some of the Bank's operations caused a further increase in administrative costs of the Bank
during the past fiscal year. These costs totaled $172 million, up $24 million, after deducting $121 million received as a management fee charged to the International Development Association, and $2 million charged to the International Finance Corporation as a service and support fee.
Other Financial Operations: Bank
Loans held by the Bank on June 30, 1979 totaled $44,660 million, including $5,522 million of loans not yet effective. Effective loans held by the Bank totaled $38,655 million, after excluding $483 million of effective and outstanding loans to the International Finance Corporation, of which $415 million has been disbursed.
Loan disbursements to countries in the past fiscal year aggregated $3,602 million, a new high, and $815 million higher than in fiscal 1978. If fiscal 1979 disbursements were expressed in terms of 1978 dollars, they would have totaled $3,317 million.
Total disbursements to countries since the start of Bank operations stood at $28,635 million at June 30, 1979.
Repayments of principal on the Bank's loans aggregated $978 million in the year: $843 million repaid to the Bank and $135 million to investors who had purchased portions of loans. Cumulative repayments on loans by June 30, 1979 were $7,322 million to the Bank and $2,560 million to purchasers of loans.
Sales of participations in new loans and of maturities from the Bank's loan portfolio amounted to $45 million in fiscal 1979, compared with $189 million in the previous year. After cancellations and adjustments for changes in values of nondollar currencies, but including $38.2 million of aid participations by the Kingdom of Norway, the cumulative total of loan sales was $2,976 million equivalent at the end of the year.
The level of the Bank's liquidity position is determined by an established policy that requires it to maintain liquid holdings at any given time, equal to a minimum of 40% of estimated borrowings for the subsequent three years. The objective of this policy is to ensure that the Bank is in a position to meet adequately temporary downward fluctuations in cash flow. The Bank's liquidity position increased by $893 million in fiscal 1979 to a total of $9,750 million on June 30, 1979, net of commitments for settlement. The Bank's liquidity stands at the level of about 51% of the next three years' net cash requirements. It is intended to bring this ratio down to the 40% range over the next several years.
The Bank's Borrowings—Fiscal 1979
The borrowings by the Bank in fiscal 1979 totaled the equivalent of $5,085 million. Of this amount, $796 million equivalent was borrowed in May and June 1979 (of which $456 million equivalent will be settled in fiscal 1980), and will be credited to the Bank's borrowing program for fiscal 1980. Most of the advance funds were borrowed in Japan to take advantage of favorable factors in the Japanese investment market.
The aggregate of gross borrowings in the five fiscal years, 1975-79, was $20,763 million, compared with $7,423 million in the preceding five years. This higher rate of borrowing in the capital markets supported the growth in the Bank's financial requirements arising from the expanded lending operations during the five years ended June 30, 1979.
Most World Bank borrowings for fiscal 1979 took place during the first half of the year. By November 1978, the Bank successfully met its public and private capital market borrowing target of $3,600 million. Once again, favorable market conditions in Japan, Germany, and Switzerland were important factors in compressing public and private capital market borrowings into a relatively short period.
The $5,085 million in borrowings since July 1, 1978 consisted of $1,171 million equivalent denominated in Deutsche mark; $1,702 million equivalent denominated in Japanese yen; $1,546 million equivalent denominated in Swiss francs; and $666 million in United States dollars, all but $ 16 million of which was raised through two international placements.
Of these borrowings, $3,768 million represented new funds, and $1,317 million represented refinancings of outstanding borrowings with the Deutsche Bundesbank, the Central Bank of the Federal Republic of Germany; The Bank of Japan; and two sales totaling $650 million of two-year bonds to central banks.
The borrowing operations during fiscal 1979 included 24 public issues or private placements throughout the world, totaling the equivalent of $3,440 million, or 68% of total funds raised. There were 10 issues placed with official sources, such as member governments of the World Bank, central banks, and government institutions, totaling $1,629 million, or 32% of the funds raised.
Included in the Bank's program was the largest single public offering of bonds by the World Bank in any market—a public issue in Japan of ¥75,000 million, or about $366 million equivalent. Another transaction, a borrowing of ¥70,000 million, represents the largest pri-
vate placement by any issuer in the Japanese syndicated loan market. During the final month of fiscal year 1979, the World Bank also concluded the largest combined long-term borrowing operation in its history, totaling ¥115,000 million, or $524.2 million equivalent. The transaction included a ¥70,000 million loan from a consortium of Japanese trust banks and insurance companies, a ¥30,000 million loan from a consortium of Japanese trust banks, and a ¥15,000 million private placement of bonds with a group of Japanese trust banks. The investment market in Japan was the largest supplier of borrowed funds to the Bank in fiscal 1979. Six borrowing operations were done in the Japanese market; they totaled ¥290,000 million, equal to $1,401 million.
During fiscal 1979, the Bank also concluded its largest Deutsche mark multi-tranche borrowing operation in the German market in the amount of DM900 million, or about $436 million equivalent. In Switzerland, the Bank made its largest public oiferings, two public issues of SwF250 million each, totaling about $295 million equivalent.
A total of $1,727 million equivalent of debt matured during the year, with maturing two-year dollar bonds, held by central banks, and notes, placed with the Deutsche Bundesbank, accounting for the larger part of this sum. Of the remaining amount, $184 million equivalent of market issues matured during the period: DM200 million of a loan previously placed with a Girozentrale in Germany and $75 million of 4.25% 21-year bonds sold in the US market in 1958 in an original amount of $150 million.
Additional debt, aggregating $123 million, was retired by means of sinking fund and purchase fund operations.
Outstanding obligations of the Bank increased $3,678 million to $26,280 million as of June 30, 1979. On that date, estimates indicated that 25% of the Bank's obligations were held by investors in Germany, 22% in the United States, 16% in Switzerland, 13% in Japan, and 6% in Saudi Arabia. The remaining 18% of outstanding borrowings were held by investment institutions, including central banks and government institutions in more than 80 countries.
Borrowing Costs: Bank
The Bank's borrowing costs in the fiscal year, weighted by amount and maturity, averaged 6.54%, compared with 6.95% in the previous year. Borrowing costs in fiscal 1979,
weighted by amount only, were 6.39%. The average cost of all funds to the Bank, including paid-in capital and accumulated earnings, was about 5.98%.
Capitalization
In the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, the capital stock is expressed in terms of the United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944 (1944 dollars). Until 1971, the current United States dollar had the same value as the 1944 dollar and the special drawing right (SDR), which was instituted in 1969. In 1972, the current dollar value of the 1944 dollar and the SDR increased to $1.08571, and in 1973 to $1.20635, as the result of the first and second devaluations of the dollar. Until mid-1974, both the 1944 dollar and the SDR continued to be valued in gold and had the same gold value. Thus on July 1, 1974, the value of the SDR, expressed in terms of United States dollars, was $1.20635, which was the equivalent of one 1944 dollar.
Since July 1, 1974, when a valuation method for the SDR that was based on a basket of 16 major currencies was adopted, the value of the SDR has fluctuated daily. The current dollar value of the 1944 dollar, on the other hand, was deemed to remain fixed at the rate established by the US par value legislation of 1973.
Since the effectiveness, on April 1, 1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary-Fund (IMF), currencies no longer have par values, and the basis for translating the 1944 dollar into current United States dollars no longer exists. The Bank is examining the implication of this change on the valuation of its capital stock and the impact it will have on its financial statements.
For purposes of the financial statements, the Bank has expressed the value of its capital stock on the basis of the SDR in terms of United States dollars as computed by the IMF ($1.29110 per SDR) on June 30, 1979.
The Bank's subscribed capital was increased by SDR2,330.5 million in fiscal 1979. Included were the original subscriptions of Solomon Islands (SDR 1.7 million) and Cape Verde (SDR1.6 million), which became members during the year, and Portugal (SDR 19.8 million), which took up its allotted subscription increase under a resolution adopted by the Board of Governors in 1970.
The remaining SDR2,307.4 million represented subscriptions taken up under resolutions adopted by the Board of Governors in 1977:
Finances: IDA
Credits amounting to $16,937 million were held by the Association on June 30, 1979, including credits not yet effective and exchange adjustments of $485 million. Effective credits totaled $15,240 million, including $5,575 million as yet undisbursed. Credits approved, but not yet effective, were $1,697 million at year's end.
Disbursements were $1,222 million as compared with $1,062 million in the year before. If 1979 figures were expressed in terms of 1978 dollars, they would total $1.125 million. Aggregate disbursements on June 30. 1979 were $9,787 million.
The total resources provided to IDA increased $1,613 million in the period, primarily from subscriptions and contributions to the Fifth Replenishment, which aggregated $7,412 million. The value of resources provided by members in prior fiscal years increased by $341 million. The World Bank granted $100 million to IDA from its fiscal 1978 net income, of which $88.1 million was for the general purposes of the Association and $11.9 million was for grants by IDA for agricultural research and onchocerciasis control.
Norway made $8.3 million available to IDA in fiscal 1979 by purchasing, on a grant basis, a participation in a credit to Benin. This participation was made under the terms of the aid cooperation agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and the World Bank and IDA. As of June 30, 1979, aggregate participation in IDA credits by Norway under the agreement totaled $51.8 million.
Other resources that became available to IDA during the fiscal year totaled $35 million, and were derived from releases by Part II countries and cancellations of and repayments
on credits/1' after taking into account a net decrease of $34.6 million in resources provided by operations.
Foreign and International Bond Markets— Calendar 1978
Borrowing in foreign and international bond markets*-'* during 1978 totaled $36,668 million, only slightly more than the $36,094 million raised in 1977. This is in contrast with the 1975-76 period, when substantial growth in the bond markets was recorded: total volume of issues increased from $22,821 million in 1975 to $34,311 million in 1976. Foreign bonds issued in national capital markets increased substantially in 1978, from $16,610 million in 1977 to $20,796 million. International bonds declined from $19,484 million in 1977 to $15,872 million in 1978. The increase in foreign bonds was primarily due to increased borrowing in the Japanese and Swiss capital markets, while the slowdown in international issues was the result of a lower volume of US dollar-denominated bonds.
Foreign Bonds—An Overview
Foreign bonds issued in national capital markets in 1978 amounted to $20,796 million, and consisted of public offerings of $12,218 million and private placements of $8,578 million.
During 1978, foreign bonds were primarily issued by central governments ($7,067 million), international organizations ($5,468 million), and private nonfinancial enterprises ($2,951 million). During 1977, main borrowers had been international organizations ($4,748 million), central governments ($3,787 million), public nonfinancial enterprises ($2,335 million), and private nonfinancial enterprises ($2,195 million).
The purpose of most borrowers was considered as "general" purpose ($8,091 million), international organizations ($5,468 million), banking and finance ($2,448 million), and industry ($2,129 million). During 1977, the main purpose of borrowers was "general" purpose ($5,502 million), international organizations ($4,748 million), banking and finance ($1,766 million), public utilities ($1,735 million), and industry ($1,491 million).
Over 90% of foreign bonds were straight issues. Issues convertible into common stocks of the borrower, or with warrants attached, totaled $875 million. Special placements of international organizations with central banks and governments or monetary authorities amounted to $801 million. Floating rate notes totaled $140 million.
The US Market. Thirty percent of all foreign bonds, $6,162 million, were issued in the United States, compared with 48%, or $7,668 million, in 1977. During 1978, public offerings totaled $4,685 million and private placements, $1,477 million.
Industrialized countries raised $5,231 million, or 85% of all foreign bonds issued in the United States. As in previous years, Canadian borrowers raised the largest amount of funds ($3,226 million). Large amounts were also secured by borrowers from the United Kingdom ($606 million) and Norway ($485 million). The average initial offering yield on public offerings during 1978 increased from 8.47% in the first quarter to 9.21% in the final quarter. Almost half of the bonds issued by industrialized countries ($2,462 million) had an original maturity over 15 years.
Issues by developing countries declined from $817 million in 1977 to $320 million in 1978. Israeli borrowers raised $165 million, with smaller amounts obtained by borrowers from Mexico ($90 million), Trinidad and Tobago ($40 million), and Spain ($25 million).
Borrowing by international organizations also declined, from $1,917 million in 1977 to $605 million in 1978. The World Bank, which raised $1,350 million in 1977, did not borrow in the US market during 1978. Its borrowing was instead concentrated in the German, Swiss, and Japanese markets, where lower interest rates prevailed.
The Swiss Market. Foreign bonds issued in Switzerland increased 42%, from $4,959 million in 1977 to $7,064 million in 1978. Private placements far exceeded public offerings— $4,351 million, compared with $2,714 million.
Slightly less than two-thirds of all foreign bonds in the Swiss market ($4,504 million) were issued by industrialized countries. Japanese borrowers were the most active, raising $1,167 million. All Japanese borrowers were private enterprises. Issues were mostly private placements convertible into common stocks of the borrower. Issue size ranged from SwF 20 million to SwF 100 million, with original
<->nt the SDR were to be substituted for the 1960 dollar, the amount repayable in SDRs would be determined on the basis of the currency disbursed as of the date of disbursement. The commitment would be adjusted on the basis of the SDR rate established by the IMF for the US dollar on that date. For determining the amount to be paid by the borrower with respect to principal and charges in a previously agreed currency, the SDR rate for that currency on the date payment is due would be used. The amortization schedules and service charges would be computed in SDRs.
<2>The terms "foreign" and "international" in this context refer to issues sold outside the country of the borrower: foreign, if sold in one national market; international, if in more than one.
maturities of four to seven years. Significant sums were also obtained by borrowers from Austria ($673 million), Norway ($485 million), and Canada ($365 million). The average initial offering yield on public offerings was 4.04%. Almost all public offerings had original maturities in the over 10 to 15-year range. Maturities of private placements were mostly from three to seven years.
Borrowers from six developing countries raised $624 million in 1978, 16% above the $540 million obtained in 1977. The largest amounts were raised by borrowers from Mexico ($210 million), Brazil ($131 million), and Algeria ($120 million). The average initial offering yield for public offerings was 4.68%. Two-thirds of public offerings ($157 million) had original maturities of over seven to 10 years, while maturities of private placements were concentrated in the over three to five-year range.
International organizations more than doubled their borrowings in Switzerland during 1978, obtaining $1,807 million, compared with $807 million in 1977. This increase was due to World Bank borrowings, which rose from $644 million in 1977 to $ 1,366 million in 1978.
The Japanese Market. Foreign bonds issued in the Japanese bond market totaled $4,686 million in 1978. Some $287 million was raised in 1976 and $1,394 million was raised in 1977.
Industrialized countries raised $2,047 million, or 44% of all foreign bonds in Japan. The largest amounts were raised by borrowers from Australia ($469 million), Norway ($384 million), and Finland ($282 million). Maturities ranged from five to 12 years, and the average initial offering yield on public offerings was 6.37%.
Fifteen developing countries borrowed SI,328 million in the Japanese market during 1978. Borrowers from Venezuela ($307 million), Brazil ($264 million), and the Philippines ($141 million) raised the largest amounts. Issue size ranged from ¥10,000 million to ¥40,000 million, with original maturities of eight to 12 years. The average initial offering yield on public offerings was 6.65%.
International organizations raised $1,267 million in the Japanese market, 95% of which was borrowed by the World Bank ($1,201 million). In July 1978, the World Bank raised ¥75,000 million ($366 million) for 15 years at 6.50%. This was reportedly the largest public offering ever made by a foreign borrower in Japan.
Other National Markets. During 1978, foreign bonds were also issued in the follow-
ing markets: Federal Republic of Germany ($1,631 million), the Netherlands ($448 million), Saudi Arabia ($246 million), Luxembourg ($207 million), France ($176 million), Belgium ($148 million), and Austria ($29 million).
International Bonds
During 1978, international bonds totaled $15,872 million and consisted of public offerings of $11,561 million and private placements of $4,311 million.
As in previous years, industrialized countries were the main borrowers, raising $9,807 million, or 62% of total issues. The largest amounts were raised by borrowers from Japan ($1,500 million), the United States ($1,323 million), and Norway ($1,121 million). Fifty-six percent ($838 million) of the amount raised by Japanese borrowers was convertible into common stocks of the borrower. In 1977, borrowers from Canada ($1,945 million), the United Kingdom ($1,584 million), Norway ($1,391 million), the United States ($1,298 million), and Japan ($1,195 million) raised the largest amount of funds.
Twenty percent ($3,181 million) of all international bonds was raised by borrowers from developing countries. Twenty-five developing countries tapped the market, the largest amounts being raised by borrowers from Algeria ($558 million), Brazil (S541 million), Venezuela ($382 million), and Mexico ($346 million). During 1977, the most active borrowers were from Mexico ($757 million), Brazil ($604 million), Algeria ($215 million), and Spain ($190 million). Borrowers from eight countries raised funds for the first time in the international market during 1978: Kuwait (S62 million), Ecuador (S62 million), Indonesia ($54 million), Chile ($50 million), El Salvador ($25 million), Thailand ($25 million), the Republic of China (S20 million), and Costa Rica ($20 million).
International organizations raised $2,678 million in the international market during 1978, or 11% above the $2,412 million borrowed in 1977. The European Investment Bank borrowed the largest amount, $1,013 million, through 14 issues denominated in US dollars, Deutsche mark, Pounds sterling, Netherlands guilders, and French francs. The World Bank raised $700 million through two "special" placements.
The US dollar continued to be the most widely used currency in the international market, accounting for $7,652 million, or 48% of all international bonds. However, the dollar
share of the market was much smaller than in previous years. US dollar-denominated bonds totaled $9,999 million in 1976 and $12,336 million in 1977, for a market share of 65% and 63%, respectively. Exchange rate uncertainties and rising US dollar interest rates in 1978 contributed to the diversification of currencies in the market. The average initial offering yield of dollar-denominated public offerings by industrialized countries was 8.23% for the first quarter and 8.45% for the second quarter. During the second half of 1978, there were only five fixed rate dollar-denominated public offerings by industrialized countries. The only fixed rate dollar-denominated public offering by a developing country during 1978 was a $30 million issue by Panama that had an original maturity of five years and an initial offering yield of 9.28%.
As the year progressed, borrowers turned increasingly toward floating rate notes to secure their dollar funds. Floating rate notes issued by borrowers from industrialized countries totaled $1,670 million, or over one-third of all dollar-denominated bonds issued by this category of borrower. Most of the borrowers were deposit money banks. The majority of issues were public offerings at a spread of 0.25% over the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), with an original maturity in the five to seven-year range. The lowest recorded spreads were 0.125%  for a
10-year issue by Credit National of France and a 15-year issue by the US bank subsidiary, Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corp. The longest maturity was 20 years, obtained by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique on a $50 million issue.
Seventy-four percent ($863 million) of the US dollar-denominated bonds issued by borrowers from developing countries were floating rate notes. As with borrowers from industrialized countries, most developing country borrowers were deposit money banks. Borrowers from four developing countries that raised funds for the first time in the international market in 1978 issued floating rate notes: Kuwait ($25 million), the Republic of China ($20 million), Costa Rica ($20 million), and El Salvador ($25 million). Original maturities on floating rate notes were primarily for five to seven years. Spreads varied, ranging from 0.25% to 1.25% over the six-month LIBOR.
The second most widely used currency in the international market during 1978 continued to be the Deutsche mark. DM-denom-inated bonds totaled $6,539 million. The market share of DM bonds has increased from 18% ($2,821 million) in 1976 to 41% in 1978. Part of this dramatic increase is the result of appreciation of the Deutsche mark vis-a-vis the US dollar. Borrowers were also attracted to the DM sector of the international market due to the low prevailing interest rates
and the high liquidity of the market. Unlike the dollar sector of the international market, all DM-denominated issues had fixed interest rates. Among industrialized countries, borrowers from Japan ($1,095 million), Norway ($541 million), and Austria ($406 million) raised the largest amounts. As in the Swiss market, a large number of the issues by Japanese borrowers were convertible into common stocks of the borrower. The average initial offering yield for public offerings by industrialized countries was 5.44%, 5.31%, 5.87%, and 6.06% for the first through fourth quarters, respectively.
Eleven developing countries raised $1,410 million, or 22% of all Deutsche mark-denominated bonds. Borrowers from Brazil ($470 million), Venezuela ($204 million), Mexico ($172 million), and Argentina ($154 million) were the most active. The average initial offering yield for public offerings by developing countries was 6.51% in 1978.
International bonds denominated in Kuwaiti dinars (KD) totaled $481 million. Eighty-two percent of the KD issues went to borrowers from developing countries. Borrowers from Algeria ($109 million), Mexico ($71 million), and Morocco (S62 million) raised the most funds. The average initial offering yield on public offerings by developing countries was 8.21%.
Currencies used in the international market for the first time in several years included the French franc and the special drawing right. International bonds were also denominated in the following currencies: Netherlands guilder (S350 million), Pound sterling ($287 million), European unit of account ($203 million), Saudi Arabian rival ($95 million), Japanese yen ($79 million), Australian dollar ($31 million), and the Bahrain dinar ($21 million).
Over one-fifth of all international bonds ($3,560 million) was issued by central governments. Large sums were also borrowed by private nonfinancial enterprises ($2,950 million), international organizations ($2,678 million), and deposit money banks ($2,360 million).
Borrowers whose main purpose was banking and finance raised $4,521 million, or 28% of all international bonds. They were followed by borrowers whose purpose was classified as "general" ($3,948 million), international organizations ($2,678 million), and industry ($2,603 million).
Over half of all international bonds had an original maturity in the over seven to 15-year range. This was true for borrowers from both industrialized and developing countries. How-
ever, 28 % of those issues by developing countries fell in the over five to seven-year maturity range, compared with 16% for industrialized countries.
Syndicated Eurocurrency Credits— Calendar 1978
Borrowing in the form of publicized Eurocurrency credits totaled $71,659 million in 1978, more than double the $34,185 million total for 1977. Of this total, developing countries accounted for 53% ($37,942 million), industrialized countries accounted for 42% ($30,352 million), and centrally planned countries and organizations accounted for 4% ($3,018 million). International organizations and borrowers unallocated by country accounted for less than 1%, having raised $182 million and $165 million, respectively. This substantial increase in the volume of lending was, in large part, due to the low domestic corporate demand in most industrialized countries, which caused most banks to turn to the Eurocurrency market to lend excess funds.
Developing countries borrowed $37,942 million in publicized Eurocurrency credits, an increase of $17,672 million, or 87%, over 1977. Thirteen countries raised more than $1,000 million during 1978. They were: Mexico ($6,332 million), Brazil ($4,903 million), Spain ($2,190 million), Venezuela ($1,990 million), Algeria ($1,926 million), Philippines ($1,837 million), Nigeria ($1,750 million), Republic of Korea ($1,687 million), Indonesia ($1,577 million), Argentina ($1,273 million), Iran ($1,178 million), Chile ($1,145 million), and Malaysia ($1,077 million).
Three countries were reported to have raised amounts in the Eurocurrency credit market for the first time. They were: Botswana ($45 million), Antigua ($10 million), and Barbados ($10 million).
Among the developing countries, public nonfinancial enterprises borrowed $12,766 million (34%). Large amounts were also raised by central governments, $9,086 million (24%); private nonfinancial enterprises, $5,796 million (15%); and other public financial institutions, $5,630 million (15%).
Borrowers in developing countries, whose main purpose was classified as banking and finance, raised the largest amount of funds during 1978, $9,830 million (26%). Borrowers whose purpose was "general" borrowed $8,778 million (23%). Large amounts were also raised by borrowers whose purpose was public utilities, $5,509 million (15%); industry, $5,146 million (14%); and petroleum and natural gas, $4,335 million (11%).
Industrialized countries borrowed $30,352 million in the Eurocurrency credit market, more than double the amount raised in 1977 ($11,055 million). Countries borrowing large amounts were: Canada ($9,581 million), United Kingdom ($4,722 million), Denmark ($2,335 million), United States ($2,215 million), Sweden ($1,861 million), and Norway ($1,190 million).
Central governments borrowed $11,795 million (39%) of the total for industrialized countries. Large amounts were also raised by public nonfinancial enterprises, $7,661 million (25%); and private nonfinancial enterprises, $7,603 million (25%).
Borrowers in industrialized countries whose main purpose was classified as "general" raised the largest amount, $12,987 million (43%). Borrowers for industries raised $6,142 million (20%). Large amounts were also raised by borrowers whose purpose was public utilities, $4,547 million (15%); petroleum and natural gas, $3,352 million (11%); and banking and finance, $2,101 million (7%).
Centrally planned countries and organizations borrowed $3,018 million during 1978, an amount 18% higher than the $2,566 million borrowed in 1977. The largest amount was raised by the Democratic Republic of Germany ($782 million). Smaller amounts were raised by Hungary ($515 million), International Investment Bank ($500 million), USSR ($400 million), Poland ($374 million), Bulgaria ($239 million), Czechoslovakia ($150 million), and Cuba ($58 million).
Competition among highly liquid banks to secure Eurocurrency business resulted in an easing of lending terms. Maturities lengthened, and interest rate spreads over LIBOR decreased. Approximately 62% of the loans negotiated during 1978 carried maturities over seven years. During 1977, 12% of the loans carried maturities over seven years, and during 1976, 4%. During 1978, 68% of the loans carried interest rate spreads of 1 % or below, compared with the 35% in 1977, and 2% in 1976.
The interest rate for six-month Eurodollar deposits fluctuated between a low of 7.62% in January and a high of 12.31% in December.
Bond Markets—1979
Borrowing in foreign and international bond markets during the first half of 1979 totaled $18,807 million, slightly below the $19,366 million raised during the first half of 1978, but substantially above the $17,302 million raised during the second half of 1978. The increase over the July-December 1978 period
was entirely in the international market, where borrowing increased by 49%, from $6,788 million to $10,142 million. Foreign bonds issued in national capital markets declined from $10,514 million in the second half of 1978 to $8,666 million in the first six months of 1979.
Foreign Bonds. Foreign bonds issued in the US market during the first half of 1979 totaled $2,348 million, or 37% below the $3,705 million raised during the first six months of 1978. Borrowers from Canada were the most active, raising $1,055 million. Swedish borrowers raised $300 million. The European Investment Bank secured $550 million through public offerings in February and May.
Over half of all foreign bonds, $4,679 million, were raised in the Swiss capital market. Borrowers from industrialized countries raised $3,970 million, or 85% of all foreign bonds issued in Switzerland. The largest amounts were secured by borrowers from Japan ($ 1,181 million), Canada ($481 million), Austria ($334 million), and Australia ($298 million). Five developing countries borrowed $407 million in the Swiss market during the first half of 1979, over half of which was raised by Spanish borrowers ($229 million).
Borrowing in the Japanese capital market totaled $1,111 million, less than half the amount raised during the first half of 1978 ($2,378 million). The largest amounts were raised by borrowers from Brazil ($150 million), Canada ($146 million), and Norway ($138 million).
Foreign bonds were also issued in the following national markets: the Federal Republic of Germany ($146 million), Luxembourg ($121 million), the Netherlands ($87 million), France ($76 million), Belgium ($51 million), Saudi Arabia ($30 million), and Sweden ($17 million).
International Bonds. Over 70% of all international bonds ($7,336 million) were issued by borrowers from industrialized countries. Borrowers from the United States ($1,830 million), Canada ($939 million), Japan ($816 million), and France ($741 million) were the most active.
Developing countries raised $1,304 million in the international market during the first half of 1979, or 29% below the $1,828 million borrowed during the equivalent period in 1978. Thirteen developing countries obtained funds; the largest amounts were secured by borrowers from Argentina ($212 million), Israel ($185 million), Venezuela ($154 million), and Brazil ($140 million).
International organizations borrowed $ 1,299 million in the January-June 1979 period. The largest amount ($520 million) was obtained by the European Investment Bank. The World Bank raised $300 million through a "special" placement with central banks, monetary authorities, and central governments.
Sixty-one percent ($6,182 million) of all international bonds were denominated in US dollars. This contrasts sharply with the last half of 1978, when US dollar-denominated bonds amounted to $3,008 million, or only 44% of all international bonds. Borrowers from the United States accounted for 28% ($1,750 million) of dollar-denominated bonds. About one-third of all dollar-denominated bonds ($2,012 million) were floating rate notes. All dollar-denominated issues by developing countries were floating rate notes.
As in previous periods, the Deutsche mark continued to be the second most widely used currency. DM-denominated bonds totaled $2,555 million, or one-fourth of all international bonds. However, about two-thirds of DM-denominated bonds were issued during the first quarter of 1979, as activity in this sector of the international market slowed considerably during the second quarter. Japanese borrowers continued to be the most active issuers of DM-denominated bonds, securing $621 million during the first half of 1979.
Other currencies used in the international market during the first six months of 1979 were: the Canadian dollar ($384 million), the Pound sterling ($256 million), the French franc ($239 million), the Kuwaiti dinar ($203 million), the European unit of account ($143 million), the special drawing right ($65 million), the Netherlands guilder ($50 million), the Japanese yen ($49 million), and the Australian dollar ($17 million).
Syndicated Eurocurrency Credits—1979
During the first half of 1979, borrowing in the form of publicized Eurocurrency credits
totaled $27,596 million, or 19% below the $34,024 million borrowed during the first half of 1978. Much of the decrease was because the industrialized countries borrowed less. They borrowed only $6,530 million during the first half of 1979, or 54% less than the $14,098 million borrowed during the first half of 1978. Developing countries showed an 11% decrease in borrowing, from $17,736 million in the first half of 1978 to $15,818 million in the first half of 1979.
Those developing countries that were the most active borrowers in the Eurocurrency credit market during 1978 continued to be the most active during the first half of 1979. They were: Mexico ($2,741 million), Brazil ($2,379 million), Venezuela ($1,052 million), Spain ($954 million), and Algeria ($952 million).
One country that raised a Eurocurrency loan for the first time was Sri Lanka, for $50 million.
Among the industrialized countries, two countries borrowed large amounts: France ($1,200 million) and Italy ($1,447 million).
The centrally planned countries and organizations borrowed $5,058 million during the first half of 1979, or almost twice the amount they borrowed during 1978. This increase is accounted for by the debut of the People's Republic of China in the Eurocurrency credit market. During the first six months of 1979, the People's Republic of China raised $3,325 million, or 66% of the total amount borrowed by this group of countries.
Other borrowing during the first half of 1979 included $160 million for international organizations and $30 million for other borrowers unallocated by country.
The long maturities and the low interest rate spreads evidenced during 1978 continued to be characteristic of loan terms in the first half of 1979.
The interest rate for six-month Eurodollar deposits during the first half of 1979 fluctuated between 10.50% and 11.06%.
General Notes to Annex Tables
The tables of this Annex present data on selected economic indicators, world trade, external public debt, and international capital markets. As in past Annual Reports, most of the tables are organized on geographic lines.
In Table I, the basic series on selected economic indicators is based on data stored in the IBRD Socioeconomic Data Bank, which are mainly obtained from World Bank country economic reports, supplemented by data from national and other international publications. The indicators presented in this table are the same as those of last year. Country coverage includes the 96 countries listed below, plus 12 developing countries listed in the Note to Table 1.
In Table2, the data on world trade are classified by origin, destination, and geographic region, principally on the basis of data published in the UN Monthly Bulletin of Statistics.
In Tables 3 through 8. the principal source of data on external debt is information received by the World Bank from its member countries. These data are checked with and supplemented by information from several other sources, primarily reporting by creditor countries on their lending. The notes on the debt of the Philippines and Yugoslavia in Table 3 apply to all Tables 3 through 8.
The 96 countries included in the tables are those whose reporting on external public debt is sufficient for a reliable presentation of debt outstanding and future service payments. The classification of countries by geographical region0' is as follows:
Africa South of the Sahara—Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Empire, Chad, Comoros, Congo (People's Republic of the), Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia (The), Ghana, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Upper Volta, Zaire, Zambia (and the East African Community).
East Asia and Pacific—China (Republic of), Fiji, Indonesia, Korea (Republic of), Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand.
Latin America and the Caribbean—Argentina, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela.
North Africa and Middle East—Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt (Arab Republic of), Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Yemen Arab Republic, Yemen (People's Democratic Republic of).
/Is/a—Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka.
More advanced Mediterranean countries — Cyprus, Greece, Israel, Malta, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, Yugoslavia.
Not all of the 96 countries have been reporting for the full historical period, 1971-77, covered by the tables. Where individual country reports are lacking for certain years, estimates have been made by the World Bank's staff in order to present a consistent series of data.
For the purpose of these tables, external public debt is defined as debt repayable to external creditors in foreign currency, goods, or services, with an original or extended maturity of more than one year, which is a direct obligation of, or has repayment guaranteed by, a public body in the borrowing country. Most military debts are not reported, although a few countries have included such obligations in their data.
The World Bank continues to work in cooperation with its member countries toward the improvement of debt statistics. This effort results in many cases in a broadening of the coverage of the data for both current and past periods. Therefore, a comparison with debt tables in the W& Annual Report will show changes in data given for past years. The current Annua/ Report should be regarded as the more reliable.
In Table 7, net flow is defined as disbursements on loans, grants, and grantlike loans minus amortization on loans. Net transfer is net flow minus interest on loans. In Table 8, grant element is defined as the face value of loan commitments less the discounted present value of the future flow of repayments of principal and
<'> Note that in these tables Afghanistan is classified under South Asia, while in the discussion of the year's activities by region, it is classified under Europe, Middle East, and North Africa.
interest expressed as a percentage of face value. The discount rate used is 10%, the conventional rate used by OECD in assessing terms.
I n Table 5, debt service ratios represent service payments (amortization plus interest) on external public debt as a percentage of the exports of goods and all services. The debt service figures used in the present table are those for actual debt service paid (as compiled from country reports) during the year. If a country did not pay the entire amount of contractual debt service during a year, this may be reflected in a somewhat lower debt service ratio than would have been the case if contractual debt service instead of actual service paid had been used in computing the ratio. Likewise, the prepayment of debt service may result in a higher debt service ratio.
The debt service ratio is, by itself, an inadequate and incomplete indicator of a country's debt situation, and international comparisons of these ratios have only limited meaning. Many other factors must also be considered, such as the stability and diversification of the country's export structure, the prospects for future growth, the extent to which imports can be reduced without adversely affecting the size of foreign exchange reserves and available compensatory financing facilities, and the debt service record of the country. Further, external public debt constitutes only a part of the total indebtedness of a number of countries and, thus, considerably understates the burden of indebtedness in some cases. The debt service ratio is only an indication of the importance of debt and debt service in a country's total foreign exchange situation.
In Tables 7 and8, the source of data for grants is OECD. For grantlike loans, the data sources are OECD and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Grants consist of grant and grantlike (loans repayable in local currency) contributions; they are on a disbursement basis in both tables. The grants included in these tables comprise: (1) contributions by countries which are members of DAC; (2) grants by multilateral agencies as compiled by OECD; (3) disbursements by IDB on loans repayable in local currencies. Grants for technical assistance have been excluded. Data for grants do not include grants from bilateral donors other than DAC countries, although grants from other sources may
have been large to some developing countries. However, debt data include obligations to creditors of all nationalities.
Tables 9 and 10 deal with foreign and international bond issues. In Table 9, "Foreign bonds" are those issued in a single national market. "International bonds" are those which are sold in two or more markets simultaneously.
In Table 9, "Other national markets" include the following countries: Austria, Belgium, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Italy, Japan, Libya, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, Trinidad and Tobago, United Arab Emirates, and Yugoslavia. In Table 10, "Other national markets" include Austria, Belgium, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Switzerland, and Trinidad and Tobago.
In Table 11, "Eurocurrency credits" are credits granted by banks out of Eurocurrency funds on deposit with them or borrowed by them in the Eurocurrency market. The term "Euro" is used to refer to "offshore" markets outside, as well as inside, Europe. The term "credit" is used to refer to loans, lines of credit, and other forms of medium- and long-term credit.
Data on debt outstanding and service payments are current market rates, or, if valid, par values or central exchange rates of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Capital flows and service payments are converted to US dollars at an average rate for the year. Debt outstanding is converted at the rate in effect as of the date of the outstanding. Projected debt service is converted to US dollars at end-1977 rates. However, debts repayable in multiple currencies, goods, or services, and debt which has a provision for maintenance of value of the currency of repayment, are shown at their book values.
Information about foreign and international bonds and Eurocurrency credits, denominated in national currencies, is converted to US dollars using monthly average market exchange rates of currency units per US dollar, series "af," from the IMF's International Financial Statistics (IFS) File. For loans denominated in composite currencies (e.g., European unit of account), the conversion is made using rates derived by the World Bank.
Summary Statement of Loans
June 30, 1979 and June 30, 1978
Expressed in United States dollars (in thousands)—see Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Appendix D
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
In some instances loans were made, with the guarantee of a member, in territories which at the time were included in that member's membership but which subsequently became independent and members of the Bank in their own right (except Malta which although independent is not a member of the Bank). In all these instances these territories have assumed liability as a borrower or guarantor. In order to avoid couble counting, liabilities for these loans are shown under the name of the original member (whose guarantee continues unaffected). These loans are shown below together with an indication of the member under whose name they are listed.
*Loans made for joint benefit of territories listed. (Southern Rhodesia is included in the membership of the United Kingdom.)
Loans made to the International Finance Corporation are not guaranteed by members.
•2' These amounts do not include $25,333,000 ($30,328,000— 1978) of effective loans, which the Bank has agreed to sell and grant participations of $15,368,000 ($24,916,000 — 1978). The grant participations represent participations on a grant basis taken in a number of loans under the terms of an aid cooperation agreement between a member country and the Bank. Of the undisbursed balance, the Bank has entered into irrevocable commitments to disburse $80,572,000 ($40,767,000—1978).
I3; Loan agreements totaling $3,646,570,000 ($3,189,351,0001978) have been signed, but the loans do not become effective and disbursements thereunder do not start until the borrowers or guarantors, if any, take certain actions and furnish certain documents to the Bank, and agreements providing for loans totaling $1,875,820,000 ($1,542,020,000-1978) have been approved by the Bank but have not been signed. Those amounts are net of $5,460,000 ($16,879,000—1978) which the Bank has agreed to sell.
<4> One loan equivalent to $23,250,000 is shown under Bolivia (Guarantor) but is also guaranteed by Argentina.
(5) Loans made to the Caribbean Development Bank for the benefit of the territories of the members listed (in the case of the United Kingdom, the territories are those of its Associated States and Dependencies in the Caribbean region). The members will be severally liable as guarantors to the extent of sub-loans made in their territories.
61 Members are jointly and severally liable.
:7! One loan equivalent to $23,000,000 is shown under Ivory Coast (Guarantor) but is also partially guaranteed by Upper Volta.
<8' Includes portions of loans made to the East African Community.
Represents portions of loans made to the East African Community.
Notes to Financial Statements
June 30, 1979 and June 30, 1978
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Capital Stock
From 1973 until March 31, 1978, the Bank's capital stock, which is expressed in the Bank's Articles of Agreement in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944" (1944 dollars), has been translated by the Bank for purposes of its financial statements into current United States dollars at the rate of $1.20635 per 1944 dollar. Since the effectiveness on April 1,1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (the Fund), currencies no longer have par values in terms of gold. The Bank is examining the implications of this change on the valuation of its capital stock. No decisions on this matter have been taken. However, for purposes of the financial statements at June 30, 1979 and 1978, the Bank has expressed the value of its capital stock on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR) in terms of United States dollars as computed by the Fund, $1.29110 per SDR on June 30, 1979 ($1.23953 per SDR on June 30,1978). (See Note B. This note also shows what the value of the Bank's capital stock would have been expressed in terms of $1.20635 equal one 1944 dollar.) For the time being payments on account of subscriptions will continue to be accepted at the equivalent of $120,635 per share of capital stock.
Translation of Currencies
The financial statements are expressed in United States dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing the Bank's financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
The Bank is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. The Bank's resources are derived from its capital, borrowings and accumulated earnings in the various currencies of its members and Switzerland and are held, invested or lent in those same currencies. The Bank matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by holding, or lending the proceeds of its borrowings in the same currencies in which they are borrowed. Borrowed funds are sometimes temporarily converted into other currencies and at the same time, forward exchange contracts are entered into in order to recover the currency converted. The Bank maintains a neutral currency position with respect to its other resources by not converting one currency into another except for small amounts required to meet certain obligations and operational needs of the Bank.
In general, the Bank translates its assets and liabilities in currencies other than United States dollars at market rates of exchange to the United States dollar at the end of each quarter with the exception of buildings and deferred charges which are translated at exchange rates in effect when the buildings were acquired or the charges incurred. Income and expenses other than depreciation and amortization charges are translated at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect during each quarter.
Under the Bank's present policies, adjustments arising from the translation of currencies to the current United States dollar equivalent would not now or in the future result in realized gains or losses such as would result from the conversion of the various currencies into United States dollars. Accordingly, translation adjustments, with the -exception of those relating to capital subscriptions described in Note B, are charged or credited to the General Reserve rather than income. (See Note A.) In those few instances where currencies are converted to another currency, the resulting gain or loss, if any, is included in the determination of net income. Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized
cost. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by the difference between average cost and proceeds of sales, are recorded as an element of income from investments. Loans
All of the Bank's loans are made to, or guaranteed by, members with the exception of loans to the International Finance Corporation. The principal amounts of loans are repayable in the currencies lent. Interest on loans is also payable in the currencies lent. The Bank has not suffered any losses on loan receivables and it has a policy of not participating in moratoria or reschedulings. No losses on loan receivables are anticipated and, accordingly, no reserve for loan losses has been established; however, should such losses arise they would be included in the determination of net income.
Administrative Expenses
A management fee is charged to the International Development Association and a service and support fee to the International Finance Corporation representing their respective shares of the administrative expenses of the Bank.
Disposition of Income and General Reserve
The Bank has not declared or paid any dividends to its members. Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the accumulated net income has been allocated to the General Reserve. (See Note D.)
Since 1964, it has been the Bank's policy to transfer to the International Development Association part of the year's income which was not needed for allocation to reserves or otherwise required to be retained in the Bank's business and accordingly could have been prudently distributed as dividends. Such transfers are accounted for as a charge to accumulated net income.
Staff Retirement Plan
The Bank has a contributory retirement Plan for its staff, which also covers the staff of the International Finance Corporation. All contributions to the Plan and all other assets and income of the Plan are held by the Bank separately from the other assets of the Bank and the Corporation and can be used only for the benefit of the participants in the Plan and their beneficiaries. The total cost of the Plan (see Note F) includes amortization of unfunded liabilities. On April 22,1975, the Bank made arrangements for payment of the unfunded liability at December 31, 1974 overa forty-year period and for payment of any future increase in this liability over periods of from 15 to 30 years.
Note A—Translation of Currencies
A Statement issued in 1975 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board in the United States requires that foreign currency translation adjustments be included in the determination of net income for the period in which they occur; however, in view of its character as an international organization and its related financial policies described previously, the Bank does not deem this Statement to be applicable in the circumstances. Had the Bank complied with this Statement, net income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1979 would have increased by $114,715,000 ($110,199,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1978) and the General Reserve would have decreased by the same amount.
Note B—Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies and Maintenance of Value
Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of the Bank is expressed in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944" (1944 dollars).
On April 30, 1976, the Board of Governors of the Fund approved proposed amendments to the Fund's Articles of Agreement (the Second Amendment) which entered into force on April 1,1978. Under the Second Amendment, currencies no longer have par values, gold is abolished as a common denominator of the monetary system and all calculations for the purposes of the Fund's Articles are made
Appendix g
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR). When the SDR was introduced into the Fund's Articles in 1969, it was expressed in terms of a specified weight of gold equal to the gold content of the 1944 dollar. Since July 1,1974, the value of the SDR in terms of United States dollars has been based on the weighted relative values of a number of major currencies (the basket), including the United States dollar. The value of the SDR on July 1, 1974, expressed in terms of United States dollars, was $1.20635, which was the equivalent of one 1944 dollar. On March 31,1978, the Fund made certain changes in the basket of currencies effective July 1, 1978, and established a method of further adjustment, at five-yearly intervals, to reflect changes in the relative importance of currencies over time, while ensuring continuity and reasonable predictability for the valuation of the SDR. The amounts of the currencies in the revised basket effective July 1,1978, are such that the value of the revised basket in terms of any currency was exactly the same, at June 30, 1978, under the revised valuation as under the then existing valuation.
As a result of the Second Amendment and the simultaneous repeal of Section 2 of the Par Value Modification Act (31 U.S.C. 449), the provision of United States law defining the par value of the United States dollar in terms of the SDR and gold, the pre-existing basis for translating the term "United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944" into current United States dollars or into any other currency, no longer exists.
The General Counsel of the Bank has rendered a legal opinion concluding in substance that upon the entry into force of the Second Amendment references in the Bank's Articles of Agreement to the 1944 dollar should be read as referring to the SDR, as determined from time to time by the Fund, and the mutual obligations of each member and the Bank, with respect to maintenance of value of certain currency holdings, will be measured by the value of the currency in question in terms of the SDR at any given time.
The General Counsel has, however, also stated that in the exercise of their statutory power under Article IX of the Bank's Articles, the Executive Directors could conclude that the 1944 dollar would be taken to mean 1.20635 current dollars, with the consequence that maintenance of value would be measured by that standard.
A member government has raised the question whether the substitution of a new unit of value, insofar as it would give rise to any new obligations with respect to maintenance of value and capital stock subscription payments, should be made only by amendment of the Articles. It also raised questions as to the desirability of retaining the principle of maintenance of value, the form in which it is applied and the appropriateness of substituting a unit of value other than the SDR. Pending action on these questions, the financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with the General Counsel's opinion, that is, the value of the capital stock is expressed in terms of the SDR.
The Bank's capital comprises 340,000 authorized shares of the par value of SDR 100,000 each, of which 289,902 shares have been subscribed (266,597 — 1978). Ten percent of the capital subscriptions has been called and paid in; the remaining ninety percent is subject to call by the Bank only when required to meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans. As to $29,943,397,000 ($26,436,398,000-1978), the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement and as to $3,742,925,000 ($3,304,550,000-1978) by resolutions of the Board of Governors.
Restricted Currencies'. The portion of capital subscriptions paid in to the Bank is divided into two parts :(1) $374,293,000 ($330,455,000-1978) initially paid in gold or United States dollars, and (2) $3,368,632,000 ($2,974,095,000-1978) paid in the currencies of the respective members. Of this latter
portion an amount of $143,647,000 ($137,909,000-1978) was subsequently converted by members into United States dollars, subject to the right of the Bank or the members to reverse the transactions. The amounts paid in gold or United States dollars or subsequently converted by members into United States dollars are freely usable by the Bank in any of its operations; however, the remaining amounts paid in the currencies of the members, hereinafter called restricted currencies, are usable by the Bank in its lending operations only with the consent of the respective members. The equivalent of $2,200,146,000 ($1,984,817,000-1978) has been used with such consent.
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value, as of the time of subscription, of such restricted currencies, requiring(1) the member to make additional payments to the Bank in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Bank, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories, and (2) the Bank to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased. Following the establishment of central rates by several members in lieu of existing par values, in March 1973, the Executive Directors resolved that, for all members that established central rates for their respective currencies, pending the establishment of new par values, maintenance of value obligations be settled on the basis of those central rates. These obligations of the members and of the Bank become effective immediately upon the happening of those events with respect to holdings of restricted currencies represented by currency balances and demand obligations. With respect to restricted currencies out on loan, those obligations become effective only as and when such currencies are recovered by the Bank, except that in several cases the Bank and the members concerned have agreed to make provisional settlements of such obligations, by means of one or more payments over periods not exceeding five years. At June 30, 1979, $1,655,000 (nil-1978) was receivable and $3,262,000 ($3,864,000-1978) was payable by the Bank on such provisional settlements. These amounts are included in Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings underthe headings Receivable on Account of Subscribed Capital and Liabilities, respectively.
Prior to April 1, 1978, where market rates of exchange were not related to par values or central rates, as in the cases of a majority of members, and where there were differences between market rates of exchange and the rates at which capital subscriptions of members had been paid or were payable such differences were shown as Translation Adjustments on Capital Subscriptions under the heading Other Assets. These amounts represented notional receivables and payables which would become maintenance of value obligations if and when the provisions of Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement or the resolution of the Executive Directors described above could be applied. According to the legal opinion of the Bank's General Counsel referred to in this Note B under Capital Stock, maintenance of value pursuant to Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement would be determined on the basis of the SDR, and is treated in the financial statements on this basis. Since the Bank is still considering the implications of the Second Amendment and in view of the questions referred to above, the timing of any establishment and settlement of these notional maintenance of value items $460,399,000 ($372,600,000-1978) receivable and $142,271,000 ($115,811,000-1978) payable are uncertain. Accordingly, they are included in Other Assets, and Liabilities as notional maintenance of value obligations.
Effect of Valuation in Terms of the SDR: Expressing the value of the Bank's capital stock in terms of the SDR rather than in terms of $1.20635 does not have a material effect on the financial position or results of the operations of the
(continued)
Notes to Financial Statements iamA^        Appendix g
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
June 30,1979 and June 30, 1978
Note B (continued)
Bank. If the value of the capital stock were expressed in terms of $1.20635, the subscribed capital would have been $34,972,328,000 ($32,160,929,000-1978) instead of $37,429,247,000 ($33,045,498,000-1978), the uncalled portion of subscriptions $31,475,095,000 ($28,944,836,0001978) instead of $33,686,322,000 ($29,740,948,000-1978), the paid-in capital $3,497,233,000 ($3,216,093,000-1978) instead of $3,742,925,000 ($3,304,550,000-1978) and the net maintenance of value obligations to the Bank would have been $113,822,000 ($181,104,000-1978) instead of $323,153,000 ($256,179,000-1978). Should the Executive Directors conclude that the capital would be measured by some standard other than the SDR, any adjustment of the amounts shown in the Balance Sheet as Notional Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings, would require a corresponding adjustment of the capital.
On June 28, 1979, the Executive Directors submitted to the Bank's Board of Governors a draft resolution to increase the authorized capital stock of the Bank by 331,500 shares (subject to adjustment depending on the decision reached on expressing the value of the Bank's capital stock), which represents an increase of approximately $40,000,000,000, and to authorize subscriptions by members to substantially all of the shares so authorized. This draft resolution, provides that the paid-in portion of these shares would be 7.5% (in contrast to the 10% paid-in portion of existing capital stock); subscribing members would pay 3A% of the subscription price in gold or United States dollars and 63/4% in their respective currencies. To avoid the dilution of the voting power of certain members which would otherwise occur if this capital increase were implemented, the Executive Directors have also submitted a draft resolution to the Board of Governors to increase the authorized capital stock by an additional 33,500 shares, which represents a further increase of approximately $4,000,000,000, and to authorize each member to subscribe 250 shares of this additional capital, none of which would be paid in. Both draft resolutions provide that no subscriptions authorized by them may be accepted prior to September 30,1981.
Note C—Investments
The market value of investment securities was $9,611,863,000 ($8,568,937,000-1978) compared with a cost or amortized cost of $9,707,221,000 ($8,705,757,000-1978), and a face value of $9,757,431,000 ($8,766,014,000-1978), including investments not traded in the market which were valued at their cost of $3,271,021,000 ($369,701,000-1978). Investments include securities purchased under agreements to resell amounting to $8,835,000 ($52,442,000-1978). Obligations of the United States Government and its instrumentalities having a cost or amortized cost of $292,538,000 ($292,538,000-1978) and a market value of $289,088,000 ($287,473,000-1978), set aside in respect of the Special Reserve, as described in Note D, are included under this heading.
The annualized rate of return on the average investments held during the fiscal year, based on the portfolio held at the end of each month and including realized gains and losses, was 7.55% (6.99%—1978).
Note D—Reserves and Net Income
The President of the Bank has proposed to the Executive Directors that they approve the allocation of $306,542,000 to the General Reserve out of the $406,542,000 net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1979 and that they recommend to the Board of Governors that the balance of $100,000,000 be transferred by way of grant to the International Development Association.
In August 1978, the Bank allocated $138,111,000 to the General Reserve out of the $238,111,000 net income earned
in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1978 and in September 1978, authorized the transfer of the balance of $100,000,000 by way of grant to the International Development Association.
In accordance with the policies discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note A, the General Reserve has increased by $114,715,000 during the fiscal year ($110,199,000-1978); it has been credited with $137,495,000 ($123,565,000-1978) representing net translation adjustments as a result of currency depreciations and appreciations and charged with $22,780,000 ($13,366,000 —1978) representing a compensating effect of the depreciation of the United States dollar, in terms of the SDR, on the one percent portion of the Bank's paid-in capital and the nine percent portion released by certain member countries for lending in United States dollars. (See Statement of Changes in General Reserve—Appendix B.) Since the value of the SDR in terms of current dollars may vary from day to day, that portion of the Bank's capital paid in or released in dollars will be subject to further adjustment at the end of each quarter.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6, of the Articles of Agreement which are to be held in liquid assets and to be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of the Bank on its borrowings and guarantees. The Special Reserve assets comprise obligations of the United States Government and its instrumentalities and are included under the heading Investments. As a result of a decision made in 1964, the allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in respect of subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
Interest and other charges of $1,034,000 payable to the Bank on loans are overdue by more than 60 days. The principal disbursed and outstanding on these loans amounts to $35,638,000. It is not anticipated that these delays will result in any loss to the Bank.
Note E—Contributions to the International Development Association
The Bank has authorized transfers by way of grants to the International Development Association totaling $1,325,000,000 from net income for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1964 through June 30, 1978. Of this amount $792,278,000 was payable at June 30, 1979. ($1,225,000,000 had been authorized from net income through the fiscal year ended June 30, 1977 and $734,503,000 was payable at June 30,1978.)
Note F—Staff Retirement Plan
The cost of the Plan to the Bank for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1979 was $30,605,000 ($24,959,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1978). An actuarial valuation of the Plan is made annually. At December 31,1978, the valuation indicated an unfunded liability of $115,178,000 ($92,049,000 at December 31, 1977), a portion of which relates to the International Finance Corporation. This amount is being amortized as described in the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies. At December 31,1978, the market value of the Plan's assets exceeded the actuarially computed value of vested benefits.
Note G—Income and Expenses
Income from investments includes net losses of $73,134,000 ($5,181,000-1978) resulting from sales of investments. Other income includes net gains of $10,025,000($7,941,000-1978) resulting from repurchases of obligations of the Bank prior to maturity pursuant to the terms of the respective borrowing agreements. Administrative expenses are net of the management fee of $121,425,000 ($91,911,000-1978) charged to the International Development Association and of the service and support fee of $2,197,000 ($2,158,0001978) charged to the International Finance Corporation.
Notes to Financial Statements Appendix f
International Development Association
June 30, 1979 and June 30, 1978
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Translation of Currencies
The Association is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members and Switzerland. The Association's policy is to translate its assets and liabilities in currencies other than United States dollars at market rates of exchange to the United States dollar at the end of each quarter. Translation adjustments relating to subscriptions and supplementary resources are accounted for as described in Note C; all other translation adjustments are included in the determination of net income. Income and expenses are translated at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect during each quarter.
The subscriptions and supplementary resources provided under the first three replenishments are expressed in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1,1960" (1960 dollars) and from 1973 until March 31, 1978 have been translated by the Association, for purposes of the financial statements, into current United States dollars at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar. The supplementary resources provided under the fourth and fifth replenishments are expressed and payable in members' currencies and are translated (1) at market rates of exchange at the end of each quarter for amounts receivable and for amounts received and not yet disbursed, and (2) at market rates of exchange on the dates of disbursement in respect of those amounts which have been disbursed or converted into another currency. The Association's development credits are denominated in current United States dollars. However, under the Association's General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements, the principal amounts of the credits disbursed are repayable in amounts equivalent, at the dates of repayment, to the value of the currencies disbursed in terms of 1960 dollars.
On April 30,1976, the Board of Governors of the I nternational Monetary Fund.(the Fund) approved proposed amendments to the Fund's Articles of Agreement (the Second Amendment) which entered into force on April 1, 1978. Under the Second Amendment, currencies no longer have par values, gold is abolished as a common denominator of the monetary system and all calculations for the purposes of the Fund's Articles are made on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR).
As a result of the Second Amendment and the simultaneous repeal of Section 2 of the Par Value Modification Act (31 U.S.C. 449), the provision of United States law defining the par value of the United States dollar in terms of the SDR and gold, the pre-existing basis for translating the term "United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960" into current United States dollars or into any other currency, no longer exists.
The General Counsel of the Association has rendered a legal opinion concluding in substance that upon the entry into force of the Second Amendment references in the Association's Articles of Agreement to the 1960 dollar should be read as referring to the SDR, as determined from time to time by the Fund and the mutual obligations of each member and the Association with respect to maintenance of value of certain currency holdings will be measured by the value of the currency in question in terms of the SDR at any given time. It would be consistent with this opinion also to substitute the SDR for the 1960 dollar as the measure of the development credit repayment obligation but this would
require approval of the Executive Directors and would involve other changes in the development credit agreements.
The General Counsel has, however, also stated that in the exercise of their statutory power under Article X of the Association's Articles, the Executive Directors could conclude that the 1960 dollar would be taken to mean $1.20635 current dollars, with the consequence that maintenance of value would be measured by that standard.
Pending action on this matter by the Executive Directors, the subscriptions and supplementary resources through the third replenishment have been expressed in SDRs on the basis that one SDR equals one 1960 dollar. This basis has not been applied to development credit repayment obligations however, as described in the following paragraph. The value of such subscriptions and supplementary resources has been expressed on the basis of the SDR in terms of United States dollars as computed by the Fund ($1.29110 per SDR) on June 30,1979, for the amounts of subscriptions and supplementary resources undisbursed at June 30, 1979; at the daily SDR rate for amounts disbursed from the effective date of the Second Amendment to June 30,1979, and at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar for amounts disbursed prior to the effective date of the Second Amendment. Expressing the value of certain of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources in terms of the SDR rather than in terms of the 1960 dollar (translated at the rate of $1.20635) as described in the preceding paragraph does not have a material effect on the financial position or results of operations of the Association. If the value of these subscriptions and supplementary resources were expressed in terms of $1.20635 the amount of $16,460,320,000 shown in the Statement of Condition would have decreased by $33,008,000 to $16,427,312,000.
Pending clarification of the effect of the Second Amendment on the payment obligations under its development credit agreements, the Association has continued to base these upon the par value ($1.20635 per 1960 dollar) in effect immediately prior to effectiveness of the Second Amendment. If the matter had been resolved during the year ended June 30, 1979, and the Association had expressed its development credits in terms of the SDR at June 30,1979, the amount of $15,239,978,000 shown in.the Statement of Condition would have increased by $599,452,000 as of June 30, 1979 representing the cumulative effect of thechange since April 1, 1978. This would have resulted in net income for the year ended June 30,1979 of $553,557,000 rather than a net loss of $45,895,000.
Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by the difference between average cost and proceeds of sales, are recorded as an element of income from investments.
Development Credits
All of the Association's development credits are made to member governments or to the government of a territory of a member. The Association has not suffered any losses on development credit receivables and no losses are anticipated. However, should such losses arise they would be included in the determination of net income.
Administrative Expenses
Administrative expenses of the Association are paid by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
(continued)
Notes to Financial Statements
June 30, 1979 and June 30, 1978
Bank). The Association reimburses the Bank for such expenses by payment of a management fee representing its share of the administrative expenses incurred by the Bank.
Note A—Restricted Currencies
The membership of the Association is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which pay all subscriptions and supplementary resources provided to the Association in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by the Association in its operations;(2) Part II members, which pay ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies and the remaining ninety percent of their initial subscriptions and all additional subscriptions and any supplementary resources provided to the Association in their own currencies. The Articles of Agreement of the Association and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by the Association for projects financed by the Association and located outside the territories of the member except by agreement between the member and the Association. The amounts of $55,713,000($59,120,000-1978) under the heading Due from Banks, $154,790,000 ($157,911,000-1978) included under the heading Receivable on Account of Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources and $72,759,000 ($54,174,000-1978) included in Notional Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings under the headings Other Assets and Other Liabilities respectively, were subject to such restrictions.
Note B—Investments
The market value of investment securities was $159,564,000 ($203,267,000-1978) compared with a cost or amortized cost of $160,685,000 ($205,386,000-1978) and face value of $161,682,000 ($206,066,000-1978), including investments not traded in the market which were valued at their cost of $34,329,000 ($27,670,000-1978). Investments include securities purchased under agreements to resell amounting to $6,921,000 ($3,272,000-1978).
Note C—Maintenance of Value
Article IV, Section 2 of the Association's Articles of Agreement provides for the maintenance of the value, as of the time of subscription, of the Association's currency holdings or demand obligations substituted therefor representing ninety percent of each member's initial subscription, only so long as and to the extent that such currency has not been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. This Section requires: (1) the member to make additional payments to the Association in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Association, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2) the Association to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Association, appreciated to a significant extent in its territories.
The provisions of Article IV, Section 2 have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and supplementary resources of the Association through the third replenishment but are not applicable to those of the fourth and fifth replenishments. On June 19, 1972, the Executive Directors resolved that for all members that established central rates for their respective currencies, pending establishment of new par values for their currencies, maintenance of value obligations be settled on the basis of those central rates. It was further decided that with respect to any member currency functioning under a system under which the market rate was not confined within announced intervention margins, maintenance of value obligations would be determined on the basis of market rates in effect on the respective dates of disbursement of such currency, but only for the amounts disbursed.
Prior to April 1,1978, where market rates of exchange were not related to par values or central rates as in the cases of a majority of the members, and there were differences between market rates of exchange and the rates at which undisbursed subscriptions and supplementary resources of members through the third replenishment of the Association's resources had been paid or were payable, such differences were shown as Translation Adjustments on Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources under the heading Other Assets. The amounts $94,300,000($82,268,000-1978) established at that date and accordingly at June 30, 1979 represented notional receivables $99,094,000($87,103,000-1978) and payables $4,794,000 ($4,835,000-1978). Maintenance of value obligations in respect of such undisbursed amounts are determined upon their disbursement. In accordance with the legal opinion of the Association's General Counsel referred to above, maintenance of value pursuantto Article IV, Section 2 of the Articles of Agreement is being determined provisionally on the basis of the SDR, and is treated in the financial statements on that basis. Since the Association is still considering the implications of the Second Amendment, and in view of the questions referred to above, the timingof any establishment and settlement of these notional maintenance of value items is uncertain. Accordingly, they are included in Other Assets, and Liabilities as notional maintenance of value obligations.
Note D— Borrowings from Swiss Confederation
The Association has entered into agreements to borrow a total of SwF 182 million (US equivalent $109,428,000-1979; $98,140,000-1978) from the Swiss Confederation. The first loan for SwF 52 million was made in fiscal year 1967 and the second loan for SwF 130 million was made in fiscal year 1973. The loans carry no interest and are each repayable in forty annual instalments commencing on July 1,1979, in the case of the first loan, and November 8, 1983 in the case of the second loan. The first ten instalments of each loan will be one percent of the respective principal amounts and the remaining thirty instalments will be three percent of such principal amounts.
Appendix F
International Development Association
Note E—Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources
Subscriptions and supplementary resources have been translated as set forth under Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies. At June 30,1979 and 1978 these were as follows:
The fifth replenishment of the Association's resources became effective on November 29,1977. At that date notifications had been received from 17 members, of which 14 were Part I members (including the United States, as mentioned in the following paragraph) and a non-member, the United Arab Emirates, that they would contribute to the fifth replenishment the amount of $6,042,010,000, computed at the March 14,1977 International Monetary Fund representative rates of exchange. Subsequent to November 29, 1977, but prior to June 30, 1979, further notifications were received from Part I members, whose contributions aggregated the equivalent of $1,378,391,000. The contributions to the fifth replenishment authorized under the Board of Governors' resolution plus an additional amount for a contribution pledged by Saudi Arabia totaled the equivalent of $7,731,701,000 at the March 14, 1977 representative rates of exchange. The total value of all authorized contributions to the replenishment was the equivalent of $8,601,823,000 at June 30,1979. Pursuant to the resolution, contributions are payable in the members' currencies and are due in three equal annual instalments unless contributing members notify the Association that they wish to avail themselves of certain options providing for a different mode of payment.
I n connection with its participation in the fifth replenishment, the United States has notified the Association that it would pay the amount of $1,600,000,000 (representing the first two of three equal annual instalments of its contribution totaling $2,400,000,000) and that, subject to obtaining the necessary appropriations, it would pay the remaining $800,000,000. The notification by the United States is thus qualified with respect to $800,000,000 of its contribution. The resolution provides that unless unqualified notifications are received covering in the aggregate at least eighty percent of the third instalment(which cannot be achieved without an unqualified notification by the United States), the Association may not enter into new credits, disbursements for which would be
drawn from this instalment, unless the credits are qualified in a manner whereby they become effective and binding on the Association only when unqualified notifications covering at least eighty percent of the instalment have been deposited. At June 30,1979 rates of exchange, unqualified notifications totaled approximately $1,937,000,000 or about seventy-one percent of the third instalment.
Note F—Transfers from International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has authorized transfers by way of grants to the Association totaling $1,325,000,000 ($1,225,000,000-1978) from net income of the Bank for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1964 through June 30, 1978. Of this amount, $47,325,000 ($35,400,000-1978) may be used by the Association or had been disbursed for grants for agricultural research and for the control of onchocerciasis. During the periods covered by these financial statements $25,000 ($650,000-1978) previously allocated for such grants has reverted to the Association for its general purposes.
Note G—Translation Adjustments
In accordance with the policies discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies the Association has recorded translation adjustments for the current fiscal year of $8,025,000 ($23,279,000-1978) representing net charges of $7,294,000 ($22,584,000-1978) as a result of currency depreciations and appreciations [including $11,288,000 ($24,183,000-1978) of charges on the Swiss Confederation borrowings] and charges of $731,000 ($695,000 —1978) representing the effect of the valuation change to the SDR on that portion of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources paid in United States dollars. Since the value of the SDR in terms of current dollars may vary from day to day, the portion of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources paid in dollars will be subject to further adjustment at the end of each quarter.