Cover: Construction of schools forms an important component of a $19 million IDA credit to Sri Lanka for the development of irrigated agriculture through diversion of the waters of the country's major river, the Mahaweli Ganga. This photo shows a teacher and part of her class in one of the schools built for the Mahaweli Ganga scheme's colonists.
Frontispiece: A worker seen through a cylinder designed for an oil refinery and manufactured by Bharat Heavy Electricals, Ltd. of Hyderabad, India. A $40 million Bank loan, channeled through the Industrial Development Bank of India to state financial corporations provided the foreign exchange needed by small and medium-sized industries for the purchase of imported capital goods.
The World Bank
The World Bank is a group of three institutions, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Development Association (IDA), and the International Finance Corporation (IFC).
The common objective of these institutions is to help raise standards of living in developing countries by channeling financial resources from developed countries to the developing world.
The World Bank, established in 1945, is owned by the governments of 135 countries. The Bank, whose capital is subscribed by its member countries, finances its lending operations primarily from its own borrowings in the world capital markets. A substantial contribution to the Bank's resources also comes from its retained earnings and the flow of repayments on its loans. Bank loans generally have a grace period of five years and are repayable over 20 years or less. They are directed toward developing countries at more advanced stages of economic and social growth. The interest rate the Bank charges on its loans is calculated in accordance with a guideline related to its cost of borrowing.
The Bank's charter spells out certain basic rules that govern its operations. It must lend only for productive purposes and must stimulate economic growth in the developing countries where it lends. It must pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Each loan is made to a government or must be guaranteed by the government concerned. The use of loans cannot be restricted to purchases in any particular member country. And the Bank's decisions to lend must be based only on economic considerations.
The International Development Association was established in 1960 to provide assistance for the same purposes as the Bank, but primarily in the poorer developing countries and on terms that would bear less heavily on their balance of payments than Bank loans. IDA's assistance is, therefore, concentrated on the very poor countries—mainly those with an annual per capita gross national product of less than $625 (in 1978 dollars). More than 50 countries are eligible under this criterion.
Membership in IDA is open to all members
of the World Bank, and 121 of them have joined to date. The funds used by IDA, called credits to distinguish them from Bank loans, come mostly in the form of subscriptions, general replenishments from IDA's more industrialized and developed members, special contributions by IDA's richer members, and transfers from the net earnings of the World Bank. The terms of IDA credits, which are made to governments only, are 10-year grace periods, 50-year maturities, and no interest. An annual service fee of 0.75% is charged on the disbursed portion of each credit. Although legally and financially distinct from the Bank, IDA is administered by the same staff.
The IFC was established in 1956. Its function is to assist the economic development of less developed countries by promoting growth in the private sector of their economies and helping to mobilize domestic and foreign capital for this purpose. Membership in the Bank is a prerequisite for membership in the IFC, which totals 113 countries. Legally and financially, the IFC and the Bank are separate entities. The Corporation has its own operating and legal staff, but draws upon the Bank for administrative and other services.
While the World Bank has traditionally financed all kinds of capital infrastructure, such as roads and railways, telecommunications, and ports and power facilities, its present developmental strategy places a greatly increased emphasis on investments that can directly affect the well-being of the masses of poor people of developing countries by making them more productive and by integrating them as active partners in the development process. This strategy is increasingly evident in the agriculture and rural development projects that the Bank and IDA help finance. It is also evident in projects for education and family planning and nutrition, and in the Bank's concern for the urban poor, who benefit from projects designed to develop water and sewerage facilities, as well as "core" low-cost housing, and to increase the productivity of small industries.
At the same time, lending for traditional projects continues, but it is being redirected towards becoming more responsive to the new strategy of deliberately focusing on the poorest segments of society in the developing countries.
Chapter One
The World Bank: Fiscal 1980, in Brief
In fiscal 1980,1 the World Bank, together with its affiliates, the International Development Association (IDA) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), made lending and investment commitments of $12,162.3 million. In fiscal 1979, the comparable figure amounted to $10,435.9 million. Bank and IDA commitments in fiscal 1980 amounted to $11,481.7 million; the comparable amount in fiscal 1979 was $10,010.5 million.2
The World Bank committed $7,644.2 million in support of 144 projects in 48 developing countries. In the previous year, commitments of $6,989.0 million were made to help finance 142 projects in 44 countries.
IDA commitments in fiscal 1980 totaled $3,837.5 million. One hundred three projects were assisted in 40 countries with IDA financing. IDA credits in fiscal 1979 amounted to $3,021.5 million; 105 projects in 43 developing countries were aided in that year.
World Bank loans and IDA credits accounted for about 30% of the total costs of the projects supported during the year.
Investments by the IFC amounted to $680.6 million in fiscal 1980. Fifty-five investments were approved in 30 countries.
Other highlights included:
—The agreement by the Bank's Board of Governors to the recommendations, made in late fiscal 1979, by the Executive Directors of the Bank that the institution's authorized capital stock be increased by an aggregate amount equivalent to $44,000 million;
—The agreement on a Sixth Replenishment of IDA resources for the period, fiscal 198183, in the equivalent of $12,000 million;
—Disbursements by the Bank and IDA of $5,774 million ($4,363 million by the Bank and $1,411 million by IDA). Bank disbursements were $761 million (21%) above those in fiscal 1979. IDA disbursements were $189 million (15%) higher than in the previous year;
—A net transfer of resources (disbursements minus repayments of principal, interest, and other charges) by the Bank and IDA of $2,632 million, up $475 million (22%) from fiscal 1979;
—Co-financing of Bank-assisted and IDA-assisted projects amounting to $6,521 million, up $3,273 million (101%) over comparable fiscal 1979 amounts:
—An increase in the Bank's net income from $407 million in fiscal 1979 to $588 million during the past year; and
—Bank borrowings of $5,173 million, mostly in the capital markets of Europe and Japan.
Thirty-four percent of the Bank's lending was to countries with annual per capita gross national products (GNP) of $625 or less (in terms of 1978 dollars). Virtually all IDA commitments were for projects in this group of countries. Most IDA commitments—87% — were to the poorest of developing countries— those with annual per capita gross national products of $360 or less. The fiscal 1980 figures for distribution of lending by country income differ little from those of recent years.
Sectoral composition of lending. As far as
the sectoral composition of Bank and IDA lending is concerned, there were, as might be expected, variations from previous years. Single-year figures on the distribution of Bank and IDA commitments most often reflect only a one-year step in the Bank's lending to its borrowing member countries rather than a change in its lending program.
On occasion, however, the variations are significant. Within the energy sector, lending for oil, gas, and coal, for instance, rose almost fourfold during the year, in terms of both commitments and percentage, over fiscal 1979. Such lending comprised 4% of total Bank and IDA commitments in fiscal 1980, a percentage that is expected to increase in the future. Increases in lending for oil and gas are the result
1 The fiscal year of the World Bank, as well as of its two affiliates, runs from July 1 to June 30.
- Since the real value of loan commitments by the Bank and IDA is eroded to the extent that cost inflation occurs over the period of disbursements, it is the practice of the Bank to make allowances for inflation at the time of commitment. The deflator now used to express lending in real terms is a weighted average of the price levels assumed to be prevailing over the period of the execution of a project. If fiscal 1980 Bank and IDA commitments were to be expressed in terms of 1979 dollars, they would be $10,667 million, or 6.7% higher in real terms.
Note on Dollar Amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of the Annual Report refer to current United States dollars. Where special drawing right (SDR) amounts are used for the capital of the Bank, one SDR equals 1.32438 current United States dollars at June 30, 1980 (one SDR equaled 1.29110 current United States dollars at June 30, 1979).
For a detailed discussion and the basis for SDR amounts used for IDA subscriptions and contributions, see Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix F.
of the decision in fiscal 1977 to consider financing petroleum development, and which was followed up early in 1979 by approval of a program to accelerate petroleum production in the developing countries. This new program included provision for financing exploration, as well as production.
To date, the program has helped finance 18 petroleum projects in 16 developing countries. Of these projects, nine are mainly for pre-development activities—five for exploration promotion, including technical assistance and geophysical surveys; two for the evaluation of discovered reserves; and two (Morocco and Tanzania) in the new field of exploratory drilling. The other nine are mainly for production; they include two engineering credits, four projects for the transport and distribution of natural gas, and three production projects, two of which include components for rehabilitation of producing oil fields.
The approved program also recognized the need of many developing countries in drawing up and implementing national energy planning activities. To this end, the Bank has launched a series of energy sector reviews and has begun to develop a program of technical assistance for energy planning. The purpose of the energy sector reviews, 14 of which were substantially completed in fiscal 1980, is to identify policy issues and priorities for action. They help provide member governments with impartial advice and, in addition, assist in identifying energy sector projects for finance by the Bank or other sources. The technical assistance aspect has, so far, been achieved through adding to projects in the energy sub-
sectors provision for finance of energy pricing, energy use studies, etc., as well as organizational assistance and training.
As noted earlier, significant variations from one year to the next in lending patterns may reflect only a one-year step in the Bank's lending program. Again, within the energy sector, the increase, from 14% of the total to 21%, in lending for power was, to a large extent, occasioned by the arrival, during the same year, at the end of the project cycle of three particularly costly projects: in Argentina (a $210 million loan for a $3,781 million project), India (a $300 million credit for a $914 million project), and Indonesia (a $253 million loan for a $694 million project).
As in past years, however, lending in support of agriculture and rural development projects absorbed the greatest share of Bank and IDA commitments (30% of the total). Of the 85 projects in the sector, 47, or 55%, were for rural development, and were, therefore, projects in which the anticipated benefits accrue primarily to the rural poor. On the basis of staff estimates, projects approved during fiscal 1980 in agriculture may directly benefit some 4.8 million farm families and could, at full development, result in the incremental production of 3.4 million metric tons of cereals.
Fiscal 1980 also saw the beginning of a new form of program assistance—lending for structural adjustment—that seeks to aid developing countries in adjusting to the permanent or long-term changes in the world's economic environment. Three structural adjustment loans were approved in fiscal 1980 for a total of $305 million. Structural adjustment lending is expected to reach from between $600 million and $800 million in fiscal 1981. For a complete record of the recent composition of Bank and IDA lending by sector, see the table on page 66.
Bank staff. During fiscal 1980, the Bank's staffing activities continued to emphasize the need to recruit highly qualified staff from as wide a spread of nationalities and as equitably between sexes as possible. During the year, 647 new staff members reported for duty, including 301 at specialist level positions, of which 112, or 37%, came from developing countries. By June 30, 1980, 98 nationalities were represented in the specialist staff, of which nearly 33% represented staff from developing countries. At the end of fiscal 1979, there were 97 nationalities, including 32.5% from developing countries. Representation of staff from developing countries among the senior ranks of the Bank, that is, those at the managerial level and above, amounted to 27.5% of the
total, as opposed to 22% at the end of fiscal 1975.
The special efforts made in the last few years to give greater strength to the representation of women in nonsecretarial positions has had only a slight impact on the aggregate of their representation. Women now represent 12% of specialist staff as against 11.4% at the end of fiscal 1979. Women accounted for just under 19% of recruitment during the year. The slow net rate of recruitment of women is partly attributable to a higher rate of turnover for women compared with men (11.3% as against 8.6% in fiscal 1980), often for family reasons, and to the limited market from which to recruit specialist female staff with technical skills.
In fiscal 1980, the Bank was able to place more readily than in the past women in its operating departments as loan officers, country economists, and, notably, financial analysts, rather than finding them assignments in the support departments. A main reason was the success of the Young Professionals Program in drawing to the Bank women professionals who ultimately work in the operating departments. Some 42% of specialist women staff are now assigned to operating departments.
The Young Professionals Program is the channel through which the Bank recruits highly qualified, professionally flexible staff aged 30 years and under. Most are economists and financial analysts, but there are also a small number of staff with other skills. In fiscal 1980, 49 men and women were recruited and reported for duty. Of these, 37% were women and 47 % were from developing countries. This is the highest representation of these two groups ever achieved through the program.
Also during the year, the Boards of Governors of the Bank, IDA, and IFC adopted a statute establishing a World Bank Administrative Tribunal to adjudicate staff grievances. This action extends to World Bank staff members the judicial protection already afforded to the staff of other international organizations (such as the United Nations and most of the specialized agencies) through an independent administrative tribunal, established by the organizations, to which they have agreed to submit staff grievances for adjudication.
Bank membership. St. Lucia joined the Bank in June 1980, bringing the total membership of the Bank to 135; IDA membership remained at 121.
At the end of the fiscal year, action was pending on membership in the Bank for Djibouti, Dominica, St. Vincent and the Grena-
dines, Seychelles, and Zimbabwe and in IDA for Djibouti, Dominica, Solomon Islands, United Arab Emirates, and Zimbabwe.
IDA. After a series of meetings involving representatives of governments of prospective contributors to a Sixth Replenishment of IDA funds, which resulted in general agreement, a report to the Governors on the Association's funding for the three-year period, fiscal 198183, was approved by the Executive Directors in January 1980.
The agreement, which provides the basis on which IDA donors will work to obtain legislative approval of the additional resources, calls for funding in an amount totaling the equivalent of $12,000 million.3 It provides that the 26 governments that contributed to the funding of IDA's Fifth Replenishment will be joined by seven first-time donors in the funding of the Sixth Replenishment: Argentina, Brazil, Greece, Mexico, Portugal, Romania, and Venezuela.
The $12,000 million figure provides for a significant increase, in real terms, over the $8,700 million total available for the Fifth Replenishment period, but, as a percentage of the contributors' gross domestic product for the two periods, fiscal 1978-80 and fiscal 198183 (estimated), donations to both the Fifth and Sixth Replenishments would be the same —0.046%.
The agreement calling for a real increase in IDA resources was based on the belief of the 33 governments involved that sustained progress in reducing poverty in the poorest countries would be impossible without an acceleration in their growth rates—and that external assistance on appropriate terms could play a critical supporting role in efforts by the poorest countries to mobilize domestic resources to achieve faster growth.
The replenishment will become effective when "Instruments of Commitment" and "Qualified Instruments of Commitment" are deposited for about 80% of the total replenishment. The former is a formal notification to IDA that the donor country will pay the full amount of its contribution. The latter is a formal notification that the donor will pay part
3 In June 1980, the Executive Directors of the IDA authorized IDA commitments, as well as the repayment obligations of IDA borrowers, to be expressed in special drawing rights (SDRs), beginning with the Sixth Replenishment. The action was taken so as to reduce the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on IDA's commitment authority, to allow for more accurate planning of the timing of proposed credits, and to reduce the possibility of a shortfall in the resources needed to meet disbursements of commitments.
of its contribution without qualification, but that payment of the remainder is subject to obtaining necessary legislative appropriations.
The resolution enabling IDA to accept the resources under the replenishment was approved by the Governors on March 26, 1980. However, the agreement is not yet effective because the necessary instruments for about 80%
of the total Sixth Replenishment amount had not been deposited by the end of fiscal 1980.
ICSID. During fiscal 1980, the number of Contracting States increased by four to 79. By June 30, 1980, an additional five States had signed the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Na-
tionals of Other States, but had not yet ratified it.
The Centre's own Annual Report provides details of its membership and activities.
IFC. IFC is the World Bank affiliate established to further economic development by encouraging the growth of productive private enterprises. In addition to providing and helping raise loan and equity capital, the Corporation works to raise investor confidence and promote investment opportunities in the developing world. To this end, it uses its own resources to assist investors structure and assemble the necessary financing, technology, and management needed to establish productive enterprises.
The Corporation is in the midst of a major expansion and reorientation of its activities. Supported by a capital increase, it is not only expanding the amount and number of investments and adding to the number of countries in which it is active, but it is also redirecting its operations into new sectors—especially into the development of renewable and nonrenewable resources—and into its least developed member countries.
Total dollar volume of equity and loan investments increased to $681 million over the previous year's $425 million and the number of projects increased to 55 from 48. The total cost of these projects is estimated to be $2,337 million.
As a result of promotional work initiated over two years ago, the number of projects undertaken in the least developed and smaller member countries continued to increase, with about half of fiscal 1980's projects being in countries with less than $626 per capita GNP.
About half of IFC's investments went to support enterprises in the manufacturing sector, a considerably smaller proportion than in previous years. Of the balance, 25% were for mining and energy projects, 9% for financial institutions, 4% for agrobusiness, and 4% for service industries.
In its traditional role as a catalytic agent for assisting investors to raise needed financing, the Corporation continued to expand its syndication operations. Of the $681 million financing approved, the Corporation was able to syndicate $267 million to other financial institutions, mainly commercial banks in the developed countries, but also, for the first time, several institutional investors.
Member countries continued to take up their subscriptions in the capital increase approved by the Corporation's Board of Governors in late 1977. By the end of the fiscal year, $338 million of the $480 million offered had been subscribed and $192 million paid in.
During the year, Barbados, Burundi, Fiji, and Niger took up membership, raising IFC's membership to 113.
Chapter Two
1971-1980—A Global Perspective
The decade of the 1970s1 was marked by a series of economic shocks: a notable slowdown in the growth of the developed countries, coupled with high rates of inflation; a dramatic rise in the price of crude oil, with its wide-ranging effects, which included a deterioration in the terms of trade of the oil-importing developing countries, hard hit also by increases in the costs of imported capital goods and food; a massive build-up of liquidity in the international capital markets; and unusually large fluctuations in commodity prices.
In the face of these events, however, the world community demonstrated its ability to adjust to major and sudden change. That the poorer nations of the community were able to so adjust—notwithstanding, in addition to these shocks themselves, the protectionist pressures in the industrialized countries, a worsening food problem (especially in sub-Saharan Africa), mounting social pressures, and an increase in the number of absolute poor—stands as a testament to their efforts to face the occurrences characterizing the decade. The extraordinary adjustment to the huge payments imbalances of the mid-seventies came largely through the private banks' "recycling" of financial resources, through rapidly rising imports of goods and services by, and workers' remittances from, capital-surplus countries, and through fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate policy actions.
The economic cost of adjustment in terms of, say, loss of development momentum and, in some cases, amassed indebtedness, was considerable. The difficulties faced by the least developed countries remained particularly severe throughout the decade. The formidable task of adjusting fully to the new economic environment remains the main challenge to the developing countries as the new decade begins.
Growth in the Decade
The gross national product (GNP) of the industrialized countries,2 grew at an average of 3.1 % a year in the 1970s, as compared with 5.0% a year in the 1960s. The slower growth
was spread fairly evenly among the major countries and was particularly marked in the manufacturing sector.3 This slowdown was caused by a complex set of forces, including lagging investment and declining growth in productivity in some countries, an inflationary spiral with strong cost-push pressures, and sharp increases in energy prices. Performance was uneven, however, over the years. Growth was unusually strong between 1970 and 1973, averaging 5.1% annually. In 1974 and 1975, industrial production fell sharply in almost every industrialized country. This two-year slump was followed by moderate growth (4.2% a year) in the period, 1976-78. The close of the decade saw the beginning of yet another round of deterioration in the collective economic activity of the industrialized nations. Japan, Germany, and Italy experienced reasonably strong growth in 1979; in contrast, growth in the United Kingdom and the United States was relatively weak. Preliminary figures indicate that the GNP growth of developed countries as a group slowed in 1979 to 3.3%, down from the 3.9% achieved in 1978.
The slowdown in economic activity of the developing countries during the 1970s was slight overall; aggregate growth averaged 5.3% a year in the 1970s, as compared with 5.6% annually in the 1960s. The aggregate growth in GNP in 1979 is estimated to have been 4.3%. As might be expected, growth during the 1970s in the oil-exporting developing countries4 was higher than in the previous 10-year period (6.1% as opposed to 5.5%). Although lower than in the 1960s (5.6%), the
1 For the purposes of this Annual Report, the decade of the 1970s is the period 1971-80, unless otherwise stated.
2 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
3 Energy-intensive agriculture, which is practiced in most developed countries, was also affected by increases in oil prices, as the costs of gasoline, fertilizers, insecticides, and herbicides all rose. Productivity, however, increased in equal measure.
4 Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bolivia, Brunei, Congo, Ecuador, Egypt, Gabon, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Oman, Syria, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Venezuela, and Zaire.
aggregate GNP growth of the oil-importing developing countries, at 5.1% in the 1970s, was still impressive in the face of the many difficulties encountered. If the countries of Southern Europe are excluded, their performance in the 1970s actually surpassed that of the 1960s. As indicated by GNP rates of growth, the oil-importing developing countries were largely able to overcome the handicaps posed by the rise in crude oil prices that occurred at the end of 1973. Their ability to do so may be explained by the vigorous adjustment policies they pursued in the wake of those initial increases.5 The implementation of their policies was facilitated by the countries' ability to obtain external financial resources (and thereby contract additional debt). Performance of individual developing countries, as in the 1960s, was very uneven.
The middle-income,6 oil-importing countries in the East Asia and Pacific Region, which includes several important industrialized, export-oriented countries, maintained their impressive performance of the 1960s, as did the middle-income countries in Latin America. Growth in low-income,7 oil-importing Asia was not as high in the 1970s (3.4%) as in the 1960s (4.1%), in spite of the improvement in India's agricultural performance. In the middle-income and low-income, oil-importing countries of sub-Saharan Africa, growth rates also fell. In fact, growth in low-income Africa in the 1970s, at 3.0%, barely kept pace with the rise in population.3 The increasing disparity among the various developing re-
gions was one of the more significant and frustrating occurrences of the decade.
Inflation 9 in the developed countries may perhaps be remembered by them as the bane of the 1970s. The gross domestic product (GDP) dollar deflator, which increased annually by 3.1% in the 1960s, rose at an estimated annual rate of 10.1% in the period, 1971-79. The average of the yearly increases in the GDP deflator for the 1960s and 1970s, expressed in national currencies and thus immune to distortions resulting from the fluctuations of the US dollar against other currencies, was 3.4% and 8.0%, respectively. Inflation was already running at high rates before the first sharp increase in crude oil prices that took place at the end of 1973. Most of the impact of
5 In most cases, during the adjustment process, countries accepted large current account deficits (caused by a sudden increase in the cost of imports relative to export earnings), financing them from borrowings or aid, and took steps to reduce their current account deficits to levels that could be financed over the medium term.
6 Above a $360 GNP per capita in 1978. 'GNP per capita of $360 or below in 1978.
8 The decade of the 1970s apparently marked the beginning, even in Africa, of a decline in the crude birth rate throughout the developing world. This decline in the crude birth rate was general and widespread; it occurred in 77 of the 88 developing countries for which estimates are available, and evidence suggests that the decline appears to be gathering momentum.
9 Inflation can be measured in terms of several indices, their appropriateness depending on the problem being analyzed. The analysis in this Annual Report employs a weighted index of industrialized country GDP deflators converted to US dollars, a weighted index of industrialized country GDP deflators expressed in national currencies, and an International Price Index, i.e., the index of c.i.f. US dollar prices of industrialized country manufactured exports to developing countries.
the oil price increases was felt in 1974 and 1975. After a brief respite, inflation again accelerated towards the close of the decade.
Inflation had diverse effects on the economies of the developed, as well as the developing, countries. For example, the tight fiscal and monetary policies pursued by the developed countries in response to inflation slowed growth and thus hampered increases in the volume of exports by the developing countries. The effect of inflation on countries with large debts and high, fixed-interest debt-service payments was favorable, however, as the real burden of repaying their debts was reduced. The effect of inflation on the terms of trade depended on the composition of the particular country's exports; generally speaking, the terms of trade of the exporters of petroleum and manufactured goods were not adversely affected, and may have even improved.
World Trade Growth Rate Declines
There was a slowdown during the 1970s in the growth rate in the volume 10 of world trade (6%) relative to that of the 1960s (8%). As in the 1960s, the volume of exports from the developed countries expanded at a faster rate (6.7%) than that from the developing countries (5.4%). The slowdown in the rate of growth of exports from developing countries was due largely to the performance of fuels.11 The developing countries' export performance in manufactures in the 1970s exceeded that of the 1960s in spite of significantly lower growth in the industrialized countries and emerging protectionist pressures there.  Again, there
were major differences among the various groups of countries. For example, the growth in the volume of exports from the middle-income, oil-importing countries, a group that includes the newly industrialized developing countries,12 maintained its rapid momentum of the 1960s. During the decade, there was a slow but steady change in the trading pattern of the developing countries as they expanded trade among themselves at a faster rate (8%) than they expanded their total trade (5% ).
The unit value of world merchandise exports rose by 12% yearly during 1970-78, reflecting, in part, global inflationary trends. But price movements within the various categories were highly divergent. Not surprisingly, the most remarkable changes occurred in the prices of energy and, later in the decade, in the prices of precious metals. Crude oil prices, which had steadily declined in real terms in the 1950s and 1960s, rose nearly fivefold in real terms " during the 1970s. These increases came largely in two sharp spurts, one towards the end of 1973 and another towards the end of 1979.
The price behavior of nonoil primary commodities was both erratic and generally weak during the decade. There was a sharp increase during the 1970s in the volatility of the prices
10 Implicit growth in volume is computed as merchandise trade at constant 1977 US dollar prices for 1970-77.
11 The volume of petroleum exports expanded at an unsustainable rate, tripling between 1960 and 1973. Since 1976, however, the export volume has remained virtually unchanged.
32 For example, the Republic of Korea and Singapore. "Deflated by the IPI.
of those primary commodities that are exported primarily by the developing countries. 14 Thus, the average year-to-year fluctuation in the prices of 33 nonoil commodities covered in the World Bank Index of Primary Commodity Prices, which was 4.7% in the period, 1951-60, and 4.8% in the period, 196170, increased to 12.4% during the period, 1971-80. Fluctuations were sharper in the 1970s for all groups of commodities, although much more so for food products (15.8%) than for agricultural raw materials (10.9%).
In 1971 and 1972, the price index of 33 nonoil primary commodities was at its lowest level in real terms 15 since the early 1950s. Prices did rise sharply in 1973 and 1974, led by gains in wheat, sugar, oilseeds and oils, cotton, copper, tin, and zinc, but they slumped in 1975 as a consequence of the deep economic recession in the industrialized countries. Recovery in 1976 and 1977 largely reflected the sharp increase of over 200% in real terms in coffee prices after the 1975 frost in Brazil. Commodity prices were once again at record lows in real terms in 1978 and 1979.
The divergent trends in the price and volume of merchandise exports 16 have significantly changed the structure of world trade. Fuels, which represented 11 % of the value of world exports in 1960, accounted for 22% of exports in 1979, thereby surpassing nonfuel primary commodities in importance, the latter falling from 37% to 20% during the same period. Moreover, the developing countries' share of exports of nonfuel primary commodities declined. In 1960, the developing countries accounted for 40% and the industrialized countries for 50% of such trade; by 1979, however, their shares were 31 % and 61%, respectively. Countries with centrally planned economies and the capital-surplus, oil-exporting countries accounted for the remainder. Factors contributing to the developing countries' relative slippage in primary products included the rise in mineral exports from Australia and
the decline in food exports from the developing countries.
Imports of wheat and coarse grain by the developing countries nearly doubled during the 1970s, in spite of the improvement in food production in India, a major importer in the past. The food-deficit developing countries have become increasingly dependent on imports from a few developed countries, and a few Southeast Asian countries, which had traditionally been rice exporters, experienced large cereals deficits during the decade and became major food importers.
Current Account Deficit Adjustments
The terms of trade loss from the sharp price increases for crude oil and other energy products and from the rise in the prices of manufactured products imported from the industrialized countries, together with a marked slowdown in their own export growth, pushed the oil-importing developing countries into
14 Coffee, cocoa, tea, vegetable oilseeds/oils, rubber, copper,
and tin, to name but a few. " Deflated by the IPI.
"Merchandise exports are defined as exports of food and nonfood agricultural commodities, metals and minerals, fuels, and manufactured commodities.
massive current account deficits.17 Their collective deficit rose from $8,300 million in 1970 to $39,600 million in 1975, when it represented a peak of 5.1 % of their GNP. Because such large deficits could not be sustained in the long-term, developing nations were forced to adopt adjustment measures. The oil-importing developing nations that coped best during this period of adjustment were:
—Those that reacted to the decline in their import capacity by a temporary slowdown in growth, accompanied by a drive to expand exports. Import capacity (and hence output growth) was restored quickly. Most of these countries had grown rapidly and diversified their exports during the previous decade; Singapore is a good example.
—Those that, while maintaining import growth by foreign borrowing, used the borrowed funds mainly to sustain high levels of investment; they included Brazil and Korea.
—Those that benefited from good harvests resulting from improved agricultural policies and favorable weather (as in India), or rising remittances from migrant workers (as in the Yemen Arab Republic).
In addition, a number of countries benefited from the rapid rise in imports by the oil exporters and from an improvement in the prices of certain of their exports. By 1978, the aggregate deficit of oil-importing developing countries had fallen to $27,100 million, or 2.3% of their GNP; however, it rose once again to an estimated $43,100 million in 1979.
Despite the adjustment measures taken, however, many developing countries suffered a loss of development momentum and, in a substantial number of them, developmental investments had to be curtailed. (The impact of adjustment, as noted earlier, was also felt,
but in different ways, in the industrialized countries.)
Increase in Borrowing
The changes in the international economic environment during the 1970s increased the need of the developing countries for external finance. At the same time, the sudden and dramatic rise in the earnings of oil exporters brought about a tremendous growth in international liquidity. Although they imported great quantities of goods and services, a number of major oil exporters were unable to spend all of their petroleum earnings immediately. Thus, they deposited large portions of their surpluses in banks abroad. Substantial amounts of these funds eventually found their way into the already rapidly growing Eurocurrency market1S in which the developing countries—particularly the middle-income countries—were able to borrow. Such borrowing had the advantage of not being tied to specific goods and of being quickly disbursable. The proceeds were used to cover the increased cost of imports, supplement domestic resources for investment, build up international reserves, prepay existing credits and borrow on better terms, and consolidate short-term debt. The major part of the large reserve build-up and most prepayments took place during the last few years of the decade.
During the decade of the 1970s, significant shifts occurred in the sources of financing, in parallel with the rapid expansion of the international capital markets. While borrowing from both official and private sources continued to grow, borrowing from the latter source grew much more rapidly. During this period, private banks greatly expanded their commitments to the developing countries; they extended loans to a much larger group of countries while, at the same time, concentrating on a few proven borrowers. There was a relative shift away from both private direct foreign investment (not included in the debt figures) and private suppliers' credits toward borrowing from private financial markets (banks and bonds).
Most middle-income countries (and one low-income country, Indonesia) resorted to borrowing from private sources. But most low-income countries had to rely on Official Development Assistance (ODA)—concessional loans and grants. Net disbursements of ODA
The current account balance as it is used here is the balance on goods, services, and private transfers. '"Eurocurrency" refers to deposits in banks in currencies that are not native to the country in which the bank is located.
from the member countries of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) to the developing countries rose in real terms by almost 3% a year in the 1970s. It remained almost constant, however, as a proportion of the aggregate GNP of the DAC members,19 at 0.35% in 1971, 0.33% in 1976, 0.35% in 1978, and an estimated 0.34% in 1979—or some $22,300 million.20 Performance relative to GNP had been somewhat better in the 1960s. During the 1970s, four DAC members met the target of providing net ODA equivalent to 0.7% of their GNP: Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden. Net ODA from members of the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC),21 which had grown rapidly in the early 1970s (net disbursements rose from $1,700 million in 1973 to $5,900 million in 1974 and to $8,200 million in 1975, or 4.0% of their GNP), dropped back to an estimated $4,300 million by 1978 and an estimated $4,600 million in 1979, or about 1.2% of their GNP, still quite high relative to the DAC members. Total net development assistance from the OPEC countries of the Middle East and North Africa (excluding Algeria and Iran) averaged 5.7% of their GNP during the period, 1974-78. The USSR and six East European countries accounted for an estimated $700 million in 1979, or 0.04% of their collective GNP.
Concentration and Growth of Debt
Not surprisingly, the outstanding medium-term and long-term disbursed debt from public and private sources (in foreign currency) of the developing countries22 rose fivefold (in nominal terms) between the beginning of 1971 and the end of 1978, reaching $318,400 million. Debt at the end of 1979 was an estimated $376,000 million. Debt service, too, rose rapidly—going from $9,400 million in 1971 to $52,300 million in 1978 and to an estimated $69,000 million in 1979. However, compared with the growth in their nominal GNP and exports, the growth of developing country indebtedness—taking the countries as a single group—appears to have been more moderate.
Both debt and debt service are concentrated in a few developing countries, primarily the larger and more dynamic among them—those with relatively strong export sectors or those that have large international reserves. Several oil-exporting countries are among the largest debtors. Of the $318,400 million in disbursed debt outstanding at the end of 1978, 55% was owed by only 10 countries, all but two of
which—Indonesia and India—are middle-income countries. In fact, the middle-income countries as a group accounted for 83% of the total debt of developing countries at the end of 1978. The portion of debt from private sources was even more highly concentrated; 90% was owed by middle-income countries. The middle-income countries stand in sharp contrast with the low-income countries, whose borrowing grew much more slowly because of their limited creditworthiness and the limited availability of official lending. As the decade ends, it appears that some of the large borrowers have begun to slow down the growth of their borrowings and, at the same time, have begun to accumulate reserves at a slower rate. (For more details, see Annex Tables 2-7, pages 132-141 of this Annual Report).
The increasing importance of private sources of financing has been accompanied by much harder overall average terms. Maturities for the various types of credit did not change much during the decade, although during its closing years, there was some lengthening of private bank maturities. The ever-increasing weight of private flows in the total, however, did shorten the overall average maturity. Nominal interest rates rose for most types of financing. Inflation during most of the decade reduced the effective debt-service burden for loans made at fixed interest rates. A large proportion of private loans was made at variable interest
19 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Commission of the European Communities.
20 Grants and grant-like flows, 40% of which was technical assistance, made up almost half of total net ODA for 1978 and 1979 from the DAC countries.
21 Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela.
22 For debt coverage, refer to the General Notes to Annex Tables. The text coverage of debtors is the same as the Annex coverage, except that it includes South Africa. In addition, unlike the Annex Tables, the text covers both public (public and publicly guaranteed) debt and private, nonguaranteed debt, but it excludes undisbursed debt.
rates, however, so that changes in interest rates affected debt service on past loans, as well. In general, the ratios of total debt service to exports, as well as the ratios of debt to GNP, tended to increase during the decade. However, the number of multilateral reschedulings organized each year under the auspices of the Paris Club23 showed no real tendency to increase.
The low-income countries, with their limited financial and skilled human resources, are particularly vulnerable to debt difficulties. After the conclusion of the 1979 meeting of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), 13 DAC countries promised, and in most cases have already begun, to provide "retroactive terms adjustment" to the poorest countries. The amounts of such adjustment announced thus far total about $5,000 million. Of this, about $3,500 million is to go toward directly reducing the total
debt. Some $1,100 million has already been "forgiven." Other measures included in this "retroactive terms adjustment" are the elimination of interest payments, the rescheduling of debt service, local-cost assistance, untied compensatory commodity aid, and new grants to reimburse old debts. Some of this relief is reflected in the increased figures for grants.
An International Dialogue
The events of the decade gave an impetus to the developing countries to call for changes in the structure of the international economic
:The Paris Club is the name given to an informal organization which, since 1956, has arranged, when necessary, for the renegotiation of creditor-guaranteed suppliers' credits. Since then, it has handled the majority of multilateral debt renegotiations. (More than a dozen debtor countries have been involved over the years.) Typically, the arrangements worked out are short term and non-concessional in nature.
environment. While similar suggestions were brought forward during the 1960s (at the meetings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in 1964 and 1968), deteriorating economic conditions and the success of OPEC deepened the resolve of the developing countries to seek change during the 1970s. As a result, the UN General Assembly, in 1974, adopted the "Declaration for the Establishment of a New International Economic Order" (NIEO), and the resulting general and specific negotiating sessions arising from this declaration became parts of what was (and is) known as the North/South dialogue.
The "new order" called for was complex in its composition; among the basic elements are included questions of commodity agreements, trade, flows of concessionary assistance, generalized debt relief, reform of the international monetary system, more rapid industrialization of the developing world, transfers of technology, provision of assured and affordable supplies of foodgrains, and the establishment of a new Law of the Sea providing for development resources on the basis of a tax on undersea mineral exploration.
From the beginning, it was clear that agreement on issues dividing the developed and developing countries would not come easily. Nevertheless, some progress has been made in certain areas, and, in other areas, differences have been narrowed and some willingness to compromise has emerged.
Specifically, agreement has been reached on establishing a form of generalized debt relief for some of the poorest countries (the "retroactive terms adjustment" referred to earlier), on the content of nonbinding codes of conduct for the transfer of technology and the regulation of transnational corporations, and on a common fund to stabilize commodity prices.24 The idea of a common fund to stabilize the prices of commodity exports of developing countries had long been the object of serious controversy in respect both to its very concept and to the scale of funds called for by such a scheme. In 1979, however, three years after the general proposal for such a fund was first adopted (in UNCTAD IV), and after protracted negotiations, the basic elements of a fund, requiring about $750 million (as compared with $6,000 million sought initially) were agreed upon on June 27, 1980. Under the fund's Articles of Agreement, the $750 million undertaking will be separated into two accounts. The first account, containing $400 million, will be used to finance price stabilization through separate international commodity
agreements. The second account, of $350 million, will be used to finance research and development in commodity-producing countries and to help them expand exports. The agreement is now to go to governments for ratification.25
Important progress was also made in the conclusion of the Tokyo Round of multilateral trade negotiations, whereby tariff barriers against developing country exports to developed countries were reduced. But, as noted in last year's Annual Report, "the most encouraging results of the Tokyo Round are to be found in the area of nontariff barriers to trade. This achievement was accomplished by a strengthening of GATT codes, including changes with respect to codes covering customs valuation, government procurement practices, export subsidies, countervailing duties, and product standards."
In other areas, progress has been at best limited in fields such as industrialization, international monetary reform, and the new Law of the Sea and the developing countries have voiced their frustration and disappointment over the lack of concrete results. The lack of progress in Paris (December 1975-June 1977) at the Conference on International Economic Cooperation seemed to set the mood at subsequent meetings, such as those held in Manila in 1979 (UNCTAD V) and in New Delhi in 1980 on industrialization.
In recognition of the slow progress on these issues, Robert S. McNamara, President of the World Bank, in January 1977, urged the analysis of the global economic issues by an unofficial commission that would also recommend actions to be taken by both the North and the South. Subsequently, an Independent Commission on International Development Issues was set up under the Chairmanship of Willy Brandt. The Commission was composed of 18 members from five continents. Although they represented quite different points on the political spectrum, they were able to agree unanimously on their findings, subsequently released in March 1980 in a report entitled, North-South—A Program for Survival.
This report stressed the growing mutuality of interest that exists between North and South in removing the causes of mass poverty, in trade and commodity agreements, in oil and
24 Parallel to this, in 1975, the European Economic Community introduced an export earnings stabilization scheme (STABEX) in the Lome Convention, linking the Community to 58 African, Caribbean, and Pacific nations.
25The $750 million fund will be composed of $370 million in government contributions, $100 million in callable capital, and $280 million in voluntary contributions for the second account.
mineral exploration, and in facilitating the recycling of surplus funds. As an immediate program, the report called for: (a) the large-scale transfer of resources on both concessional and market terms to the developing countries; (b) an international energy strategy; (c) a global food program; and (d) a start on some major reforms in the international economic system. The report also called for a limited summit of world leaders from the various groups that comprise the North and the South to adopt an immediate program and to set the framework for longer-term measures. Plans for that summit meeting are already under discussion.
The Brandt Commission report is also of relevance to the work of the UN Preparatory Committee that is mapping out a new international development strategy for the 1980s. The strategy will be submitted to the Special Session of the UN General Assembly, scheduled for August 1980. That session will launch global negotiations to arrive at a consensus on several of the major international objectives identified by the strategy. Negotiations are expected to focus on food, energy, balance of payments, trade, finance, and raw materials.
The 1970s and the World Bank
Although the decade, and particularly its closing months, may have witnessed a deterioration in the international environment, the 1970s will also be remembered as a period in which a better perception of human, as well as economic, problems was developed. This is evidenced by the increasing concern of the world community with the condition of the poorest groups in the developing countries and the consequential adoption of development strategies that include programs to benefit them directly.
Thus, during the 1970s, the World Bank adjusted its lending operations and its role in providing technical assistance to meet the evolving needs of its developing member countries. Bank funds and technical assistance, in general, were increasingly channeled to the poorer segments of society in the borrowing countries through changes in sectoral priorities. At the end of the 1960s, nearly 60% of Bank lending went to the development of infrastructure; by the end of the 1970s, such lending had fallen to one-third of the total, with nearly half of Bank lending directed to sectors such as agriculture and rural development, education, population and nutrition, urbanization, and small-scale industries. Even infrastruc-tural lending has changed, with, for example,
emphasis on highway maintenance and construction of rural roads and with the beginning of lending for oil and gas exploration and production.
The share of Bank and IDA lending for agriculture and rural development, which had nearly tripled in the 1960s, continued to expand rapidly in the 1970s. Helping to solve the food problem and "reaching out" to the small farmers and the rural poor were the main objectives of lending in this sector. At the same time, recognizing the importance of meeting the basic needs of the urban poor, the Bank began lending for urban development and for the provision of water supply and sewerage facilities to low-income urban areas. Furthermore, in view of the world's evolving energy needs, the Bank decided, after careful deliberation, to assist the development of petroleum production, including, in some cases, the provision of finance in support of exploration activities.
Simultaneously, activities in support of institution building were strengthened. Notable success was achieved in building up a framework for rural credit and extension services. The Bank continued to help meet the foreign exchange needs of already established national development finance companies and helped to create or strengthen new institutions devoted to financing the requirements of artisanal, small, and medium-sized businesses. Technical assistance was expanded and the number of Economic Development Institute (EDI) programs increased to create a larger reservoir of expertise for project preparation in the developing countries themselves.
During the decade of the 1970s, the Bank increased the flexibility of its lending operations. In recognition of the growing quality and competitive strength of suppliers and contractors in the borrowing countries, local-cost financing has now risen to 20% of total lending. Program lending, which in the 1960s had been a small part of Bank operations, expanded in fiscal years 1975 and 1976 in the wake of the worldwide recession, and, in fiscal 1980, it was decided to support needed structural adjustment measures initiated by the developing countries (see page 67 for more on this form of lending).
Because the Bank, although by far the largest multilateral development finance institution, provides barely 1 % of total investment in the developing countries, its role can, at best, be viewed as that of a catalyst. As its share of total investment is not likely to grow, improving the perception of divergent economic issues facing different regions of the
world and developing various policy mixes that can lead to remedial action are perhaps the most valuable routes the Bank can follow in assisting the development process.
Although there have been both quantitative and qualitative changes in Bank policy and Bank programs, these have not yet gone far enough to affect significantly the well-being of the absolute poor. Some aspects of the development process—for example, the development of human resources and the meeting of the basic needs of the poor—have seen only limited success. The fulfillment of commit-
ments by governments to increase the lending ability of both the Bank and IDA has lagged behind the needs of the developing countries; IDA funds, in particular, were in short supply during the fourth and fifth replenishment periods. But the legacy of the 1970s—that rich and poor nations alike form a world community and that this community will be hard pressed to survive future decades filled with shocks and turbulences without consequent social upheaval—could form the basis for steps to be taken in the 1980s.
Chapter Three
1971-1980—Regional Perspectives
Eastern Africa
The decade was full of severe strains for the 19 member countries of the Eastern Africa Region. While progress was made on some fronts, it came only after formidable obstacles had been overcome. In the past several years, moreover, Eastern African countries have been affected by the major deterioration in the international environment that has exposed, more clearly than before, the fragility of their institutional framework and the need to strengthen further their economic policies and management. Several countries, however, after having taken stock of their situation, have initiated a process of policy reform and structural change in order to adapt better to the existing economic climate. To regain their development momentum, it will be necessary to sustain these processes during the 1980s through a combina-
tion of local initiative and adequate support from abroad.
Most countries in the Eastern Africa Region are at the bottom of the development pyramid. They are characterized by having a limited stock of skilled human capital or physical infrastructure, and most of their citizens are poor. Exports are dominated by one or two primary commodities, especially coffee, tea, and copper; because world prices for them fluctuate widely, substantial disturbances, exogenous in origin, occur in income, savings, and public revenues. Natural calamities take their toll, as well, and increase economic instability. As the ability of Eastern African economies to adjust to disturbances is weak, development efforts are interrupted frequently by financial difficulties. The pace of progress during the
1970s was seldom smooth, and it varied among countries.
Social Services
A high value was attached to the provision of social services after Eastern African countries gained national independence; since independence, impressive quantitative expansion has taken place, particularly in the field of education. In eight countries of the Region, the primary school enrollment has already exceeded 90%/ The expansion of secondary education has been equally dramatic, although the initial base was much more narrow than at the primary level. The secondary enrollment ratio exceeds 20% in four countries and 10% in six others. A start has also been made in higher education, but the enrollment ratio exceeds 2% only in Mauritius and Swaziland, compared with an average of 5% for all low-income countries and 10% for those in the middle-income range. The educational drive has yielded dividends in several forms. Literacy rates have risen sharply in Somalia, Tanzania, and Swaziland and at a somewhat slower pace in Kenya, Mauritius, Madagascar, and Burundi. Secondary school graduates have increased substantially in number and have
taken up clerical and other intermediate positions in government or in the modern, private sector. A few professionals have also emerged from the educational and training system, have replaced expatriates, and have risen quickly to senior-level positions.
The World Bank has supported education programs in most countries of the Region; 8% of total lending during the period, fiscal 197180, was in this sector. In addition, the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (with headquarters in Nairobi) has helped governments to identify and prepare for financing rural development projects, thereby supplementing local skills in this critical endeavor. The Bank has also organized an Agricultural Development Service through which expatriates are mobilized to serve in key positions at the project level. The Bank's Economic Development Institute trained 813 Eastern African officials in different development fields during the decade.
Notwithstanding the progress made, critical problems related to the formation of human
1 Comoros, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mauritius, Swaziland, Tanzania, and Zambia.
Numerous village water supply components have been included within Bank-assisted and IDA-assisted agriculture and rural development projects. This photo shows water being pumped in the Lilongwe development scheme in Malawi.
skills remain unresolved. Outlays for education have risen far more rapidly than total governmental expenditures and now absorb 20% or more of the total in at least eight countries. It is clear that larger programs in this sector will encounter formidable financial constraints in the future. Despite increased expenditures, middle-level and high-level skills are still in short supply; in addition, the drive to expand rapidly the coverage of the school system has led, in some countries, to a worrisome deterioration of student achievement test scores.
In 1960, life expectancy was less than 40 years in 10 countries of the Region. Major improvements in the health sector have taken place, and by the end of the decade, life expectancy had increased by six to 10 years in most countries. Public health measures have reduced the frequency and impact of epidemics, and infant mortality has been reduced by a third. There have also been some improvements in the provision of water; nevertheless,
much remains to be done, for safe water is today available to only 30% to 50% of the population in most countries and to less than 20% in four countries.
Falling death rates, combined with continued high fertility, have inexorably led to a substantial acceleration in the rate of population growth in the Region, and it is likely that the peak in the pace of demographic expansion has not yet been reached in most countries. Six countries now have population growth rates exceeding 3 % a year.
Physical Infrastructure
Substantial investment was made in expanding the physical infrastructure of the Region during the decade of the 1970s.
—Installed capacity for the generation of electric power nearly doubled, from 2,800 mW in 1969 to 5,200 mW in 1979; a large part of the expansion was in Zaire and Zambia for the purpose of increasing their capacity to process copper ore.
—The number of deepwater berths increased from 63 to 90, mainly in Somalia, Tanzania, and Kenya.
—The Region's railroad network expanded by 18%, and the road system by 12%. Trunk and paved roads, as a proportion of the total road network, rose substantially in most countries, and much of the investment in roads was aimed at improving standards rather than expanding mileage.
The World Bank was active in its assistance to these sectors; lending for transportation constituted 20% of total operations in Eastern Africa during the period, fiscal 1971-80, and another 12% in lending was directed to the power sector.
Although considerable progress was made during the 1970s, the Region's needs remain large. Institutional development, for instance, occurred in the fields of power and transportation, but the absorptive capacity of these sectors for further investments is still circumscribed by economy-wide shortages of skilled personnel. Furthermore, because full attention to the regular maintenance of physical infrastructure has not yet been paid in many instances, the danger exists that the full payoff from costly investments may not be realized. There is already evidence that protracted neglect of maintenance has led to a reduction in the road network in some countries. The Bank is continuing to urge governments to allocate financial and technical resources for the rehabilitation of existing networks before initiating new investments.
Agricultural Performance
During the late 1960s and early 1970s, the growth rate of agricultural production exceeded 3 % a year in five countries. Here again, however, the record was uneven, as, in five other countries, agricultural output grew by 1 % or less during the same period. Even more startling and worrisome is the fact that the pace of agricultural production slowed down almost everywhere during the middle and later part of the decade. This deceleration is reflected both in food and cash crop production. Over the entire decade, production per capita seems to have declined in 10 countries, resulting in the need to increase food imports substantially. Eastern Africa witnessed a slowing down in the rate of increase in food production at a time when the pace of population growth was quickening. Plans for raising food output during the 1980s must, therefore, take into account the nutritional needs of rapidly growing numbers of people.
The disappointing performance of agriculture is at the heart of the development problem in Eastern Africa. To make agriculture a dynamic sector requires several ingredients —proven technical packages that have been adapted to local conditions, a timely availability of key inputs, effective extension services, a reasonable relation between prices paid for agricultural inputs and received for crops by farmers, and a stock of consumer goods whose availability acts to spur increased productivity —the combination of which, in many places, it has not been possible to secure and sustain. In addition:
—Droughts, floods, and pests took their toll on production; their incidence was particularly marked in the period, 1973-75.
—The lack of project managers and technicians reduced the effectiveness of delivery systems that had to operate over long distances connected by weak transportation networks.
—Most governments in the Region tended to follow pricing policies that were aimed at keeping food prices low in urban centers; they have not always been fully convinced that attractive farmgate prices would elicit increased production, despite substantial evidence to that effect.
The Bank devoted 29% of its lending commitments within the Region during the decade to agriculture. During the early 1970s, Bank assistance was concentrated on increasing the production of export crops and livestock. In fiscal 1973, however, further investment for expanding production of cash crops such as coffee and tea, which face stagnant demand by consumers, was stopped. The emphasis of Bank support shifted to food production and assistance to small farmers. Rural development projects, such as Lilongwe, in Malawi, attempted to integrate a number of components, including infrastructure, research, extension, and social services, into a single operation. More recently, the project concept has favored the introduction in areas already endowed with minimum infrastructure of an existing technical package to many farmers at low cost. Rural development projects supported by the Bank during the decade are bringing some benefits to the rural poor, but their impact has been less than was expected and many have run into delays in implementation.
Four factors may explain the shortfall in productive results from these projects: the "technical package" incorporated into some projects had not been properly tested; the package, in certain instances, was not seen by local farmers as being more profitable than the one in current use; extension services often
were not sufficiently effective as to be able to "sell" the project to farmers; and, in other cases, socioeconomic constraints (relating, for instance, to the availability of labor, to the role of women, and to family structure) reduced anticipated benefits.
From these early projects, however, the Bank and its borrowers learned valuable lessons. Because both knowledge and data—on technical, economic, and social aspects, and on what would work under prevailing local conditions—were lacking in many of these projects, the Bank has learned that its pioneering efforts might often best be handled initially through pilot schemes (under another project, for instance) that can be closely monitored and, if successful, be followed by full-scale projects. In turn, governments have learned to appreciate better the need to minimize interference with project agencies and to establish effective links between discrete project targets and larger institutional goals.
Lessons have also been learned from the better understanding of the fact that the intended beneficiaries of these projects are members of traditional societies that must be, and are, cautious in initiating changes. The lesson, of course, is that projects must be designed to be even more sensitive to local conditions, and that an understanding of social structures and local behavior patterns must be developed before the project preparation stage. And that even then, projects must remain flexible so that signals received during implementation can be responded to, so that institutional arrangements can be altered and technical deficiencies remedied, and so that any unexpected social response can be adjusted to.
Industrial Development
At the time of independence, industry was an underdeveloped sector in the Region. Despite vigorous attempts on the part of governments to promote its development, progress made so far has been fairly limited. In both Tanzania and Zambia, the role of the state, through the establishment of parastatal institutions and in other ways, was expanded late in the 1960s—in the former, as a result of policy laid down in the Arusha Declaration (1967) and in the latter, following the Mulumqushi Reform of 1968. Similar changes took place during the early 1970s in Ethiopia, Madagascar, Somalia, and Sudan. Parastatals were plagued, in many cases, by conflicting instructions: to earn profits, but adhere to price controls that were frequently set at unrealistically low levels; to operate on a commercial basis,
but meet government targets regarding the creation of jobs. Trade policy and exchange rate regimes tended to bias incentives in favor of production for the home market and, given discouraging trends in farm income for much of the period, this market did not grow rapidly. Despite these limiting factors, lessons were learned and experience was gained. In the Sudan, for instance, the government decided in 1979 to define the role of the public sector more selectively than before; elsewhere, however, it will be necessary to rationalize the policy frame of parastatal entities and revamp institutional relationships so that public enterprises might achieve the objectives for which they were created.
During the 1970s, the Bank helped finance 20 industrial projects directly and extended 31 lines of credit to financial intermediaries in Eastern Africa that are active in the manufacturing sector. These intermediaries are relatively young; nine are less than 10 years old. Even so, a number have demonstrated a substantial capacity to identify potential investments and to select economically sound projects. Commitments have already been made to these intermediaries for a total amount of $217 million; of this sum, 24% is in food processing and other agro-based projects, 19% in textiles, and 11 % in metalworking. Recently, the Bank has encouraged these intermediaries to support the expansion of small enterprises, in addition to those of medium size. In seven cases, small-scale enterprise components have been earmarked in credit lines to these financial intermediaries.
Economic Instability
In line with trends that took place in the agriculture sector, the Eastern Africa Region's overall gross domestic product (GDP) expanded fairly rapidly during the late 1960s and early 1970s. Six countries (Botswana, Kenya, Malawi, Swaziland, Tanzania, and Zaire) recorded annual rates of growth of 5.5% or more. At the opposite end on the spectrum, aggregate production in three countries barely kept pace with population growth. The second half of the decade witnessed a widespread slowing down in economic growth throughout the Region, compared with the earlier period. This decline was partly a reflection of deteriorating trends in farm output and in the volume of exports. In at least seven countries, the volume of exports declined during the period, 1973-77.
Another factor contributing to the slowdown was the incidence of problems of a non-
economic nature that occurred during this same period. Perhaps the most dramatic illustration was that of Zambia, whose economy suffered from a series of disruptions in its routes to the sea. In 1970, 77% of its imports arrived via Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). After the border was closed in 1973, Zambia's most important route to the sea, accounting for 49% of its total imports, passed through Angola. In August 1975, however, the Angola route was severed, and by 1977, Zambia was forced to rely on the corridor through Tanzania for 85% of its imports. All landlocked economies in Eastern Africa suffered disruptions in transport services from related border problems during the decade. Yet another factor was the disruption of the East African Community. Created in 1967 to facilitate economic development in Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda, the Community arrangements collapsed in 1976, compelling erstwhile members to search for substitute markets and leading to the closure of the border between Tanzania and Kenya.
Also contributing to the slowdown in the growth of GDP was the sharp deterioration in the Region's terms of trade. Between 1966 and 1974, the regional terms of trade index (1977=100) remained rather stable around an average of 153. Between 1974 and 1975, however, it fell by 37% and has since remained at a new plateau, averaging 95 for the period. The immediate reaction of many countries to the large deterioration in their external position was to draw down reserves and borrow abroad. As a result, net foreign assets fell precipitously in 1975 and, in several countries, turned negative. Although most countries had little access to the Eurodollar market, those few that did, borrowed commercially, and in large quantities. The servicing of this debt has since strained the borrowers' balance of payments, and, in several cases, arrears in payments accumulated for the first time. Financial pressures were also reflected in growing budget deficits and rising rates of inflation; average annual price increases, for instance, exceeded 10% in most countries and, in a few instances, were about 50%.
The current economic situation remains difficult for most countries in the Region, despite a sharp increase, in 1979, of about 30% in the composite price index for Eastern African exports. International copper prices rose by 45% in that year and those of sugar by 24%. Notwithstanding these favorable international prices, export earnings increased by only about 10% on the average. Since, at the same time, the import price index rose by nearly 18%, a
substantial decline in the countries' export-based capacity to import took place. 2 External capital and official aid added little, on a net basis, to the Region's overall capacity to import, although there were some countries where this generalization does not apply.
The total volume of imports has tended to decline in several countries over the last few years, and 1979 was no exception. The foreign exchange constraint on these countries was reflected in a stagnation or, in several cases, a fall in the volume of imports and led to a retrenchment in investment and to low levels of capacity utilization. Crop production in the Region followed a mixed pattern in 1979; generally, production was about average, except in Mauritius and Kenya, which were adversely affected by weather conditions. Production was also disrupted in Uganda, Tanzania, and, to a certain extent, in Zambia, by unsettled conditions. Tanzania, in particular, suffered a substantial shortfall in food supplies in the last quarter of the year.
Economic instability has been a recurring phenomenon in Eastern Africa, and the decade of the 1970s has placed the Region in a specially vulnerable position. Major disturbances, until 1973, were caused by fluctuations in the export prices of primary commodities, while prices of imports followed a slow, upward trend. Since 1973, the pressure on the balance of payments has been greatly accentuated by a sharp, upward trend in the import prices of capital goods and oil, while prices of Eastern African exports continue to fluctuate in response to short-term market conditions. Since these circumstances are, in part, irreversible, it will be necessary for Eastern African countries to consider how best they can adjust to them by initiating appropriate structural changes in their economies.
Support for Change
During the decade, Kenya, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia were provided with nonproject loans by the Bank to help them face this adverse economic climate. Three of the operations—in Kenya, Sudan, and Uganda— were approved in fiscal 1980. In preparing these loans, Bank staff carried out a number of studies that were discussed with the governments concerned and helped them review policy options. Public investment programs
2 Petroleum prices rose on average by 55% and the cost of importing oil preempted 22% of total exports on the average, up from 10% in 1970.
were reassessed in the light of available resources and the need to raise capacity utilization, as well as to complete ongoing projects. Sudan has already embarked on a program to raise cotton production and exports. Kenya has decided to rationalize its industrial and trade policies so as to improve efficiency and raise the level of manufactured goods for export. These measures have been supported by drawings from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and, in the case of Sudan, by a rescheduling of external debt by the Paris Club. In fiscal 1980, the Bank also convened meetings of consultative groups for Sudan, Uganda, and Zaire. These meetings were designed partly to mobilize additional assistance from donors; without such extra support in suitable form, it would be difficult to finance large transitional deficits in the balance of payments. It is recognized that these domestic and multilateral steps are the beginnings of a process that must be sustained for some considerable time. Other Eastern African economies will need to take similar steps to regain their development momentum.
This momentum could be generated by both a better utilization of existing capacities and the development of untapped resources. Agricultural production per capita could be restored to earlier levels by adopting more intensive methods and expanding the area under cultivation. Production of minerals in existing facilities remains depressed, in many instances, and a number of countries in Eastern Africa have impressive natural resources in the form of unexploited minerals as well as hydroelectric potential. Fuller utilization of existing manufacturing capacities, as well as higher levels of processing for exports, would seem
to deserve priority consideration. A great potential continues to be unexploited. The real challenge facing governments is to create an environment conducive to the motivation of their peoples, to the stimulation of their initiative, and to the mobilization of their energies. The institution of incentives should support the structural changes needed for countries in Eastern Africa to regain their momentum of growth and to extend the benefits of this growth to all their citizens.
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1980
Total Bank and IDA lending in the Region in fiscal 1980 reached $815 million, about 42% above the average of the previous five years. A total of 38 loans and credits was approved. New IDA commitments, at $665 million, were 111% above the fiscal 1975-79 average. Lending for agriculture and rural development and for energy accounted for 30% and 20%, respectively, of total lending in the Region in dollar terms.
Continuing, strong efforts toward cooperation and coordination by the Bank, other multilateral and bilateral financing agencies, and recipient countries resulted in funds committed by co-financers in the amount of $443 million during the year. That total was 14% below the level reached in fiscal 1979. Each co-financed project attracted an average of $29 million in co-financing funds in fiscal 1980, as opposed to $27 million in fiscal 1979.3
3 Co-financing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
Western Africa
The 1970s began for the countries of the Western Africa Region as a period of consolidation of post-independence progress, in building up more cohesive nation-states, in more effectively integrating national economies, and in taking steps to strengthen inter-African links. Beginning in late 1973, however, attention to this effort was diverted by a series of external shocks—the subject of detailed discussion in Chapter Two—whose cumulative effect was to affect adversely the Region's terms of trade. As they enter the 1980s, most countries in the Region find that they have not been able to adjust fully to the new international environment. It would have been difficult enough for Western African governments, as experience in other parts of the world has
shown, to adjust to the new conditions through appropriate measures of short-run demand management. But the task has been much complicated for Western Africa by problems of a structural nature, such as those related to the overall low efficiency of institutions in the public sector, the neglect of export-oriented industry, and the continuing biases in the incentive systems against agriculture. It is, thus, the combination of three sets of factors— financially weakened economies, a more inimical international environment, and the growing impact of structural problems—that constitutes the challenge of the 1980s.
In terms of overall and per capita growth of gross national product (GNP) over the decade (taking into account serious statistical
deficiencies), the Region's countries can be grouped in three categories. In a few countries affected by internal strife, warfare, or natural calamities (Chad, Equatorial Guinea, Mauritania), indications are that large segments of the economy have seriously deteriorated. To these countries should be added Ghana, which, during most of the decade, suffered from high rates of inflation, shortages of imported goods, underutilization of capacity, and various forms of depletion of capital stock.
In contrast, aggregate growth has been satisfactory in Cameroon, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Togo, and, in the more recent past, Niger. In all cases, fast-expanding exports of primary commodities (such as oil, coffee, cocoa, timber, phosphates, and uranium) have been the prime movers. Although a broader export base and more judicious use of an expanding capacity to import goods have resulted in fairly balanced growth in Cameroon and the Ivory Coast, serious structural imbalances have developed in the other economies in this group.
The remaining countries in the Region fall into an intermediate category of those experiencing marginal or mediocre growth over the long run that is associated, in varying degrees, with a cyclical pattern essentially determined by external factors, including poor weather.
As a result of these divergent trends, the economies of the Region's countries now differ more widely than they did 10 years ago, and even more so than at the time of their independence. In Gabon, at the high end on the spectrum, GNP per capita is estimated at more than $3,000 for 1978. Excluding Gabon, the range of per capita incomes in 1978 was between $840 (Ivory Coast) and $120 (Mali), or a ratio of 7: l.4
Nevertheless, significant expansion of the Western African economies has taken place over the years, although to an insufficient degree and unevenly distributed in its geographical and social impact. But the conditions resulting from such growth, especially in the financial sphere, have not created a robust basis for further progress that would better protect the economies from external shocks, permit policy makers to distribute the fruits of growth more widely, allow sectoral diversification, and strengthen domestic institutions.
Tables 1, 2, and 3 on page 34 illustrate the massive deterioration of the external position of the economies of the Region as a whole from three complementary viewpoints: current account deficits, external public debt, and net foreign assets of the monetary systems.
Thus, on a regional basis, the external gap relative to GNP was about 4.5% in 1970 (and only 2.5% excluding Nigeria, which was a deficit country at that time), whereas it will have approached 10% at the end of the decade (not including Nigeria, which now is a net surplus country). To help finance such large deficits, external borrowing over the decade increased by a factor of 6.5, or by over 20% a year on average, with a marked acceleration in the past few years. This rate is about 50% faster than the rate of growth of the countries' gross domestic product (GDP) or exports (in nominal terms). Debt service has increased at an even faster pace, in fact, by more than 25% a year, as a result of the hardening of borrowing terms. More seriously, both total public debt outstanding and debt service have increased more rapidly among the petroleum-importing countries than exports. While in the 1960s and early 1970s, virtually no Western African country experienced any "debt problems," debt has now become a matter of concern in practically all countries, with the notable exception of Nigeria, and has become one of the policy areas most in need of careful management. Despite much expanded borrowing, the reserve position of the Region has seriously deteriorated—again with the exception of Nigeria, whose position has vastly improved over the past two years. Before the first period of oil price increases, the oil-importing countries, both in the low-income and middle-income ranges, held a rather comfortable $430 million in net foreign assets; by the end of 1979, it is estimated that short-term liabilities exceeded assets, resulting in a level of net reserves of about minus $600 million. This condition reflects meager reserve holdings by central banks, heavy short-term borrowing abroad from commercial banks, and an increasing level of drawings on the facilities of the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Finally, inflation, and with it various degrees of distortions in the price system (most commonly in the form of overvalued exchange rates), emerged as a new phenomenon. In contrast with the pre-1974 period, when general price increases were quite moderate, double-digit inflation prevailed almost everywhere in
4 It should be noted that, according to conventional measurement methods, this is greater than the relative difference between, say, the United Kingdom and the Ivory Coast (6:1). The difference is also significantly greater than it was between the extremes of 10 years ago (when the ratio of GNP per capita in the Ivory Coast and Ghana, on the one hand, and Upper Volta, on the other, was 5:1).
the late 1970s. Higher import prices (not just of petroleum), persistent and growing budget deficits, excessive levels of investment in some cases, overly accommodating monetary policies, and sluggish growth of food production were the main factors at play, although it is difficult to quantify the relative importance of each on either the supply or the demand side.
Most governments have, therefore, achieved only limited success in trying to prevent the emergence of major imbalances. But while, in the short term or medium term, they will have to continue their efforts in that direction, they cannot afford to neglect more fundamental problems in agriculture, public sector management, and the social sectors.
Slow Progress in Agriculture
The share of agriculture in GDP continued to decline during the decade, so that by the decade's mid-point, it was less than 50% 5 in virtually all Western African countries (and
around 35% on the average). This shrinking share conforms to a recent, worldwide trend (associated with the normal pattern of economic development and the relative growth of urban populations) that can be regarded as a manifestation of economic progress only under two sets of conditions: that the shift results from increased productivity of agricultural labor and that the migrants from rural areas engage in productive urban activities. Though the experience in the Region varies from country to country, it seems that only in a few cases have these conditions been met, as evidenced by the sluggish growth in the volume of agricultural exports, rising prices of domestically produced food, increases in food imports, and the emergence of urban unemployment (a phenomenon of little importance in the 1960s). Thus, urban growth—
5 As conventionally measured, which for a number of statistical reasons, probably results in underestimation.
generally at rates two to three times greater than the growth of the total population—has not entirely been accompanied by an expansion of the productive base.
As far as food is concerned, meager quantitative evidence points to three main features: first, a slight decline in food production per head occurred over the years in most countries and certainly for the Region as a whole, with the Ivory Coast the only clear exception and a few other countries (Cameroon and Liberia, for instance) having improved marginally; second, continuing sharp yearly fluctuations prevailed, especially in the Sudano-Sahelian zone; third, as a result of sluggish domestic output and changes in consumption patterns, urban centers increasingly relied on imported food supplies.
The record of export crops is also mixed. Here again, the Ivory Coast stands out as the only country with a record of sustained increases in volumes exported over the decade (and, for that matter, since 1960). Nonetheless, countries distinctly less favorably endowed with resources, such as Mali and Upper Volta, have also made progress in this area— though to what extent progress has been at the cost of slower growth of food crops is not entirely clear.
In fact, natural conditions, though varying throughout Western Africa, do not explain the differing pace of progress in the agricultural sector, as illustrated by Ghana and Nigeria, on the one hand, and the Ivory Coast and Cameroon, on the other. While, in the case of the oil exporters, nonagricultural exports have made it possible to maintain or expand import capacity consistent with the growth of output and consumption, the other countries, with the exception of the few good performers already noted, have had to rely on increasing volumes of capital inflows, often at high costs, to sustain acceptable levels of activity. In all cases, poor agricultural performance remains the main cause of persistent poverty—directly in the rural areas and indirectly in the cities.
The reasons for this generally unsatisfactory state of affairs are complex. The most evident factors are labor shortages and the aging of rural populations caused by the migration of younger people; a growing scarcity of easily cultivable land; the lack of applied research, except in the case of selected tree crops; the absence of a proven package of agricultural technology for the Sudano-Sahelian belt; the rising cost of improved agriculture (inputs, extension services, management), especially for irrigation; misdirected government policies
Women milling rice, using the traditional mortar and pestle method, in Senegal's Casamance region. Bank and IDA lending for agriculture in the Western Africa Region totaled $1,362 million for the period, fiscal 1971-1980.
in production and marketing; and an incentive system that is all too often biased against agriculture, especially in the form of overvalued exchange rates, low producer prices, and subsidized urban consumption. Thus, while agriculture is invariably declared the first priority in official statements, policies are only gradually adjusting to this end—again, with a few exceptions that have already been noted.
Public Administration and Management
Embryonic at the time of independence, public administration in the Region's countries has been greatly strained by the growing complexity of economic management, especially since the mid-1970s, despite a rapid expansion in public employment. In every country since the early 1960s, the shares of public consumption and public investment have increased more rapidly than GDP and, generally, stand well above the average of corresponding groups of countries in other
Regions. In the course of the 1970s, three problem areas emerged: employment and wages, the structure of skills, and the para-public sector.
The genuine need to increase staff, combined with the fast-growing number of graduates from the education system and the slow growth of the nonagricultural sectors, has resulted in an enormous expansion in public sector employment. One result often is over-staffing. At the same time, because of the constraints on public resources—and despite the fact that overall levels of taxation relative to GDP are generally kept high as compared with other developing countries—average wages have been kept low, especially at the higher echelons. In addition, particularly in the poorer countries, the ratio of supplies to personnel expenditures has been low and declining; as a result, working conditions have deteriorated.
The structure of skills often is inadequate. The remarkable improvement in the number and quality of higher-level staff is in contrast with the lack of such improvement at the inter-
mediate levels (accountants are a prime example) and lower levels.
A striking development of the 1970s in the Region has been the growth of the parapublic sector beyond the traditional areas of public utilities and irrespective of socioeconomic systems. Here also, situations differ considerably, not only from country to country, but also among enterprises. Difficulties have arisen from two distinct, though not unrelated, sets of factors: first, a weakness in management, characterized principally by a lack of financial rigor, top-heavy leadership, lax recruitment practices, and an insufficient number of trained and experienced managers; second, a macro-economic environment inconducive to efficient business management. Parastatal firms are often the secular instruments of governments that pursue contradictory social and economic objectives, such as promoting output while setting producer prices too low, or supporting the consumption of the urban classes through subsidies that neither the budget nor the enterprises can sustain. Under such conditions, the managers, of necessity, have to find ways and means to "finance" operating deficits.
Most parapublic enterprises, in the end, have suffered from a lack of self-generated or external resources; others have also, in a sense, suffered from an excess of liquidity. This has happened to a number of "marketing boards" or similar entities that have enjoyed substantial surpluses from trading activities (mainly exports), but were not equipped to ensure the best possible use of such funds. While some of these weaknesses could have been avoided by the imposition of stricter controls by the central authorities—independent auditing is not a regular feature—efficiency in the parapublic sector has suffered both from excessive day-today interference by governments and excessive freedom in investment decisions.
From the rather bleak picture that emerges at the end of the decade, it should not be inferred that parapublic enterprises have no constructive role to play. Indeed, given the environment, quite a few, and generally at least one or two in each country, have performed well in all respects, particularly those that are public utilities or financial institutions. But, on the whole, there is little doubt that the expansion of the parapublic sector in all directions, either because the private sector was not seen as playing an adequate role, or by virtue of ideological choice, has not proved to be unqualifiedly successful. Most governments have become acutely aware of the problems associated with parapublic entities, and
serious efforts are being made in some countries to introduce a measure of rationality, establish economic objectives (e.g., contribute to public savings), monitor performance, and promote individual entrepreneurship.
Indicators of Social Progress
How the relative distribution of income in Western Africa has evolved over the years is not revealed by existing statistics. A few stylized facts of probably fair general validity are: (a) a statistically minute group of persons at the top of the scale has become wealthier in both absolute and relative terms; (b) in countries that have experienced slow growth of agricultural output (i.e., in most countries), the real income of the rural population, or 60% to 90% of the people, has increased little or not at all; and (c) in urban areas, a divergence has occurred between those regularly (more or less) employed, whose standards of living have improved to some degree (more so, of course, in some cities, such as in Abidjan or Lagos, than in others), and those who earn a living from sporadic, low-paying tasks, and who constitute the "new poor" of the shantytowns. Those in the second group are found especially around the capital cities of the coastal countries, or are among those displaced as a result of the Sahelian drought of 1972-75. It is debatable whether the poorest people in urban centers are better or worse off than the inhabitants of the poorer rural areas (the former, for instance, may be worse off in terms of nutrition but have better access to health facilities). It is not debatable, however, that both groups are among the poorest in the world.
On the basis of somewhat better evidence regarding physical indicators of social progress at the national level and from direct observation, two seemingly contradictory indicators, especially for health and education, show progress on a wide front among and within countries. At the same time, it would be hard to deny that demands for "social progress" have also become more widespread and more vocal.
Life expectancy at birth increased (in the period, 1960-77, from 37 to 42 years); crude death rates declined by about 20% in most countries; school attendance expanded everywhere in absolute numbers, and, in five countries, it is now in excess of 80% at the primary level.
However, contradictions and difficulties are associated with these otherwise undeniable achievements. First, the figures are averages that conceal great differences among social
groups and regions. Second, practically all social indicators in Western Africa remain below the average for other regions or groups of countries at similar levels of income. In particular, life expectancy among Western African low-income and middle-income countries is lower than the world average by about five years; rates of infant mortality and adult illiteracy are consistently among the highest. Third, the unit cost (e.g., per primary school graduate) of social services—especially education—is among the highest in the world; correspondingly, the limits of what government budgets can support without changes in the systems of traditional primary and secondary education, health delivery, and so on, are being rapidly approached. Fourth, slow or too narrowly based economic progress (itself the result, among other things, of ill-adapted education systems and poor health of the labor force) means that productive employment opportunities expand less rapidly than the number of those seeking employment, a situation that is complicated by legislation on wages. This situation, by itself, is a cause of frustration among the people; combined with the fact that many job seekers are young and to some degree educated and heavily concentrated in a few urban centers, it is a source of social tension, and with unabated demographic growth and rapid urbanization, no self-correcting solution is apparent.
Outlook for the Region
This brief review of the Region could not do justice to the variety of country situations. In focusing on some of the main problems, areas of progress have been neglected, even though there are many, including those within the rural sector. In looking at the past, no effort has been made to assess, even approximately, the truly great potential that lies within the Western African countries and, even more significantly, in the Region, as one vast economic unit. The potential is, of course, in the form of natural resources—agriculture, minerals, energy; it exists, more importantly, in the untapped energies of the people, especially the farmers, the young, and the women. Governments of all countries have the opportunity to develop this potential specifically by creating an environment favorable to incentives for small farmers' activities rather than by introducing radically new forms of agricultural organization; improving productivity of proven crops, rather than introducing largely untested ones; experimenting with small or medium-sized irrigation projects, as well as mechaniza-
tion, before committing resources to large, indivisible schemes. It also means directing relatively more resources towards economic and social infrastructure in rural areas. For the middle-income countries, accelerating the pace of industrialization is now a major challenge. This, first of all, requires a healthy growth in agriculture. Furthermore, in this endeavor, governments may wish to consider that, with appropriate adaptation, economic policies resulting in successful agricultural growth will also achieve the desired results in industry.
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1980
Lending by the World Bank and IDA to countries in the Region in fiscal 1980 totaled $732 million for 30 operations, as compared with 35 operations, totaling $556 million, in fiscal 1979. This amount represents a growth of 32%, most of which was due to an increase in Bank assistance.
Following a slight decline in lending for agriculture in the Region in fiscal 1979, assistance to this sector increased by 37% in fiscal 1980. Agriculture continues to claim the largest share of total lending to the Region. After agriculture, transportation ranked second in the overall sectoral distribution. Bank lending for technical assistance in the petroleum sector was initiated during the year with the approval of a $5 million project in the Congo. The project is directed toward strengthening institutions in the sector, assisting the government, and executing special studies of oil resources.
Co-financing in the Region totaled $611 million in fiscal 1980, compared with $112 million in 1979 and $185 million in 1978. Each co-financed project attracted an average of $34 million in co-financing during the year —more than triple the 1979 average of $8 million and the 1978 average of $11 million. The Region's largest co-financing effort in fiscal 1980—a $60 million loan to Mauritania for the development of two new open iron ore pits —involved co-financing from official sources of almost $300 million. The project's total cost was $501 million.6
Thus, while in the period, fiscal 1961-70, the World Bank lent a little under $600 million to 18 countries in the Region, at the end of this decade (1971-80) it will have committed over $3,900 million to 20 countries.
s Co-financing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
East Asia and Pacific
The countries of the East Asia and Pacific Region that are members of the World Bank7 fall into three major groups. The first group constitutes the World Bank's major borrowers —Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand—with a total population of about 300 million. The second group consists of the countries in the Indochina peninsula: the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Democratic Kampuchea, and Viet Nam. These are low-income countries affected by several decades of war.
Despite differences in political systems and in the endowment of natural resources, these two groups do have a number of common features that have influenced their development. They all experienced colonial rule (except for Thailand) and passed through wartime dis-
turbances and disorder. They survived these experiences and emerged as societies that set centuries-old traditions as the basis for modernization. All were affected, in some measure, by the war in Viet Nam.
The third group in the Region comprises relatively small countries that belong to the Pacific, rather than East Asian, cultures. They are Papua New Guinea, Fiji, Western Samoa, and the Solomon Islands. They have a total population of 4 million. Except for Western Samoa, they are racially heterogeneous and have yet to develop a national consciousness.
7 On May 15, 1980, the Bank's Executive Directors decided that the People's Republic of China represents China in the World Bank. Analysis in this chapter is without reference to China.
The largest country in the group, Papua New Guinea, though rich in natural resources, needs substantial outside financial support and assistance in developing its human resources; the others are small island economies in similar situations.
Rapid Economic Growth
Following upon a generally good economic record in the 1960s, most of the countries in the Region witnessed further rapid economic growth in the decade of the 1970s. The average weighted growth rate of the gross domestic product (GDP) for the middle-income countries in the Region was 8% for the decade, ranging from 10% in Korea to 6% in the Philippines. Per capita growth in the middle-income countries, as well as in Indonesia, was as high as that experienced anywhere in the world. In contrast, Viet Nam and the Lao People's Democratic Republic, each affected by war and difficult postwar experiences, had very low rates of economic growth.
The generally rapid economic growth of the Region was primarily the result of good economic management and of policies that focused on expanding agricultural output and fostered the growth of exports. Growth took
place in an environment that included wide fluctuations in commodity prices and a net deterioration in terms of trade. These fluctuations included the first, sudden increase in the price of petroleum. For the commodity producers, the impact of higher prices was clearly favorable; for the net oil exporters, Malaysia and Indonesia, oil revenues provided the means to finance development efforts. For the net oil importers, the rising cost of fuel imports made the growth of exports an ever growing need by the end of the decade.
During the decade, Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, and the Philippines moved substantially towards becoming industrialized. In fact, the development of industry has been a characteristic of most of the East Asian countries, although the scale has varied, from that of Indonesia, taking the first steps toward industrialization, to that of Korea, which had acquired a substantial industrial structure by the end of the 1970s.
At the same time, the need to feed growing populations has focused attention on the agriculture sector in which most of the Region's population still works. The widespread adoption of new seeds and production techniques has increased yields and food supplies through-
Through two Bank loans, totaling $68 million, Thailand's agricultural extension services are being strengthened. Here, an extension worker checks on a crop of corn being grown on a farm in the northeastern province of Sisaket.
out much of the Region. Per capita food availability increased an average over the decade of between 6% and 7%, making possible an improved pattern of nutrition. At the end of the decade, however, Indonesia, Laos, and Viet Nam continued to depend heavily upon imports of rice. The benefits from technological change and increases in irrigation facilities that the rice producers enjoy have not been distributed equitably to other producers of basic foods (such as corn, roots, and tubers), many of whom remain among the "absolute poor." There were periodic food shortages in some countries as a result of bad weather, pests and diseases, or, in the cases of Viet Nam, Laos, and Democratic Kampuchea, because of war and postwar problems.
The Region also did well in generating exports of, and incomes from the production of other cash crops—sugar, oil palm, coconuts, cassava, rubber, tea, and coffee. In addition, natural resources were important exports: timber in Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, and Papua New Guinea; and minerals, such as tin, copper, and gold, in Malaysia, the Philippines, and Papua New Guinea.
Growth in per capita incomes during the decade was accompanied by improvements in general welfare. Life expectancy at birth, perhaps the most important indicator of welfare, rose in all the five countries that borrow most heavily from the Bank—Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand.
But progress was not uniform, either among or within countries. As a result, many countries, particularly during the second half of the decade, began to focus their attention on the internal distribution of income and other resources.
The 1970s also saw the beginning of a decline in fertility in East Asian countries that will slow down population growth in the future. The fall in fertility has been most significant in Korea, but it has also begun in Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand. Nonetheless, the weight of the high population growth in the past is now being felt in the form of substantial numbers of young people entering the labor force. The rate of growth in the labor force reached a peak in the 1970s when it equaled or exceeded 3 % yearly in Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand, and came almost to that mark in Korea.
The need to create more job opportunities became more urgent towards the end of the decade, especially as the elimination, or reduction, of poverty became more widely recognized as a major goal. The task of creating jobs will need to be tackled in the context of the heavier financial burden that has been placed on the net oil importers in the Region as a result of oil price increases.
Except in the oil-producing nations, Indonesia and Malaysia, the terms of trade deteriorated in the 1970s. The pattern, however, was not uniform; until the sudden oil price increases in 1974, and partly as a result of the surge in commodity prices of the previous year, the Philippines and Thailand experienced favorable terms of trade. The Philippines registered a 15% improvement between 1970 and 1974, but lost all the gain in the next three years. Thailand's terms of trade improved by 17% between 1970 and 1973, but then fell by 34% in the next five years. The cost of oil imports took a growing share of the value of exports; for the Philippines, the proportion rose from 10% in 1970 to 25% in 1979; for Thailand, from 9% to 22%; and for Korea, from 15% to 21%.
The creditable growth record of the 1970s was facilitated by substantial capital inflows, including those from the World Bank. Private capital flows, including direct investments, were also important. However, external capital constituted only a small part of total capital formation; the largest part, 90% or more of the GDP in the Region, was financed by domestic savings.
For the middle-income countries with high rates of growth, foreign trade and capital flows
were important sources of income and investment in the 1970s. Lending by the World Bank became a significant part of this transfer of capital. In the latter part of the decade, Bank loans were accompanied by substantial flows of private capital, as the more creditworthy countries of the Region borrowed from the international banking system on commercial terms. Korea, the Philippines, and Thailand made increasing use of net transfers of capital 8 through the decade as they borrowed to maintain momentum in their economic growth and to supplement domestic savings for investment. Official medium-term and long-term capital provided a large part of this inflow, one that covered the current account deficits of Indonesia and a substantial part for Korea. The net transfers of capital were less significant for Thailand and Malaysia, but were important for the Philippines.
The World Bank's share in total official capital flows grew through the 1970s. In fiscal 1971, 22 loans were approved, totaling $398 million; by contrast, 40 loans and credits were approved in fiscal 1980, for $2,369 million. Total commitments during the period, fiscal 1971 to fiscal 1980, amounted to $12,100 million; almost two-fifths (37%) of this amount was accounted for by 80 loans approved in fiscal 1979 and fiscal 1980 alone, indicating the extent to which the pace of commitments increased during the period. Price increases accounted for about half the increase in commitments between fiscal 1973 and fiscal 1979; nonetheless, lending doubled in real terms in the six years that followed the commodity price boom and the oil price increases of 1973-74.
The World Bank's role in the transfer of resources expanded greatly in the Region, particularly in the second half of the decade, when inflows of capital increased in both absolute terms and as a proportion of total resource transfers provided by medium-term and long-term loans from all sources. In the two-year period, fiscal 1978-79, disbursements from the Bank and IDA accounted for 20% of such capital inflows. Given the lag between commitments and disbursements, the substantial increase in lending achieved during the 10-year period has not yet been fully reflected in resource transfers. Nevertheless, Indonesia, Korea, the Philippines, and Thailand already rely heavily on the Bank.
8 "Net transfer of capital" refers to money that is available after deducting the payment of interest and principal.
Pattern of Bank Lending
The pattern of Bank lending, by sector, in the 1970s generally followed the needs perceived by governments, often after completion of economic and sector work by the Bank. Lending to the Region covered all the sectors during the 10-year period, but was concentrated in agriculture. Including rural development, irrigation, and land settlement, agriculture accounted for nearly one-third of total lending, reflecting the importance attached by both the Bank and its borrowers to maintaining the growth of food supplies and improving the productivity of the majority of the population —those who live in the rural areas. Infrastructure projects in transportation, power, water supply, and telecommunications amounted to 40% and industrial development and finance another 14% of the total.
Lending for industrial development was largely in the form of providing finance to intermediaries that lent it, in turn, to industrial enterprises. As the process of industrialization proceeded in the 1970s, the need for the Bank to pay more attention to industrial lending became apparent. Larger projects were financed directly, but the more important development was the attention given to industrial policy, particularly policy pertaining to the export of manufactures. The dialogue between the Bank and governments on industrial policy had not led to substantive changes in project lending by the end of the decade, but the foundation had been laid for an increase in industrial lending and changes in its forms.
About 90% of the Bank's lending to the East Asian group of countries in the past 10 years has been to Indonesia, Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, and Malaysia. Only about 2% of the total went to the countries of the Pacific area—Papua New Guinea, Fiji, and Western Samoa, whose populations comprise about 1 % of the total of the Region. The development needs of these island countries are quite different from those of the rest of the Region; except for Western Samoa, all became independent after 1969 (Fiji in 1970, Papua New Guinea in 1975, and the Solomon Islands in 1978). The degree of mechanization of their economies is low, trained human resources are still scarce, and subsistence agriculture is still important. These countries are heavily dependent upon outside capital and expatriate skills. Bank lending has complemented substantial external assistance from other sources.
Although the most recent experience of the countries in the Region has continued to follow the trends that emerged in the 1970s, the
pattern of growth has not been so firm and consistent; the impact of adverse external economic circumstances has been the main cause of this faltering in performance. Essentially, in 1979 and 1980, all oil-importing countries in the Region suffered from the effects of high and rising prices of oil, the recessionary tendencies in the richer countries (that, in turn, have led to outbreaks of protectionism against imports of manufactures), and the worldwide spread of inflation. On the whole, growth rates have fallen—most notably in Korea, which had led the Region in growth. The two net oil-exporting countries—Malaysia and Indonesia—were exempt from this tendency, although they also did not experience such high rates of growth as in earlier years. On the whole, the terms of trade continue to be unfavorable to the Region, although much depends on each country's particular commodity composition of trade.
The deterioration in the balance of payments and debt position of the leading oil-importing countries of the Region has increased the need for capital transfers and has heightened the importance of World Bank support. After the first round of oil price increases that took place in the early part of the decade, the international commercial banking system played a major role in providing capital flows for oil-importing countries.
The alternative is for the oil-importing countries to become less dependent on capital inflows; this alternative requires continued or faster growth in exports and a renewed emphasis upon economies in imports, especially of fuels. Restructuring of the economies of the Philippines, Thailand, and Korea may be required to achieve these ends; attention began to turn to such questions in fiscal 1980. The World Bank, in discussions with governments, has begun to explore ways in which its lending can be adapted to these restructuring needs.
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1980
Lending by the World Bank to countries in the Region during fiscal 1980 increased by 11 % over the previous year. Six IDA credits amounted to $208.4 million and 34 loans by the Bank accounted for $2,160.5 million. These loans and credits went to nine countries; 10 to Indonesia, nine to Thailand, eight to Korea, and eight to the Philippines accounted for 88% of the projects and 95% of total lending. Fiji, Western Samoa, and Laos were among the smaller countries that received loans and credits during the year.
Agriculture and rural development continued to be the predominant sector for lending, accounting for 17 projects and $786.4 million, or 33% of the total lending for the Region. Agricultural lending in fiscal 1980 constituted a 39% increase over the previous year, when the sector received 27% of the total.
Power was the second most important sector, receiving $588.5 million, or about 25% of the total, for six projects. Half of this amount went to Indonesia, with smaller amounts to Korea and Thailand. Fiji also received a loan for the development of hydroelectric power to support its scheme to reduce the burden of the cost of imported fuel by developing alternative local resources.
With similar objectives, lending for oil, gas, and coal, begun in a small way in fiscal 1979, expanded to $179 million in fiscal 1980, the result of two projects in Thailand: one for a
natural gas pipeline and another for lignite production to be used to replace imported oil in power generation. Six loans were also made for infrastructure projects in transportation and water supply. Total lending in those two sectors amounted to $356 million, or 15% of the total. The increase in lending for urban projects continued in fiscal 1980, with three projects that totaled 63% above last year's figure.
There was also a sharp increase in funds committed under co-financing arrangements with the Bank and IDA in fiscal 1980. The total rose to $914 million, or 84% above last year's level. Each co-financed project attracted an average of $70 million in co-financed funds, compared with $38 million in fiscal 1979.9
9 Co-financing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
South Asia
South Asia's 900 million people make up about one-fifth of the world's total population and close to two-fifths of the population of the less developed countries (other than those living in countries with centrally planned economies). In absolute terms, the Region is reasonably well endowed with natural resources that include extensive land and water, coal, oil, natural gas, hydropower potential, various metals and minerals, and forests. The population pressure on these resources is profound, however, and given its low income per capita and high population growth rate, the Region has been unable to generate internally the massive resources for investment needed to develop fully its physical and human resources. Indeed, the last year of the decade has seen
the gap between investment resources needed and those on hand widen markedly as a result of a deterioration in the Region's terms of trade following the recent rise in the price of oil, of which all countries, save Burma, are major importers.
During the 1970s, total output in South Asia increased in real terms by about one-third. This increase was a major accomplishment, considering the numerous obstacles and adversities that occurred during the decade, including recurring periods of drought and floods in important parts of the Region. Most of the growth in output was concentrated in the second half of the decade. Gains in output, however, were largely offset by a continued and rapid growth of population. By the decade's
end, the Region's population had increased by about 185 million, or almost a 26% increase during the 10-year span. Consequently, average income per capita during the decade rose by no more than 1 % a year and there was little improvement in living conditions for most of South Asia's 350 million absolute poor, whose numbers probably increased above those at the start of the decade.
The rise in production makes up only a part of the economic and social progress that took place during the 1970s. In agriculture, especially in India, substantial advances were achieved in technology and in the delivery of inputs and extension services to large and small farmers alike. The sizable expansion of areas under irrigation not only raised output, but also reduced the harmful effects of droughts on production. This was dramatically demonstrated in India in fiscal 1980; despite one of the worst monsoon failures on record, its adverse effects on the food economy were limited. Moreover, through demonstration and experience, the new techniques of cultivation have been spreading and the stage has been set for their being grasped in those parts of the Region where agricultural innovation has yet to make headway.
Industrial development in the Region remained below its potential for a variety of reasons, the more important of which were power, transportation, and other infrastructural bottlenecks, the inability to obtain adequate imports of needed raw materials and components owing to the pressure on the balance of payments, and less-than-adequate performance in both the private and public sectors of industry. More attention is now being paid to improving the performance of public sector units and improving the climate for the operation of private industry. Higher priority is also being assigned to infrastructural development.
Progress in the social sectors throughout the decade was modest in relation to the Region's great needs; nonetheless, there were notable achievements and developments. In South Asia, as elsewhere, life expectancy at birth has continued to rise. So, too, have school enrollment and literacy rates. Family planning has been making some progress as understanding of the roles and interrelationships of family planning, education, health, nutrition, and sanitation has grown. Concern for considerations of equity remained equally as important as concern for economic growth. Special efforts in generating employment, such as through the small-scale
Road maintenance in Nepal. Bank and IDA lending supporting transportation projects in South Asia totaled $838 million during the period, fiscal 1971-1980.
industrial and informal sectors, through rural works, and wider application of intensive farming, have increased so as to lift the incomes of the poor. New efforts and approaches in rural and urban development were pursued.
At the start of the 1980s, the Region faces persistent and massive development problems, and prolonged and sustained efforts are needed to alleviate them. Although these efforts must be made largely by the countries themselves, external financial aid and technical assistance will continue to play a vital role. To cushion the effects of the deterioration in the Region's terms of trade and to permit needed adjustments in the structure of investments and development policies, ways will have to be sought to secure larger capital inflows on suitable terms.
Economic Developments
The Indian economy is a key force in South Asia; the country's income and population represent about three-quarters of the regional
total. In turn, agriculture still plays a major role in the Indian economy.
During the first half of the 1970s, the Indian economy grew at an average yearly rate of 2.3%; in the four-year period, fiscal 1976-79, growth increased markedly, to an average of 5.7%. In fiscal 1980, however, total output fell by about 3%, owing mainly to a weather-induced dip in agricultural production. In the first half of the decade, sluggish growth reflected the relative stagnation of agricultural output. One important cause was three years (1972-74) of bad monsoons. In addition, in the decade's first five years, there was some loss of momentum in the spread of new technology in foodgrain production in irrigated areas; shortages of inputs were a major factor. Agriculture regained its vigor in the period, fiscal 1976-79, when a succession of favorable monsoons, increases in irrigation, better provision of inputs, and improved extension services resulted in an average growth of output of 4.4% a year. Foodgrain buffer stocks,
depleted in the early 1970s, were rebuilt to substantial levels. Important gains were also reported in the production of other crops, including oilseeds, sugarcane, and cotton. The Bank and IDA have provided increasing support for Indian agriculture; during fiscal 1976-80, over $1,000 million was lent in direct support of crop production. This amount included $106 million in IDA credits directed specifically at the improvement of research and extension systems in 10 Indian states.
The sluggish behavior of India's industrial sector since the mid-1960s continued into the early 1970s; domestic and export demand was both weak and erratic, and utilization of industrial capacity was constrained by a scarcity of foreign exchange. Conditions improved in the latter half of the 1970s in this sector, too; stimulated by more rapid agricultural growth and public investment, demand generally became more buoyant, and foreign exchange reserves rose, leading the Indian government to liberalize, on a selected basis, controls on imported inputs. Average annual industrial growth during the period, fiscal 1976-79, reached nearly 7%, despite shortages of power, railway cars, and basic commodities such as steel and coal.
Although economic growth was modest during part of the decade, domestic savings and investment were high throughout; on a gross basis, both are now in excess of 20% of gross domestic product (GDP), or about double the rate of the early 1950s. The availability of foreign exchange to the Indian economy increased markedly after 1975 in the wake, among various factors, of a sharp rise in workers' remittances and growing disbursements of foreign assistance. At $7,400 million by the end of fiscal 1979, foreign exchange reserves exceeded 10 months' merchandise imports.
The country's comfortable foreign exchange and foodgrain stock position facilitated the adjustment, in fiscal 1980, to another bad monsoon. Foodgrain production declined by some 12%, to 116 million tons. Industrial output stagnated; intensification of power shortages and other bottlenecks in infrastructure and in the provision of inputs were the main reasons. The balance of payments also deteriorated during the year, due to a massive increase in the costs of imported petroleum and disappointing export performance for the second consecutive year. As a consequence, the import coverage of foreign exchange reserves fell markedly for the first time since 1974.
Bangladesh became independent in late 1971 and immediately faced grave difficulties.
Much of the country's physical infrastructure had been damaged or destroyed, and economic activity had come to a near standstill. Its economic situation during the first years of independence was precarious. Relief, rehabilitation, and consolidation of government authority were unavoidably the paramount concerns of the country's policy makers in the early and mid-1970s.
During the second half of the decade, economic conditions showed significant progress, helped by greater political stability and better economic management. Stabilization measures, begun in 1975, brought severe inflation (80% annually) under control; fiscal years 1976 and 1978 were successful crop years, and despite setbacks to agricultural production in fiscal 1977 and again in 1979, average real growth of the economy of over 5% annually occurred in the period, 1976-79. But the past two years have again demonstrated agriculture's vulnerability to weather conditions that can affect adversely both the foodgrain and jute crops.
Taking the 1970s as a whole, little improvement in living standards occurred. The growth in total output by about one-quarter was roughly matched by the 25% increase in population (to almost 90 million people at the start of the 1980s). Investment, which has been rising in recent years (to perhaps 14% of GDP), is still low and is mainly dependent on external assistance that finances more than three-quarters of the development expenditures in the public sector.
A Mixed Record
Throughout much of the 1970s, the Pakistan economy grew in real terms at about 4% yearly. As population growth was nearly 3% yearly during the decade, per capita incomes increased only marginally. The economy was affected by the separation of Bangladesh, flooding and drought in several years, and political uncertainties. Nationalizations in the early years of the decade dampened private investment, while a substantial part of public investment went into capital-intensive projects with long gestation periods that had a limited short-term effect on output. Private consumption was stimulated by increases in real wages and consumer subsidies, and public savings were eroded. Serious pressures on the balance of payments, despite a spectacular growth of workers' remittances, gave rise to heavy borrowing from abroad and rising debt repayments.
During the past three fiscal years (1978-80), economic growth accelerated to about 6%
yearly. Weather was more favorable, demand for exports strengthened, and new policy initiatives—including improved price incentives for farmers, more liberal credit and tax incentives for exports, denationalization of most agricultural processing and some other industrial units, and a widening of the scope for private investment—were inaugurated. Steps were also initiated to improve productivity in agriculture and industry, although these efforts are still at an early stage. The low level of domestic savings remains a serious problem, and budgetary and external problems have persisted.
In Sri Lanka, average economic growth during much of the decade (1970-77) was 2.9% yearly, down from 4.4% in the 1960s. Growth was hampered by a persistent shortage of foreign exchange, inadequate levels of savings and investment, and an inefficient use of available resources. Continued high social expenditures, including those for food subsidies, were a major factor in declining (and ultimately negative) public savings. (In recent years, however, the country has successfully reduced the burden of its social programs as a proportion of the budget by focusing them on the lower-income groups.) Resource constraints were aggravated by seriously worsening terms of trade. The tree crops sector (tea, rubber, and coconut), the country's largest foreign exchange earner and the largest source of government revenues, suffered from neglect. Paddy production did not fare well either, in some years owing to bad weather, but due principally to deteriorating institutional support. The only bright spot in agriculture was the rapid expansion in output of subsidiary food crops (such as cassava, corn, chilies, onions, and potatoes). Manufacturing similarly suffered from resource constraints and inefficient management. Open unemployment increased, reaching over 1 million in 1977, or almost one-fifth of the labor force.
Following major policy reforms by the government,10 economic performance improved during the final three years of the decade. Growth in 1978 and 1979 averaged over 7%. Except for the tree crops sector, growth was spread throughout the economy, helped by record paddy harvests that benefited from favorable monsoons. Savings and investment increased markedly and unemployment declined to about 15%. By the end of 1979, gross foreign exchange reserves, strengthened by growing amounts of external aid and nontradi-tional exports, and despite a sharp rise in imports, had reached the equivalent of four months' imports. Early in 1980, budgetary retrenchment measures were taken to cool the
economy, slow inflation (18% in calendar 1979), and increase public savings. Development problems that remain include continued poor performance of the tree crops sector and state industrial corporations, emerging shortages of skilled manpower, and the inability of the construction industry to meet the sharp rise in demand.
In the 1960s and early part of the 1970s, Burma also experienced slow economic growth. The government's main preoccupation, to establish a self-reliant, planned economy, was reflected in policy initiatives that included widespread nationalization, industrialization, price stabilization, and an extension of public services into rural areas. The key agricultural sector and the country's infrastructure received little attention; exports and government revenues stagnated, and serious shortages of consumer goods emerged.
Since the mid-1970s, however, economic growth has accelerated. During the four-year period, fiscal 1975-78, growth was almost 5%, in contrast with the 2.5% to 3.0% rate achieved in the previous decade. Paddy production reached record levels, responding to higher procurement prices and favorable weather, and a major tax reform helped free additional resources for investment. Industrial growth also accelerated. In fiscal 1978 and 1979, overall growth reached about 6%. This faster growth was the result of improved capacity utilization that was facilitated by an increased availability of imported intermediate and capital goods. Economic improvement has been only partial, however; the large public enterprise sector remains to be improved further, and although exports have increased moderately in volume, they are still far lower than the levels achieved in the mid-1960s. Both teak and rice exports have increased recently, but there is still room for improvement in the quality of the latter. In mining, crude oil production has increased to such a degree that a surplus is available for export; development of other minerals has been gradual, however. Bottlenecks in the transport sector are being tackled. Major issues that
10 The reforms included a unification of the exchange rate, a liberalization of import licensing and exchange controls, policy-induced increases in prices of essential commodities and services, and a major expansion of public investment. Among the most imaginative of these investment schemes is the accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga development program that aims to develop 365,000 hectares of land for irrigation (increasing the country's total amount of land under irrigation by two-thirds) and to develop vast hydroelectric resources. The first phase of this accelerated program, costing more than $1,700 million, has found significant backing from the development community.
remain to be resolved are those concerned with setting equitable prices for farmers as an incentive to produce more, increasing domestic savings (especially through current surpluses of state economic enterprises), promoting exports, and allowing more flexibility in economic management.
Nepal remains one of the world's poorest countries. In the hills, where nearly two-thirds of the population lives, the fragile environment continues to deteriorate. Soil erosion is accelerating as population pressures lead to the stripping of the steep hillsides to meet the requirements for crop land, fuelwood, and livestock fodder. Shortages of food and work have caused large seasonal and permanent migration to the Terai plains. Despite recent progress in expanding its development program, overall economic performance was disappointing during the 1970s. Because Nepal's economy is predominantly agricultural, the failure of foodgrain production to keep pace with population growth, now estimated at about 2.6% yearly, is at the heart of the country's economic problems. Rice exports, traditionally the country's largest export item, have been falling. The economic situation deteriorated further in 1980. The severe impact of the poor monsoon in 1979 created a need for emergency imports of foodgrains at a time when its oil import bill increased sharply.
The economy of the Maldives is heavily dependent on fishing and tourism. During the 1970s, the fisheries sector grew slowly, but tourism expanded rapidly; since fiscal 1978, tourism has overtaken fishing as the country's major foreign exchange earner. Economic growth is estimated to have averaged 12.5% annually between 1974 and 1978. Food imports have been increasing, due, in part, to a rate of population growth that is close to 3%. The government has started only recently to address, in a more concentrated manner, the country's economic development problems. These include the need for improvements in basic economic and social infrastructure.
Developmental Priorities
South Asia has the potential for accelerated economic growth during the 1980s at a rate well in excess of population growth. A major sectoral engine for the growth must be agriculture, for the regional economy is still predominantly agricultural, India's—and, to a lesser extent, Pakistan's—substantial industrial base notwithstanding. Despite the rapid growth of major cities in the Region, the subcontinent has maintained its rural complexion; about
80% of the total population still lives in rural areas.
Agricultural output must be expanded to meet the needs of a growing population. Failure to do so would mean an increasing and unmanageable dependence on food imports and a further outflow of foreign exchange. Thus, increasing the production of foodgrain, the key element in the diet, will remain the most important objective of agricultural policy, although increasing attention to livestock and fisheries development, fiber crops and agro-industries, and related subsectors with export potential will become necessary as foodgrain self-sufficiency comes closer to achievement.
Priorities in the agriculture sector include, but are not limited to:
—A continuation, in India, of development strategies pursued successfully in the 1970s, with emphasis on improved water availability and management, increased supplies of inputs, intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and continued effective pricing policies.
—Overcoming limited productivity in both Bangladesh and Pakistan: in particular, through additional low-lift pumps, tubewells, and other inputs and an improvement in implementation capacity in Bangladesh so as to fulfill the goal of self-sufficiency in food as envisaged in the country's new five-year plan beginning in July 1980; and, in Pakistan, through more efficient utilization of the water resources of the Indus basin.
—Improvements in productivity in Sri Lanka through the upgrading of paddy cultivation practices, tree crops rehabilitation and diversification, and an expansion of cultivated areas, in particular through the Mahaweli program.
—-Intensified use of existing cultivated areas, reclamation of abandoned lands, improvement in the delivery of inputs, and a strengthening of forestry management in Burma.
Limiting population growth remains the top social priority in most countries of the Region. The annual growth rate in India has been falling and is now probably below 2%; but heavy population pressure on limited resources makes family planning a continuing, urgent task. Even assuming an ongoing, fairly rapid decline in fertility, India's population will increase by more than 1 million people a month for the next 20 years. In Bangladesh, population control is a very pressing issue, given the country's already high population density, scarce resources, and widespread poverty. The national population and health improvement program requires more determined
efforts; even if successful, the country probably will still have to support 130 million to 145 million people by the year 2000. Pakistan and Nepal have serious population problems that have yet to be recognized at the policy level. Sri Lanka has continued to be successful in promoting birth control; its population is currently increasing at only 1.8% yearly. Burma has a moderate population density, but in some parts, population pressure is growing, and family planning has not yet received the attention it requires.
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1980
During fiscal 1980, Bank and IDA lending to the Region amounted to $2,436.5 million, an increase of 17% from fiscal 1979. The number of projects assisted rose by five to 41. The capacity of South Asian countries to borrow on Bank terms remained limited; consequently, except for two Bank loans to India totaling $125 million, all financing was done on IDA terms.
As in previous years, the largest share of lending ($1,098 million, or just 45%) went
for agriculture and rural development. A total of 19 credits was made in support of this sector. Power ($615 million, or 25% of the total) remained the second largest sector of lending. Nonproject lending ($50 million in fiscal 1980) over the last four years has been limited to Bangladesh. Other lending ($674 million) in fiscal 1980 was spread over industrial development and finance, transportation, water supply and sewerage, population and nutrition, telecommunications, education, urbanization, and technical assistance.
Funds committed under co-financing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached $375 million, or 11% below last year's level, but 191% above the 1976-78 average. All but $7 million in co-financing funds were accounted for by official sources.
Each co-financed project attracted an average of $29 million in co-financing during the year, compared with about $33 million in fiscal 1979 and $29 million in fiscal 1978."
11 Co-financing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
The Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region comprises a group of member countries with widely diverse social, political, and economic characteristics. In terms of per capita income levels, the countries in the Region range from those having the highest income of all present Bank borrowers (Portugal, Romania, and Yugoslavia) to those (such as Afghanistan, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and the Yemen Arab Republic) that, being among the least developed, are recipients of IDA credits. The Region also includes many of the world's major oil-exporting nations—whose per capita incomes and financial resources have placed them above the need for World Bank borrowing—that together, have become a major source of development assistance capital for other coun-
tries. This juxtaposition of capital-surplus and capital-deficit countries within the Region has been a major factor in the area's economy during the last development decade.
The countries of the Region are so diverse in natural resources, levels of economic development, and in their social, cultural, and political systems that the impact of international economic forces during the 1970s has been felt in different ways and degrees in different groups of countries. The response to developments in the international economy has been determined not only by countries' needs in terms of income, but also by their differing political and administrative systems. In many countries, economic development during the decade of the 1970s was interrupted, more or less severely, by political and military conflict.
During this period, a major war occurred in the Middle East and there were several instances of conflict or revolution involving member countries.
Despite these problems, most countries in the Region had achieved substantially higher income levels by the end of the decade, and six countries graduated from eligibility for Bank lending (Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, and Spain). In several cases, the final projects were sophisticated and innovative, such as one in fiscal 1977 for industrial research and development in Spain, and one for pollution avoidance in Finland (fiscal 1975). In many countries in the Region, the decade also saw major efforts in a new pursuit of social development objectives, including those related to employment, rural and urban development, education, and health; some countries had also undertaken important institutional reforms designed both to improve domestic economic efficiency and to respond to new conditions in the world economy.
Institutional reforms have been a particular feature of the last decade in several of the Region's member countries. In Yugoslavia, the 1970s saw a continuation of the process of decentralization that was begun in 1965; in Romania, which has a centrally planned economy, improved systems of planning and performance indicators were introduced. In several other countries, exemplified by Egypt's "open door" policy and its renewed encouragement of the private sector, the state's role in development and planning has been reassessed and, in some cases, the organization and operation of state enterprises and other parastatals have become a topic for study and policy reform. In yet other cases (Portugal, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and the Yemen Arab Republic), the role of the state was strengthened through nationalization (Portugal) and through the development of central planning institutions. Thus, true to their diversity, the countries of the Region have exhibited a variety of responses to new economic circumstances, ranging from those where state intervention has increased to those in which there has been some devolution to market forces.
In almost all countries, regardless of their economic systems, the question of the pricing of resources has become a subject of major deliberation. The attention paid to pricing derives partly from a heightened concern over the utilization of energy resources, partly from increases in the cost of food (for which, in many countries in the Region, there are heavy subsidies), and partly, also, from inflation in
traded manufactures. Countries in which state control of prices is important have reviewed pricing policies (Egypt since 1977, Morocco since 1978, Romania in 1974-77, Turkey in 1977-79) and, in some cases, substantial adjustments have been made.
Economic and Financial Developments
During the past decade, the countries of the Region have been subject to two major sets of economic forces, those largely international in origin (inflation, slower trade in recent years, rising energy costs, and changing patterns of international migration) and those whose origins were domestic (demographic pressures, food shortages, unemployment or underemployment, and a lack of facilities to deliver basic needs), thus creating a need for structural adjustments in production and consumption. Taking the Region as a whole (except for the special group of major oil exporters), its countries can be placed into two broad groups according to whether the net impact of these forces has been growth enhancing or growth inhibiting. In most nonoil-exporting countries, economic growth was somewhat less rapid during the second half of the decade than during the first half. This is evident from the accompanying table on average annual growth rates, which suggests that a loss of dynamism was the net result of the adjustments these countries made to inflation, recession in member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD),
higher costs of energy, and declines in the terms of trade that occurred from the early to the mid-1970s.
To be sure, diverse factors affected the Region's countries. For example, Portugal, Turkey, and Yugoslavia all suffered (though to varying degrees) from reversals, beginning in late 1973, in the growth of remittances from laborers working in the industrialized countries of Western Europe. These reversals compounded the impact of other factors on their balance of payments, leading, in turn, to foreign exchange shortages that were only partly offset by increased foreign borrowing. In other cases, where a single export commodity is a major factor determining growth, price declines in the second half of the decade were an important contributor to slower growth, pointing to the need for a structural diversification of exports in such countries. In Syria, unpredicted changes in aid flows, partly the result of tensions in the area, at times served to impair the implementation of that country's development plan. In Romania, an earthquake in 1977, coming after a major flood in 1975, accentuated the slowdown in the rapid growth rates achieved in earlier years.
In a second group of countries, the economic environment has, on balance, been growth enhancing. Two countries (Algeria and Egypt) benefited when revenues from energy exports rose. In other countries (Jordan and the Yemens), a rapid expansion of remittances from the growing migration of workers into the capital-surplus countries, together with increased capital grants and (in Jordan) a more active export-oriented investment strategy, has enhanced their capacity to borrow abroad, hence further expanding their potential for growth.
In the major oil-producing countries of the Region, the unprecedented increase in export revenues after 1973 resulted in a dramatic improvement in their financial and economic status. Total petroleum production expanded from 17 million barrels a day in 1970 to about 22 million barrels a day in 1980. In terms of value at current petroleum prices, government revenues from this production were about $11,000 million in 1970, and it is estimated that they will rise to over $200,000 million in 1980. This development transformed the nature and level of economic activity in the sub-region,  as these countries  increased their
A young boy working in a field of sugarcane in Morocco. Bank and IDA agricultural investments in the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region amounted to $3,772 million during the period, fiscal 1971-1980.
consumption levels and, at the same time, undertook massive programs to restructure the productive and service base of their economies. Given the limited agricultural potential of the subregion, this restructuring has generally taken the form of large-scale industrial and urban expansion, as well as the development of infrastructure and services. While such investments have been greater than could be executed using local labor, in most cases (with the notable exception of Algeria), they have been less than the total accumulated savings arising from government oil revenues. Consequently, the subregion has become both a major importer of labor and a major exporter, in various forms, of capital. In addition to the direct remittance flows from migrant workers, the subregion has become a major source of development finance through bilateral aid and multilateral assistance channeled through several subregional and country funds and banks,12 as well as through the various international agencies. Total net development assistance from the OPEC countries of the Middle East
and North Africa (excluding Algeria and Iran) averaged 5.7% of their gross national product (GNP) during the period, 1974-78.
The issue of international labor migration and its impact is worthy of particular mention since, during the 1970s, the Region experienced two major patterns of migration. First, many countries in the Mediterranean basin, for some years, had seen migrant workers move into industrialized Western European countries in numbers that grew to over 8 million by the early 1970s. Remittance flows from these workers to their home countries grew to about $5,000 million annually, and, in some countries (Morocco, Portugal, Turkey, Yugoslavia), had become a major item in the balance of payments. The migration also involved significant proportions of the labor force in these coun-
These include the Abu Dhabi Fund, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (.BADEA), the Islamic Development Bank, the Kuwait Fund, the OPEC Fund for International Development, the Iraqi Fund for External Development, and the Saudi Fund, among others.
tries. For example, in Portugal, about 12% of the labor force was working abroad; in Turkey and Yugoslavia, about 5%; and in Morocco, about 7%. In these cases, migration to industrialized Western Europe was as much the result of a lack of productive employment opportunities as of wage differentials. Migration was checked by the recession in Europe that began in 1974; as a result, local employment problems in the workers' home countries and balance of payments difficulties, to which other factors had also contributed (e.g., the return of more than a half-million Portuguese from overseas colonies after 1974), were exacerbated. This episode—the latest phase of a process of migration that had been going on for more than a decade—carried with it the lesson that, while countries may benefit from exporting migrant labor, it is risky to become too dependent on the remittance flows from that labor as a major source of foreign exchange.
The second migration pattern involved the rapid increase in the number of workers to the oil-producing countries. At present, there are some 2.7 million migrant workers in these countries from Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the two Yemens, as well as from other countries outside the Region. Collectively, migrant workers remit some $8,000 million a year to their home countries, a total that exceeds gross aid flows to them. To this extent, migration is not only a benefit to the receiving countries, permitting urban, industrial, and agricultural growth; it also serves as a major mechanism to redistribute foreign exchange from the oil-rich states to the surrounding countries and to increase family incomes in the thousands of village communities that provide the labor. Migration, however, does have its social and economic costs. The labor-exporting countries have, in certain cases, lost up to 30% of their labor force and an even higher proportion of their qualified manpower. Manpower shortages in all sectors have resulted. While the future course of the migration is not clear, authorities in the labor-exporting countries are responding with measures to compensate for its negative effects by, among other things, accelerating training programs that are often conducted with the support of the World Bank, as in Egypt, Jordan, Syria, and the Yemen Arab Republic.
Developments, Fiscal 1980
Conditions in the Region in fiscal 1980 encapsulate many of the principal features of the decade. Further increases in oil prices and continuing high rates of inflation in the prices
of imports, coupled with slow growth in export markets, have combined to produce the potential for sharply widening current account deficits in many member countries. The estimated aggregate current account deficit of all borrowing member countries in the Region in fiscal 1980 was on the order of $26,000 million. This deficit compares with a total of only about $14,000 million in fiscal 1978. Despite generally unsettled conditions in world financial markets, and although commercial banks reflected a greater consciousness of their new and considerable exposure in developing countries, the deficit was financed mainly by expanded borrowing abroad and, in some cases, from capital grants. However, the net impact of these conditions was to constrain growth yet further so that, with only three exceptions (Algeria, the Yemen Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia) each country's GNP is projected to grow at a slower rate in 1980 than the average for the previous five years.
In Egypt, while growth was somewhat less and inflationary pressures continued, the decade brought with it the prospect of a new era of peace that could allow fresh attention to be given to development issues. In Turkey, a package of stabilization measures was introduced that included a devaluation, price and interest rate adjustments, and credit restraints, all aimed at sustaining the country's finances sufficiently to permit a renewal of investment and growth. In Portugal—although unemployment is currently running at 8.1%, despite a current account deficit for calendar 1980 that the government estimates at $800 million, and the prospect of low growth in GDP (4%) for the year, notwithstanding—earlier stabilization programs showed signs of being successful. There was a return to a strong growth in exports and the country's reserve position was substantially strengthened after the rise in the price of gold. In several other countries in the Region, however, geopolitical tensions and other problems of a noneconomic nature continued to interrupt, to a greater or lesser degree, the course of development.
Structural Change and the World Bank's Response
The common, emerging needs of many borrowing member countries in the Region during the last decade have been for structural change in response to higher costs of energy and of other imports; for expanded domestic food supplies; increased productive employment and provision of social services to larger populations in both rural and urban areas; for
export diversification and expansion; improved access to international financial markets; and, in many cases, for accelerated development of manpower and other human resources. The World Bank responded flexibly to these needs and shaped both its lending operations and its other forms of assistance to meet them.
The increase in Bank lending during the decade was accompanied by several important changes in the sectoral composition of its lending, which reflected a new emphasis on alleviating poverty in rural and urban areas. Responding to many countries' concerns for the social objectives of development, the Bank dramatically expanded its share of lending for agriculture, which at the end of the decade, accounted for 25% of total lending in the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region, compared with 13% in 1971. In the second half of the decade, almost half of the agricultural projects were designed to benefit the rural poor. Increased attention was also given to agro-industries, forestry, and fisheries. In several countries, the Bank contributed to the improvement of social conditions in urban areas through its lending for employment-generating activities, through assistance for education and training, by upgrading squatter areas, and through provision of potable water supplies and sewerage facilities. As part of its concern with health, nutrition, and population issues, the Bank helped finance a first population project in Tunisia in fiscal 1971 and a similar project three years later in Egypt that was repeated in fiscal 1979. The Bank also approved post-earthquake rehabilitation loans to Romania and Yugoslavia, a ports rehabilitation loan following a volcanic eruption in Iceland, a loan to repair flood damage in Romania, and pollution avoidance loans to urban areas in Turkey and Yugoslavia.
During the second half of the decade, energy became a priority. In responding to the Region's needs, the Bank chose not only to continue its traditional lending activities in the electric power sector, but also, to encourage policies for conservation and for coordinated development of a full range of energy sector studies in several countries (Egypt, Jordan, and Syria); it assisted in the design and financing of innovative projects, such as the gas gathering and gas distribution projects in Egypt; and, in fiscal 1980, the Bank helped finance the first two petroleum exploration projects in the Region—in Morocco and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. In many countries, the Bank is engaged in a continuing dialogue on the utilization, pricing, and financing of energy resources. In Turkey, the Bank made
one import program loan in fiscal 1979 to help ease that country's balance of payments difficulties that resulted partly from rising costs of imported energy; a loan to support the structural adjustments in the Turkish economy that were initiated by the government was approved in fiscal 1980.
The emergence, in the mid-1970s, of capital surpluses in the oil-producing countries led the Bank to develop a new relationship with those countries. Although most of the oil exporters did not need capital transfers from the World Bank, they still required technical assistance in the form of project preparation and advice on policy. To meet these needs, the Bank organized within its office for the Region a Technical Assistance Division to provide assistance, on a reimbursable basis, in sectoral policy planning, project appraisal, procurement procedures, and project monitoring systems. Illustrative of the wide range of technical assistance work provided in the fiscal 1975-80 period is a series of sector strategy reviews in Kuwait; manpower and labor market studies in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia; a project cost study in Libya; and, in Saudi Arabia, a ports study, several petrochemical project appraisals, the development of a project monitoring system, and assistance in the preparation of a human resources plan. The Bank also continues to undertake, at its own expense, country economic work in some capital-surplus countries; reports have been prepared, for example, on Bahrain, Kuwait, Libya, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates.
The Region's technical assistance operations were not confined to the oil-exporting countries; the Yemen Arab Republic, for instance, received three technical assistance credits during the decade.
Aid and Financial Coordination
The World Bank was able to contribute significantly to its borrowers' needs for capital transfers beyond its own lending by securing co-financing for its projects, particularly in the later years of the decade. The principal agencies active in co-financing Bank projects were the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, the Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederauf-bau, and a number of commercial banks. The Bank's role in convening a consultative group for Egypt in 1977 contributed to aid flows to that country. Similarly, in the case of Jordan, the Bank led, during the past fiscal year, the appraisal of a major dam and irrigation project whose financing by a group of other external
donor agencies will come to substantially more than the Bank's own commitment.
Funds committed in fiscal 1980 under co-financing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached $1,529 million, or 65% above last year's level.
Each co-financed project attracted an average of about $80 million in co-financing during the year, compared with about $34 million in fiscal 1979 and $62 million in fiscal 1978.1S
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1980
the Region, compared with 51 projects for $2,337 million in the previous fiscal year. Lending for agricultural and transportation development accounted for 28% and 18%, respectively, of the total for the Region. As in the recent past, the Region remained one of the major recipients (about 20%) of Bank lending to industry and development finance companies.
In fiscal 1980, Bank and IDA commitments of $2,446 million helped finance 49 projects in
13 Co-financing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
Latin America and the Caribbean
Despite considerable differences in size, endowment of resources, climate, and composition of population, many of the countries in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region share a common set of experiences and face similar development problems. During the past decade, most of the Region's countries made considerable progress. Although population continued to grow at a rapid pace, there was a substantial rise in per capita incomes throughout much of the Region; in addition, education systems were expanded, and nutrition and health conditions improved. Technological change and diversification of the countries' economic structure, characterized, in part, by a growing industrial base and greater urbanization, were accompanied by a rapid growth of manufactured exports. These gains were, in
large measure, the result of years of sustained concern with, and pursuit of, improved economic policies, and came about despite a number of adverse developments in the world economy.
Much remains to be accomplished, however. Most of the countries of the Region have not yet completed the transition to modern economies and, in many, a limited modern sector that is confined to a narrow geographic area has been superimposed on a larger, traditional, and economically poor base.
Continued steady growth in the Region is hindered by several domestic and international problems. A number of countries that rely heavily on imported petroleum to meet their domestic requirements have experienced a deterioration in their terms of trade as world
petroleum prices have increased. Several others are still highly dependent on the export of a few commodities. Efforts to foster an increased efficiency of local industry through economic integration at a subregional level in the Caribbean and in Central America have been hampered in recent years by political and economic disturbances. A few countries have financed rapidly expanding public investments and related imports by large external borrowing. In some countries, a highly skewed pattern of income distribution persists, and many people cannot afford the goods and services they require to satisfy their basic needs. Most governments, however, are determined to maintain, on a financially sound foundation, a fast rate of economic growth and substantial levels of investment in human capital.
Growth in the 1970s
From the late 1960s to 1973, the countries of Latin America achieved high rates of growth of real output, averaging 7% annually, well above the historic average. Two interdependent phenomena, increased investment and relaxation of foreign exchange constraints, were instrumental in bringing this about.
The improved investment performance was accompanied, for the most part, by an increase
in the mobilization of national savings. Balance of payments performance for the Region as a whole was strong during this period. Export earnings grew rapidly as a result of favorable world prices for the Region's major agricultural exports and significant increases in the volume of nontraditional exports. Favorable terms of trade during this period and increased medium-term and long-term capital inflows strengthened the Region's capacity to import. The increase in public debt service, the result of a growth in borrowing and a hardening of terms, was matched by a rapid growth of exports, and international reserve holdings of the monetary authorities increased fourfold.
As a result of the increase in petroleum prices in late 1973 and worldwide recession in 1974 and 1975, most Latin American countries experienced sharp increases in the current account deficits of their balance of payments. The rate of economic growth slowed in most countries, and the average annual increase in real output declined to just over 4% during the period, 1974-75. However, Latin American countries were able, for the most part, to avoid serious prolonged declines in growth by maintaining domestic demand and by borrowing large amounts abroad, mostly on the Eurocurrency market, to finance the needed high levels of imports. Nonetheless, a few countries
suffered declines in economic growth as a result of internal causes or the sharp deterioration of the external trade situation.
The current account deficit for the Region as a whole increased from $2,900 million in 1973 to $7,000 million in 1974 and $14,000 million in 1975; it then fell to $10,000 million in 1976. Initially, the increase in the deficit was the result of a surge of import payments associated with sustained economic growth throughout most of the Region, as well as by the increase in petroleum prices. A sharp deterioration in the Region's terms of trade during the period, 1975-76, stemming from a fall in the world prices of sugar, cotton, wheat, fish-meal, beef, copper, and tin was only partially offset by a decline in the volume of imports.
The large deficits were, for the most part, financed by increases in external borrowing that, though resulting in an increase in the debt service of many, made it possible to cushion the shock of adverse external developments. The countries that pursued a development strategy based on rapid export growth, such as Brazil and Mexico, gained considerable access to world capital markets and were able
to meet their growing debt service without excessive hardship.
During the last three years, the countries of Latin America have continued the process of adjustment to, and recovery from, the adverse developments of the mid-1970s. Real growth in gross domestic product (GDP) averaged almost 6% during the period, 1977-79. Although this rate was below that achieved during the early 1970s, signs of more vigorous growth and improved financial and economic management were apparent in most countries.
During 1979, rapid economic growth in the Region's three largest countries—Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico—and continued strong growth in Colombia, Chile, and Paraguay resulted in an increase in the Region's GDP of 6.5%. While the value of exports increased more than imports, rapidly rising interest payments on external debt and deteriorating terms of trade for the nonpetroleum-exporting countries resulted in large increases in the current account deficit in the balance of payments. While the 1979 current account deficit of $20,000 million exceeded that of any previous year in nominal terms, it was lower in real
A Brazilian farmer, a settler in the A Ito Turi area of Maranhao state, harvests rice from his land. The area was opened up through a colonization project that was supported by a $6.7 million Bank loan.
terms than the large deficit of 1975, and represented a lower share of the Region's GDP than in 1975. While the Region's external indebtedness has grown rapidly in the past several years, it is still within manageable limits in most countries, given the substantial expansion of exports that has occurred. The Region's international reserves have continued to rise; nevertheless, the increased volume of external borrowing and the somewhat harder terms of such borrowing have placed added demands upon the management of external debt, including the need for prompt adoption of adjustment policies in several countries. In a few countries, the growth of external debt service has been unsustainably high. In these cases, however, further borrowing is being curbed, and domestic adjustment measures are being introduced.
Demographic and Social Trends
A major development in Latin America during the past decade has been the slowing down of the population growth rate of many countries. In Colombia, Costa Rica, Mexico, and Panama, for example, growth of population has decelerated significantly. Declines in the death rate, stemming from improved health services, have been more than offset by a pronounced drop in the crude birth rate. While it is still not clear why the birth rate has declined so rapidly, it appears that rising per capita incomes, rapid migration from rural areas to cities, expanded economic opportunities for women, and increased acceptance and effectiveness of family planning programs are among the most important factors responsible.
The fact that, in a number of Latin American countries, a turning point has been reached does not mean that population-related issues will cease being of concern. As a result of past higher population growth and of the increasing participation rates for women, it is expected that in the medium term, the labor force, and hence the need to create jobs, will expand more rapidly than population. Moreover, in most countries, population growth is still high. Longer-term projections suggest that, even under optimistic assumptions about future trends in fertility rates, the population of many countries in the Region will double or triple before stabilizing.
Another major trend that has occurred during the past decade is that Latin America has become an increasingly urban society. Policy makers in virtually every country have been confronted with phenomenal growth of their major urban centers and the social and eco-
nomic problems this growth has created. Managing urban growth has become one of the most pressing development issues of the present time. In recent years, the World Bank has provided increased support to assist countries throughout the Region in dealing with these issues. On the bright side, however, agricultural productivity has increased in many countries, and an increased surplus is now being generated by the agriculture sector.
The economic growth that has taken place over the past several decades in Latin America appears to have benefited many segments of the population. While the major beneficiary of industrialization and of an expansion of the organized service sector appears to have been the growing middle class, many of the new entrants into this group have advanced from a lower-income category. Evidence suggests that there have also been significant gains in the welfare of the poorest segments of the population. Improvement of health services has received greater recognition throughout the Region as constituting an investment in human resources that contributes to productive capacity. As a consequence, life expectancy has increased from 50 years in the 1950s to 63 years at present. The access to, and quality of, education has also improved significantly. Enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all levels.
The successful experience of most countries in Latin America in adjusting to the changing world economy during the decade suggests that, despite a more uncertain external environment in the years ahead, these countries will be able to continue to expand their economies during the 1980s. Expansion will be more difficult than in the past, however, especially for those countries that are substantial importers of oil and that have experienced deterioration in their balance of payments and rapidly growing external debt. Their ability to adopt prudent policies, including measures to accelerate growth of exports further, conserve energy, and, over the medium term, develop new sources of energy will determine the degree of success of their development efforts in the 1980s. Most countries in the Region have a greater capacity to adjust to adverse external developments without prolonged economic dislocations than at any other time in the postwar period. Many countries now have a diversified and relatively advanced industrial base, and within their agricultural sectors, a sizable and modern segment of commercial agriculture. Both are quite resilient to external shocks. Large mineral, energy, and land resources remain untapped, and yet the
necessary infrastructure for exploiting these resources is substantially in place. Perhaps of greatest importance, human and institutional resources in both the public and private sectors are sufficiently advanced to cope reasonably well with the diverse and complex set of issues and problems that accelerated development will entail.
Challenges of the Future
Despite the vulnerability of many countries in the Region to adverse developments in the world economy, prospects for economic growth in the future will be determined, to a considerable extent, by internal economic policies and the effectiveness with which each country manages its development program. While there has been a wide range of experience among individual countries in Latin America, many nonoil-exporting countries, such as Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Panama, and Peru, have increased energy prices toward the new, higher world level. As a consequence, these countries have been successful in curbing growth of energy consumption and in accelerating the development of energy sources, including petroleum. Those countries that have not been able to develop new sources of energy are likely to face increasing pressure on their balance of payments in the 1980s unless they can expand their nontraditional exports at a pace sufficient to offset rising expenditures on imports of petroleum. But, expanding exports in a period of universal slow growth will present a special challenge. For a number of countries, it has become clear that the maintenance of high rates of growth of non-traditional exports over the medium term will require an internationally competitive industrial sector that can come about only through gradual trade liberalization and other structural adjustments. The southern "cone" countries (Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay) have taken major strides toward opening up their economies and allowing market mechanisms to operate with minimal interference. The results, so far, are encouraging.
A second area that received increasing attention during the adjustment period of the 1970s was fiscal and monetary reforms that, in some countries, had a significant impact on the generation of increased savings in the public and private sectors, and on a more efficient allocation of these savings to productive investment. In other countries, where it has not been possible to increase savings, investment plans have been adjusted downward, in some instances, by extending the investment period;
in others, by cutting out certain projects. A combination of new tax measures, expenditure rationalization and control, and pricing policies was also used in some countries to strengthen finances of the public sector.
Serious efforts have been made in a number of the Region's countries to monitor and control external borrowing. While the feasibility of establishing control over private capital movements may vary from country to country, it became clear that an explicit policy regarding public sector external borrowing was required. Where such external debt policies were introduced, control over public sector expenditures was enhanced, since many enterprises that normally escape budgetary control could be monitored through their larger projects that typically involve foreign financing.
To suggest that national economic management is the most important factor determining future growth does not imply that developments in the world economy will not be important for countries in the Region. Clearly, the future trend of world petroleum prices and the availability of medium-term and long-term capital for development are critical determinants of growth for many countries. Equally important for the progress of the Latin American and the Caribbean countries will be the resumption of economic growth in the industrialized nations. Shifts in comparative advantage and in the pattern of trade between Latin America and the industrialized countries have been accompanied by adjustments, often quite difficult, in the developed countries. Protectionist pressures in the industrialized countries, as a consequence, have increased somewhat in recent years, as manufactured exports from developing countries penetrated markets in Europe and North America.
For Latin America, the problem of increased protection could become particularly acute, since an increasing share of its expanded manufactured exports goes to the industrialized countries. Throughout the Region, there is a growing recognition that increasing regional cooperation to promote trade and capital flows is an essential complement to good national economic management since, in the absence of such cooperation, the countries of Latin America will find it increasingly difficult to reconcile balance of payments and external debt management with their growth objectives.
The Caribbean Countries
During the decade of the seventies, most of the countries of the Caribbean were beset by severe economic disturbances, particularly
Jamaica, Guyana, and Haiti (the poorest country in the hemisphere). While these disturbances were triggered by adverse developments in the world economy, the severity of them in the Caribbean was the consequence of deep-rooted structural characteristics common to most of the economies of the region, which make them particularly vulnerable to external disturbances. In addition, late in the decade (the fall of 1979), the Dominican Republic, Dominica, and Haiti were adversely affected by forces entirely out of their control—hurricane David and tropical storm Frederic.
Because of their small size and limited resource base, the countries of the Caribbean rely heavily on imported goods paid for by the export of a few commodities, such as sugar and bauxite, and earnings from tourism. Up to 1973, most of the more developed countries in the Caribbean experienced steady growth. While the external resource gap of most countries widened somewhat during this period, it was more than covered by heavy inflows of foreign investment directed toward the development of mineral resources and tourism. Much of the industrial growth that took place during this period was concentrated in capital-intensive activities and provided only limited stimulus to indigenous enterprises. In the smaller states of the eastern Caribbean, such as Dominica, Grenada, St. Vincent, and Antigua, the rate of economic growth was about half that of the rest of the region, reflecting the more limited resource endowments of these islands.
With the quadrupling of petroleum prices in late 1973 and worldwide recession in the period, 1974-75, the entire region, with the exception of Trinidad and Tobago, experienced major economic setbacks. Declining world prices for the region's agricultural exports, increased import prices, and falling tourism receipts (associated with recession in the industrialized countries) adversely affected the region's balance of payments, public finances, economic growth, and employment levels and, for the first time in many countries, produced inflation. The large current account deficits in their balance of payments, for the most part, were financed out of international reserves and, for some countries, increased external borrowing, primarily on commercial terms.
As the magnitude of the deterioration in the external position became apparent, it was belatedly realized in several countries that the existing current account deficits were not sustainable. During the course of 1977 and 1978, several countries introduced stabilization pro-
grams that included renewing efforts to strengthen public finances, aiming policies at limiting wage increases, tightening import restrictions, and relaxing price controls. These programs, supported by resources from multilateral and bilateral lending institutions, were continued in 1979.
While there has been some improvement in the external position of these countries, significant sacrifices were required as real wages declined and unemployment continued at high levels in most countries. The speed with which full recovery can be accomplished over the medium term will depend upon the continuation of appropriate stabilization measures, the future trend in world petroleum prices, an adequate level of external capital flows, the growth of export earnings, the strengthening of confidence in the private sector, and the ability of governments to lessen the problems arising from shortages of skilled manpower.
In response to the serious economic problems prevailing throughout the Caribbean in the period, 1976-77, the countries of the region joined with donor countries and international development institutions in late 1977 to form the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development. This group, chaired by the World Bank, has met annually and has provided a framework by which external donors can consider, in a coordinated way, their financial and technical assistance in support of appropriate and long-term economic programs undertaken by the countries of the region.
An important achievement of the Caribbean Group, and one which, over the longer term, may be of great significance for the future development of the area, has been the strong impetus given to regional cooperation in the areas of export promotion, private sector development, tourism, energy, agriculture, and transportation. Regionwide cooperation in tourism promotion and in installing the infrastructure needed to generate additional tourism could make possible economies of scale and could spread the high cost of tourism over many countries. Cooperation involving the transport network is centered on improving inter-island shipping to accelerate trade. To formulate long-term solutions to the severe energy problem faced by most countries, efforts are being made to create a comprehensive energy planning capability in the region, to develop indigenous, unconventional energy sources, to initiate energy conservation programs, and to prepare energy development projects, including the exploration and development of hydrocarbon resources. In the area
of export promotion, a long-term regional program is being prepared that is aimed at establishing regional services for governments and export industries.
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1980
Bank and IDA lending to the Region totaled $2,684 million in fiscal 1980, up from $2,265 million provided in the previous fiscal year. Of the total, $89 million was lent on IDA terms; these credits went to Honduras, Nicaragua, the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), and Bolivia. In fiscal 1980, 17 countries and the CDB were recipients of the loans and credits approved.
In response to the sharp rise in petroleum prices, the Bank increased its lending for power; it is now the most important sector in the Region in terms of amounts lent, accounting for 26% of the total. Lending in the energy sector is expected to grow rapidly as the Bank continues to expand its support of power and begins to lend for petroleum, natural gas, and
coal development. As in fiscal 1979, loans in support of transportation activities made up an important share of the total (14%). Projects in the agriculture sector accounted for 15%. Industrial development and finance (including small-scale enterprises) showed a large increase, from $437.5 million in fiscal 1979 to $558.5 million, or 21% of the total, in fiscal 1980. Most of the increase was due to the rise in commitments for small-scale enterprise development—from $7 million in fiscal 1979 to $202 million in fiscal 1980.
Funds committed as co-financing for Bank-supported and IDA-supported projects reached $2,648 million in fiscal 1980, of which about $1,150 million involved one large hydropower project. The average amount of co-financing for the 16 co-financed projects, excluding the large hydropower project, reached $93 million, compared with $37 million in fiscal 1979.14
14 Co-financing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
Chapter Four
Bank Policies and Activities, Fiscal 1980
Bank Policies
Structural Adjustment Lending
"The Committee welcomed the initiative taken by the Bank to provide assistance through structural adjustment lending on appropriate terms and conditions for developing countries which face difficult medium-term prospects in their balance of payments. Members recognized the contribution that could be made through this type of nonproject and program lending both to the rapid transfer of adequate resources and to the active pursuit of appropriate structural policies in the developing countries."
Development Committee communique April 24, 1980
The issue of "structural adjustment" had come full circle, for it was the Development Committee,1 at its meeting held just before the Annual Meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in October 1979, that requested the Executive Directors of the Bank to explore the criteria that could govern program and sector loans in situations where external disequilibria had not yet become severe.
In his address to the Boards of Governors at that Annual Meeting, Robert S. McNamara, President of the World Bank, noted that he had earlier indicated 2 that he was prepared to recommend to the Bank's Executive Directors consideration of requests for "structural adjustment" assistance. In the spring of 1980, discussion on the subject was held by the Directors.
It was noted during the discussion that the recent changes in the international economy, including the increase in the price of petroleum, continued high levels of inflation, and a prolonged period of slow growth in the industrialized countries, were posing acute problems for many of the developing countries.
In the short term, it was clear that the current account deficits of the petroleum-importing developing countries would be large, and
that growth rates would be significantly lower than previously forecast. For calendar 1980, for example, current account deficits, in constant prices for this group of countries, are expected to be roughly equal to those of 1975. Particularly hard hit are likely to be the low-income countries, whose deficits as a share of GNP are expected to equal almost their previous high point of 3.8% reached in 1975.
Structural adjustment lending was seen as one response in an effort to help supplement, with longer-term finance, the relatively short-term finance available from commercial banks and the resources available from the IMF in order that the current account deficits of many developing countries do not become so large as to jeopardize seriously the implementation of current investment programs and foreign exchange-producing activities.
But since many of the changes to which developing countries need to adjust are permanent, or are long term in character, finance to tide them over the expected deficits will, therefore, be no substitute for structural adjustments in their economies. To achieve desirable growth rates in the future, developing countries will have to use available capital more efficiently, increase domestic savings, increase domestic production of energy and economize in its use, increase domestic output of food, and increase and diversify their exports. Actions of this sort will require a pattern of investment different from that in the past.
1 Formally, the Joint Ministerial Committee of the Boards of Governors of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on the Transfer of Real Resources to Developing Countries. Established in October 1974, the Committee consists of 20 members, generally Ministers of Finance, appointed in turn for successive periods of two years by one of the countries or groups of countries that designates a member of the Bank's or IMF's Board of Executive Directors as the case may be. The Committee is required to advise and report to the Boards of Governors of the Bank and the IMF on all aspects of the broad questions of the transfer of real resources to developing countries, and to make suggestions for consideration by those concerned regarding the implementation of its conclusions.
2 Address to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (Manila, Philippines), May 10, 1979.
The Bank's lending for structural adjustment is designed to assist in this difficult task. This type of nonproject lending has the specific objective of helping countries reduce their current account deficit to more manageable proportions over the medium term by supporting programs of adjustment that encompass specific policy, industrial, and other changes designed to strengthen their balance of payments, while maintaining their growth and developmental momentum.
Such programs are intended to be flexible and tailored to the needs of individual countries; they could involve, for example:
—measures to adjust production to higher energy prices;
—emphasis on labor-intensive investments that have a short gestation period and a substantial impact on employment;
—diversification of economies dependent on exports of a few primary commodities, especially by promoting investment in the production of nontraditional exports;
—enhancement of export competitiveness in economies that have suffered from excessive protection of domestic industry, or redirection of investment to domestic markets in the face of changed cost structures or limited export prospects;
—reassessment of the balance between public investment plans and expenditures for the maintenance and operation of existing public assets;
—reappraisal of policies for price and fiscal incentives and the efficient mobilization of domestic resources; and
—institutional changes designed to improve the efficiency of production and marketing systems.
Although lending for structural adjustment is a new form of Bank assistance, such assistance is a natural evolution in the traditional program assistance that has always been (and continues to be) a part of the Bank's lending operations. Previous program lending, however, has generally been designed to meet the immediate consequences of crises. Such lending has supported reconstruction activities, has helped meet the need to supply industrial raw materials and equipment to raise the use of existing industrial capacity, has aided economies adversely affected by a sudden fall in export earnings (where the economy is critically dependent on a single export item), and has been used to bolster economies hit by a sharp deterioration in terms of trade as a result of a rapid rise in import prices. As a result, the programs supported were concentrated on measures dealing with immediate difficulties rather
than on finding solutions to a country's underlying, long-term structural problems. Structural adjustment lending, on the other hand, envisages the probability of multiyear programs being worked out and supported by a succession of loans. Because such lending will be developed with long-term objectives in mind, it is expected to have more enduring effects than the crisis-oriented operations that were characteristic of the Bank's program lending in the past. Successful structural adjustment programs should have the added effect of encouraging the provision of similar assistance from other sources.
Although investment in long-term development projects will continue to absorb the greatest part of the Bank's technical assistance and lending resources, lending for structural adjustment is expected to total between $600 million and $800 million in fiscal 1981.
It was agreed that the Executive Directors would review, during the course of fiscal 1981, the Bank's structural adjustment lending policy in the light of initial assessments of loans already approved and of possible changing circumstances in the world economy. Descriptions of the structural adjustment loans approved during the year can be found on pages 111 and 112.
Co-financing
The potential importance of the Bank's role in coordinating and stimulating external capital flows, from both official and private sources, to the developing countries has taken on a new urgency in light of the current economic environment. In this context, the Executive Directors, during the past year, reviewed the Bank's co-financing experience and gave direction to possible ways to expand co-financing opportunities in the future.
The role played by the Bank in co-financing varies considerably, depending on the source of co-financing. Official aid agencies, export credit institutions, and private lenders are the three principal sources of co-financing funds.
Official agencies. Historically, bilateral and multilateral official aid agencies have been the major contributors to World Bank co-financing operations. During fiscal years 1973-79, for instance, agencies in the industrialized countries and petroleum-exporting nations contributed around 60% of total funds provided through co-financing with the World Bank and participated in 87% of the Bank's total co-financed operations.
Co-financing activities have promoted the more effective use of development assistance
by helping to channel aid funds to high-priority projects, particularly in the case of new agencies that lacked administrative capacity and were less familiar with the recipient countries. Co-financing has also become an increasingly active instrument of aid coordination, and thus has improved the developmental impact of aid by avoiding fragmentation of assistance efforts and by saving managerial time in the borrowing countries.
In relative terms, the rate of expansion of co-financing with these official agencies may increase at a less rapid pace over the next few years. Indications are that in the current period of economic uncertainty, aggregate levels of development assistance from industrialized countries are not likely to rise in real terms. Assistance available for co-financing from member countries of the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC) may increase somewhat, but not as dramatically as in 1974-75, given the expanded capacity of OPEC development institutions to identify, appraise, and supervise projects of their own.
Despite the apparent difficulty of increasing the volume of co-financing activities with official aid agencies, the Bank will continue its efforts to expand this source of co-financing, since it is of particular importance to those low-income countries that require assistance on concessionary terms.
Export credit institutions. Export credits have been an important source of co-financing, particularly for projects that require significant imports of equipment in the industrial, public utilities, and transportation sectors. This source of co-financing expanded at a fast rate during the mid-1970s, increasing from $91 million in fiscal 1973 to $621 million in the following year. Since fiscal 1974, however, export credit co-financing has declined slightly in real terms, even though total net disbursements of all export credits have increased fourfold. Export credit co-financing reached a level of $879 million in fiscal 1975, declining to $753 million in fiscal 1976; in fiscal years 1977-80, it totaled $333 million, $481 million, $652 million, and $2,191 million, respectively. This inconsistent trend in amounts is attributed, in large measure, to the nature and size of projects in any particular year that require export financing. For example, the approximate tripling of export credit co-financing in fiscal 1980 was partially due to one very large project in the power sector for which over $800 million in export credits are anticipated.
In an earlier period, export credits were occasionally co-financed on a "joint" basis,
with the Bank playing a central role in the organization and supervision of international competitive bidding. In light of the unwillingness of some countries to participate in such joint arrangements and the slowness of the procedure, this technique has not been used very often, and the most prevalent form of export credit co-financing over the past decade has been "unorganized" parallel financing. Under this method, the borrower assumes the responsibility for conducting a competitive bidding process and may consider both the price and financing terms in making an award. The Bank's role is normally limited to project appraisal and supervision and assisting the borrower in contacting suppliers and export credit agencies. The main objective is to ensure that borrowers can obtain necessary financing on the best possible terms and the required goods and services at the lowest price.
While this method has been quite successful, the Bank is exploring whether it would be useful to play a more active role in helping to ensure that export credit finance would be available in a timely and efficient manner through methods that call for working more closely with the export credit agencies.
Private sources. Perhaps the most dramatic change in development finance over the past decade has been the expansion of commercial bank lending to developing countries. Net annual disbursements from this source grew from an average of $4,000 million in the 1970-72 period to $10,000 million in 1974, $20,000 million in 1978, and to an estimated $23,000 million in 1979.3
During this period of increased lending by commercial banks, only a small percentage involved co-financing with the World Bank. Nevertheless, the rate of growth in the volume and number of co-financing operations has been significant. From fiscal 1975-78, there were a total of 29 co-financed operations involving commercial banks and accounting for about $900 million in private funds. In fiscal 1979, 16 co-financed operations with commercial banks provided $550 million in funds. In these co-financing operations, the World Bank and the commercial banks enter into separate loan agreements with the borrower. The commercial loan is on market terms (usually floating rate Eurodollars) and is often linked to the World Bank loan through an optional cross-default clause and a memorandum of agreement signed by the World Bank and the agent
3 Source: OECD. Amounts exclude guaranteed export credits.
for the commercial banks. The memorandum of agreement provides for the exchange of information on the project and the borrower's ability to service the debt and spells out any administrative services (such as acting as "billing agent") that the World Bank may agree to perform for the commercial banks.
Since commercial banks have been eager to lend to developing countries in the recent past, co-financing may not have had a dramatic effect on the flow of funds or, except in a few instances, have significantly eased the terms on which funds were made available. However, through co-financing arrangements with commercial banks, the World Bank has introduced new lenders to borrowers in developing countries, which, in the longer run, should help them secure continued access to international capital markets.
Over the next few years, developing countries will have to increase their borrowing from commercial banks during a period when economic and institutional factors, including restrictive monetary policies and competition from developed nations in the capital markets, may tend to constrain commercial bank lending. In light of these circumstances, co-financing with the World Bank might enhance the prospects of developing countries obtaining additional capital on reasonable terms.
Several opportunities for the World Bank to expand its role in co-financing with private sources are being studied. Through the Bank's new program for structural adjustment lending, commercial banks could gain confidence that the recipient country is taking steps to deal with balance of payment problems and that the World Bank's analysis of those steps is positive and is supported by its own lending. A World Bank structural adjustment loan, therefore, could well provide an impetus to stepped-up commercial bank lending.
In addition to the current technique of co-financing with commercial banks, the World Bank is considering ways that might enhance the sale of participations to the private sector by designing particular loans to include a portion for resale on floating-rate terms. These sales would be without recourse to the World Bank. Similar techniques are now being used by the International Finance Corporation and the Inter-American Development Bank. Finally, the Bank will also examine the feasibility of assisting its higher-income borrowers in improving their access to the long-term, fixed-rate international bond markets when market conditions indicate such an arrangement could be attractive to private investors.
Currency Pooling
As reported in the World Bank's Annual Report for fiscal 1979 (pages 28-29), agreement was reached during that year on the adoption of a currency pooling scheme designed to equalize exchange rate risks among the Bank's borrowers. The need to devise some system to achieve borrower equity arose from the recent, significant changes in exchange rates among the various currencies that the Bank borrows and lends.
It was also agreed, in fiscal 1979, to alter the Bank's disbursement procedures with development finance companies (DFCs). Because many DFC subborrowers are unprotected by a sort of "natural pooling" that shelters large and frequent Bank borrowers, they were reluctant to take on an uncertain foreign exchange liability that may bear no relationship to the source of procurement or to their foreign exchange earnings. To this end, it was decided that on an interim basis, disbursements to DFCs would be made half in US dollars, and half in one of three currencies—Deutsche mark, Swiss francs, and Japanese yen. The interim measure was known as the "DFC Currency Basket Scheme."
In fiscal 1980, agreement was reached on the treatment of loans committed before the currency pool begins operation (July 1, 1980), and on loans to DFCs.
As regards the former, it was decided that the undisbursed portions of existing loans could be included in the currency pool at the option of the borrower, but that portions already disbursed would be excluded. The inclusion of the undisbursed portions extends the risk-spreading features of the currency pooling more quickly to cover a greater volume of loans, and, therefore, increases the benefits of the pooling system to borrowers. The disbursed and outstanding portions of existing loans are to be excluded from the pool so as to avoid the complex problems of equity caused by the possibility of "negative selection." If borrowers elected only to include disbursed portions with a mix likely to appreciate faster than the pool mix, loans in the pool would be forced to bear a larger foreign exchange risk.
As far as loans to DFCs are concerned, it was decided to include all new loans to DFCs —both those that are protected against exchange risk by governments and those that pass it through to subborrowers—in the pool. Though the interim arrangement may have facilitated DFC operations pending implementation of the currency pooling system, it resulted in unequal treatment of one category
of borrowers at the expense of other borrowers. With the currency pooling system about to begin operations, there was no need to continue the DFC Currency Basket Scheme. As with other borrowers, the DFCs will have the option of transferring the undisbursed balances on existing loans to the pool.
The currency pooling system for all new loans is scheduled to go into operation for loans negotiated after July 1, 1980. For those undisbursed portions of outstanding loans, it is envisaged that loan agreements will be amended during the following six months to permit their inclusion in the pool.
Health
After several years of informal activity in the health sector, the World Bank adopted, in 1974, a formal health policy that limited its operations in the sector to financing health components of projects in other sectors. That policy reflected the Bank's concern about the feasibility of financing low-cost health care systems and its uncertainty about its proper role—how, in other words, its activities would relate to those of the World Health Organization (WHO).
Although Bank lending was restricted to health components, the Bank did become a major lender in the sector. During the three-year period, fiscal 1976-78, the Bank assisted health components in 70 projects in 44 countries at a total cost of $405 million. Bank-financed health components in agriculture and rural development, education, and urban projects totaled $115 million; 80% of these expenditures were in agriculture and rural development projects, 14% in urban projects, and 6% in education projects. In addition, Bank-assisted projects in population, nutrition, and water supply and sanitation are also expected to improve health; together, they totaled an additional $3,400 million in the period, with specific health components estimated at $290 million.
The Bank's increasing involvement, since 1974, in the health sector reflects its concern for alleviating poverty—the major cause of disease in the developing world. An analysis of the health sector, published in the form of a Health Sector Policy Paper in February 1980, underscores the gravity of the problem in the developing countries:
—Life expectancy is two-thirds of the prevailing rate in the wealthier, developed countries.
—The possibility of dying before the age of five is about 20 times greater than in the developed countries. Gastrointestinal and res-
piratory infections, measles, and malnutrition take a heavy toll among small children.
—Temporary illness cuts the potential output of workers by approximately 10%.
A major problem confronting the health sector is one of access: some 80% of the world's poor are outside the scope of modern health care systems. A major allocation of resources, the creation of new institutions, and the strengthening of existing ones will have to be undertaken if the United Nations' goal— adopted by all governments present at the International Conference on Primary Health Care at Alma Ata (USSR) (1978)—of providing access to basic health services to all by the year 2000 is to be met.
Although village-level health workers at all levels of skills require additional training and supervision, although large amounts of money spent on health are not being deployed effectively, and despite serious problems of recruiting staff and distributing supplies, the Bank's operational experience in the health sector reveals that low-cost health technologies are available for tackling common and serious health problems in developing countries, and local persons can be recruited and trained to provide many of the important services.
In July 1979, the Executive Directors reviewed the Bank's experience in financing health components and approved a proposal to expand its program to provide, in addition to financing such components, direct lending for health projects. The Executive Directors agreed that emphasis should be placed on providing primary level health care to treat common, simple ailments; on preventive care instead of on curative medicine; on low-cost technologies in place of sophisticated hospitals and equipment; and on community participation in health care systems.
To cope with the expanded activities, a new Population, Health, and Nutrition Department was established in October 1979 in the World Bank's Central Projects Staff by combining the staff working in the fields of health, nutrition, and family planning. The Bank's new health program will initially begin with one project in fiscal 1981 and expand to four or five projects annually by 1984. These projects will attempt to improve access to acceptable health services, reduce significantly mortality and morbidity, and strengthen the primary health care systems of borrowing countries.
Education
Since the 1950s, substantial progress has been made in providing basic education to
young children and adults living in developing countries.
Enrollment of children in schools has expanded at unprecedented rates at all levels of education. There has been a significant decline in the proportion of adults who are illiterate— from 44% in 1950 to 32% in 1975. Public expenditures on education, despite severe limitations on resources, have increased steadily in developing countries to equal roughly the spending in industrialized countries—about 15% of national budgets.
There have also been improvements in extending educational institutions to areas previously unserved and in training managers, administrators, and teachers to run educational systems more effectively.
Despite these impressive gains, the education sector faces many challenges in the 1980s.
—Over 250 million children of school-going age and another 600 million adults in developing countries lack basic education. Most of these comprise the poor, the rural dwellers, and women.
—Inefficiencies in the flow of students through different grades keep the number of students in school and the quality of education they receive low. Less than half of the children enrolled in primary school, for example, reach the fourth grade.
—Because the education that is imparted is, in many cases, not in tune with the needs of the labor market, a large percentage of those who leave school do not find appropriate employment.
These factors have stood in the way of achieving the United Nations' goal of free primary education to all; they have also made some people skeptical about the efficacy of increasing public expenditures on education.
Public expectations of education have changed considerably during the past three decades: from raising political and social consciousness of the newly independent countries in the 1950s to meeting the needs of the modern sector in the 1960s. With the increasing concern about the relevance of education, efforts were made in the 1970s to relate education to work and to integrate education into all development efforts.
These efforts are expected to continue through the 1980s. In addition, the developing countries are expected to strive to make education more relevant to their national life, culture, and the needs of various population groups. Some countries have already taken steps to use local languages in the early years of formal schooling while, in some others—
where a foreign language is the medium of instruction—efforts are being made to reactivate national languages.
The World Bank supports the efforts of its member countries to achieve these objectives, for studies have shown that investment in education yields significant returns in areas that go beyond the development of human resources. Cross-sectoral analysis has revealed that education in one form or another is essential to the meeting of basic needs such as health, nutrition, and provision of safe drinking water. There seems, for instance, to be a strong relation between education and life expectancy, and between education, particularly of women, and population growth rates.
A review of the Bank's policies on education, approved by the Executive Directors during fiscal 1980, points to studies showing that economic returns on investment in education seem, in most instances, to exceed returns on alternative kinds of investment, and that developing countries obtain higher returns than developed ones. The Executive Directors, in considering a lending program for the period, fiscal 1979-83, emphasized that the Bank must concentrate its activities in areas where it has comparative advantage and endorsed increased allocation of funds for primary education and for training in work skills. Bank loans and IDA credits that provide mostly physical facilities, equipment, and training will help to expand, in the coming years, coverage of basic education to underserved areas and population groups.
Since its first education project in Tunisia in fiscal 1962, the $2,600 million in assistance from the Bank through fiscal 1979 created additional places for 1.8 million students to study. During that period, some 10,000 institutions were constructed or improved with Bank support, substantial improvements were made in the quality of teaching and training, and in increasing the enrollment of disadvantaged groups.
The Executive Directors approved an increase in lending for education and training in developing countries from $517 million in fiscal 1978 to about $900 million annually for the five-year period, fiscal 1979-83. In allocating more funds for primary and nonformal education, for technical education at the secondary level, and for project-related training, five principles were laid down to guide Bank lending:
1. Basic education should be provided for all children and adults as soon as the available resources and conditions permit.
2. Efforts should be made to provide educa-
Nonformal village education in Upper Volta.
Here, an instructor gives some finer points
on the raising of cotton to a group of students near
Bobo-Dioulasso. Such practical curriculum
forms a part of the country's network of
Rural Education Centers.
tional opportunities without distinction as to sex, ethnic background, or social and economic status.
3. Education systems should try to improve the flow of students through different grades with a minimum of waste, and also improve the quality of education.
4. Education should be related to work and the environment of the student.
5. To satisfy these objectives, developing countries will need to build and maintain in-
stitutional capacities for managing education systems.
In promoting these principles, the Executive Directors recognized that because the problems and priorities of individual countries differ, the Bank will have to be flexible and adjust to the needs of its borrowers. Member governments will be closely involved in discussions with the Bank to establish priorities in lending for education to the countries concerned.
Bank Activities
Economic Development Institute
The Economic Development Institute (EDI) was established in 1955 to provide mid-career training in economic management techniques and policies for senior officials of developing countries. Since then, the scope of EDI training has expanded to cover problems and methods of identifying, preparing, appraising, executing, and managing development projects. For the past decade, EDI has offered training not only to government officials concerned with development programs and projects, but also to those responsible for training activities in developing countries; it has enlarged its training capability not only in English, but also in French and Spanish; and it has greatly expanded its activities in developing countries, mostly in collaboration with other institutions. In fiscal 1970, EDI had only 149 participants in Washington courses and 93 participants in regional and national courses. In fiscal 1980, 10 courses and three seminars were offered to about 340 participants in Washington, assistance was given to 20 regional and 19 national courses, and seminars were offered to about 1,080 participants.
During the past year, EDI entered the second year of its Five-Year Program for fiscal 1979-83, following its general guidelines to increase support for training institutions overseas, especially for francophone Africa, and to introduce and develop new courses and seminars. This main direction of growth received the support and encouragement of the Bank's Executive Directors when they reviewed, in May, the EDI training program for fiscal 1981. In particular, the Directors welcomed efforts to organize EDI seminars that foster a continuing dialogue on development issues between senior, high-level policy makers in developing countries and the Bank's management staff.
The fiscal 1980 program in Washington featured three new courses. With a course on Revenue-earning Public Enterprises, EDI made a modest beginning in providing training in the management of public utilities, a field in which the Bank has extensive experience. A course on Employment Promotion and
Small Enterprises focused on a subject of increasing interest to development planners: the role of small enterprises in promoting employment, increasing income, and alleviating poverty. A course on problems of national economic management, offered in Spanish, was specifically designed for participants from Latin America. Two courses, one on rural development and the other on national economic management, and a two-week seminar on development banking, were given in French. For the third consecutive year, EDI gave a seminar on teaching methods and curriculum design, and the United Nations Institute for Training and Research joined EDI in conducting a bilingual (English/ French) seminar on economic development and its international setting.
In Africa, EDI co-sponsored six regional and three national courses and seminars. Two regional courses on development banking, one in French and the other in English, were given in the Ivory Coast in cooperation with the African Development Bank and the Association of African Development Finance Institutions. Another regional course that took place in the Ivory Coast was on urban projects, offered in French and co-sponsored by the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat). In Mali, a regional course on rural development was given in French, in cooperation with the Communaute Economique de FAfrique de l'Ouest and the Comite Permanent Inter-Etats de Lutte contre la Secheresse dans le Sahel. With the Eastern and Southern African Management Institute in Tanzania, EDI co-sponsored two regional courses, one on transportation projects, and the other on agro-industrial projects. In Egypt, EDI, the Institute of National Planning (INP), and the Transport Authority of the Ministry of Transport co-sponsored a national transportation projects course and a national course for senior transport officials; EDI and the INP also gave a national course on industrial projects.
At the request of the Association of Development Financing Institutions in Asia and the Pacific, EDI embarked on a program of training for development bank officials with the assistance of the United Nations Development
Programme, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, the German Foundation for International Development (DSE), and the local institutions where the courses were held—the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines and the Management Development Institute of India. Other regional courses co-sponsored by EDI included one on transportation projects, with the Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies; one on industrial projects, with the International Development Center of Japan;4 and one on livestock development projects, with the University of the Philippines at Los Bafios, the Southeast Asian Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture, and the DSE.
A national seminar on development policy analysis and investment decisions was co-sponsored by EDI, the Government of India, and the Administrative Staff College in India; and five national courses were given in Pakistan— on agricultural projects; transportation project planning; education projects; railway project planning; and investment analysis, decision making, and implementation—in cooperation with the Planning Division and other governmental departments. In addition, EDI gave two regional seminars, in Sri Lanka and Thailand, respectively, for senior officials in the transportation sector.
In the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, EDI co-sponsored four regional courses: two, on industrial projects and development banking, with the Association of Argentine Banks; and two others, on urban management and agro-industry, with the Centra de Treinamento para o Desenvolvi-mento Economico (Brazil). In cooperation with the Centro de Capacitacion y Desarrollo in Mexico, EDI gave a national course on investment planning, project identification, and appraisal.
In 12 other regional and national courses and seminars, EDI helped plan and design the curriculum, identify lecturers, and supply training materials. These included courses on project management, in Ecuador; on rural development and on industrial projects, in Bangladesh; and on agriculture/agro-industry and on general projects, in Indonesia. The technical assistance provided by EDI included teaching support of one to two weeks at a seminar on agricultural projects in the Bahamas and in the courses on project management in Tanzania; on rural development, in India; on agricultural projects, in Egypt; on industrial projects, in Korea; on economic development planning, in Chile; and on project
identification and preparation, in Kuwait. EDI was also called upon to provide assistance to a Bank transportation project in Argentina by advising on the curriculum and selection of lecturers for the training component of the project.
EDI made substantial progress in the production and distribution of training materials and publications in fiscal 1980. A number of books, course notes, case studies, and exercises were written and published. Work was begun on several book-length manuscripts, teaching modules, and audio-visual packages, and efforts were also made to increase the production of materials in French and Spanish. Requests for EDI publications and training materials continued to increase, averaging about 200 each month in fiscal 1980. EDI supplied materials for courses in 30 countries and to more than 200 institutions in some 70 countries.
As part of its effort to assist training institutes and government departments responsible for training in developing countries, EDI continued to invite selected officials to EDI to consult on the scope and form of courses, training materials, and pedagogical methods. Sometimes they attended a course or part of a course. EDI also continued its efforts to evaluate its impact on the training programs of institutions with which it is cooperating, and studies to this end were carried out in fiscal 1980 in Bangladesh, Sudan, and Indonesia, where cooperative programs with EDI have been in existence for a number of years.
Technical Assistance
Technical assistance, long an integral part of World Bank operations, grew both in volume and scope in fiscal 1980, resulting in an increase in committed and disbursed funds.
Most technical assistance activities financed or carried out by the Bank expanded. During the year, the Bank extended four loans or credits for a total of $ 13 million exclusively for technical assistance, compared with five loans for $29.7 million in fiscal 1979. Technical assistance components included in loans and credits in all sectors rose to $534 million for 197 operations, compared with $359 million and 181 operations the previous year. If one were to include supervision/implementation/ engineering services as part of the technical assistance component, the allocation would have totaled $807 million for fiscal 1980.
4 Established by the Government of Japan to provide training for government officials of developing countries.
Projects with a substantial technical assistance component included a $107 million loan to Thailand for the construction of a natural gas pipeline (technical assistance: $12.4 million), a $38 million loan to the Philippines for fisheries training (technical assistance: $7.2 million), and a $210 million IDA credit to India for irrigation (technical assistance: $49 million).
In 1975, the Bank created a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to help overcome weaknesses in borrowers' capacities to complete project preparation and to support the entities responsible for preparing or carrying out projects. Under the facility, the Bank advances funds to meet gaps in project preparation and for institution building. During the year, advances from the PPF amounted to $20.4 million, up from $12.6 million in fiscal 1979. In response to increased demand for PPF assistance, the PPF's commitment authority was increased by $20 million to $57.5 million in fiscal 1980.
The PPF is utilized in a variety of sectors. For example, IDA advanced $120,000 to Upper Volta through the PPF to complete preparation of a rice mill, conduct crop research, and assess implementation efforts. Some $200,000 was advanced to Niger to prepare architectural designs and tender documents for an education project. Benin received $320,000 through the PPF for assistance in industrial development.
The number of new projects financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for which the Bank acted as executing agency rose to 44 and involved commitments of $20 million, compared with 37 projects and $42.9 million worth of commitments in the previous year. These projects included a regional program in Central America and Panama that has been designed to strengthen national capacity to develop and implement agricultural and rural development projects; the UNDP and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) are co-financing the program—the first instance of IFAD involvement in this kind of undertaking with the Bank. The new UNDP-financed projects also include a novel arrangement between the Bank and the UNDP whereby the latter will advance funds for consultant studies on an agricultural project in Algeria that the Bank is appraising, with the understanding that the UNDP funds will be repaid out of the proceeds of the Bank loan.
UNDP-financed, Bank-executed projects led to Bank lending in calendar 1979 amounting
to $455 million; total follow-up investment from all sources came to $1,500 million.
Efforts to associate technical assistance grants from bilateral sources with Bank lending continued to produce satisfactory results. The Government of Finland provided assistance to Burma in conjunction with a forestry project assisted by the Bank and, in addition, was considering assistance to Bank-identified forestry projects in Sri Lanka and Mexico at the close of the fiscal year; Norway offered to make grants in excess of $1 million available to borrowers to finance technical assistance for project preparation and execution; Canada agreed to provide up to $250,000 a project to help prepare a limited number of projects; and, in consultation with the Bank, Japan is making technical assistance arrangements in support of Bank-assisted projects directly with borrowing countries.
Growing demand for planning assistance has become a well-established trend. There is considerable variety among the specific objectives of planning projects, ranging from assistance for the rehabilitation of a country's economy to improvement of project management or development of planning capabilities in key ministries. Each project, however, has as its overall goal, help to the country concerned in becoming self-sufficient in trained manpower and in developing efficient planning mechanisms. Each project, therefore, emphasizes promotion of national expertise in planning and in implementation of plans.
In fiscal 1980, while continuing to act as executing agency for planning projects in nine countries in three different regions, and while completing projects in Uganda and Zaire, the Bank undertook new projects in Indonesia, Kenya, Korea, the Maldives, Sierra Leone, and Uganda. All but the project in Sierra Leone are being executed by the Bank on behalf of the UNDP; the one exception is a project financed by an IDA credit and supplemented by a grant from the UNDP.
Training programs, carried out in association with planning assistance, were designed for about 200 individuals of more than 20 nationalities. Under these programs, trainees improved their technical and managerial skills at institutions in developed and developing countries.
The Bank also provides an array of technical assistance outside of conventional Bank operations. Examples include short-term training; secondment of advisers; transfers of technology, such as computer expertise; serving on evaluation and monitoring panels; and providing demographic,  financial,  and economic
advice for project preparation. Reimbursable technical assistance to capital-surplus, oil-exporting countries of the Middle East is detailed on page 57 of this Annual Report.
Interorganizational Cooperation
The Bank's cooperation with other organizations, within and outside the United Nations system, touches upon virtually every aspect of Bank activity. The character and scope of some of the collaborative relationships are spelled out in formal agreements, as in the case of the cooperative programs (CP) with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Education, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (Unesco), the World Health Organization (WHO), and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). More often, however, they evolve as frequent, informal consultations on country, sector, and project problems, and from joint missions and parallel development undertakings.
The 16-year-old CP between the Bank and the FAO is the largest of the four. In fiscal 1980, the program fielded 178 agriculture and rural development missions in 40 countries. It assisted countries in the preparation of about one-third of the agriculture and rural development projects approved for Bank financing during the year. A formal agreement also establishes the basis of the Bank's cooperation with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). The Bank completed appraisal of six projects to be financed by IFAD and is now supervising them. A further four appraisals have been initiated and an additional 10 are under consideration for future action. Eight Bank-assisted projects were co-financed with IFAD during the year.
The CP between the Bank and Unesco staffed and carried out 63 missions in 27 countries in connection with sector reviews and project identification and preparation in the education sector. Outside the program, Unesco assisted in the appraisal and evaluation of Bank-supported projects and provided assistance to Bank borrowers for project implementation. Unesco collaborated with the Bank in the design of several Bank-supported population and education projects. Unesco's contribution concerned curricula, instructional materials, and teachers' education courses that were a part of the projects.
The CP with WHO concentrated on preparation for the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade. CP staff completed "rapid assessment" reports analyzing
the current state of water supply and sanitation facilities in 113 countries. It helped to execute several interregional cooperative projects that were financed by the UNDP and bilateral donors and that were aimed at facilitating the coordination of national water development plans. The staff also conducted workshops and seminars for national policy makers on the formulation of the Decade's programs. CP sector and project identification work included the preparation of comprehensive manpower development programs in Western Africa, sector studies in India, Nigeria, and other countries in Africa and Asia, and project preparation in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
Staff of the CP with UNIDO carried out, or participated in, 20 missions to 15 countries. While the work of the program continued to emphasize the development of artisanal activities, small-scale enterprises, and local construction industries, the program also examined, in several countries, the growth prospects of agro-industries, building materials industries, and manufactures for export. CP staff joined Bank missions in seven countries to help review development prospects in these and other industries. The program stepped up its efforts to promote the transfer of technology to low-wage countries for selected labor-intensive production processes.
The 75% Bank share of the costs of the four CPs in fiscal 1980 came to $9.2 million, representing 105 professional staff-years.
Among other agencies of the UN system, relations with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) were of particular operational importance. ILO assisted several Bank-financed projects for labor-intensive road construction in Botswana and Ethiopia, and provided technical assistance in project management and small-scale industry in Egypt, and industrial estates in Kenya. ILO staff joined Bank missions to Korea and Egypt. The Bank and ILO collaborated on research on minimum standards of living, wage-employment trends, employment, and training in Cameroon, migrants' profiles in Bangladesh, and the construction industry in Zambia.
Cooperation was also active in the fields of population, human settlements and nutrition, energy, the environment, transportation, and communications. The Bank worked with the UN Fund for Population Activities and the UN Children's Fund in developing and carrying out several population projects, and with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in population studies. Bank staff assisted the UN Population
Division in monitoring and appraising progress in the implementation of the 1974 World Population Plan of Action. Information on policies for national urban growth, self-help housing, squatter settlement projects, training of urban projects managers, town planning, and stimulation of the informal sector subsequent to urban renewal projects was exchanged with the UN Centre for Human Settlements, the OECD, the ILO, and several major donor countries. The Bank participated actively in the Nutrition Subcommittee of the UN Administrative Committee on Coordination; the Bank had helped to organize the Subcommittee, on which are represented 12 international and nine bilateral agencies.
In the field of energy, the Bank organized a meeting among major bilateral aid agencies, regional development banks, and several UN agencies to exchange views about current and future plans in support of energy production. The meeting provided an opportunity for discussion of the Bank's expanded program, announced in 1979, for petroleum development. It reached a consensus on the need to support exploration in developing countries for, and utilization of, energy resources—including renewable energy—and to strengthen their energy planning and operational abilities. The discussions were followed during the year by bilateral consultations between the Bank and other participants on specific aspects of individual energy programs. Discussions were also held with the UNDP on ways in which a proposed Energy Fund and the Bank program might prove complementary.
The Bank participated in consultations at the OECD on transport research relevant to the developing countries; at the Economic Commission for Africa on operational plans for the Transport and Communications Decade in Africa; at the UN Conference on Trade and Development on the development of port planning; at the International Telecommunications Union on sector work and the provision of technical assistance; and with International Civil Aviation Organization staff, at headquarters and in the field, on airport and air navigation development.
As the culmination of consultations on environmental policies and practices that were initiated jointly by the Bank, the UN Environment Programme, and the UNDP, nine development assistance agencies have adopted a "Declaration of Environmental Policies and Procedures Relating to Economic Development." The Declaration—which embodies policies and practices consistent with those carried out in the Bank since the establishment of
its Office of Environmental Affairs—calls for the institution of procedures to ensure that projects assisted by the agencies are ecologically sound. Interagency consultations were also held on ways to control desertification, on a Coordinated Programme of Action of the UN System for the Improvement of the Working Environment, on guidelines for industrial pollution control, for the protection of wildlife and marine ecology, and on the environmental problems of individual countries.
The Bank sponsored or hosted interagency coordination meetings on a variety of matters: international procurement with the participation of regional development banks, export finance institutions, and various UN agencies; the promotion of joint ventures in developing countries, especially involving small and medium-sized enterprises, by bilateral aid agencies, private organizations, and UNIDO; and on problems of highway maintenance that have been encountered by bilateral and multilateral co-lenders.
The Bank continued its association, as fiscal agent and co-sponsor, with the UNDP and WHO, in the Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases to support research into new and improved methods of treatment and control of six major tropical diseases, and also continued its co-sponsorship with the FAO, WHO, and the UNDP, of the long-standing Onchocerciasis Control Program to combat riverblindness in Western Africa.
The Bank's contacts with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) engaged in development assistance are still largely ad hoc. Cooperation with NGOs from developed countries in project identification and implementation is increasing, and during the year, steps were taken to develop closer links with NGOs in developing countries. The Bank invited several NGOs to acquaint Bank staff with their activities, and was host at two seminars with major NGOs to review cooperation in the sectors of urban and rural development, education, health and nutrition, and small and artisanal enterprises; the objective of the seminars was to lay the basis for a more active interplay between the Bank and the NGOs in these sectors.
Cooperation in agricultural research. Although agricultural production in the developing countries continues to increase slowly, population expansion outstrips the increase in many of them. The Bank joins with the FAO and the UNDP in sponsoring the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research
(CGIAR), organized in 1971 to bring an international effort to bear on those critical technological problems of food production in developing countries that are not as yet adequately addressed by others. The Group is an informal association whose members are countries, public and private foundations, and international and regional development institutions. The membership also includes countries elected to represent the developing regions of the world. In calendar 1980, the donor members will be making grants amounting to about $120 million to support a network of 13 international research institutions.5
Research at the international centers is concentrated on those food crops and livestock that are most important in the diets of people living in developing countries. The work is organized into the conservation and utilization of genetic resources, plant breeding programs, research into farming and livestock production systems, socioeconomic research, development of small-scale farm machinery, research into animal diseases, and training. An activity recently added to the CGIAR system will provide technical assistance for the strengthening of national research programs.
The research program supported by the Group continued to expand in fiscal 1980. The total amount expected to be contributed in calendar year 1980 by the 29 contributing members of the Group will be 20% more than in 1979. The Bank's contributions during 1980 are expected to amount in total to about $12 million.
At their annual meeting in November 1979, the members of the Group agreed on a five-year indicative plan that would permit significant growth in the Group's program of research and training by steadily increasing contributions, in current terms, to a level of about $250 million in 1984. What began nearly 10 years ago as an unusual experiment in informal international cooperation has grown and has established itself as a significant and continuing part of the overall international development effort. That effort was recognized in June 1980 when the CGIAR was awarded the King Baudouin International Development Prize for having made a unique and lasting contribution to development. The prize was shared with Paolo Freire, the Brazilian educator and philosopher. In 1970, CIMMYT and IRRI jointly received a Unesco science prize for their development of high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice. In that same year, Norman Borlaug, director of CIMMYT's Wheat Program, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
Cooperation in aid coordination. At the
request of both donor and recipient governments, the Bank has continued to take the lead in organizing various aid coordination mechanisms for a number of developing countries that receive assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources. During the year, 11 aid coordinating groups held formal meetings that were sponsored by the Bank. These were the country groups for Bangladesh, Colombia, Egypt, Korea, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines, Sudan, Uganda, Zaire, and the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development. The Bank also participated in a meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia, chaired by the Netherlands, and the Turkey Consortium meeting, chaired by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
The many projects that the Bank and IDA help to finance jointly or on a parallel basis with other national and multilateral organizations is an indication of the close cooperation that exists among the various development assistance agencies. The numerous national and multilateral organizations that joined the Bank in helping to finance projects approved in fiscal 1980 are noted in each project summary, to be found on pages 97 through 118.
In May 1978, an agreement was signed by the European Economic Community and its nine member countries and IDA establishing the Association as administrator of a "Special Action Account" to provide assistance to low-income countries whose development prospects had been seriously reduced by external factors and which faced problems of resource transfers. Under this agreement, which became effective at the beginning of 1979, IDA was responsible for the commitment and disbursement of funds totaling the equivalent of $429.95 million. Those funds were completely committed in May 1980; 57 projects received
5 Centro Internacional de Argicultura Tropical (CIAT), Cali, Colombia; Centro Internacional de Majoramiento de Maiz y Trigo (CIMMYT), El Batan, Mexico; the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Ibadan, Nigeria; the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), Los Banos, the Philippines; the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA), Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; the International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases (ILRAD), Nairobi, Kenya; the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources (IBPGR), Rome, Italy; the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), Beirut, Lebanon and Aleppo, Syria; the West African Rice Development Association (WARDA), Monrovia, Liberia; Centro Internacional de la Papa (CiP), Lima, Peru; the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Hyderabad, India; the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), Washington, DC, United States; and the International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR), The Hague, the Netherlands.
"Special Action Credits" in addition to Bank and IDA financing during the life of the Account.
On a regional basis, the Bank continued its active participation in the country reviews sponsored by the Permanent Executive Committee of the Inter-American Economic and Social Council. It also maintained close working relationships with regional development banks and with the Commission of the European Communities, which helped assure the coordination of development assistance activities.
Economic Research and Studies
The World Bank devotes roughly $10 million a year, or 3 % of its administrative budget, to economic and social research. Since the formal inception of the research program in 1971, about 105 research projects have been completed, while about the same number are in progress. Twenty-two new projects were started in fiscal 1980. The program of research is shaped by the Bank's own needs as a lending institution and as a source of policy advice to member governments, and by the needs of member countries. The results of completed research projects appear in a variety of formats, including articles in professional journals, books published under World Bank auspices or by independent publishers, and World Bank Staff Working Papers. The World Bank "Catalog," issued annually, provides detailed information on publications issued by, or on behalf of, the Bank. Research is undertaken by the
Bank's own research staff, usually in collaboration with outside researchers. Except for such collaborative projects, the Bank does not provide funding to outside institutions or individuals for economic and social research.
Early in fiscal 1980, the external general advisory panel on the Bank's economic and social research, chaired by Sir Arthur Lewis, presented its report to the Bank's management. The Bank's Executive Directors discussed the report in December 1979 and gave it broad support. The panel judged the Bank's research to have been of high quality and endorsed the general direction of the program. Among the report's main recommendations were to increase collaboration with developing country research institutions, to forge stronger links between the Bank's operational activities and its research program, and to expand the Bank's research effort, especially with respect to the applications and dissemination of research.
By the end of fiscal 1980, some steps had already been taken to implement the recommendations of the external panel's report, while others were still in a planning stage. A thrice-yearly news bulletin on Bank research was launched to disseminate information to operational staff within the Bank, policy makers and researchers in member countries (especially in developing nations), and other international institutions. A series of workshops was under way, in which research staff communicated latest results and techniques in fields such as income distribution, public enterprises, trade and industrialization, and labor
markets to their operational colleagues. To further improve interaction between researchers and operational staff in designing new research ventures, a number of permanent Research Steering Groups were created to articulate a long-range view of research needs in broad areas such as agriculture and rural development, urban and regional issues, international economic questions, and industry. These groups are also responsible for evaluating completed research projects within their fields of competence.
One of the larger research projects recently completed formed part of the Bank's effort to find ways of providing services to the poor that are cheap enough to be widely used. The research studied the technical and economic feasibility of options for water supply and waste disposal and analyzed the economic, environmental, health, and sociological effects of various levels of technologies for providing water and disposing of, or reclaiming, wastes. It also reviewed the scope for improving existing intermediate technologies to make them more acceptable to consumers and to make them more widely transferable. Field investigations were made in 14 countries. The results of the project are reported in three books: Appropriate Sanitation Alternatives: A Technical and Economic Appraisal; Appropriate Sanitation Alternatives: A Field Manual; and Sanitation and Disease: Health Aspects of Excreta and Wastewater Management, all soon to be published. The design of the project emphasized the participation of nationals of developing countries; such participation has facilitated the subsequent transfer of knowledge and techniques. Apart from presentations of the research results at seminars and conferences, workshops have been held for national and local government officials in developing countries. Follow-up work is now in progress to help develop low-cost water and sanitation programs in 12 countries, with funding from the United Nations Development Programme. Other agencies are contributing to the implementation of the demonstration projects and sanitation programs.
Partly in response to a recommendation by the external advisory panel, one of the major research projects begun in fiscal 1980 seeks to develop better methods of measuring levels of living and changes in those levels over time. This project, the Living Standards Measurement Study (LSMS), builds on the Bank's considerable experience in income distribution research and the technical assistance that research staff have given several developing countries in the design and analysis of income
distribution data. Even in countries with quite advanced statistical systems, the evaluation of past development experience and the formulation of future policies to alleviate poverty are handicapped by lack of knowledge about the living standards of different socioeconomic groups in the population, of how these standards have changed over time, and of how they are affected by public policies.
The study ultimately seeks to develop a system that can indicate, over time, which groups are benefiting from the development process and which, if any, are being left outside it. In collaboration with the UN Statistical Office and national statistical offices, a relatively simple set of household surveys and other instruments will be designed that can be set within a country's national statistical framework, that responds to its particular policy needs, can be implemented, say, every five years, and whose results can be readily processed. Designing these instruments should help make data on living standards more internationally comparable, but, in the course of the study, primacy will be given to incorporating the particular data requirements of particular countries. Field work to test new concepts and measures now being developed will begin in calendar 1981; the study should be completed in fiscal 1983.
Other income distribution studies continued during the year included two research projects (both of which are nearing completion) that are evaluating data on income distribution in Latin America and Asia and a household income and expenditure study based on sample surveys in Mexico. One project on income distribution was initiated: a study of real income and welfare of selected socioeconomic groups in Colombia (1964-78).
Operations Evaluation
The World Bank system for evaluating its operations continued to evolve in fiscal 1980, especially regarding the three major areas of development identified in earlier Annual Reports of the Bank. Thus, in the past year that saw the total number of projects audited rise to more than 500 since the system began, borrower input into the audit process increased significantly, and of the 109 completed projects subject to review in fiscal 1980, borrowers commented on 90, or approximately 83% of the total. In order to encourage an even greater response, borrowers are being given more time to comment on draft audits and, increasingly, draft documentation is being submitted to them, in appropriate cases, in French or Span-
ish. In addition, the process of fitting the lessons of past experience, as they emerge from the evaluation process, into the design and implementation of future Bank-supported operations has also developed with the continued exchange of views between officials of borrower countries and agencies, the Bank's operating staff, and the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
Of the major areas of development in the Bank's evaluation process, the involvement of borrowing countries in the evaluation process remains an important objective. The first project completion reports prepared by borrowers, rather than Bank staff, were received during the year, and support has been given to countries seeking to develop their own evaluation procedures through, for instance, visits to the Bank's headquarters by borrowers' staff concerned with this activity and by OED staff to interested countries. Regional seminars on the subject are also being held, the third of the series having taken place in Kuala Lumpur at the end of May 1980 for senior officials of Asian countries. Moreover, monitoring and evaluation units continue to be introduced under Bank-assisted projects with the objective of strengthening information systems and evaluating progress. The OED has also initiated collaboration with other multilateral and bilateral lending agencies in preparing project performance audit reports on co-financed projects. Possibilities for further collaboration among staff, especially on the more in-depth impact evaluation studies, are being explored.
The evaluation system in the Bank itself remains comprehensive in its coverage of completed projects. In fiscal 1980, 100 projects were reviewed by the Operations Evaluation Department. The computerized memory and search system, introduced to facilitate the retrieval of the points of special interest emerging from individual project performance audit reports, is being actively studied with the objective of making the wealth of accumulated material contained in the more than 500 audits more readily usable by Bank staff. Moreover, as in previous years, several major reviews were completed in the fiscal year on various aspects of the Bank's operating procedures and operations. Together, these two prime aspects of OED's activities serve to assist in making the Bank's work more effective.
While, in addition to policy reviews, the Bank's evaluation system focuses closely on the audit of just-completed projects, an increasing amount of time is being devoted to a "second look" at completed projects. These involve a study of projects some years after
their completion to assess their overall impact, the first of these having been undertaken by OED in fiscal 1979. At the close of fiscal 1980, five such reviews were either completed or were at an advanced stage of preparation. The value of these reviews lies in their taking account of the broad socioeconomic effects of Bank-supported projects not apparent at the time of physical completion.
The second major area of development of the Bank's evaluation system—the process of fitting these lessons of experience into operational work, while continuing on a day-to-day basis with the distribution and discussions of OED policy reviews and project audits—becomes more sharply focused each year in preparatory work for the "Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results." At this time, extensive discussions are held between OED and the Bank's operations departments concerning the conclusions emanating from the Project Performance Audit Reports for the fiscal year.
OED's fifth Annual Review, published in November 1979, was the third to be distributed to the public. This Review covered the experience of 98 operations supported by Bank loans and IDA credits of approximately $1,600 million. Including domestic financing, the projects represented total investments in the order of $3,700 million. The report concluded that, over all, the projects covered represented a record of substantial achievement, with nearly all being worthwhile investments and less than 3% of total investments yielding results that appeared uncertain or unsatisfactory at the time of audit.
The Annual Review again noted the need for understanding how local cultures affect organizational or economic behavior and emphasized two aspects of the sectoral environment within which projects function: the institutional setting and the borrower's sector policies. It stressed the need for analyses of both so that policy agreements may be reached between the borrower and the Bank to ensure maximum benefits from Bank-supported projects and for developing longer-term institutional capability in the countries concerned. It also observed that projects that came after those covered in the Review showed evidence of the Bank's ability to learn from experience.
The Joint Audit Committee of the Board of Executive Directors maintains continuing oversight of the OED work program and of its effectiveness. The conclusions of the Joint Audit Committee, the report of the Director-General, Operations Evaluation, on the status of the Bank's evaluation system, and OED's
annual review of project performance audit findings were all reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Internal Auditing
Internal auditing is an independent appraisal function within the World Bank that examines and evaluates Bank activities by providing management with information about the adequacy and effectiveness of its overall system of internal control and the quality of performance in carrying out assigned responsibilities.
The Internal Auditing Department (IAD) reports to the Vice President, Finance, and its Director has direct access to the President and the Joint Audit Committee of the Bank's Executive Directors at all times. IAD provides department directors and other levels of management with periodic, independent, and objective audits, appraisals, analyses, recommendations, and information concerning the activities within their respective areas of responsibility, including identifying possible means of improving the efficiency and economy of operations and the use of resources.
In carrying out each operational audit, IAD's examination and evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the related systems of internal control generally cover such aspects of internal control as: (a) reviewing the reliability and integrity of financial and operating information and the means used to identify, measure, classify, and report such information; (b) measuring the extent of compliance with governing agreements or instruments and related decisions, regulations, policies, plans, and procedures of the Board of Governors, Executive Directors, and Bank management;
(c) reviewing the means of safeguarding Bank assets from various types of losses; and (d) appraising the economy and efficiency with which resources are used.
IAD has no direct responsibility for developing and installing changes in systems, procedures, and internal controls that it would be expected to review in a subsequent audit.
The Department's work program covers a wide range of financial, administrative, and other Bank activities, including the supervisory aspects of project implementation. Some activities are reviewed annually, while others are reviewed biennially or every three years depending on the materiality, volatility, or risk aspects of the activity.
In recent years, IAD has extended its review function to include visits to selected countries to review the auditing standards applied by borrowers' external auditors, to review related internal auditing and financial reporting standards of the borrowers, and to recommend appropriate technical assistance programs, where they might be needed, to upgrade accounting and auditing practices.
In carrying out each assignment, the Director of the Department and members of his staff, as appropriate, have unrestricted access to all Bank records, documents, and personnel relevant to the activity under review. Where relevant, IAD coordinates its annual work program with the Bank's external auditors. Its working papers and reports are made available to the external auditors to assist them in planning and conducting their examinations of the annual financial statements of the Bank. Liaison is also maintained with the Joint Audit Committee of the Executive Directors (see page 96).
Chapter Five Borrowings and Finance
Income, Expenditures, and Reserves: Bank
The Bank's gross revenues, generated primarily from its loans and investments, reached a total of $2,800 million in fiscal 1980, up $375 million, or 15%, from last year. Gross revenues have risen steadily during the last decade as loan and investment balances have continued to expand.
The outstanding loan portfolio totaled $26,675 million at the end of the fiscal year, an increase of $3,801 million over fiscal 1979. The average rate of return on outstanding loans, together with commitment charges on undisbursed loan balances, resulted in a yield of 8.0% on the Bank's loan portfolio, producing income of $1,945 million. This compares with a rate of 7.8% and income of $1,669 million in fiscal 1979.
In July 1979, the Executive Directors approved a lending rate policy that was put into effect in January 1980, under which the rate would be determined on the basis of a general guideline rather than a strict formula, which had been in effect since July 1976. The guideline provides for a spread of Vi of 1% above the cost of borrowing, which is estimated for a 12-month period, using the actual cost of borrowing for the past six months and the estimated costs for the succeeding six months. Under the new policy, the lending rate is adjusted at least once a year (normally, at the middle of the fiscal year), and more often, if necessary. The lending rate was 7.9% during the first quarter of fiscal 1980, rose to 7.95% in the second quarter, and was set at 8.25% under the guidelines of the new policy during the last half of the year.
The Bank aims at maintaining a liquid position of marketable short-term assets equal to 40% of estimated net cash requirements for the subsequent three years. This liquidity policy is designed to permit the Bank to meet adequately its net cash requirements without the need to borrow new funds for prolonged periods of time, thus making it independent of adverse conditions in the capital markets. At June 30, 1980, liquid assets aggregated $9,966 million net of commitments for settlement, an
increase of $216 million over fiscal 1979. The Bank invests its liquid assets throughout the year. In fiscal 1980, these investments yielded an average realized rate of return of 8.8%, and generated $834 million of investment income. The rate of return was significantly higher than the 7.6% earned in fiscal 1979, bringing about a 12% increase in the total amount of investment income.
An additional $20 million of revenues was derived from other income.
Expenditures of the Bank, which include administrative expenses, interest, and issuance costs on borrowings, totaled $2,212 million, up 10% from last year. This increase was well below the 15% increase in revenues during the year. Costs associated with the Bank's increased borrowings—interest of $ 1,975 million and bond issuance charges and other financial expenses of $38 million—were by far the major expenditures. Administrative costs totaled $198 million, up $26 million, after deducting $140 million for the management fee charged to the International Development Association, and $2.4 million for the service and support fee charged to the International Finance Corporation.
The relatively higher rate of increase in revenues, compared with expenditures during the year, boosted the Bank's fiscal 1980 net income to a record high of $588 million, up 44% from the $407 million earned last year.
During fiscal 1980, $395 million was added to the General Reserve of the Bank, bringing the total to $2,600 million. Of the $407 million net income earned in fiscal 1979, $100 million was allocated by the Board of Governors as a grant to IDA; the remaining $307 million was allocated to the General Reserve.
The Bank does not trade in the currencies of its member countries for its own account. Adjustments arising from translation of currencies to US dollar equivalents do not result in realized gains or losses as would occur with actual conversions into US dollars. Because of this, the General Reserve, rather than net income, is charged or credited annually with the amount of adjustment resulting from currency
depreciations or appreciations. In fiscal 1980, the translation of currencies into US dollar equivalents resulted in a credit to the General Reserve of $104 million, compared with $137 million credited in fiscal 1979. (A more detailed explanation is provided in the "Notes to Financial Statements" on page 160.)
When gold was abolished in 1978 as a common denominator of the monetary system, the Bank began expressing its capital stock, for purposes of the financial statements, on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR). As a result, the 1% paid-in portion and the 9% portion of the capital stock released by certain member countries for lending in United States dollars are revalued at the rate of exchange of the US dollar to the SDR. The adjustment resulting from this revaluation is also charged against or credited to the General Reserve. In fiscal 1980, these adjustments resulted in a debit to the General Reserve of $16 million, compared with $23 million charged in fiscal 1979.
Other Financial Operations: Bank
As of June 30, 1980, the Bank held $51,509 million worth of loans. This amount included $6,739 million of loans approved, but which had not yet become effective, and $460 million of loans to the Internationa] Finance Corporation. Loans disbursed and outstanding totaled $26,675 million, including $398 million to the IFC.
Disbursements on loans to countries totaled $4,363 million in fiscal 1980, up $761 million from last year. Since the Bank began operations, it has disbursed a total of $32,998 million to its borrowing member countries.
Repayments of principal on the Bank's loans amounted to $1,165 million in fiscal 1980. This included $188 million to investors who had purchased portions of loans. Cumulative loan repayments as of June 30. 1980, were $11,047 million: $8,299 million to the Bank and $2,748 million to purchasers of loans.
Sales of participations in new loans and of maturities from the Bank's loan portfolio amounted to $4 million in fiscal 1980, compared with $45 million in the previous year. Aggregate loan sales to date total $2,980 million.
Borrowings: Bank
Borrowings in international capital markets provide a major portion of the funds necessary for the continued growth of the World Bank's lending operations and are supplemented by the other principal financial resources of the
Bank, which are its paid-in capital, accumulated earnings, and loan repayments.
Total borrowings by the Bank in fiscal 1980 amounted to the equivalent of $5,173.4 million. Of this amount, the equivalent of $646 million was advance borrowing for the Bank's fiscal 1981 borrowing program. (Similarly, $796 million was borrowed at the end of fiscal 1979 and credited in advance to the Bank's approved fiscal 1980 borrowing program of $5,300 million.) The advance borrowings for fiscal 1981 included two issues, totaling $500 million, of Eurodollar notes, marking the first time the World Bank had borrowed in the Eurodollar bond market.
The World Bank sells its securities through placement directly with governments, government agencies, and central banks, and in the public markets where securities are offered to investors through investment banking firms, merchant banks, or commercial banks. Of the 42 borrowing operations that the Bank conducted during fiscal 1980, 31 were public issues or private placements throughout the world and accounted for $3,503.9 million, or 68% of total funds borrowed. The other 11 issues, totaling $1,652.9 million, or 32% of the funds raised, were placed with official sources, namely, member governments of the World Bank, central banks, and government institutions.
The Bank's securities have been placed with investors in more than 90 countries in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, and North and South America. This diversity allows the Bank flexibility in selecting the markets that will allow optimum borrowing conditions and lessens its dependence on any specific market.
The $5,173.4 million borrowed by the Bank in fiscal 1980 consisted of the following currencies, and included the Bank's first public isssue of Austrian schilling bonds:
Currency borrowed
Deutsche mark United States dollars Swiss francs Japanese yen Austrian schillings
Currency US dollar
amount equivalent
(in millions) (in millions)
DM3,950 $2,183.2
$1,202.8 $1,202.8
SwFl,600 $ 964.2
¥175,000 $ 742.2
SI,000 $ 81.0
Of these borrowings, $3,560.8 million represented new funds, and $1,612.6 million represented refinancing of outstanding borrowings.
A total of $2,669.1 million equivalent of debt matured during the year. Additional debt, aggregating $121.9 million, was retired by means of sinking fund and purchase fund operations.
Outstanding obligations of the Bank increased $3,388 million to $29,668 million as of June 30, 1980. These obligations were denominated in 17 different currencies and were placed with investors, including central banks and government institutions, in more than 90 countries. A summary classification of outstanding borrowings by principal source at June 30, 1980, is as follows:
Borrowing Costs: Bank
The cost of total borrowings by the Bank in the fiscal year, weighted by amount and maturity, averaged 8.1%, compared with 6.5% in the previous year. The cost in fiscal 1980, weighted by amount only, was 8.2%. The average cost of all funds to the Bank, including paid-in capital and accumulated earnings, was about 6.0%. The cost of the Bank's average outstanding borrowings was 7.3%.
The cost of the Bank's average outstanding borrowings for each of the past six fiscal years is here summarized:
Capitalization
The capital stock of the Bank and the subscriptions thereto of its members are expressed, under the Articles of Agreement, in terms of the United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944 (1944 dollars). Until 1971, the current United States dollar had the same value as the 1944 dollar and the special drawing right (SDR), which was instituted in 1969. In 1972, the current dollar value of the 1944 dollar and the SDR increased to $1.08571, and in 1973 to $1.20635, as the result of devaluations of the dollar. Until mid-1974, both the 1944 dollar and the SDR continued to be valued in gold and had the same gold value. Thus on July 1, 1974, the value of the SDR, expressed in terms
of United States dollars, was $1.20635, which was the equivalent of one 1944 dollar.
Since July 1, 1974, when a valuation method for the SDR that was based on a number of major currencies was adopted, the value of the SDR has fluctuated daily. The current dollar value of the 1944 dollar, on the other hand, was deemed to remain fixed at the rate established by the US par value legislation of 1973.
Since the effectiveness, on April 1, 1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), currencies no longer have par values, and the basis for translating the 1944 dollar into current United States dollars no longer exists. The Bank is examining the implication of this change on the valuation of its capital stock and the impact it will have on its financial statements.
For purposes of the financial statements, the Bank has expressed the value of its capital stock on the basis of the SDR in terms of United States dollars as computed by the IMF on June 30, 1980 ($1.32438 per SDR).
The Bank's subscribed capital was increased by SDR 1,181.6 million in fiscal 1980, bringing the total of subscribed capital as of June 30, 1980 to SDR30,171.8 million. The increases in subscriptions during the year came from the following countries:
Egypt, Arab Republic of 22.9 million SDR
France 477.5 million SDR
Fiji 3.6 million SDR
Finland 17.3 million SDR
Japan 400.0 million SDR
Korea, Republic of 8.7 million SDR
New Zealand 4.0 million SDR
Qatar 15.6 million SDR
St. Lucia 2.9 million SDR
Syrian Arab Republic 8.7 million SDR
United Arab Emirates 85.2 million SDR
United States 135.2 million SDR
On January 4, 1980, the Bank's Board of Governors adopted a resolution that increases the authorized capital stock of the Bank by 331,500 shares; this represents an increase of approximately $40,000 million. The resolution provides that the paid-in portion of the shares authorized to be subscribed under it will be 7.5%, compared with the 10% paid-in portion of existing capital stock. Subscribing members will be required to pay 0.75% of the subscription price in gold or United States dollars and 6.75% in their respective currencies. The Governors also adopted a resolution that increases the authorized capital stock by an additional 33,500 shares (representing a fur-
ther increase of approximately $4,000 million) and that authorizes each member to subscribe to 250 shares of this additional capital, none of which will be paid in. Subscriptions authorized by these resolutions will be accepted after September 30, 1981.
Finances: IDA
The International Development Association (IDA) held a total of $20,722 million in credits on June 30, 1980, including $2,733 million approved but not yet effective and $485 million from exchange adjustments. Of the $17,989 million of effective credits, $6,951 million was undisbursed at the end of the year.
Disbursements totaled $1,411 million in fiscal 1980, compared with $1,222 million last year. As of June 30, 1980, IDA had disbursed a total of $11,198 million.
The total resources provided to IDA increased $1,192 million in the period, primarily from subscriptions and contributions to the Fifth Replenishment, which aggregated $681 million. The value of resources provided by members in prior fiscal years increased by $369 million. The World Bank granted $100 million to IDA from its fiscal 1979 net income, of which $86 million was for the general purposes of the Association and $14 million was for grants by IDA for agricultural research and onchocerciasis control.
Other resources that became available to IDA during the fiscal year totaled $56 million, and were derived from releases by Part II countries and cancellations of and repayments on credits. For further information, see page 175, "Notes to Financial Statements."
Foreign and International Bonds: Calendar 19791
Turbulent conditions prevailed in the bond markets during 1979. Against a background of accelerating inflation in the United States and other industrialized countries and volatile exchange rates, the markets attempted to adjust to rising interest rates and erratic market conditions. Economic strains were further exacerbated in the late fall when the United States froze all Iranian assets in US banks. These strains were reflected in increased caution and some nervousness in the financial market. There is no evidence, however, of a lasting
xThe terms "foreign" and "international" in this context refer to issues sold outside the country of the borrower: foreign, if sold in one national market, international, if in more than one.
impact. Yet, despite the problems that confronted the markets, total borrowing in foreign and international bond markets only declined marginally from $37,316 million in 1978 to $37,232 million in 1979. The markets proved remarkably resilient when confronted with the worsening economic climate.
In national markets, the decline in borrowing in the US and Japanese markets was partially offset by an increase in borrowing in the Swiss market. In the US market, a 17% drop in borrowing recorded from 1977 to 1978 was followed by a 28% decline from 1978 to 1979. Increasingly higher interest rates dissuaded traditional borrowers, such as the World Bank, from tapping the US market. By the fourth quarter of 1979, average initial offering yields on public offerings by industrialized countries had increased by 278 basis points since the fourth quarter of 1977. It was, however, still possible to raise large amounts through a single issue in the US market. The average size of public offerings amounted to $150 million, far exceeding the sum available in any other capital market.
The sharpest contraction in national bond markets in 1979 occurred in the Japanese market, where total borrowing declined from $4,686 million in 1978 to $3,055 million in 1979. Heavy borrowing by the Japanese government, coupled with fears by nonresident investors of exchange rate losses, limited market activity. In addition, interest rates climbed steadily throughout the year. The official discount rate increased from 3.50% in January to 6.25% in December. Average yields on public offerings by industrialized countries increased over 100 basis points from 1978 to 1979 to 7.43%c.
The Swiss market, unlike the US and Japanese markets, fared well during 1979. Issuing activity amounted to $9,084 million, 22% above the $7,455 million raised in 1978 and 83% above the $4,959 million secured in 1977. Borrowers were attracted to the high liquidity and low interest rates present in the market. Private placements continued to command a dominant share of foreign issues, accounting for 63% of foreign bonds. Convertible issues, most of which were private placements, continued to be popular borrowing vehicles, and totaled $1,729 million.
In the international market, borrowing increased 11% from $15,940 million in 1978 to $17,727 million in 1979, primarily through a 38% growth in the US dollar sector of the market. Although dollar-denominated international bonds remained the backbone of the market in 1979, issuing volume was highly er-
ratic. It fluctuated from a high of $1,988 million in June to a monthly low of $358 million in November. Average initial offering yields on public dollar-denominated bonds by industrialized countries increased from 9.43% in the first quarter of 1979 to 10.85% in the final quarter. Yet, despite the rise in bond yields, the inverse yield curve that developed in 1978 continued to widen toward the end of 1979 as the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) reached 14.44% in December.
This inverse yield curve discouraged the issuance of fixed-rate Eurodollar issues. Instead, borrowing activity shifted to the floating rate note (FRN) sector of the international market. FRNs totaled $4,182 million in 1979, compared with $2,603 million in 1978 and $1,840 million in 1977. The market's adaptation to rising dollar interest rates and volatile conditions through FRNs is seen by the high issuing volume of FRNs and the flexibility used in determining floating interest rates. In an attempt to attract investors who were increasingly drawn to short-term time deposits, spreads once almost exclusively tied to the six-month LIBOR were linked to base rates such as the three-month LIBOR and 10-year US Treasury bills. In addition, an attempted linkage of the fixed and floating rate sectors of the market was made through issuance of droplock bonds—floating rate notes that are convertible into fixed rate bonds if the interest rate payable on the FRNs falls below a predetermined level during the life of the bonds.
Floating rate notes are also sometimes viewed as hybrid debt instruments, combining features of both Eurocurrency credits and bonds. FRNs with fixed spreads tied to variable bank deposit rates are attractive to commercial banks from the point of view of both borrowers and lenders. As borrowers, banks have increasingly used FRNs to fund their Eurocurrency credit commitments. Sixty-four percent of FRNs issued last year, or $2,680 million, were completed by deposit money banks. Banks have also reportedly been heavy investors in FRNs, since the interest rate structure of the notes contributes to matching the banks' assets and liabilities.
The investor interest shown by commercial banks in FRNs has also benefited developing country borrowers. Given their role as the traditional private lenders to developing country borrowers, the banks have been receptive to FRNs issued by developing countries. This receptivity has provided developing country borrowers both an alternative to borrowing in the syndicated loan market and an entrance into the international bond market, where the con-
servative attitude of traditional investors has been a handicap to the marketability of developing country bonds. With private banks as ready and willing investors, developing country borrowers were able to raise Sl,307 million through Eurodollar floating rate notes in 1979.
Unlike the dollar sector of the international market, the Deutsche mark (DM) sector registered a 29% decline in 1979, from 56,531 million in 1978 to 54,654 million in 1979. This decline may have been partially offset by a reported increase in Schuldscheindarlehen, which are fixed-rate bank loans. It is difficult to judge this activity, however, as comprehensive statistics on Schuldscheindarlehen are not always available. DM-denominated bonds continued to carry fixed interest rates. Yields in both the primary and secondary markets climbed throughout 1979, with initial offering yields on public issues by industrialized countries rising to 7.78% by the fourth quarter. As in the dollar sector, yield increases were not large enough to prevent an inverse yield curve from developing in the latter half of 1979, with six-month LIBOR in the 8.00%> to 9.00% range.
The volatile market conditions in 1979 favored the more traditional borrowers from industrialized countries and international organizations, who raised $24,045 million (65%) and $8,647 million (23%), respectively. Borrowing by developing countries in 1979 declined for the first time since 1975, falling to $4,014 million (11%) after the record level
of $6,091 million (16%) attained in 1978. This decline was especially pronounced in the fourth quarter, when developing countries raised only $534 million, the lowest quarterly amount obtained since the fourth quarter of 1976.
Borrowers from industrialized countries increased their market share from 60% in 1978 to 65% in 1979. Eight countries comprised about 70% of the total borrowing. Canadian and Japanese borrowers were the most active, with borrowings of $4,123 million and $3,866 million, respectively.
Canadians maintained their traditional dominance in the US market, with total borrowing of $2,060 million, although this was the lowest amount raised by them in that market since 1974. Almost half of all their borrowing was completed in the first quarter of 1979, mainly through the US market. In the international market, the Canadians reopened the Canadian dollar sector in April, with 11 issues in eight weeks totaling $391 million. Secondary market difficulties in placing these securities caused issuing activity to slow markedly by the end of the second quarter. Only two Canadian dollar issues were made during the balance of the year.
During 1979, Japanese borrowers continued to raise large amounts in the Swiss market and in the DM sector of the international market. As in 1978, the Swiss issues were generally private placements of between SwF25 million to SwF80 million with original maturities of
five to seven years. A large share of the Japanese issues, both in the Swiss and international markets, was convertible into common stocks of the borrower.
A notable event during 1979 was US corporate borrowings, which totaled $2,728 million. US borrowers were particularly active in the dollar sector of the international market in February and June, when they raised $450 million and $645 million. Debt instruments issued by the US Treasury (not included in World Bank bond statistics) totaled $3,681 million and were secured in the German and Swiss capital markets.
The 34% decline in borrowing by developing countries in 1979 is in dramatic contrast to the 1975-78 period when annual borrowing increases ranged from 28% to 104%. The drop in borrowing in 1979 sharply differs from the Eurocurrency syndicated loan market, where developing country borrowers obtained $42,357 million, or 62% of all loans. The decline in the bond markets was particularly strong in the Japanese market, where developing country issues fell from $1,328 million in 1978 to $733 million in 1979. The reduced borrowing by developing countries in 1979 was apparent in both the number of countries tapping the markets and in the amounts raised by the most active borrowers. Only 21 developing countries raised funds in 1979, compared with 27 countries in 1978. During both 1978 and 1979, roughly half of all developing country borrowing was completed by four countries. The largest amounts raised in 1979 were obtained by Brazil ($736 million), Spain ($481 million), Israel ($437 million), and Argentina ($417 million); in 1978, the largest amounts were secured by Brazil ($936 million), Algeria ($729 million), Venezuela ($690 million), and Mexico ($688 million.)
An $8 million, 12-year issue by the Haitian borrower, Club Mediterrannee Haiti, represented the only new developing country to tap the bond markets in 1979. Guaranteed by the French parent company, this rather unusual issue included a special feature indexing the interest rate on the bonds to the company's business activity at its other Caribbean resorts.
Borrowers from centrally planned countries raised a minimal sum of $48 million in 1979. As in 1978, the only borrower was Poland's Bank Handlowy w Warszawie.
International organizations raised $8,647 million in 1979, 23% of total borrowing. As in previous years, the largest amount was obtained by the World Bank ($4,341 million). Of this total, $1,530 million was secured through "special" placements with central
banks, monetary authorities, and governments. The European Investment Bank was also an active market participant in 1979, with borrowing of $2,121 million.
Borrowers unallocated by country raised $477 million during 1979. Eurofima, the European railway company, was the largest borrower, with $335 million obtained in the Austrian, Luxembourg, Swiss, and international markets.
Syndicated Eurocurrency Credits: Calendar 1979
During 1979, much attention was focused on the Eurocurrency credit market. The large volume of lending, which took a major leap in 1978 ($73,724 million compared with $34,185 million in 1977), continued at close to the same level in 1979 ($68,891 million). As had been evidenced since 1977, most major commercial banks, faced with positions of high liquidity due to low domestic corporate demand in the industrialized countries, turned to the Eurocurrency credit market to lend their excess funds. As a result, the competition for Eurocurrency loan business drove terms to levels most favorable to the borrowers.
Of the total amount raised during 1979, developing countries accounted for $42,357 million (61%), an 11 % increase over the previous year's total of $38,276 million (52%). The traditional developing country borrowers in the Eurocurrency credit market—Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, the Republic of Korea, Mexico, the Philippines, Spain, and Venezuela —continued to remain active. Together, these countries accounted for 66% ($28,158 million) of the total amount borrowed by the developing countries. Terms secured on many of the loans to these borrowers showed a significant improvement over those obtained in previous years.
Several developing countries—Colombia, Ecuador, Greece, Portugal, and Yugoslavia— showed significant increases in borrowing. Together, these five countries accounted for a total of $5,092 million. Those countries reported to have borrowed in the Eurocurrency credit market for the first time included: Ethiopia ($14 million), Lesotho ($10 million), Paraguay ($7 million), Sri Lanka ($50 million), and Tanzania ($12 million). Member countries of the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC) - showed
- Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela.
a 21% decrease in borrowing—from $10,523 million in 1978 to $8,365 million in 1979.
Borrowing by industrialized countries totaled $18,807 million in 1979, a 40% decrease from the $31,344 million raised last year. This decrease was reportedly due to these countries turning away from the market in favor of the traditional bond markets. The largest amounts were raised by borrowers from the United States, Italy, and France. (It should be noted that many of the breakthroughs in the fall of spreads were first evidenced by loans to the industrialized countries. France and Sweden are only two examples of countries that were the first to be able to secure previously unobtainable spreads.)
Borrowing by centrally planned countries and organizations nearly doubled between 1978 and 1979, increasing from $3,702 million to $7,231 million. This increase is accounted for by China, which made its debut in the Eurocurrency credit market in 1979. This first-time borrower raised a total of $2,995 million through 12 loans at very low spreads. The high liquidity of banks enabled other centrally planned countries, for example Poland and the German Democratic Republic, to borrow actively and to achieve improved terms, as well.
The year 1979 can be characterized as one of declining spreads and lengthening maturities. Spreads between borrowers were no longer an indication of their credit rating. In general, most countries had little trouble negotiating loans at spreads of 1 % or below and at maturities within the nine-year to 10-year range. Statistical Annex Table 10 indicates the extent to which many countries succeeded in negotiating the best terms the market had to offer.
As had been true in 1978, the favorable market conditions encouraged borrowers to refinance existing loans. Although refinancing did not reach the $13,787 million achieved during the previous year, 1979 figures show that approximately $8,242 million was raised for this purpose. Most of this amount, $5,630 million, was accounted for by the developing countries.
The improved terms in 1979 reportedly put a strain on participating banks because of low returns. It was not surprising that the syndication of a number of transactions was very slow. This situation was further complicated by the economic and political events of the latter half of 1979, and, taken together, these factors were looked upon by market observers as the reason for the increasing number of "club" loans (Euroloans totally underwritten by the man-
agement group). As a result, many of the traditional participating banks disappeared from the scene, leaving the largest commercial banks to provide the funds.
As the year came to an end, the Eurocurrency credit market was plagued by uncertainties. On the one hand, hints of a shift from a borrower's market to a lender's market were rumored because of the implementation of the US Federal Reserve's credit-tightening policies, the Japanese government's restraint on its banks from participation in Euroloans, and the controversy concerning the vulnerability of the Euromarkets in view of the US-Iranian situation. On the other hand, with banks facing additional liquidity from OPEC deposits, many market observers felt that the borrower's market was likely to continue.
At the beginning of 1979, the interest rate for six-month Eurodollar deposits, based on prime banks' bid rates at near end-of-month, started at 10.56%. The rate fluctuated throughout the year, reaching a high of 15.31% in October and then ending the year at 13.94% and 14.44% in November and December, respectively.
Foreign and International Bonds: First Half, 1980
Dramatic swings in borrowing activity characterized foreign and international bond markets during the first half of 1980. Soaring interest rates, coupled with the increase in the six-month LIBOR for US dollars from 14.44% in December 1979 to 19.56% in March 1980, deterred borrowers from raising funds in the bond markets. Borrowing during the first quarter of 1980 totaled $6,469 million, the lowest amount recorded since the fourth quarter of 1975. Borrowing activity increased sharply during the second quarter of 1980; preliminary estimates indicate a total of $11,380 million. Again, borrowing was strongly influenced by trends in US dollar interest rates. The previously mentioned sharp increase in the six-month LIBOR for US dollars was reversed in April, with rates declining 587 basis points from end-March to end-April. The declining interest rates were immediately reflected in borrowing activity in the Eurodollar sector of the international market. Eurodollar issues for May and June totaled $4,611 million, equal to 44% of total Eurodollar bonds raised during 1979. This surge of activity caused total borrowing during the first six months of 1980 to reach $17,850 million, which, on an annual basis, would suggest about a $1,000 million decline in borrowing from 1979 to 1980. How-
ever, if borrowing continues at, or near, the level recorded in the second quarter, total volume for 1980 could be substantially above the 1979 total.
In the US market, foreign bonds totaled $1,213 million during the first half of 1980. Only three countries tapped the US market, with Canadian borrowers being the most active, raising over 70% of all funds. The Swiss market accounted for 46% ($3,351 million) of all foreign bonds issued during the first half of 1980. Borrowers continued to be attracted to Swiss franc interest rates which, although higher than in 1979, were still substantially below rates for US dollars and Deutsche mark. The sharp contraction in the Japanese market, which began in 1979, continued during the first half of 1980, with foreign issues totaling $489 million, compared with $3,055 million during 1979 and $4,686 million in 1978.
Deutsche mark-denominated bonds, both foreign and international, totaled $3,052 million during the first half of 1980, which, on an annual basis, is only slightly below the $6,526 million raised in 1979. Over 90% of DM issues were made by international organizations and borrowers from industrialized countries.
In the international bond market, US dollar-denominated bonds accounted for over two-thirds of total borrowing. However, the monthly volume of dollar issues fluctuated widely, from $332 million in February to $2,536 million in June. The fall in dollar interest rates during the second quarter revived investors' interest in fixed-rate dollar securities, which accounted for three-quarters of all Eurodollar issues. As in 1979, developing country borrowers continued to raise most of their dollar bonds (79%) through the floating rate note sector of the market.
Activity in foreign and international bond markets was dominated by borrowers from industrialized countries, who secured over 70% of total funds. US and Canadian borrowers were the most active, raising $2,197 million and SI,960 million, respectively. US corporations, particularly active in the dollar sector of the international market, obtained 85% of their external borrowing from it.
As in 1979, borrowing by developing countries continued to decline during the first half of 1980. The Colombian Banco de Bogota was the only developing country borrower to tap the bond markets during the first quarter of 1980, raising $25 million through a floating rate note offering in the international market. Reflecting the general upswing in the market during the second quarter, developing coun-
tries were able to obtain $565 million through 11 issues completed by borrowers from nine developing countries. A $30 million floating rate note by the State Bank of India represented the first Indian borrowing in the bond markets since 1973.
International organizations raised $3,698 million during the first six months of 1980. Over half of this amount ($2,162 million) was obtained by the World Bank. A notable event was the first offering by the World Bank in the dollar sector of the international market. The June offering totaled $500 million—$300 million at 10.25%) and $200 million at 9.75%, with original maturities of seven and five years, respectively.
Syndicated Eurocurrency Credits: First Half, 1980
In the Eurocurrency credit market, the year got off to a slow start, but borrowing activity picked up during the second quarter, bringing the half-yearly total to $26,552 million. This is less than the $29,063 million raised during the first half of 1979. Decreases were evidenced in each of the categories of borrowing countries with the exception of the industrialized countries, whose borrowing increased by 35% over the same period in 1979, from $7,690 million to $10,376 million.
The distribution of borrowing during the first half of 1980 was as follows: developing countries—$14,507 million (54%); industrialized countries—$10,376 million (39%); centrally planned countries and organizations —$1,080 million (4%); international organizations—$490 million (2%); and borrowers unallocated by country—$100 million (less than 1%).
Among the developing countries, the largest amounts were raised by borrowers from Spain ($1,988 million), Mexico ($1,609 million), Malaysia ($1,050 million), and Argentina ($1,040 million). Among the industrialized countries, large amounts were raised by borrowers from Italy ($2,588 million), Canada ($1,730 million), Belgium ($1,200 million), and the United States ($1,021 million).
The cautious attitude of bankers, evidenced during the closing months of 1979, was reflected in the terms offered on newly negotiated credits in 1980. Maturities on loans to most borrowers appeared to be shortening. In 1979, maturities over 10 years were not uncommon, but in 1980, bankers, for the most part, were offering maturities in the eight-year to nine-year range. Spreads, on the other hand, remained favorable on loans to prime borrow-
ers, but were high for "risky" borrowers. This return of the differentiation in terms according to credit rating is a change from the situation during 1979, when most borrowers were able to obtain favorable terms on their loans. Market observers indicate that this differentiation in credit rating is likely to remain throughout 1980.
It remains to be seen whether or not the volume of activity in the Eurocurrency credit market will reach the level experienced in 1978 and 1979. Market observers have indicated that activity in the second half of 1980 should
increase considerably as banks, which had been restraining their lending during the first half of the year, feel pressured to lend in the face of their mounting liquidity. The reemer-gence of the Japanese banks in the syndicated credit market, although at a less aggressive level than in previous years, should also have an impact on the level of lending activity.
The interest rate for six-month Eurodollar deposits during the first half of 1980 reached a high of 19.56% in March but declined in the following months, reaching a low of 9.94% in June.
Chapter Six Executive Directors
Executive Directors
With the exception of certain powers specifically reserved to them by the Articles of Agreement, the Governors have delegated their powers for the conduct of the general operation of the Bank to a Board of Executive Directors that performs its duties on a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters. There are 20 Executive Directors: as provided for in the Articles of Agreement, five are appointed by the five members having the largest number of shares, and the rest are elected by the other members. The President of the Bank is Chairman of the Board.
The Executive Directors fulfill dual responsibilities. They represent their constituents' interests and concerns to the Board and management when determining policy or considering individual projects and they represent the Bank's interests and concerns to the country or countries that appointed or elected them. The Executive Directors, therefore, act as a two-way channel of communication between the Bank and the member countries. Since the Bank operates on the basis of a philosophy of consensus (formal votes are rare), this dual role is a demanding one, involving constant communication and consultations with governments and careful preparation to reflect their views in Board discussions.
Policy is decided by the Executive Directors within the framework of the Bank's Articles of Agreement. The Directors consider and decide on the loan and credit proposals made by the President. They are also responsible for presentation to the Board of Governors at its Annual Meeting of an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and the Annual Report on the operations and policies of the World Bank, and any other matter that, in their judgment, requires submission to the Board of Governors. Matters may be submitted to the Governors at the Annual Meeting or at any time between Annual Meetings.
In fiscal 1980, the Executive Directors met on 54 occasions in formal session, during which they reviewed and approved 144 Bank loans totaling $7,644 million and 103 IDA
credits totaling $3,838 million. The Directors also approved Bank borrowings of $5,173 million.
The Board of Governors approved the recommendations made in late fiscal 1979 by the Executive Directors providing for an increase in the aggregate amount of $44,000 million in the Bank's authorized capital stock that will enable Bank lending to continue to grow, in real terms, through the middle of the decade. In another major action affecting the transfer of resources to the developing countries, the Executive Directors approved the arrangements for the Sixth Replenishment of the International Development Association and submitted them to the Governors of the Association, who approved them on March 26. The Sixth Replenishment provides for $12,000 million equivalent in additional funds to IDA that will be used to assist priority development projects in the poorest developing countries, with commitment authority for the three-year period, July 1, 1980 to lune 30, 1983. Important policy matters on which action was taken during the year included: lending for health, education, and structural adjustment, determination of the Bank's lending rate, the denomination of IDA credits in special drawing rights, the arrangements for the general currency pooling scheme, and ways in which to increase co-financing.
The Executive Directors endorsed the recommendations of the external General Research Advisory Panel, with particular reference to the need to expand the Bank's research effort, especially with respect to research application and dissemination both within and outside the Bank, and the need for greater efforts to build up research capacity in developing countries.
The Directors also submitted to the Board of Governors for its approval a statute establishing a World Bank Administrative Tribunal, which will become effective on July 1, 1980, to adjudicate staff grievances.
Major policy decisions that the Executive Directors make annually include the allocation of the Bank's net income, the Bank's lending
program, administrative budgets, staff compensation, and the Bank's research program. During the year, they considered the fourth annual report of the Director-General, Operations Evaluation, the fifth "Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results," and the fiscal 1980-81 operations evaluation work plan. Other annual reports with which the Directors dealt related to project implementation and supervision, the activities of the Joint Audit Committee, the Bank's financial statements, the Economic Development Institute, and the Staff Retirement Plan.
Two papers—one on structural adjustment lending, the other on co-financing—plus a third, a joint Bank/Fund study, "Group of 24 Program of Immediate Action—A Review of Some Recent Developments," were transmitted, at the direction of the Executive Directors, to the Development Committee for its April meeting in Hamburg, in which they participated. The Development Committee welcomed the Bank's initiative to provide assistance through structural adjustment lending, urged that co-financing efforts be continued, and reviewed the current state of discussion relating to the Group of 24 Program of Immediate Action for International Monetary Reform. Following the Hamburg meeting, the Directors further discussed the Bank's proposed program of structural adjustment lending and endorsed the policy, while calling for a review of the program in fiscal 1981.
With the publication of the Report of the Brandt Commission, North-South—A Program for Survival, the Executive Directors also began consideration of those recommendations that related to the policies and operations of the Bank.
On May 15, the Executive Directors decided that the Government of the People's Republic of China represented China in the Bank and its affiliates.
A list of the Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors, showing their voting powers and the countries they represent, with notations of changes since the last regular election of Executive Directors, appears on page 197.
Joint Audit Committee
The Joint Audit Committee was established in 1970, essentially to represent the Bank's
shareholders in maintaining vigilance over the soundness of the Bank's financial practices and procedures. In pursuing its responsibilities during fiscal 1980, the Committee nominated a firm of private, independent, internationally established accountants to conduct the annual audits of the Bank, IDA, and IFC, discussed with them the scope of their examination, and reviewed with them the annual audited financial statements and the opinions thereon. In addition, through meetings with the Bank's senior financial officers, the Committee sought to ensure that the Bank's financial affairs are properly conducted.
The Committee is also charged with the responsibility of satisfying itself that the Bank's internal audit and operations evaluation are adequate and efficient. It, therefore, reviewed the work programs of the Internal Auditing and Operations Evaluation Departments, the work in progress, desirable standards, and procedures of reporting. It reviewed most papers produced by the Operations Evaluation Department and identified those giving rise to policy issues that may be considered by the Executive Directors. During the fiscal year, the Committee also assisted the Board by meeting informally to give further attention to certain policy issues identified by the Executive Directors. Through a subcommittee, it gave special attention to Project Performance Audit Reports to determine how well the Operations Evaluation Department carries out its assessment of individual projects.
Of continuing concern to the Committee is the adequacy of the flow of financial information to the Executive Directors in order for the Board to discharge properly its responsibilities with respect to the financial policies of the Bank. Accordingly, the system for providing financial information to the Board is reviewed periodically by the Committee.
The Committee provides a continuing channel through which the internal and external auditors may communicate with the Executive Directors should the need arise. It meets as frequently as necessary, normally once a month. The Committee consists of six Executive Directors, who are appointed by the Board for a term of two years after each regular election of Executive Directors. Since December 1978, Earl G. Drake has served as Chairman of the Committee.
Projects Approved for Bank and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1980, by Sector
Acronyms Used in This Section
ADF—African Development Fund AfDB—African Development Bank AFESD—Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development AsDB—Asian Development Bank BADEA—Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa BMZ—Ministry for Economic
Cooperation (Federal Republic of
Germany) CABEI—Central American Bank for
Economic Integration CCCE—Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique CDB—Caribbean Development Bank CDC—Commonwealth Development
Corporation CIDA—Canadian International
Development Agency DANIDA—Danish International
Development Agency EDF—European Development Fund EEC—European Economic Community EIB—European Investment Bank FAC—Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation FAO—Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations
GTZ—German Technical Assistance
Corporation IDB—Inter-American Development
Bank
IFAD—International Fund for
Agricultural Development IsDB—Islamic Development Bank KFAED—Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development KfW—Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederaufbau NMDC—Netherlands Minister for
Development Cooperation NORAD—Norwegian Agency for
International Development ODA—Overseas Development
Administration OECF—Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund OPEC—Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries SFD—Saudi Fund for Development SIDA—Swedish International
Development Authority UNDP—United Nations Development
Programme USAID—United States Agency for
International Development
Agriculture and Rural Development
ALGERIA: Bank—$8 million. Some 18,500 farm families and laborers will benefit from a project that forms the first stage of an overall effort to rehabilitate irrigation infrastructure, reclaim lands lost to salinity, and develop and extend irrigated agriculture in the Cheliff basin. Total cost: $13.3 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$37 million. About 430,000 rural households will have access to irrigation facilities through a project that provides for 8,500 new low-lift pumps; the rehabilitation of 5,000 unserviceable pumps; the initiation of pump sales to farmers with the provision of credit from commercial banks; tools, equipment, and transport vehicles for the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation; and a training program for pump mechanics and operators. Total cost: $48 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$25 million. An increase in foodgrain production, higher farm incomes, and better rural job opportunities are expected to result from financing of permanent (appurtenant) structures and improvement of earthworks to complement various earthworks schemes constructed under the Food for Work Programme. Co-financing ($3 million) is being provided by CIDA. Total cost: $35 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$25 million. A portion of the import requirements of fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials for fiscal year 1981 will be financed. The credit will assist in meeting farmers' demand for fertilizer and will contribute to the country's efforts to increase production of food and other agricultural products.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$11 million. The government's ongoing mangrove plantation
program will be expanded in four coastal districts to increase the production of fuelwood, pulpwood, and sawlogs. About 4,000 landless laborers will benefit directly from better employment opportunities and from the free use of nonmarketable fuelwood. Total cost: $17.2 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$63 million. A second rural development project will benefit about 30,000 small farmers and 1,100 nonfarm enterprises in some of the poorest rural areas of Minas Gerais state through increased rural investment credit, a strengthening of agricultural services, technical assistance to small, nonfarm enterprises, and improved physical infrastructure and social services. Total cost: $184.6 million.
BURMA: IDA—$90 million. This first phase of a long-term program for the development of two river valleys in the country's central area includes the rehabilitation and construction of existing and new irrigation systems; onfarm development; agricultural extension; construction of a dam, a powerhouse, and other related facilities; and technical assistance. About 33,000 farm families will benefit. Co-financing is being provided by the KfW ($37.8 million), the OECF ($15 million), and NORAD ($6.4 million). Total cost: $235 million.
BURMA: IDA—$35 million. Teak and other hardwood exports and the domestic supply of sawn hardwood will be increased, future timber supplies will be augmented through the establishment of teak plantations and large-scale trials of other species, and training and technical assistance will be provided. Co-financing will be provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($8 million), Finland ($ 1.4 million), and the UNDP ($200,000). Total cost: $86.4 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$16.5 million; IDA —$15 million. Depleted forest areas in the sparsely populated Kribi region will be replaced through a project that comprises the second phase of a plan for the development of an industrial rubber estate. The country's dependence on cocoa and coffee for export earnings will be reduced and additional full-time jobs will be provided. Co-financing is being provided by the CDC ($25.7 million) and the CCCE ($19 million). Total cost: $95 million.
CAMEROON: IDA—$16 million. The second phase of a plan to increase meat production and raise the standard of living of livestock producers will be supported by providing credit to producers, financing the continued eradication of tsetse flies from grazing areas of the Adamaoua plateau, and strength-
ening veterinary field services. Co-financing is being provided by the KfW ($8 million) and the GTZ ($1 million). Total cost: $39.9 million.
COMOROS: IDA—$5.2 million. Coconut and copra production will be extended and improved on three islands through rodent control measures, the creation of a copra processing and marketing service, the establishment of seed gardens and nurseries, and technical assistance and training of agricultural institution staff and farmers. Total cost: $5.7 million.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Bank—$35 million. The operational efficiency and financial status of the State Sugar Council will be improved. The country will be able to sustain its current level of exports and meet the projected increase in domestic sugar consumption by rehabilitating six sugar mills, carrying out irrigation and drainage studies, and rehabilitating about 540 kilometers of railway tracks. Co-financing ($20 million) for the financial restructuring of the State Sugar Council is being provided by private commercial banks. Total cost: $70 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA— $45 million. Funds will be made available to the Development Industrial Bank, the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit, and Bank Misr for onlending to small subborrowers and others for the development of small and medium-sized agro-industries, for the construction of new municipal slaughterhouses in Cairo and Alexandria, and for studies on the possible construction of new fruit and vegetable wholesale markets in the two cities. Total cost: $60.8 million.
GHANA: IDA —$29.5 million. An estimated 60,000 farm families will benefit from an agricultural development project in the Volta region supporting improved extension services, credit and training for farmers, the construction of 65 farm service centers, the expansion of the Adidome Farm Institute, and the construction and improvement of access and feeder roads. Co-financing ($12.5 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $48.7 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$10.4 million. A rice development project will provide for the construction of three research stations; consultant services and fellowship funds to the Ministry of Agriculture; and a pilot project aimed at developing technical improvements in cultivation practices that will benefit 2,700 farm families and 12 cooperatives located in the country's fertile Forest region. Co-financing ($4.9 million) is being provided by the ADF. Total cost: $21 million.
HONDURAS: Bank—$20 million; IDA— $5 million. By providing a line of credit for investments in crops, livestock, machinery, and slaughterhouses; through flood control and drainage works for banana and plantain development; and through a pilot reforestation program, the incomes of about 12,800 people, mostly small farmers and their families, will be raised. Total cost: $38.5 million.
INDIA: IDA—$250 million. A two-year program of lending by the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation to farmers will be financed. A training program for the staff of land development banks will be supported, and equipment to implement groundwater resource evaluations provided. Co-financing ($150 million) is expected to be provided by other donors (KfW, ODA, USAID, CIDA). Total cost: $953 million.
INDIA: IDA—$210 million. Some 120,000 farm families stand to benefit from a second irrigation project in Maharashtra state that aims to develop drought-prone rainfed areas into irrigated lands by constructing five major irrigation schemes and rehabilitating two existing ones. Employment opportunities will also be created for about 113,000 landless laborers and 65,000 workers in marketing, transport, and processing. Total cost: $451 million.
INDIA: IDA—$175 million. Some 136,000 farm families stand to benefit from a Second Gujarat Irrigation Project that aims to help complete three ongoing major irrigation schemes that are expected to increase the annual production of foodgrains by 200,000 tons and fruit by 185,000 tons. In addition, jobs will be created for farmers, landless laborers, and other nonfarm workers. Total cost: $360 million.
INDIA: IDA—$54 million. Funds will be provided to expand production and improve quality of silk in Karnataka state. Raw silk production is expected to increase by about 1,600 tons a year, the quality of silk will be upgraded, and about 180,000 work-years annually will be created, primarily for the rural population. Total cost: $95.1 million.
INDIA: IDA—$37 million. Supplies of fuel-wood in Gujarat state will be increased by establishing more than 100,000 hectares of forest plantations, through reforestation and afforestation measures, by expanding state-run nurseries to provide planting stock, by promoting fuelwood conservation measures, and by strengthening institutions. Total cost: $76 million.
INDIA: IDA—$22 million. Help in financing a cashew production program in the states of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and
Orissa, together with necessary supporting facilities, will be provided. A program of research and training and a cashew industry study are included. Total cost: $45.7 million.
INDIA: IDA—$20 million. Carp production will be increased in five states—West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh—through the construction of hatcheries, improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the establishment of training centers. The incomes of about 100,000 fish-farm families will be raised, and the supply of high-quality protein to consumers will be increased. Total cost: $39.7 million.
INDIA: IDA—$18 million. Over a two-year period, some 500 public tubewells will be constructed in 12 districts in Uttar Pradesh state, bringing irrigation to 62,000 farm families currently not served by irrigation systems. An increase in agricultural production, as well as in farm employment opportunities, is expected. The project will also demonstrate and test the merits of technical and organizational improvements that could be extended to the state's entire tubewell program. Total cost: $36 million.
INDIA: IDA—$10 million. About 2.5 million farmers living in Kerala state will benefit from a project that aims to increase production and incomes through the reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension services. Total cost: $15.3 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$116 million. Food production will be increased by about 234,000 tons a year and about 800,000 farm families will benefit through improved irrigation, drainage, and flood protection systems. Total cost: $186.7 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$99 million. About 12,000 smallholder families will benefit directly from a project that will establish rubber trees and food crops on family-sized holdings in two provinces of Sumatera and in south Kalimantan. In addition, two existing public sector estates (rubber and oil palm) will be rehabilitated and expanded. Total cost: $152.5 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$35 million; IDA— $30 million. By constructing research centers and providing technical assistance and training for high-level staff, the country's agricultural research institutions will be expanded and strengthened and appropriate farming systems will be developed to help small farmers raisp their productivity and incomes. Total c $101.5 million.
INDONESIA: IDA—$45 million. Sc 8,500 farm families will benefit through provision of an irrigation and drainage sy covering 11,600 hectares in the Dumoga
ley in north Sulawesi. Technical assistance will also be provided to the Directorate-General of Water Resources Development to strengthen and expand its planning, programming, project preparation, and evaluation activities. Total cost: $71.1 million.
INDONESIA: IDA—$45 million. About 38,500 hectares of smallholder rubber will be planted and maintained; 8,000 hectares previously planted to rubber will be maintained; nurseries will be developed; and access roads will be constructed to help raise the incomes of some 32,000 smallholder families—about 30% of whom have incomes below the absolute poverty level. In addition, exports will increase and the national smallholder rubber development program will be strengthened. Total cost: $70.5 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$42 million. Some 4,000 landless families will be provided with farms on unutilized land in South Sumatera province. Oil palm and food crop production will be increased; village roads will be constructed and upgraded; basic health services will be provided to 20,000 people; and about 8,000 children will gain access to primary and secondary education. Total cost: $64.5 million.
INDONESIA: IDA—$42 million. The agricultural productivity of about 2.8 million farm families will be raised through the improvement of extension services—including an increase in the number of extension workers and field supervisors; the construction of about 1,120 rural extension centers, with equipment and furniture provided; and training classes for extension staff. Total cost: $81.9 million.
INDONESIA: IDA—$12 million. By adapting new agricultural technologies and soil conservation measures for upland farming, constructing two fish hatcheries and rehabilitating two others, upgrading a livestock market, improving 2,000 kilometers of roads, making health care services and safe water available to about 400,000 people, and providing technical assistance to small-scale enterprises, poverty will be reduced in two of the poorest districts in Yogyakarta province. Total cost: $19 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$9.4 million. The project—the first phase of an integrated rural development program for the northeast savannah, a sparsely populated, isolated region— consists of three agricultural production components aimed at increasing food crop production and testing new farming systems; applied research and field trials; and the improvement of rural roads and water supplies. Co-financing is being provided by US AID ($3.7 million)
and FAC ($1.4 million). Total cost: $21.1 million.
KENYA: IDA—$46 million. About 38,000 smallholders in 15 districts will benefit from a second integrated agricultural development project. The project components include livestock development, storage and marketing facilities, better extension services and training, credit development, conservation measures, provision of farm inputs, and improved water supplies and rural roads. Co-financing ($17 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $84.4 million.
KENYA: IDA—$10 million. Through the expansion and upgrading of shore facilities for fish landing, storage, preservation, and marketing and through the provision of fishing craft and gear and the establishment of a Fish Farming Development Center, fish production will be increased and the incomes of fishermen will be raised by about one-half. Total cost: $13.3 million.
KENYA: IDA—$6.5 million. An experimental project, designed to establish the technical, sociological, and economic foundations for the future development of the semi-arid areas in Baringo district in Rift valley province, and which will have an impact mainly on low-income inhabitants, includes components dealing with water and soil conservation, improvements in dryland and irrigation cultivation methods, livestock production, rural infrastructure, expansion of government field staff, and planning for future programs. Total cost: $8.6 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$50 million. Medium-term and long-term loans will be provided to the private sector through the Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation for investments in agroprocessing facilities. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $84 million.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: IDA—$13.4 million. The government's efforts to achieve self-sufficiency in food production and increase foreign exchange earnings will be supported through the rehabilitation and construction of rice mills, a coffee mill, and related facilities in three provinces benefiting about 80,000 small farmers; the construction of workshops to improve vehicle maintenance; the provision of agricultural extension services; and a rural electrification feasibility study. Co-financing ($1.4 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $18.8 million.
LIBERIA: Bank—$12 million. Help in expanding and diversifying the country's export base and increasing foreign exchange earnings
through the development of the palm oil sub-sector will be provided. Extension services and credit will be made available to about 1,000 small farmers; an oil mill will be constructed, as well as roads and storage and port facilities; and technical assistance and consultant services will be provided. Co-financing is being provided by the CDC ($15 million), the AfDB ($8 million), and the EEC Special Action Account ($2 million). Total cost: $48.8 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$13.8 million. The project forms the initial phase of a national program designed to meet the demand for fuel-wood and poles. Plantations will be established to produce and sell fuelwood and poles for commercial use; 88 nurseries will be built for producing seedlings for sale to smallholders; and the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources will be strengthened by training key staff and establishing an Energy Department to carry out studies of alternative sources of energy. Total cost: $16.3 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$160 million. About 10,000 farm families will benefit from the development of irrigated agriculture on 110,000 hectares in the Balsas river basin. Technical assistance is included to help strengthen agricultural extension, research, and training services. Total cost: $408.8 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$58 million. By introducing modern production techniques, strengthening production planning, and establishing a separate marketing structure for off-season vegetables, the country's vegetable exports will be doubled and foreign exchange earnings increased by about $85 million annually. About 8,000 farm families will benefit directly, and the equivalent of an additional 16,000 jobs is expected to be created. Total cost: $129.6 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$34 million. The incomes and productivity of farmers living in the Loukkos river basin will be increased by a project that includes erosion control works; field, tree crop, and livestock development; irrigation rehabilitation; agriculture support services; land clearing and establishment of pine plantations; and agricultural credit. In addition, roads, schools, and dispensaries will be constructed. Total cost: $67.6 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$17 million. The project, the first phase of a 20-year national forestry program, is aimed at developing community forestry in the hill areas and establishing training facilities to satisfy the need for qualified forestry and soil and water conservation personnel. The population of 340 panchayats (1.9 million people) will benefit from an increase in the production of fuelwood and
fodder. Co-financing is being provided by USAID ($3.3 million) and the UNDP ($2.8 million). Total cost: $24.8 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$16 million. By rehabilitating and upgrading an existing irrigation system on the Mahakali river, and through the construction of all-weather roads, the procurement of materials, equipment, and vehicles, and the strengthening of agricultural extension services, annual production of foodgrains, cash crops, and vegetables will be increased, thereby raising the incomes of local farmers. Total cost: $19.5 million.
NICARAGUA: Bank—$20 million; IDA— $10 million. Funds will be channeled through the Fondo Especial de Desarrollo to be on-lent to institutions to provide credit to industrial enterprises for current production and the repair or replacement of fixed installations, and to private and state-owned farms for crop and livestock production. Long-term financing for the resumption of a coffee renovation program will also be made available. Financing for about 14 man-months of services, vehicles, and equipment, and a livestock survey will also be provided. Total cost: $37.7 million.
NIGER: IDA—$20 million. Through the introduction of improved farming practices, vaccination coverage for livestock, and a training and visit extension system, and through the construction of small-scale irrigation schemes and the strengthening of agricultural research, the incomes and standard of living of some 80,000 farm families living in Dosso province will be improved. Co-financing is being provided by the CCCE ($4.5 million) and FAC ($2.3 million). Total cost: $39.3 million.
NIGER: IDA—$16.7 million. A five-year program to increase farm incomes and improve the standard of living of the rural population of Maradi province will be carried out by providing agriculture extension services, credit, irrigation on 740 hectares, a seed multiplication program, and the development of functional literacy and health programs. Co-financing is being provided by the CCCE ($7 million) and IFAD ($12 million). Total cost: $47.5 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$32.5 million. About 70,000 farm families, living in Ondo state, will benefit from farm support services, including extension advice, improved seeds, fertilizers, and provision of credit facilities. In addition, 500 kilometers of feeder and farm roads will be constructed or improved and 30 farm service centers will be built. Total cost: $80.5 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$28 million. Farm support services and physical infrastructure will
be financed to help increase food production and improve the incomes of some 55,000 smallholder farm families living in the northern part of Oyo state. Total cost: $69.4 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$30 million. A fourth agricultural development bank loan will finance, through the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan, medium-term and long-term investments in farm mechanization, minor irrigation, onfarm development, and livestock. Technical assistance is included. Co-financing ($30 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $224.6 million.
PERU: Bank—$56 million. More than 11,000 families living in the lower Piura area of the country—primarily small farmers and cooperative members—will benefit through the improvement of irrigation and drainage facilities, reclamation of saline soils, flood protection measures, farm development assistance, and technical assistance. Total cost: $178.8 million.
PERU: Bank—$15 million. The living conditions of some 29,500 low-income rural families living in the southern Altiplano will be improved through the construction of irrigation systems and communal potable water systems; provision of agricultural credit; intensive research and extension programs; rehabilitation of more than 500 kilometers of rural roads; establishment of 1,500 hectares of forest plantations; and improved rural health facilities. Total cost: $27.3 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$71 million. Through the construction of diversion dams, irrigation and drainage facilities, related roads and offices, and the provision of vehicles and equipment, more than 11,600 farm families and 900 landless laborers' families, living on the islands of Mindoro and Palawan, will benefit from increased agricultural production and employment opportunities. In addition, the strengthening of the malaria control unit in Palawan will benefit about 12,000 people. Total cost: $118.5 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$27 million. Rural families living on the island of Samar-—one of the poorest areas of the country—will benefit from a rural development project consisting of four main elements: road and port rehabilitation, irrigation construction, safe water facilities, and the provision of medicines to people suffering from schistosomiasis. The project is part of a larger development plan for the island that is being financed, in part, by a grant ($28 million) from the Australian government. Total cost: $45 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$ 12 million. Through the extension of new multiple-crop-
ping technology to lowland areas of Iloilo province, which have satisfactory rainfall but no access to major irrigation systems, production and employment opportunities will be increased for about 40,000 farm families and 5,000 landless laborers' families. Programs for improving nutrition and providing machinery, training, and consultant services for the preparation of similar projects in Mindanao are also included. Total cost: $21.4 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$50 million. About 150,000 hectares of new plantation forest will be established; credit will be extended to owners of small forests; and technical assistance and training will be made available to establish a forest extension service and to carry out studies to determine long-term strategies for the development of forests and forest-based industries. Total cost: $170 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$90 million. Through the construction of an irrigation and drainage system and related facilities, crop production will be stabilized and productivity raised in a 148,400-hectare area located about 250 kilometers northeast of Bucharest. Some 51,000 cooperative workers and 22,900 state farm employees will participate in the project. Total cost: $354.6 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$85 million. A third livestock project will help meet the growing local demand for poultry through the construction of breeding and production farms and slaughterhouses and through the provision of specialized lab equipment for research and disease control. Poultry production is expected to increase by 157,000 tons annually by 1987. Co-financing ($100 million) will be provided by a syndicate of private commercial banks. Total cost: $311.4 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$50 million. Credit will be provided through the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry to establish 29,820 hectares of new orchards and construct new fruit packing and cold storage facilities. Technical assistance to help improve fruit handling, storage, and processing and to improve applied research for mechanization of fruit production and harvesting will be made available. Total cost: $323.9 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$21 million. To develop the country's forestry resources, some 8,000 hectares of fuelwood and pole plantations will be established in Kigali and Butare and wood-lots will be provided for 3,000 farm families. In addition, to strengthen its livestock industry, integrated crop and livestock development in the Gishwati forest area will benefit about 40,000 farm families.Total cost: $23.6 million.
SENEGAL: IDA —$11 million. About 42,000 people will benefit directly from a project that has an important institution-building role aimed at increasing popular participation in decision making on investments in the rural sector. Irrigated cultivation of rice, vegetables, and bananas, as well as beekeeping and fishing activities, is included. An additional 100,000 people will gain access to permanent village water supplies. Co-financing ($400,000) for technical assistance services is being provided by FAC. Total cost: $14.1 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$12 million. The project aims to increase crop and livestock productivity through the development of all-season access roads and a farming system that will preserve the productivity of the land in the Bay region. About 15,000 farm families will benefit. Technical assistance is included. Co-financing is being provided by USAID ($10.5 million), the ADF ($8.9 million), and IFAD ($8 million). Total cost: $43.4 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$16 million. Some 18,800 hectares of over-aged rubber will be replanted with high-yielding plants on about 27,000 smallholdings, processing standards will be improved, and technical assistance will be provided to raise the productivity and improve the quality of rubber and strengthen local agencies involved in smallholder production. Total cost: $28 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$40 million. Some 22,000 tenant families and 50,000 migrant laborers will benefit from the rehabilitation of the New Haifa irrigation scheme that is designed to increase the production of major export crops— primarily cotton and peanuts. Co-financing is being provided by IFAD ($15 million) and the ADF ($10 million). Total cost: $105 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$43 million. The National Milling Corporation's capacity to procure, transport, store, and mill food crops will be improved through the rehabilitation of existing warehouses and silos; construction of additional storage facilities; extension of the Dar es Salaam corn mill and construction of a new mill at Dodoma; construction of laboratories for grain and flour analysis; and transportation, training, and technical assistance for local staff. Total cost: $57.4 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$14 million. Over a five-year period, the ongoing operations of the Tanzania Tea Authority will be consolidated and strengthened by constructing one factory; extending and re-equipping five factories; providing transport facilities, spare parts, and tools; establishing fuelwood plantations; and building roads. Technical assistance is in-
cluded. Co-financing ($1.6 million) is being provided by NORAD. Total cost: $20 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$10 million. A training program for the Tanzania Rural Development Bank's (TRDB) staff and village officials will be financed, as well as a strengthening of the TRDB's organizational structure, including the establishment of a management information center, and the provision of office equipment and furniture, transportation facilities, and a line of credit to support the TRDB's lending program and provide needed credit for economically sound rural projects. Total cost: $12.8 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$10 million. By providing planting material, and through improved research, and extension, marketing, and transport services, the incomes of some 37,000 smallholder pyrethrum farmers will be raised by about 17% over a five-year period. Total cost: $12.7 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$80 million. More than 30,000 farm families, about 45% of whom have incomes below the absolute poverty line, will benefit from an irrigation project that provides for the construction of new facilities and the improvement of existing ones. Some 81,000 hectares in the Meklong and Pattani river areas will be affected. Total cost: $186 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$40 million. As many as 2.3 million farm families will benefit from the expansion into 39 provinces, not covered under a first project, of a program of effective agricultural extension services. Total cost: $70 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$19 million. The production and incomes of about 9,000 farm families will be increased through an agricultural credit project that calls for funds to be onlent through the Bank for Agricultural Cooperatives to small farmers. Training and technical assistance to strengthen the cooperative system are included. Total cost: $37.6 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$30 million. About 11,800 farm families will benefit from an agricultural credit project that covers a three-year lending program by the National Bank of Tunisia to small and medium-scale farmers, production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers, and agro-industries. Total cost: $60.8 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$25 million. The living standards of some 30,000 people—mostly low-income groups in the Djerid, Nefzaoua, and Gabes areas—will benefit from an irrigation project designed to increase the production of
dates, vegetables, and forage, primarily for export. Total cost: $72.5 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$51 million. Credit will be made available to about 2,900 small farmers in 32 provinces for dairy cattle, sheep, and goat production and breed improvement and for poultry processing units. In addition, disease control programs, technical assistance, and training are included. Total cost: $125 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$14.5 million. Through the establishment of 1,600 hectares of rainfed tree plantations, 1,000 hectares of experimental natural forest, and 325 hectares of rural woodlots in the Bobo-Dioulasso area, and through a program of technical assistance to the Forestry Administration, the country's forest resources will be protected and developed within the framework of the national forestry plan. Co-financing ($600,000) will be provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $17.5 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$6.5 million. A rice development project in the western part of the country is the four-year pilot phase of a possible three-phase program to convert swampland to more productive use through the construction of flood protection works. About 800 farm families will benefit from water control facilities, improved extension services, and access to farm inputs and credit. Total cost: $7.1 million.
URUGUAY: Bank—$24 million. Assistance for livestock and dairy development financed by earlier Bank projects will be continued; crops will be developed in areas where they are ecologically suited; and the incomes of smallholder farmers in National Settlement Institute colonies will be increased by improving techniques and production patterns on their farms that currently suffer from soil erosion and depletion. Total cost: $111 million.
WESTERN SAMOA: IDA—$8 million. The Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation and about 1,500 subsistence farm families living on Savai'i island—the least developed area of the country—will benefit from the introduction of improved planting materials, appropriate agricultural management and technology, and an increase in the production of coconuts, cocoa, coffee, and taro. Nurseries will be built and technical assistance for agricultural development and financing for road construction will be provided. Co-financing has been arranged with Australia ($5.4 million), the UNDP ($1.7 million), the OECF ($1.4 million), and the EEC Special Action Account ($300,000). Total cost: $20.6 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$17 million. IDA's first lending operation in the country for fisheries development includes the construction of a fishing port and related facilities at Hodeidah, a landing pier at Khawbah, and fish handling, marketing, and storage facilities. A 32-kilometers-long road will be constructed, and credit facilities will be made available for fishing vessels, equipment, and transport vehicles. Part of the co-financing requirement, amounting to $4 million, is expected to be provided by DANIDA ($2.7 million) and sources for the remaining $1.3 million are being explored. Total cost: $30.3 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$5.5 million. The living conditions of about 23,000 people will be improved through a fourth project for the development of the Tihama coastal plain that will improve the Wadi Rima basin's irrigation system, initiate a sand stabilization pilot program to help prevent soil deterioration, and that provides for a water resources study of the region. Co-financing will be provided by the KFAED ($5.5 million) and the NMDC ($700,000). Total cost: $20.8 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$86 million. Sub-loans will be made available through participating banks in each republic and autonomous province to some 18,800 farmers for livestock development and increases in fruit and vegetable production. In addition, about 30,000 farmers are expected to benefit from the development of agro-industries. Total cost: $316 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$51 million. The productivity and incomes of about 13,000 families will be raised by a drainage project that is part of Croatia's long-term flood control and drainage development program for the Sava river basin. Total cost: $132.64 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$11 million. By providing fertilizer, improved seeds, transport services, and storage and marketing facilities, and by rehabilitating village water supply systems, the production of corn is expected to increase, thereby doubling the incomes of some 53,000 farmers and saving more than $400 million in foreign exchange. Co-financing is being provided by IFAD ($15 million) and the AfDB ($6.4 million). Total cost: $38.5 million.
Development Finance Companies
BRAZIL: Bank—$58 million. The health and living conditions of the population in the greater Sao Paulo area, notably low-income groups living near industrialized areas and con-
taminated water bodies, will benefit from an industrial pollution control project that includes both air and water pollution control sub-projects and technical assistance to the state's environmental protection agency. Total cost: $187 million.
CARIBBEAN REGION: Bank—$23 million; IDA—$7 million. Funds will be provided to the Caribbean Development Bank for relending to members of the Commonwealth Caribbean for subprojects in the agriculture, manufacturing, tourism, transportation, and education sectors. Co-financing is being provided by Trinidad and Tobago ($10 million), the IDB ($10 million), and the EEC Special Action Account ($1 million).
COLOMBIA: Bank—$150 million. Foreign exchange will be provided to the central bank for onlending to private development finance companies to help finance nearly 300 projects in a wide range of industries, including manufacturing, mining, and tourism.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank— $50 million. Part of the Development Industrial Bank's foreign exchange requirements will be provided for about two years to enable it to continue to provide foreign exchange resources to industrial projects, mostly in the private sector, including small enterprises.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank— $30 million. About one-half of the Misr Iran Development Bank's foreign exchange requirements will be provided over a two-year period to help promote and finance medium-sized and large industries in the private sector, especially in three priority sectors—building materials and construction, capital goods, and export-oriented industries.
INDIA: Bank—$100 million. Help in meeting the foreign exchange requirements of high-priority industrial projects to be financed by the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India will be provided. About one-third of the loan proceeds will be used to assist projects in the country's poorest areas.
JORDAN: Bank—$10 million. A line of credit will be provided to the Cities and Villages Development Bank for financing subprojects to help meet basic needs in water supply, health, and education, and to improve economic infrastructure in villages and municipalities, resulting in the improvement of the living standards of some of the poorer segments of the population.
KENYA: Bank—$30 million. A line of credit will be provided to the Industrial Development Bank, a key development institution in the country, to help meet its foreign exchange
requirements to finance medium-scale and large-scale enterprises through 1982.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$60 million. This loan will meet the foreign exchange requirements of small and medium-sized industrial investment projects to be financed by the Small and Medium Industry Bank over the next two years. The project will support the government's policy to develop small and medium-scale industries and thereby increase the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and strengthen the country's industrial structure; $25 million is earmarked for small, labor-intensive projects.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$30 million. Foreign exchange will be provided to the Citizens National Bank to finance selected sub-projects over a two-year period beginning in mid-1980. The proceeds will be used primarily to finance subloans to small-scale industries and projects located outside of Seoul.
LESOTHO: IDA—$4 million. The Lesotho National Development Corporation's (LNDC) foreign exchange requirements for its development finance operations will be met through June 1982; training programs for LNDC staff, as well as skilled and semi-skilled Basotho technicians, will be financed in an effort to promote the development of industry and help meet the country's manpower needs.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$5 million. The Bankin'ny Indostria will be provided with part of its foreign exchange requirements to finance lending to artisans and medium-scale industrial enterprises during the period, September 1979 through December 1981. Technical assistance is included. Co-financing is being provided by the CCCE ($4.8 million), Italy ($4.8 million), and the KfW ($1.4 million). Total cost: $29 million.
MAURITIUS: Bank—$6 million. The Development Bank of Mauritius will be assisted in financing the foreign exchange component of loans and investments in industry, agro-industry, and tourism, as well as the investment needs of artisanal and small-scale enterprises.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$40 million. The foreign exchange costs of industrial projects carried out by private enterprises will be financed; textile industry personnel will be trained; and technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Industries and the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation.
PARAGUAY: Bank—$31 million. The government's attempt to promote industrial growth and tourism, particularly in the eastern part of the country, will be supported by providing funds through the commercial banking
system and the National Development Bank for industrial, agro-industrial, and tourism subprojects and by making key extension services available to small-scale entrepreneurs. Total cost: $57.6 million.
TANZANIA: Bank—$25 million. The Tanzania Investment Bank's foreign exchange requirements for investments in medium-scale and large-scale industrial, agroprocessing, and tourism development projects will be met, in part, through June 1982. Co-financing ($15 million) is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account.
TURKEY: Bank—$80 million. Foreign exchange will be provided, through the Tur-kiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A. S. (TSKB) and the Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi A.O. (SYKB), to rationalize and modernize the private textile sector, and to improve its efficiency and its export capability.
TURKEY: Bank—$60 million. The Industrial Development Bank of Turkey will be assisted, through a thirteenth loan, in its efforts to increase the amount and proportion of its lending for export-oriented projects and to continue to allocate sizable resources to the less developed regions and to small and medium-sized, labor-intensive projects. The funds will bridge a part of its foreign exchange resource gap to the end of 1980.
ZAIRE: IDA—$18.5 million. Part of the Societe Financiere de Developpement's foreign exchange component for financing subprojects in the agriculture, transportation, and industrial sectors will be provided. Staff training and equipment are also included.
Education
ALGERIA: Bank—$87 million. Six training centers will be established to train skilled workers in the repair and maintenance of construction and transport equipment and household appliances; to train and upgrade supervisors and skilled and semi-skilled workers for the construction, wood and cork processing, and food processing industries. In addition, a computer-based management information system will be set up in the Ministry of Higher Education and in five universities to help improve the management of higher education. Total cost: $151.1 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$40 million. A fourth education project will increase access to primary education for about 175,000 students—especially for girls and for the rural poor—and will reduce student dropout and repetition rates, improve the quality of instruction, and lower costs by providing school
facilities, materials, and teacher training courses, by increasing community involvement in school management, and by having larger classes and schools. Total cost: $44.4 million.
BOTSWANA: Bank—$10 million. The network of junior secondary schools will be expanded and improved, rural vocational training will be increased, and training will be provided for civil servants and public sector personnel through this second education project. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $14.6 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$32 million. About 800,000 students annually and 23,000 teachers living in rural areas in nine northeastern states will benefit from the construction of classrooms, provision of textbooks, teacher training, a pilot school-meals program, and curricula development. Total cost: $91.4 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$15 million. A second education project, over a five-year period, will assist the government in training middle-level technicians and skilled workers in industrial and administrative skills, implement and evaluate a reform of the education system, and strengthen the planning, supervision, and project implementation capacity of the Ministry of Education. Total cost: $17.3 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$24 million. The rural population of the Seguela area will have better access to primary education through a third education project that will establish four vocational training institutes to relieve a middle-level manpower shortage, four primary teacher training centers to improve the quality of education, and a pilot community development project. Co-financing ($19.5 million) is being provided by the AfDB. Total cost: $84.9 million.
JORDAN: Bank—$19 million. The government's education and training policies will be supported and manpower constraints will be eased through the construction/extension of one training complex, five comprehensive secondary schools, one agricultural secondary school, one prevocational teacher training institute, one community college, and the provision of a computerized management information system and equipment for eight mobile building maintenance units. Technical assistance to strengthen the Ministry of Education's planning and management capabilities is included. Co-financing ($1.5 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $40.1 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$100 million. The quality and content of higher technical education will be improved by a loan to finance part of an overall national program for the upgrading of educational facilities and for
organization, curricula, and staff development to help meet the technical manpower needs during the 1980s. Total cost: $700 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$38 million. In support of the government's program for the development of the fishery sector, the University of the Philippines' College of Fisheries will be relocated to the Visayas, and seven regional fishery technician training institutes and adjacent fishermen training centers will be established. Total cost: $70.6 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$40 million. Industrial and agricultural training will be improved and increased through a project that provides for the construction, equipping, and furnishing of 43 science laboratories and vocational workshops in secondary schools, two agricultural and three industrial technician training institutes, and university faculties in agriculture, veterinary medicine, science, and engineering. In addition, seven primary teacher training institutes, as well as seven farmer training centers and two mobile training units to benefit more than 10,000 farmers, will be included. Total cost: $59 million.
SWAZILAND: Bank—$10.1 million. A third education project will improve access to education for rural and underprivileged children by providing about 11,000 places at the primary level and 2,640 places at the junior secondary level through the construction, furnishing, and equipping of 31 new primary schools and six new junior secondary schools and expansion of 12 primary and 10 junior secondary schools. In addition, textbooks and teaching guides will be provided to primary schools and an in-service training center and the Swaziland Institute of Management and Public Administration will be expanded. Total cost: $15.3 million.
TOGO: IDA—$11 million. Two primary teacher training colleges, each with 360 student places, will be built and equipped; the Directorate of Educational Research and Teacher Training will be strengthened; and the National Institute of Agricultural Training will be expanded to help increase the supply of middle-level and high-level agricultural manpower. Technical assistance is included. Co-financing will be provided by FAC ($3.1 million) and Saudi Arabia ($2 million). Total cost: $20 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$14 million. Primary education will be expanded in rural areas by a second education project that includes the rehabilitation of 140 youth training centers, the establishment of 160 new centers, the construction of instructor training facilities, and the provision of training for agriculture proj-
ect managers, construction foremen, and road maintenance personnel. Technical assistance and consultant services are included. Co-financing ($7.4 million) is being provided by the ADF. Total cost: $25.1 million.
Energy
ARGENTINA: Bank—$210 million. The project—including construction of 70 kilometers of earth dam on the Parana river, two spillways, and a powerhouse with 20 units, each of 135 mW capacity, as well as fish passage facilities; a navigation lock for ships; and the resettlement (necessitated by the creation of a major reservoir) of about 33,000 people— forms part of the national power expansion program for meeting the country's demand for power. Co-financing is being provided by the IDB ($210 million) and commercial banks ($945 million). Total cost: $3,781 million.
ARGENTINA: Bank—$27 million. Assistance will be provided to help determine oil and gas reserves in 44 major reservoirs; about 1,000 line-kilometers of seismic surveys will be conducted; and a study will be made to determine the optimum development and utilization of natural gas in order to improve energy sector planning, avoid waste, and attract private investment in the sector. Total cost: $49.6 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA—$16 million. The project—including a 14-well appraisal drilling program; an initial phase of a project for secondary recovery of oil in Monteagudo; a seismic survey; a study of the country's domestic gas market; and a prefeasibility study of a gas export project—will enable the country to increase its gas exports and its foreign exchange earnings. Co-financing ($16 million) is being provided by the IDB. Total cost: $41.8 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$114 million. The project forms a part of the Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica's program for the expansion of its power subtransmission and distribution system in the state of Rio Grande do Sul during the period, 1980-84. Electricity will be made available for the first time to some 35,000 low-income urban consumers and about 12,000 rural consumers. Co-financing (about $110 million) is expected to be provided by private banks. Total cost: $314 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$125 million. Electricity will be made available to about 75,000 families living in Medellin and to 6,000 new industrial and commercial users through the construction of a 213 mW hydroelectric plant, 150 kilometers of transmission lines, and the
expansion of six existing substations and the construction of five new ones. Total cost: $228.3 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$87 million. Electricity will be made available to an estimated 157,000 new residential, commercial, industrial, and low-income urban customers living in Bogota through the expansion and rehabilitation of the city's distribution network; in addition, the quality of service will be enhanced through a training program that will help strengthen the Empresa de Energia Elec-trica de Bogota's operating and maintenance practices. Total cost: $182.2 million.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE: IDA—$5 million. The government will be assisted in its efforts to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Mines and Energy to manage the petroleum sector and to improve the capability of HYDROCONGO—the national oil company—to handle its oil import and distribution functions effectively. Preliminary studies will be carried out in areas where there is a possibility for increased recovery, as well as in areas where exploration has never taken place. Total cost: $5.6 million.
CYPRUS: Bank—$ 16 million. About 51,000 people, including 20,000 rural customers, will benefit from the expansion of power transmission and distribution facilities in the southern part of the country. Total cost: $39.6 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank— $7 million; IDA—$120 million. To help meet the electricity load forecast through 1986, the Aswan hydropower station will be extended; the Shoubrah El Kheima thermal power station will be completed; and distribution facilities in urban, suburban, and rural areas outside Cairo and Alexandria will be rehabilitated and extended. Co-financing is being provided by CIDA ($25 million), the OECF ($15 million), and the NMDC ($9.6 million). Total cost: $677.8 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA— $50 million. To reduce the country's reliance on imports of liquefied petroleum gas, gas oil, and kerosene, infrastructure will be provided enabling those imported products to be replaced with natural gas, a locally available source of energy, that will be used to supply a gas distribution network for domestic consumers in four districts of Cairo, as well as to two power stations. Total cost: $155 million.
FIJI: Bank—$15.5 million. To reduce the country's dependence on imported energy resources, the storage capacity of the Monsavu dam will be doubled; two diversion dams will be constructed; generating sets and associated electrical equipment will be installed at the
Wailoa power station; and overseas training will be provided for the staff of the Fiji Electricity Authority. Co-financing will be provided by the EIB ($16.6 million) and the CDC ($4.8 million). Total cost: $50 million.
HONDURAS: Bank—$105 million; IDA— $20 million. Through the construction of the 292 mW El Cajon hydroelectric plant, the country's power load requirements for 198690 will be met from natural energy sources; fuel consumption in thermal plants will be reduced; the Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica's management capacity will be strengthened; and flood control benefits in the Sula valley will make possible the development of future irrigation projects. Co-financing will be provided by the IDB ($95 million), the Venezuelan Investment Fund ($55 million), the OECF ($33 million), the CABEI ($30.6 million), the CDC ($10 million), and the OPEC Fund for International Development ($8.5 million). In addition, suppliers' credits and funds from commercial banks, totaling $83 million, are expected to be made available. Total cost: $582.7 million.
HONDURAS: Bank—$3 million. Training, equipment, and materials will be provided to the General Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons to support the government's efforts to find a domestic supply of petroleum by encouraging foreign oil companies to explore the most promising offshore areas. Technical assistance will also be provided to the government to improve its energy sector planning. Total cost: $3.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$300 million. The second stage of the coal-fired Singrauli power generating station will be constructed in Uttar Pradesh state, together with about 2,000 kilometers of associated 400 kv transmission facilities. Co-financing ($100 million) is being provided by the KfW. Total cost: $914.3 million.
INDIA: Bank—$25 million; IDA—$225 million. The first stage of the Farakka thermal power station will be constructed in West Bengal state. The project includes the installation of three 200 mW generating units, 410 kilometers of 400 kv transmission lines, and a training simulator, and is designed to ease the acute power shortages in the country's eastern region. Total cost: $499.4 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$253 million. The project—including the installation of a 400 mW generating set; 500 kv transmission lines from Suralaya to Semarang with four 500 kv substations; training facilities for operating personnel; and a control center in Jakarta to monitor the operation of generating facilities— will help provide urgently needed baseload
generating capacity in Java. Co-financing is being provided by the AsDB ($139 million). Total cost: $694 million.
KENYA: Bank—$40 million. The project will help meet the country's expected growth in power demand from 1981 through 1985 and will assist in reducing dependence on imported fuel through the drilling of geothermal steam wells, construction of a generating station comprising two 15 mW units, and installation of 22 kilometers of 132 kv transmission lines. Consultant services, training, and studies to determine geothermal potential are included. Co-financing ($20 million) is being provided by the CDC. Total cost: $89 million.
KOREA. REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$115 million. The Korea Electric Company will be assisted in expanding its power development program to meet the load growth from 1984 through the installation of two 500 mW coal/ oil-fired units and auxiliary equipment; a fuel unloading dock; a pumping station; a 345 kv transmission line between the power station at Gojeong, located on the west coast near the port of Kunsan, and Seoul; and related substations and consulting services. Total cost: $657 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$12.5 million. The government's efforts to develop a domestic supply of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy sector will be supported by a program of onshore reconnaissance seismic work; an engineering study for a heavy oil pilot plant at Tsimiroro; and consultant services to compile and review data, supervise surveys, and train local staff. Total cost: $14.6 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$10 million. Supplemental finance will be provided the Ande-kaleka Hydroelectric Project, approved in fiscal 1978, bringing the credit amount to $43 million. Co-financing is being provided by the OPEC Fund for International Development ($6.5 million), Sweden ($5.8 million), and the CCCE ($2.1 million).
MALAYSIA: Bank—$50 million. Two dams and hydroelectric power stations, with associated transmission and substation facilities, will be constructed on the Perak river. Consultant services will also be provided to assist with an energy resources study. Co-financing will be provided by the OECF ($52.1 million), the CDC ($13 million), and CIDA ($6.8 million). Total cost: $232.9 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$50 million. This project will support the country's efforts to reduce its heavy dependence on imported petroleum products by helping the Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres complete its ex-
ploration of current producing areas, as well as assess the petroleum potential of unexplored basins. Technical assistance is included for exploration management, accounting, and evaluation of the results of exploration and the technical and economic analysis of any new discoveries. Total cost: $90 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$100 million. The project will assist in meeting the rising demand for electricity in Lagos through 1986 by expanding the high-tension system of lines and substations, as well as the low-tension distribution system. Instructors, materials, and equipment will be provided to train National Electric Power Authority staff. Co-financing ($35 million) is being provided by the EIB. Total cost: $222.2 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$45 million. About 4,500 kilometers of transmission lines will be erected, and about 210 substations will be constructed, expanded, or converted. Studies will be made for a load dispatch system and for the conversion of the 220 kv Karachi-Tarbela transmission system to a 500 kv operation to help provide the most economic means of transmitting power throughout the country. Co-financing is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($35 million), the AsDB ($25 million), the KfW ($18 million), and CIDA ($14.5 million). Total cost: $506 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$23 million. The project consists of the rehabilitation and expansion of the power subtransmission and distribution systems throughout the country during the period, 1980-83. Thirty-eight specific subprojects and routine expansion of distribution systems will be executed and technical assistance will be provided to strengthen the Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion's capacity to plan, design, and construct sub-transmission and distribution projects. Total cost: $35 million.
PERU: Bank—$32.5 million. The project will help finance the expansion of the country's petroleum production through the rehabilitation of existing wells on the coast and in the jungle; the undertaking of seismic surveys in the jungle; the updating of a feasibility study for a secondary recovery project on the north coast; and the provision of consultant services and training to strengthen the operation of the national petroleum company. Total cost: $50.7 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$3.3 million. The government will be assisted in preparing a national energy plan and in improving general planning in the power sector through a study to determine the optimal organization of the country's
power sector, financial and tariff studies, a design study for the construction of a headquarters building for the new power entity, and a feasibility study to analyze the possibility for expansion of power generating facilities. Total cost: $4 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$6 million. Technical assistance will be provided to the Department of Mines and Hydrocarbons to help promote development of the country's domestic supply of hydrocarbons and improve its energy sector planning. Geophysical studies, seismic surveys, staff training, and office and field equipment are included. Total cost: $7.2 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$19.5 million. Power transmission and distribution facilities will be expanded during the period, 1981-84, to help meet the country's growing demand for electricity. Consulting services will be provided to help strengthen the Ceylon Electricity Board's managerial and commercial performance. Co-financing ($20 million) is being provided by the SFD. Total cost: $63.3 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$65 million. The project is designed to provide additional generating capacity and extension of transmission lines to meet the growing demand for power from the Blue Nile grid area through 1986. Co-financing is being provided by the ODA ($114 million) and the BMZ ($25 million). Total cost: $290 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$30 million. The first phase of a drilling program designed to assist the country in the assessment of the hydrocarbon potential of the Songo Songo field area will be financed and the Ministry of Water, Energy, and Minerals' capability in energy sector planning will be strengthened. Co-financing ($500,000) is being provided by the EIB. Total cost: $33 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$107 million. An underwater pipeline system will be laid and ancillary infrastructure constructed so that offshore gas may be transported to a terminal at Sattahip and, from there, distributed to power stations and industrial users in the greater Bangkok area. Training, technical assistance, and additional studies are included. Total cost: $514 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$80 million. The project forms part of the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand's 1979-86 power development plan. A rockfill storage dam is included, as well as a spillway, a surface powerhouse, the installation of a 230 kv transmission line, and a program for the resettlement of about 2,000 families. Total cost: $361.9 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$75 million. About 6 million people living in 8,000 villages will gain access to electricity through the construction of primary and secondary lines and the installation of distribution transformers and street lighting. Vehicles, tools, equipment, and consultant services are included. Co-financing is being provided by the SFD ($20 million), the OPEC Fund for International Development ($8 million), and Norway ($1.5 million). Total cost: $270 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$72 million. Lignite production in the country's remote northern region will be expanded to help meet the increasing demand for power as part of a national plan to develop alternative energy sources and reduce the country's dependence on oil imports. In addition, the living conditions of some 300 squatter families will be improved by a plan to resettle them in a village with a school, health center, electricity, and other facilities. Total cost: $130.3 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$37 million. Natural gas from the Algeria-Italy pipeline will be supplied to industrial users and power plants in major cities to help decrease domestic consumption of fuel oil, thus yielding a net foreign exchange saving of at least $120 million a year. Total cost: $88 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$120 million. The project—including the construction of a 173-meter-high dam, a storage reservoir, and a powerhouse with ancillary facilities—is the least-cost method of meeting the country's projected growth in power demand. Co-financing is being provided by the EIB ($110 million), the Abu Dhabi Fund ($26 million), and Italy ($20 million). Total cost: $1,160 million.
URUGUAY: Bank—$24 million. Distribution networks in Montevideo and in the interior of the country will be renovated and expanded to help meet the forecast demand for power through 1983. Consultant services for project management and studies concerning management, tariffs, and the energy sector will be included. Co-financing ($24 million) is being provided by the IDB. Total cost: $52.5 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$9 million. The government's efforts to intensify the search for oil/gas reserves will be supported through a 15-month seismic survey to accumulate high-quality data and uncover prospects sufficiently attractive to oil companies to undertake exploration in the country. Technical assistance will be provided to strengthen the Petroleum Exploration Department's capacity to supervise and carry out geophysical surveys and help im-
prove energy sector planning and train staff. Total cost: $10 million.
Industry
BANGLADESH: IDA—$29 million. Through the rehabilitation of three major fertilizer plants and by providing staff training and equipment, fertilizer production will be increased by some 100,000 tons a year beginning in 1983. Co-financing ($4.7 million) is being provided by the NMDC. Total cost: $46.6 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$80 million. An open pit mine at the Cerro Matoso nickel laterite deposit in the department of Cordoba, which will produce about 60,000 metric tons of ferro-nickel annually, will be constructed. At full production, net foreign exchange inflows of about $68 million annually will support the country's export diversification policies. Co-financing is being provided by the Chase Manhattan Bank ($120 million) and the US Export-Import Bank ($25.6 million). Total cost: $340 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank— $69 million. The organizational and financial performance of one of the country's major textile companies will be improved through the construction of new spinning and weaving mills, the rehabilitation of existing mills, and the installation of new equipment. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $104.3 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank— $50 million. Physical facilities and technical assistance will be provided to the National Paper Company and the General Company for Paper Industry to modernize and rehabilitate their existing plants in order to increase production, improve quality, and reduce operating costs. Total cost: $71.5 million.
MAURITANIA: Bank—$60 million. Two open iron ore pits with proven reserves of more than 400 million tons will be developed near Zouerate to help sustain government revenues and foreign exchange inflows and create employment. Co-financing is being provided by the SFD ($65 million), the CCCE and French suppliers' credits ($50 million), the KFAED ($45 million), the AFESD ($35 million), the EIB ($30 million), the Abu Dhabi Fund ($20 million), the OECF ($16 million), the AfDB ($12 million), and the OPEC Fund for International Development ($5 million). Total cost: $500.7 million.
PERU: Bank—$7.5 million. Feasibility studies will be made to determine the technical and economic viability of developing the 600-
million-ton Sechura desert phosphate deposits that, if developed, are expected to stimulate regional growth; help satisfy the growing world demand for phosphate fertilizers; and make a substantial contribution to the country's balance of payments. Total cost: $9.5 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$44 million. Through the relocation, modernization, and expansion of a steel foundry and a valve plant, the expansion of hydropower equipment manufacturing facilities, and the strengthening of management systems of the two involved industries, productivity in the engineering industries subsector will be increased, competitiveness enhanced, and export potential improved. Total cost: $89 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$83 million. To help meet the country's demand for textile products, equipment for spinning, weaving, and finishing will be provided; a new garment plant will be equipped; and existing factory facilities will be rehabilitated. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $150.5 million.
Nonproject
BANGLADESH: IDA—$50 million. Foreign exchange will be provided for the import of industrial components, chemicals, raw materials, and spare parts to enable selected high-priority industries to reach their full production potential.
BOLIVIA: Bank—$50 million. Structural adjustment assistance will provide general balance of payments and budgetary support for the government's economic recovery program. Foreign exchange will be made available for essential imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, spare parts, and capital goods. In addition, technical studies, mineral tax reform, agricultural export promotion, and prefeasibil-ity studies in mining and agriculture are included.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Bank—$25 million. To help support hurricane reconstruction efforts, imports of raw materials and semimanufactured and finished goods that are necessary to restore national production of goods and services will be financed.
KENYA: IDA—$55 million. This structural adjustment credit, to be disbursed in two tranches, will provide support for a program of economic measures that the government intends to carry out to improve its foreign trade and industrial structure. The program and policies will aim at better utilization of industrial capacity and at making the industrial sector more efficient and competitive, with particular emphasis on the promotion of exports.
The EEC is contributing $15 million under a Special Action Account credit.
PARAGUAY: Bank—$5 million. A second preinvestment studies project will help finance subloans through the preinvestment fund of Paraguay's Central Bank to carry out feasibility studies of public investment projects; undertake sector and other prefeasibility studies; strengthen the preinvestment process established under the first project; and provide technical assistance to establish a financial programming unit within the Ministry of Finance. Co-financing ($ 1 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $13 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$65 million. The project— the first Bank operation of its kind in the country—will provide foreign exchange for high-priority imports in the irrigated agriculture subsector and policy and institutional reforms that form part of a long-range program to increase cotton exports. Technical assistance is included. Co-financing ($11.05 million) is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account.
TURKEY: Bank—$200 million. A structural adjustment loan, to be disbursed in three tranches, will finance high-priority imports for agriculture and industry in support of the country's efforts to improve its capacity to earn foreign exchange through industrial and agro-industrial exports, as well as improve income distribution, employment opportunities, and living standards.
UGANDA: IDA—$72.5 million. Funds will be made available for the import of essential raw materials, intermediate goods, spare parts, and equipment to help rehabilitate the country's economy. Of the $72.5 million IDA credit, $17.5 million will be provided under a participation arrangement with the Netherlands. Co-financing will be provided by the EEC Special Action Account ($20 million) and CIDA ($2.6 million).
Population, Health, and Nutrition
INDIA: IDA—$46 million. A second population project—including service delivery, training, information, and education activities, and research—will be carried out in six districts of Uttar Pradesh state and three districts of Andhra Pradesh state to help lower infant and child mortality and morbidity, improve the health of mothers and children, and lower the birth rate. Total cost: $96 million.
INDIA: IDA—$32 million. The availability and quality of basic health and nutrition services will be improved for some 10 million people living in six rural districts in the state
of Tamil Nadu. Food, vitamin, and mineral supplements will be provided to about 711,000 children, as well as to 275,000 pregnant and nursing women. In addition, nutrition education will be made available and reorganization of the health care system to improve its efficiency and coverage in rural areas will be supported. Total cost: $66.4 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$35 million. The national family planning program will be expanded and basic health care services strengthened to help the government achieve its long-term goal of reducing the 1971 fertility rate by half by 1990. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $72.6 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$30 million. More than 10 million people will be affected by a population project that aims to lower fertility, mortality, and morbidity by improving health and family planning services. The project will provide training for multipurpose workers and other family planning personnel; will expand information, education, and communication activities in health and family planning; and improve the program's evaluation and administration capacities. Total cost: $93.4 million.
Small-scale Enterprises
ALGERIA: Bank—$20 million. Technical assistance will be provided to SN Metal to improve its management and operations through appropriate start-up and operating assistance to the company's new production units, and by evaluating its long-term investment program, establishing priorities, and preparing feasibility studies. A master plan will also be developed to determine appropriate organization and allocation of production among its manufacturing units. Total cost: $49.7 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$20 million. Through the rehabilitation and maintenance of machinery and the provision of new equipment, training centers, and improved organization and management, the jute industry— which accounts for one-half of the country's exports and employs about 205,000 people— will be able to provide increased foreign exchange earnings, as well as continued incomes for jute farmers. Total cost: $26.5 million.
BARBADOS: Bank—$10 million. The main programs included in the Barbados Industrial Development Plan will be supported by a project that provides financing for industrial promotion, construction of factory buildings, equipment, permanent working capital, and vocational and management training programs.
About 5,000 new jobs will also be created. Co-financing ($2.35 million) is expected to be provided by the CDB. Total cost: $21.9 million.
BENIN: IDA—$10 million. Funds will be made available to the Banque Beninoise pour le Developpement (BBD) for financing small and medium-scale investments in the industrial sector. Technical assistance will also be provided to help build the BBD's capacity to identify, promote, and assist industrial projects. Total cost: $13.5 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$32 million. Subloans to about 1,500 small and medium-scale industrial enterprises to carry out necessary investments required for expansion, renovation, or relocation will be financed. New jobs and higher incomes will be generated for more than 7,500 workers. Total cost: $83 million.
ECUADOR: Bank—$20 million. To help generate employment, improve incomes, and promote regional development, a line of credit will be made available through the Corpora-cion Financiera Nacional (CFN) for some 625 subloans to small-scale enterprises (SSEs). The CFN will also manage a technical assistance program and provide training for SSE staff. Total cost: $37.8 million.
MALI: IDA—$8 million. A line of credit will be provided for small and medium-scale private enterprises and artisans; a comprehensive technical assistance and institution-building program for private entrepreneurs and artisans will be established; and a pilot rehabilitation project in the state enterprise sector will be undertaken to help strengthen the country's industrial sector. Total cost: $11.1 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$100 million. Funds will be made available to expand the production capacity and improve the efficiency of small and medium-scale industrial enterprises, particularly those located outside main urban centers. About 20,000 new jobs will be created. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $272.6 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$40 million. Institutions that assist mining enterprises will be supported in their efforts to provide financial and technical assistance to small and medium-scale mining enterprises for exploration, mine development, and production programs. Total cost: $107 million.
Technical Assistance
KENYA: IDA—$4.5 million. A four-year technical assistance program will finance studies, training, and consultant services related to export promotion, as well as provide assistance to the Kenya Bureau of Standards and to handi-
craft workers and related associations. Total cost: $6 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$2.5 million. Technical assistance will help strengthen the government's capability in development planning, the preparation of development projects, the training of local staff, and the monitoring and evaluation of public investment programs. Total cost: $2.8 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$3 million. Technical assistance will be provided for a study of plans for conveying and utilizing surplus Mahaweli Ganga water to develop land in three alternative areas. A review of designs and tender documents for the Right Bank canal will be made, and support for other studies and designs of projects in the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program will be provided. Co-financing ($2 million) is being provided by the EEC Special Action Account. Total cost: $6 million.
WESTERN AFRICA REGION: IDA—$3 million. Feasibility and detailed engineering studies of regional development projects (in the agriculture, infrastructure, and industry sectors) in the pipeline of the West African Development Bank (BOAD) will be financed. The studies will serve to fill out the pipeline and will be a catalyst in mobilizing additional resources for BOAD, established by the West African Monetary Union in 1973. Total cost: $3.6 million.
Telecommunications
BURMA: IDA—$35 million. By 1985, through the installation of about 68,000 direct exchange lines (including maritime radio telephone equipment at three main ports and mobile radio telephone systems), about 500,000 people will gain access to telephone service in 54 township administrative centers and 13 villages. Expanded and upgraded service will also be provided in 30 regional centers with populations of between 4,000 and 180,000 people. Co-financing ($10.9 million) is being provided by the OECF. Total cost: $93 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$44 million. A fifth telecommunications project will help meet the demand for telephone services in Medellin and surrounding areas through an expansion and improvement in service, including the installation of about 3,000 public call offices in rural and urban low-income communities and the continuation of a highly subsidized call rate that will provide the poor with convenient access to telephone services for the first time. Total cost: $110 million.
OMAN: Bank—$22 million. Public access to telephone facilities will be extended in both rural and urban areas through the provision of some 15,700 new direct exchange lines; telephones for 14,000 new subscribers; 350 public call offices; about 6,000 lines of switching capacity; and the provision of vehicles, furniture, and related equipment. Total cost: $97.2 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$30 million. Telecommunications services will be improved through the installation of about 17,000 lines of local automatic switching equipment, about 16,000 new telephone connections, and 250 local call offices. In addition, 500 long distance public call offices will be established in rural areas that are currently without such service. Total cost: $36.3 million.
Transportation
BANGLADESH: IDA—$10 million. Bypasses will be built around the towns of Chan-dina and Comilla to relieve traffic congestion and reduce vehicle operating costs between Dacca and Chittagong. Equipment and spare parts will be provided, as well as consultant services to supervise construction. Total cost: $13.6 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$159 million. More than 2 million people, mostly urban poor, will benefit from the construction of a mass transit rail system in the state of Rio Grande do Sul between the capital city of Porto Alegre, located in the south, and Sapucaia in the north. Employment growth will be promoted along this north-south corridor and both vehicle operating costs and travel time will be reduced. Total cost: $312.8 million.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE: IDA—$30 million. Supplementary funds for a second railway project, approved in April 1976, will be made available for the completion of the realignment of 88 kilometers of railway serving four West African countries, thus making it possible for the government to develop forestry resources in the northern part of the country. Co-financing is being provided by the EDF ($25.7 million), the SFD ($23 million), the KFAED ($20 million), Italy ($9.5 million), the Iraqi Fund ($8 million), the CCCE ($7.8 million), FAC ($6.7 million), Qatar ($6 million), the OPEC Fund for International Development ($5 million), CIDA ($4.1 million), and the AfDB ($3.7 million). Total cost: $167.6 million.
COSTA RICA: Bank—$30 million. The project is part of a five-year program for maintenance, rehabilitation, and improvement
of the country's highway network. Some 420 kilometers of roads will be rehabilitated, maintenance equipment purchased, and technical assistance and training provided to the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation. Total cost: $43.3 million.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Bank—$35 million. A second road maintenance and reconstruction project includes the expansion of maintenance capacity, reconstruction of 150 kilometers of primary and secondary roads, completion of final design studies for an additional 300 kilometers of roads, a pilot rural roads component using labor-intensive techniques, and a training program for personnel of the Secretariat of Public Works. Total cost: $49 million.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Bank —$25 million. Two roads, whose combined length totals 150 kilometers, will be reconstructed— the Cruce de Guayacanes to Santiago de la Cruz road, connecting the agricultural northwestern area to Santiago, and the Azua-Barahona road linking the southwestern part of the country to the capital city. The project supports the government's hurricane emergency reconstruction program. Total cost: $38.8 million.
ECUADOR: Bank —$55 million. Some 90,000 farm families will have better access to markets and to health and educational facilities as a result of the building or improvement of about 1,500 kilometers of secondary and feeder roads in three coastal provinces. A four-year highway maintenance program and technical assistance for transportation planning and training are included. Total cost: $164 million.
GHANA: IDA—$25 million. Spare parts, materials, tools, and other equipment will be provided for the routine maintenance of all public roads for the next two years; for periodic maintenance of about 6,000 kilometers of main and feeder roads; and for the remo-bilization of part of the domestic trucking fleet. Technical assistance and a line of credit will be made available to the Bank for Housing and Construction. Total cost: $38.6 million.
GUATEMALA: Bank—$17 million. Equipment, technical assistance, and training services will be provided to help implement the government's highway maintenance program for the period, mid-1981 to mid-1985. Total cost: $18.9 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$13 million. About 1,500 kilometers of roads will be rehabilitated and 4,600 kilometers maintained; highway equipment, spare parts, fuel, and supplies will be purchased; and technical assistance and con-
sultant services will be provided to the Ministry of Public Works. Co-financing is being provided by BADEA ($6 million) and the EEC Special Action Account ($4 million). Total cost: $31.9 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$94 million. Equipment, materials, technical assistance, and training for the Korean National Railway (KNR) will be financed to assist its effort to meet the anticipated growth in traffic load; reduce operating and maintenance costs; and to initiate the changes needed to transform KNR into a public corporation. Total cost: $604.2 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$62 million. By strengthening and resurfacing about 1,700 kilometers of primary and secondary roads and financing a three and one-half year program for routine road maintenance, the long-term process of institution building supported by two Bank-assisted projects will be continued. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $199 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$108 million. To assist in alleviating some critical weaknesses in road planning, design, construction, and maintenance activities of the federal highway authority, about 520 kilometers of federal roads will be strengthened, economic and engineering studies of a major north-south road will be carried out, and a survey will be made to establish priorities for improvements to the federal trunk road network. Total cost: $178 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$50 million. A third highway project will help meet transport demand and lower vehicle operating costs by rehabilitating and improving about 280 kilometers of roads, improving road maintenance capabilities, and assisting the domestic construction industry. Technical assistance and training are included. Co-financing ($100,000) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $93.2 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Bank—$17 million; IDA—$13 million. Completion of the final link in the highway from the port of Lae to Toboga will provide the people living in the Central Highlands with better and lower-cost access to the port and will help expand agricultural production in the area. Total cost: $42.4 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$67 million. By improving port operations and increasing port productivity through reduced congestion, cargo losses, and handling costs, a more economical means of transporting agricultural products grown in the hinterland for domestic and foreign markets will be made possible. Total cost: $165 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$62 million. The construction and improvement of about 730 kilometers of rural roads in six provinces will provide better access to markets for local farmers and the improvement of 150 kilometers of national and provincial roads in Occidental Mindoro will help give access to an area that is currently only reached by sea. Technical assistance and consultant services are included. Total cost: $104.9 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$100 million. A canal 64 kilometers long will be constructed from Cernavodaon the Danube to Constanta-Agigea on the Black Sea to permit greater use of Romania's cost-efficient, energy-saving inland waterway system. The poor Dobrogea region, through which the canal runs, will be provided with irrigation and power facilities. Other Danubian countries will benefit as well, and the canal will become an integral part of the European waterway system when the Rhine-Main-Danube canal is completed in 1984. Total cost: $1,750 million.
SENEGAL: Bank—$10 million; IDA— $28 million. About 200 kilometers of primary paved roads will be rehabilitated; the Louga-Dahra road, which provides access to a peanut-producing area and several villages, will be constructed to two-lane paved standards; road maintenance staff will be trained; and technical assistance will be provided to help improve the government's capacity to maintain the road system. Co-financing ($12.9 million) is being provided by the OECF. Total cost: $59.5 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$53 million. Through improved maintenance procedures and the procurement of additional buses and spare parts, service along major bus routes will be improved; vehicle operating costs will be reduced; and, by 1983, government subsidies for public bus operations will be eliminated. Total cost: $86.4 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$2.5 million. Final engineering designs, cost estimates, and tender documents required for civil works for a proposed harbors project that will be a major step towards the development and modernization of the port of Dar es Salaam will be financed. Total cost: $3 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$42.5 million. A third project assisting the development of the ports of La Goulette and Sfax calls for the construction of quays, jetties, storage areas, and port administration ancillary buildings; the dredging of an access channel; and the purchase of cargo-handling and workshop equipment to help accommodate traffic up to the year 2000. The efficiency of port operations will be in-
creased and urban traffic congestion will be alleviated. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $125.8 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$36.5 million. Management of the country's highway network will be improved through a fourth highway project that calls for better highway maintenance, road rehabilitation, training of highway department staff, provision of equipment, and technical assistance. Total cost: $92.1 million.
URUGUAY: Bank—$50 million. Port operating and maintenance costs will be reduced, as well as ship servicing and waiting times for ocean carriers at the port of Montevideo, through the purchase of two harbor tugs, dredging and other equipment, the modification of an existing wharf to serve as a container and bulk cargo terminal, and the upgrading of sheds for general cargo operations. Total cost: $58.4 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$125 million. Through the construction of six sections of road (about 164 kilometers), procurement of road maintenance and load monitoring equipment, technical assistance, and a highway safety program, traffic operations on the Trans-Yugoslav highway—the country's main transport artery—will be improved; the heavy accident toll on life and property reduced; and better access to international markets made available to several industrial centers and farming communities. Total cost: $785.2 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$50 million. Port facilities, equipment, and services that were damaged by the earthquakes of April and May 1979 at the port of Bar—a major seaport servicing Belgrade and the surrounding industrial and agricultural areas—will be rehabilitated and restored. Total cost: $124.8 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$21 million. About 560 kilometers of main and regional roads that were damaged during the earthquakes of April and May 1979 in southwestern Montenegro will be restored. The restored road network, in addition to facilitating rehabilitation of the stricken area, will stimulate trade, create employment, and help integrate this less-developed region with international market centers. Total cost: $63.6 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$14 million. The Railway Transport Organization of Titograd will be assisted in restoring about 80 kilometers of railway lines that were damaged in the earthquakes of April and May 1979. Total cost: $52.3 million.
ZAMBIA: Bank—$25 million; IDA— $15 million. About 112 kilometers of track will be renovated and extended, and the pur-
chase of locomotives, wagons, and spare parts for the Zambia Railways Board will be financed to help handle the increasing traffic demand through 1985. Co-financing will be provided by the KfW ($23.3 million), the OECF ($16.3 million), the ODA ($14 million), CIDA ($13 million), the AfDB ($9.7 million), the EDF ($8.4 million), the EEC Special Action Account ($5 million), and the OPEC Fund for International Development ($4.5 million). Total cost: $184.3 million.
Urbanization
BURUNDI: IDA—$15 million. The living conditions of some 118,000 people living in Bujumbura will be improved through the provision of basic infrastructure in seven neighborhoods; the preparation of about 780 sites and services plots; loans for house construction and improvement; training of artisans; the construction of three primary schools; and improvement in the city's capacity to maintain streets, buildings, and other local facilities. Total cost: $16.7 million.
ECUADOR: Bank—$31 million. Loans and technical assistance will be provided to small-scale enterprises; slums will be upgraded; and loans will be made available for housing construction and improvement. More than 100,000 people living in Guayaquil, most of whom have incomes below the absolute poverty level, are to benefit. Total cost: $51.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$56 million. Through better management of local transport operators, expansion and rehabilitation of existing transport facilities, easing of traffic congestion, and improvement in road conditions, the efficiency of transport services in Calcutta will be improved. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $121.7 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$65 million. This multipurpose project provides for more than 3,900 residential plots for low-income families; 200 hectares of serviced industrial land to accommodate about 18,000 employees; improved water supply systems in two cities and on one island; improved transport linkages to three islands; and a shrimp storage facility benefiting some 6,500 fisherman families. Total cost: $154.8 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$6 million. This first IDA-assisted urban development project in the country consists of a program of sites and services and urban upgrading that will provide essential urban services in low-income areas of Maseru; loans for home improvement; and
construction of classrooms, health and child care centers, and retail markets and shops. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $7 million.
NICARAGUA: IDA—$22 million. Assistance will be provided for the rehabilitation of six cities that were heavily damaged during the recent civil war. Infrastructure and urban services will be repaired, loans will be made available to small-scale firms for construction and repair of commercial and industrial buildings and the replacement of equipment and working capital, and Managua's public transport system will be rehabilitated. Total cost: $26 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$17.8 million. The living conditions of about 74,000 people living in Bauchi state, with incomes below the urban poverty level, will be improved by providing electricity, drainage, water supply, education, health, and refuse disposal facilities. In addition, some 4,000 residential sites and serviced plots will be developed, as well as a small-scale industry site that, when fully operational, will provide for about 1,500 jobs. Total cost: $36.6 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$35 million. About 4,000 low-income families living in Colon and in Puerto Escondido will benefit through the construction of houses, a regional educational center, recreation facilities, a retail shopping area, and a bus terminal, and through the provision of home improvement credits. Some 8,000 new jobs will also be created. Co-financing ($70 million) is expected to be provided by the Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited. Total cost: $133.3 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$72 million. Through comprehensive upgrading and provision of tenure in 13 priority areas, provision of basic services (drainage, water supply, sanitation, and streets and footpaths) in another 15 areas, sites and services on 79 hectares, a small business assistance and manpower training program, and technical assistance, the living conditions of some 470,000 poor people in metropolitan Manila will be improved. Total cost: $120 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$29 million. Housing for about 12,000 families living in Bangkok will be improved and sites and services will be provided for some 3,500 residential and commercial units and for 3,250 low-income housing units. Small-scale industry development in five regional cities, benefiting more than 18,000 households, will also be provided. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $56.4 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
ALGERIA: Bank—$5 million. Studies to assess and meet urban, industrial, and agricultural water requirements in greater Algiers and the surrounding regions will be carried out. A new source of water for the greater Algiers metropolitan area will be designed and a master plan for the distribution of potable water in the same area will be carried out. Total cost: $7 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$20 million. A water intake and treatment plant, tubewells, and associated distribution works will be constructed and an iron removal plant and pumping station upgraded to help meet the need for additional supplies of water for Chittagong's growing population through 1990. About 14,000 service connections with meters will be provided, as well as 1,500 public standpipes and two public water concessions. In addition, a training program and the preparation of a sewerage/ sanitation plan are included. Total cost: $39.7 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA—$9 million. Safe water and sewerage facilities will be made available to more than 100,000 people and about 66,000 people, respectively, living in the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra. Technical assistance, consisting of training for the staff of Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Santa Cruz and consultant services to strengthen its organization and management, as well as studies to determine future sources of water, will be provided. Total cost: $17.3 million.
BOTSWANA: Bank—$4.4 million. Through the construction of 26 kilometers of pipeline, pumping stations, and treatment works, and procurement of miscellaneous supporting facilities and equipment, Francistown's water supply will be improved and expanded to meet water supply requirements through 1989, benefiting some 27,000 people. Water quality will be raised to meet internationally accepted standards and preliminary investigations for water supply expansion in the Gaborone-Lobatse area will be financed. Total cost: $6.7 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$139 million. Water supply services will be made available in Minas Gerais state to 1.9 million people and sewerage services to 1.1 million people. In addition, the water supply currently serving 3.1 million people will be improved and made safe. Related studies and technical assistance are included. Total cost: $446 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$130 million. Water supply services will be extended to some 1.8 million people and sewerage services to 900,000 people in the states of Parana, Santa Catarina,
and Rio Grande do Sul through a project that represents the least-cost solution to improving the health and environment of the populations in the three states. Total cost: $439 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$21 million. Safe water will be made available to as many as 1.2 million people through the improvement and extension of water supply systems in 13 secondary centers and in the cities of Douala and Yaounde. Co-financing ($15 million) is being provided by the CDC. Total cost: $51.4 million.
CHILE: Bank—$38 million. Through the improvement and expansion of water treatment and distribution facilities, some 686,000 people living in the Santiago metropolitan area will have access to safe water, through house connections, for the first time. A sewerage master plan will be developed to assess river pollution and to help meet the city's needs through the year 2000. In addition, a nationwide chlorination program, benefiting 1.8 million people, 21% of whom have incomes less than one-third the national average, will improve water quality in 36 other cities. Total cost: $119.64 million.
INDIA: IDA—$80 million. Water supply facilities will be improved and expanded in four cities in Rajasthan state to benefit some 2.4 million people; the sewerage systems in three of these cities will be extended; and about 2,000 villages will be provided with safe piped water for the first time. Total cost: $164 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$20.5 million. Piped water supply and sanitation facilities will be provided to about 200,000 low-income people living in Antananarivo. The Malagasy Electricity and Water Company and the Municipality of Antananarivo will be assisted in their efforts to modernize facilities, improve services, and strengthen management operations. Total cost: $33.69 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$63 million. By constructing a system of combined sewers in low-income areas of Manila and a sanitary sewer system in two poor and densely populated areas of central Manila, the health and environmental conditions of about 3 million people will be improved. Co-financing ($42 million) is being provided by the AsDB. Total cost: $177.4 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$30 million. Through the construction of a pumping station and sewage treatment and transmission facilities on the Kelani river, the incidence of water-borne disease will be reduced and some 1.5 million people living in the greater Colombo area will have access to safe water. Co-financing ($30 million) is being provided by the SFD. Total cost: $94 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$40 million. As many as 1 million people will benefit from the improvement and expansion of water supply systems in 140 provincial towns, and an additional 500,000 people will receive water service for the first time. Technical assistance is being provided to the Provincial Water Works Authority to strengthen its management and operations. Total cost: $59.3 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$6 million. The government will be assisted in its effort to reduce a serious air pollution problem in Ankara by an engineering loan that provides technical and financial assistance for investigating methods of manufacturing smokeless fuel from lignite and developing other possible technologies to provide clean fuel. Total cost: $11.25 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$12 million. By providing safe water and sewage facilities to more than 130,000 people living in Ibb and Dhamar, the health and environmental conditions of the population of the two cities will be improved. Technical assistance and training for the National Water and Sewerage Authority staff are included. Co-financing is expected to be provided by the KfW ($25 million), the Netherlands ($6 million), and the AFESD ($10 million). Total cost: $91.9 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$13.2 million. This first stage of a long-term water supply master plan will make up the current 30% deficit and help meet the demand for water to 1987. Through an expansion of the system into the poorer areas of the capital city, low-income residents can be directly connected to the public system. Co-financing is expected from the AFESD ($12 million), the IsDB ($5.5 million), and the OPEC Fund for International Development ($4 million). Total cost: $39.2 million.
General Notes to Annex Tables
The tables of this Annex present data on selected economic indicators, external public debt, and international capital markets. As in past Annual Reports, most of the tables are organized on geographic lines.
In Table 1, the basic series on selected economic indicators is based on data stored in the IBRD Socioeconomic Data Bank, which are mainly obtained from World Bank country economic reports, supplemented by data from national and other international publications. The indicators presented in this table are the same as those of last year.
In Tables 2 through 7, the principal source of data on external debt is information received by the World Bank from its member countries. These data are checked with and supplemented by information from several other sources, primarily reporting by creditor countries on their lending and publicized Eurocurrency credits. The notes on the debt of the Philippines and Yugoslavia in Table 2 apply to all Tables 2 through 7.
The 94 countries or other areas included in the tables are those whose reporting on external public debt is sufficient for a reliable presentation of debt outstanding and future service payments. The classification by geographical region1 is as follows:
Africa South of the Sahara— Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo (People's Republic of the), Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia (The), Ghana, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Upper Volta, Zaire, Zambia (and the East African Community).
East Asia and Pacific— Fiji, Hong Kong,2 Indonesia, Korea (Republic of), Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan.
Latin America and the Caribbean—Argentina, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico,
1 Note that in these tables Afghanistan is classified under South Asia, while in the discussion of the year's activities by region, it is classified under Europe, Middle East, and North Africa.
2 Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Bank's Articles of Agreement.
Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela.
North Africa and Middle East— Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt (Arab Republic of), Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Yemen Arab Republic, Yemen (People's Democratic Republic of).
SouthAsia—Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka.
More advanced Mediterranean countries — Cyprus, Greece, Israel, Malta, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, Yugoslavia.
Not all of the 94 countries or other areas have been reporting for the full historical period, 1972-78, covered by the tables. Where individual reports are lacking for certain years, estimates have been made by the World Bank's staff in order to present a consistent series of data.
For the purpose of these tables, external public debt is defined as debt repayable to external creditors in foreign currency, goods, or services, with an original or extended maturity of more than one year, which is a direct obligation of, or has repayment guaranteed by, a public body in the borrowing country. Most military debts are not reported, although a few countries have included such obligations in their data.
The World Bank continues to work in cooperation with its member countries toward the improvement of debt statistics. This effort results in many cases in a broadening of the coverage of the data for both current and past periods. Therefore, a comparison with debt tables in the 1979 Annual Report will show changes in data given for past years. The current Annual Report should be regarded as the more reliable. Users of the tables on external public debt should be particularly careful in making comparisons with Annual Reports, as the coverage has changed over the years.
In Table 4, debt service ratios represent service payments (amortization plus interest) on external public debt as a percentage of the exports of goods and all services. The debt service figures used in the present
table are those for actual debt service paid during the year. If the entire amount of contractual debt service was not paid during a year, this is reflected in a lower debt service ratio than would have been the case had contractual debt service instead of actual service been used in computing the ratio. Likewise, the prepayment of debt service may result in a higher debt service ratio.
The debt service ratio is, by itself, an inadequate and incomplete indicator of the debt situation, and international comparisons of these ratios have only limited meaning. Many other factors must also be considered, such as the stability and diversification of the export structure, the extent to which imports can be reduced without adversely affecting the prospects for future growth, the size of foreign exchange reserves and available compensatory financing facilities, and the debt service record. Further, external public debt constitutes only a part of the total indebtedness and, thus, considerably understates the burden of indebtedness in some cases. Therefore, the debt service ratio is only an indication of the importance of debt and debt service in the total foreign exchange situation.
In Table 6, net flow is defined as disbursements on loans, grants, and grantlike loans minus amortization on loans. Net transfer is net flow minus interest on loans. In Table 7, grant element is defined as the face value of loan commitments less the discounted present value of the future flow of repayments of principal and interest expressed as a percentage of face value. The discount rate used is 10%, the conventional rate used by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in assessing terms.
In Tables 6 and 7, the source of data for grants is OECD. For grantlike loans, the data sources are OECD and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Grants consist of grant and grantlike (loans repayable in local currency) contributions; they are on a disbursement basis in both tables. The grants included in these tables comprise: (1) contributions by countries which are members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD; (2) grants by multilateral agencies as compiled by OECD; (3) disburse-
ments by IDB on loans repayable in local currencies. Grants for technical assistance have been excluded. Data for grants do not include grants from bilateral donors other than DAC countries, although grants from other sources may have been large in some cases. However, debt data include obligations to creditors of all nationalities.
Table 8 deals with foreign and international bond issues. "Foreign bonds" are those issued in a single national market. "International bonds" are those which are sold in two or more markets simultaneously. During the period under review foreign bonds have been issued in the following national markets: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Italy, Japan, Libya, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, Switzerland, Trinidad and Tobago, United Kingdom, and United States.
In Tables 9 and 10, "Eurocurrency credits" are credits granted by private banks out of funds on deposit with them or borrowed by them in the Eurocurrency market. The term "Euro" is used to refer to "offshore" markets outside, as well as inside, Europe. The term "credit" is used to refer to loans, lines of credit, and other forms of medium-term and long-term credit.
Data on external public debt are converted to US dollars at current market rates. Capital flows and service payments are converted to US dollars at an average rate for the year. Debt outstanding is converted at the rate in effect as of the date of the outstanding. Projected debt service is converted to US dollars at end-1978 rates. However, debts repayable in multiple currencies, goods, or services, and debt which has a provision for maintenance of value of the currency of repayment, are shown at their book values.
Information about foreign and international bonds and Eurocurrency credits, denominated in national currencies, is converted to US dollars using monthly average market exchange rates of currency units per US dollar, series "af," from the IMF's International Financial Statistics (IPS) File. For loans denominated in composite currencies (e.g., European unit of account), the conversion is made using rates derived by the World Bank.
Notes to Financial Statements
June 30,1980 and June 30,1979
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Capital Stock
From 1973 until March 31, 1978, the Bank's capital stock, which is expressed in the Bank's Articles of Agreement in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944" (1944 dollars), has been translated by the Bank for purposes of its financial statements into current United States dollars at the rate of $1.20635 per 1944 dollar. Since the effectiveness on April 1, 1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (the Fund), currencies no longer have par values in terms of gold. The Bank is examining the implications of this change on the valuation of its capital stock. No decisions on this matter have been taken. However, for purposes of the financial statements at June 30, 1980, 1979 and 1978, the Bank has expressed the value of its capital stock on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR) in terms of United States dollars as computed by the Fund, $1.32438 per SDR on June 30, 1980 ($1.29110 per SDR on June 30,1979). (See Note B. This note also shows what the value of the Bank's capital stock would have been if expressed in terms of $1.20635 per 1944 dollar.) For the time being payments on account of subscriptions will continue to be accepted at the equivalent of $120,635 per share of capital stock.
Translation of Currencies
The financial statements are expressed in United States dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing the Bank's financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties. The Bank is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. The Bank's resources are derived from its capital, borrowings and accumulated earnings in the various currencies of its members and Switzerland and are held, invested or lent in those same currencies. The Bank matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by holding, or lending the proceeds of its borrowings in the same currencies in which they are borrowed. Borrowed funds are sometimes temporarily converted into other currencies and at the same time, forward exchange contracts are entered into in order to recover the currency converted. The Bank maintains a neutral currency position with respect to its other resources by not converting one currency into another except for small amounts required to meet certain obligations and operational needs of the Bank.
In general, the Bank translates its assets and liabilities in currencies other than United States dollars at market rates of exchange to the United States dollar at the end of each quarter with the exception of buildings and certain deferred charges which are translated at exchange rates in effect when the buildings were acquired or the charges incurred. Income and expenses other than depreciation and amortization charges are translated at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect during each quarter. Under the Bank's present policies, adjustments arising from the translation of currencies to the current United States dollar equivalent would not now or in the future result in realized gains or losses such as would result from the conversion of the various currencies into United States dollars. Accordingly, translation adjustments, with the exception of those relating to capital subscriptions described in Note B, are charged or credited to the General Reserve rather than income. (See Note A.) In those few instances where currencies are converted to another currency, the resulting gain or loss, if any, is included in the determination of net income.
Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by the
difference between average cost and proceeds of sales, are recorded as an element of income from investments. Loans
All of the Bank's loans are made to, or guaranteed by, members with the exception of loans to the International Finance Corporation. The principal amounts of loans are repayable in the currencies lent. Interest on loans is also payable in the currencies lent. The Bank has not suffered any losses on loan receivables and it has a policy of not participating in moratoria or reschedulings. No losses on loan receivables are anticipated and, accordingly, no reserve for loan losses has been established; however, should such losses arise they would be included in the determination of net income.
Administrative Expenses
A management fee is charged to the International Development Association and a service and support fee to the International Finance Corporation representing their respective shares of the administrative expenses of the Bank.
Disposition of Income and General Reserve
The Bank has not declared or paid any dividends to its members. Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the accumulated net income has been allocated to the General Reserve. (See Note D.)
Since 1964, it has been the Bank's policy to transfer to the International Development Association part of the year's income which was not needed for allocation to reserves or otherwise required to be retained in the Bank's business and accordingly could have been prudently distributed as dividends. Such transfers are accounted for as a charge to accumulated net income.
Note A—Translation of Currencies
A Statement issued in 1975 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board in the United States requires that foreign currency translation adjustments be included in the determination of net income for the period in which they occur; however, in view of its character as an international organization and its related financial policies described previously, the Bank does not deem this Statement to be applicable in the circumstances. Had the Bank complied with this Statement, net income for the fiscal year ended June 30,1980 would have increased by $88,090,000 ($114,715,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1979) and the General Reserve would have decreased by the same amount.
Note B—Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies and Maintenance of Value
Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of the Bank is expressed in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944" (1944 dollars).
On April 30, 1976, the Board of Governors of the Fund approved proposed amendments to the Fund's Articles of Agreement (the Second Amendment) which entered into force on April 1, 1978. Under the Second Amendment, currencies no longer have par values, gold is abolished as a common denominator of the monetary system and all calculations for the purposes of the Fund's Articles are made on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR). When the SDR was introduced into the Fund's Articles in 1969, it was expressed in terms of a specified weight of gold equal to the gold content of the 1944 dollar. Since July 1,1974, the value of the SDR in terms of United States dollars has been based on the weighted relative values of a number of major currencies (the basket), including the United States dollar. The value of the SDR on July 1, 1974, expressed in terms of United States dollars, was $1.20635, which was the equivalent of one 1944 dollar. On March 31, 1978, the Fund made certain changes in the basket of currencies effective July 1, 1973, such that the value of the revised basket in terms of any currency was exactly the same, at June 30,1978, under the revised valuation as under the then existing valuation.
Appendix G
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
On April 25, 1980, the Interim Committee of the Board of Governors of the Fund announced that it favored simplifying the SDR by reducing the number of currencies in the basket and asked the Fund's Executive Board (which has the power to revise the basket) to examine the matter further and to take the necessary action.
As a result of the Second Amendment and the simultaneous repeal of Section 2 of the Par Value Modification Act (31 U.S.C. 449), the provision of United States law defining the par value of the United States dollar in terms of the SDR and gold, the pre-existing basis for translating the term "United States dollars of the weightand fineness in effect on July 1, 1944" into current United States dollars or into any other currency no longer exists.
The General Counsel of the Bank has rendered a legal opinion concluding in substance that upon the entry into force of the Second Amendment references in the Bank's Articles of Agreement to the 1944 dollar should be read as referring to the SDR, as determined from time to time by the Fund, and the mutual obligations of each member and the Bank, with respect to maintenance of value of certain currency holdings, will be measured by the value of the currency in question in terms of the SDR at any given time. The General Counsel has, however, also stated that in the exercise of their statutory power under Article IX of the Bank's Articles, the Executive Directors could conclude that the 1944 dollar would be taken to mean 1.20635 current dollars, with the consequence that maintenance of value would be measured by that standard.
A member government has raised the question whether the substitution of a new unit of value, insofar as it would give rise to any new obligations with respect to maintenance of value and capital stock subscription payments, should be made only by amendment of the Articles. It also raised questions as to the desirability of retaining the principle of maintenance of value, the form in which it is applied and the appropriateness of substituting a unit of value other than the SDR. Pending action on these questions, the financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with the General Counsel's opinion, that is, the value of the capital stock is expressed in terms of the SDR.
The Bank's capital comprises 705,000 (340,000-1979) authorized shares of the par value of SDR 100,000 each, of which 301,718 shares have been subscribed (289,902-1979). Ten percent of the capital subscriptions has been called and paid in; the remaining ninety percent is subject to call by the Bank only when required to meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans. As to :f31,967,143,000 ($29,943,397,000—1979), the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement and as to $3,995,893,000 ($3,742,925,000-1979) by. resolutions of the Board of Governors.
Restricted Currencies: The portion of capital subscriptions paid into the Bank is divided into two parts :(1) $399,589,000 ($374,293,000-1979) initially paid in gold or United States dollars, and (2) $3,596,304,000 ($3,368,632,000-1979) paid in the currencies of the respective members. Of this latter portion an amount of $147,349,000 ($143,647,000-1979) was subsequently converted by members into United States dollars, subject to the right of the Bank or the members to reverse the transactions. The amounts paid in gold or United States dollars or subsequently converted by members into United States dollars are freely usable by the Bank in any of its operations; however, the remaining amounts paid in the currencies of the members, hereinafter called restricted currencies, are usable by the Bank in its lending operations only with the consent of the respective members. The equivalent of $2,289,419,000 ($2,200,146,000-1979) has been used with such consent.
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value, as of the time of subscription, of such restricted currencies, requiring (1)
the member to make additional payments to the Bank in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Bank, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories, and (2) the Bank to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased. Following the establishment of central rates by several members in lieu of existing par values in March 1973, the Executive Directors decided that, for all members that established central rates for their respective currencies, pending the establishment of new par values, maintenance of value obligations be settled on the basis of those central rates. These obligations of the members and of the Bank become effective immediately upon the happening of those events with respect to holdings of restricted currencies represented by currency balances and demand obligations. With respect to restricted currencies out on loan, these obligations become effective only as and when such currencies are recovered by the Bank, except that in several cases the Bank and the members concerned have agreed to make provisional settlements of such obligations, by means of one or more payments over periods not exceeding five years. At June 30,1980, $1,280,000($1,655,000 -1979) was receivable and $2,517,000 ($3,262,000-1979) was payable by the Bank on such provisional settlements. These amounts are included in Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings under the headings Receivable on Account of Subscribed Capital, and Liabilities, respectively.
Prior to April 1,1978, where market rates of exchange were not related to par values or central rates, as in the cases of a majority of members, and where there were differences between market rates of exchange and the rates at which capital subscriptions of members had been paid or were payable such differences were shown as Translation Adjustments on Capital Subscriptions under the heading Other Assets. These amounts represented notional receivables and payables which would become maintenance of value obligations if and when the provisions of Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement or the decision of the Executive Directors described above could be applied. According to the legal opinion of the Bank's General Counsel referred to in this Note B under Capital Stock, maintenance of value pursuant to Article 11, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement would be determined on the basis of the SDR, and is treated in the financial statements on this basis. Since the Bank is still considering the implications of the Second Amendment and in view of the questions referred to above, the timing of any establishment and settlement of these notional maintenance of value items $513,417,000 ($460,399,000-1979) receivable and $150,998,000 ($142,271,000-1979) payable are uncertain. Accordingly, they are included in Other Assets, and Liabilities as notional maintenance of value obligations. Effect of Valuation in Terms of the SDR: Expressing the value of the Bank's capital stock in terms of the SDR rather than in terms of $1.20635 does not have a material effect on the financial position or results of the operations of the Bank. If the value of the capital stock were expressed in terms of $1.20635, the subscribed capital would have been $36,397,751,000 ($34,972,328,000-1979) instead of $39,958,929,000 ($37,429,247,000-1979), the uncalled portion of subscriptions $32,757,976,000 ($31,475,095,0001979) instead of $35,963,036,000 ($33,686,322,000-1979), the paid-in capital $3,639,775,000 ($3,497,233,000-1979) instead of $3,995,893,000 ($3,742,925,000-1979) and the net maintenance of value obligations to the Bank would have been $59,484,000 ($113,822,000-1979) instead of $363,236,000 ($323,153,000-1979). Should the Executive Directors conclude that the capital would be measured by some standard other than the SDR, any adjustment of the amounts shown in the Balance Sheet as Notional Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings would require a corresponding adjustment of the capital. General Capital Increase: On January 4, 1980, the Bank's
Board of Governors adopted a resolution (the General Capital Increase Resolution) which increases the authorized capital stock of the Bank by 331,500 shares (subject to adjustment as described below); this represents an increase of approximately $40,000,000,000. Subscriptions by members to about 93% of these shares are authorized. The General Capital Increase Resolution further provides that the paid-in portion of the shares authorized to be subscribed will be 7.5% (in contrast to the 10% paid-in portion of existing capital stock); subscribing members will be required to pay 3/4% of the subscription price in gold or United States dollars and 6-3/4% in their respective currencies. Under the Articles, each member is entitled to 250 membership votes plus one vote for each share subscribed. To avoid dilution of the voting power of certain members which would otherwise occur as this increase in capital is subscribed, the Board of Governors adopted another resolution on January 4, 1980 which increases the authorized capital stock by an additional 33,500 shares (representing a further increase of approximately $4,000,000,000) and authorizes each member to subscribe 250 shares of this additional capital, none of which would be paid in. No subscriptions authorized by these resolutions may be accepted prior to September 30,1981. The General Capital Increase Resolution provides for a reduction of the number of shares authorized by it if, as a result of determinations on the valuation of the Bank's capita] stock, the 331,500 shares authorized represent an increase in authorized capital in excess of $40,000,000,000, calculated as of the time of such determinations on the basis of the standard of value determined. In this case the number of shares authorized by the General Capital Increase Resolution will be reduced so that their aggregate par value at that time will be equivalent (to the nearest number of shares) to $40,000,000,000, the number of shares authorized to be subscribed by each member will be correspondingly reduced, and adjustments will be made on account of any shares already subscribed by members in excess of their reduced authorization.
Note C—Investments
The market value of investment securities was $9,628,803,000 ($9,611,863,000-1979) compared with a cost or amortized cost of $9,676,840,000 ($9,707,221,000-1979), and a face value of $9,741,989,000 ($9,757,431,000-1979), including investments not traded in the market which were valued at their cost of $1,225,588,000 ($3,271,021,000-1979). Investments include securities purchased under agreements to resell amounting to $1,715,000 ($8,835,000-1979). Obligations of the United States Government and its instrumentalities having a cost or amortized cost of $292,538,000 ($292,538,000-1979) and a market value of $290,329,000 ($289,088,000-1979), set aside in respect of the Special Reserve, as described in Note D, are included under this heading.
The annualized rate of return on the average investments held during the period, based on the portfolio held at the end of each month and including realized gains and losses, was 8.76% (7.55%—1979).
Note D—Reserves and Net Income
In July 1980, the Executive Directors allocated $469,901,000 to the General Reserve out of the $587,901,000 income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1980 and have recommended to the Board of Governors that the balance of $118,000,000 be transferred by way of grant to the International Development Association. In August 1979, the Bank allocated $306,542,000 to the General Reserve out of the $406,542,000 net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1979 and in October 1979, authorized the transfer of the balance of $100,000,000 by way of grant to the International Development Association. In accordance with the policies discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note A, the
General Reserve has increased by $88,090,000 during the fiscal year ($114,715,000-1979); it has been credited with $103,857,000 ($137,495,000-1979) representing net translation adjustments as a result of currency depreciations and appreciations and charged with $15,767,000($22,780,000 —1979) representing a compensating effect of the depreciation of the United States dollar, in terms of the SDR, on the one percent portion of the Bank's paid-in capital and the nine percent portion released by certain member countries for lending in United States dollars. (See Statement of Changes in General Reserve—Appendix B.) Since the value of the SDR in terms of current dollars may vary from day to day, that portion of the Bank's capital paid in or released in dollars will be subject to further adjustment at the end of each quarter.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6, of the Articles of Agreement which are to be held in liquid assets and to be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of the Bank on its borrowings and guarantees. The Special Reserve assets comprise obligations of the United States Government and its instrumentalities and are included under the heading Investments. As a result of a decision made in 1964, the allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in respect of subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
Note E—Contributions to the International Development Association
The Bank has authorized transfers by way of grants to the International Development Associationtotaling$l,425,000,000 from net income for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1964 through June 30, 1979. Of this amount $789,048,000 was payable at June 30,1980. ($1,325,000,000 had been authorized from net income through the fiscal year ended June 30, 1978 and $792,278,000 was payable at June 30,1979.)
Note F—Staff Retirement Plan
The Bank has a contributory retirement Plan for its staff, which also covers the staff of the International Finance Corporation. All contributions to the Plan and all other assets and income of the Plan are held by the Bank separately from other assets of the Bank and the Corporation and can be used only for the benefit of the participants in the Plan and their beneficiaries. The Bank funds all costs of the Plan as accrued; which includes amortization of prior service costs over a 40-year period. The cost of the Plan to the Bank for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1980 was $38,065,000 ($30,605,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1979). An actuarial valuation of the Plan is made annually. At December 31,1979, the market value of the Plan's assets exceeded the actuarially computed value of vested benefits. In 1980, certain changes in the actuarial assumptions were made to reflect the actual experience of the Plan. The result of these changes in the Plan's cost in fiscal year 1980 was not significant.
Note G—Income and Expenses
I ncome from investments includes net losses of $103,415,000 ($73,134,000—1979) resulting from sales of investments. Other income includes net gains of $11,903,000($10,025,000 — 1979) resulting from repurchases of obligations of the Bank prior to maturity pursuant to the terms of the respective borrowing agreements. Administrative expenses are net of the management fee of $140,300,000 ($121,425,0001979) charged to the International Development Association and of the service and support fee of $2,447,000($2,197,000 —1979) charged to the International Finance Corporation. At June 30, 1980, interest and other charges of $52,000 payable to the Bank on loans were overdue by more than 60 days. The principal disbursed and outstanding on these loans amounted to $47,982,078. Of the interest and other charges overdue by more than 60 days at June 30, 1980, $4,000 remained unpaid at July 30, 1980. It is not anticipated that these delays will result in any loss to the Bank.
Notes to Financial Statements Appendix F
International Development Association
June 30, 1980 and June 30, 1979
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Translation of Currencies
The Association is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members and Switzerland. The Association's policy is to translate its assets and liabilities in currencies other than United States dollars at market rates of exchange to the United States dollar at the end of each quarter. Translation adjustments relating to subscriptions and supplementary resources are accounted for as described in Note C; all other translation adjustments are included in the determination of net income. Income and expenses are translated at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect during each quarter.
Tie subscriptions and supplementary resources provided through the third replenishment are expressed in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1,1960" (1960 dollars) and from 1973 until March 31, 1978 have been translated by the Association, for purposes of the financial statements, into current United States dollars at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar. The supplementary resources provided under the fourth and fifth replenishments are expressed and payable in members' currencies and are translated (1) at market rates of exchange at the end of each quarter for amounts receivable and for amounts received and not yet disbursed, and (2) at market rates of exchange on the dates of disbursement in respect of those amounts which have been disbursed or converted into another currency. The Association's development credits are denominated in current United States dollars. However, under the Association's General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements, the principal amounts of the credits disbursed are repayable in amounts equivalent, at the dates of repayment, to the value of the currencies disbursed in terms of 1960 dollars.
On April 30,1976, the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund (the Fund) approved proposed amendments to the Fund's Articles of Agreement (the Second Amendment) which entered into force on April 1, 1978. Under the Second Amendment, currencies no longer have par values, gold is abolished as a common denominator of the monetary system and all calculations for the purposes of the Fund's Articles are made on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR).
As a result of the Second Amendment and the simultaneous re pea I of Section 2 of the Par Value Modification Act (31 U.S.C. 449), the provision of United States law defining the par value of the United States dollar in terms of the SDR and gold, the prs-existing basis for translating the term "United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1,1960" into current United States dollars or into any other currency, no longer exists.
Tie General Counsel of the Association has rendered a legal opinion concluding in substance that upon the entry into force of the Second Amendment references in the Association's Articles of Agreement to the 1960 dollar should be read as referring to the SDR, as determined from time to time by the Fund and the mutual obligations of each member and the Association with respect to maintenance of value of certain currency holdings will be measured by the value of the currency in question in terms of the SDR at any given time. It would be consistent with this opinion also to substitute the SDR for the 1960 dollar as the measure of the development credit repayment obligation but this would require approval of the Executive Directors and would involve other changes in the development credit agreements.
The General Counsel has, however, also stated that in the exercise of their statutory power under Article X of the Association's Articles, the Executive Directors could conclude that the 1960 dollar would be taken to mean $1.20635 current dollars, with the consequence that maintenance of value would be measured by that standard.
Pending action on this matter by the Association, the subscriptions and supplementary resources through the third replenishment have been expressed in SDRs on the basis that one SDR equals one 1960 dollar. This basis has not been applied to development credit repayment obligations however, as described in the following paragraph. The value of such subscriptions and supplementary resources has been expressed on the basis of the SDR in terms of United States dollars as computed by the Fund ($1.32438 per SDR) on June 30,1980, for the amounts of subscriptions and supplementary resources undisbursed at June 30, 1980; at the daily SDR rate for amounts disbursed from the effective date of the Second Amendment to lune 30,1980, and at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar for amounts disbursed prior to the effective date of the Second Amendment. Expressing the value of certain of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources in terms of the SDR rather than in terms of the 1960 dollar (translated at the rate of $1.20635) does not have a material effect on the financial position or results of operations of the Association. If the value of these subscriptions and supplementary resources were expressed in terms of $1.20635 the amount of $19,459,702,000 ($16,460,320,000-1979) shown in the Statement of Condition would have decreased by $42,712,000 to $19,416,990,000 ($33,008,000 to $16,427,312,000-1979).
Pending clarification of the effect of the Second Amendment on the payment obligations under its development credit agreements, the Association has continued to base these upon the par value ($1.20635 per 1960 dollar) in effect immediately prior to effectiveness of the Second Amendment. If the matter had been resolved during the period ended June 30, 1980, and the Association had expressed its development credits in termsofthe SDRatlune 30,1980, theamount of $17,989,240,000 ($15,239,978,000-1979) shown in the Statement of Condition would have increased by $889,793,000 ($599,452,000-1979) as of June 30,1980 representing the cumulative effect of the change since April 1, 1978. This would have resulted in net income for the period ended June 30, 1980 of $837,250,000 ($553,557,000-1979) rather than a net loss of $52,543,000 ($45,895,000-1979).
Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by the difference between average cost and proceeds of sales, are recorded as an element of income from investments.
Development Credits
All of the Association's development credits are made to member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for two development credits which have been made to regional development banks for the benefit of members or territories of members of the Association). The Association has not suffered any losses on development credit receivables and no losses are anticipated. However, should such losses arise they would be included in the determination of net income.
Administrative Expenses
Administrative expenses of the Association are paid by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank). The Association reimburses the Bank for such expenses by payment of a management fee representing its share of the administrative expenses incurred by the Bank.
Note A—Restricted Currencies
The membership of the Association is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which pay all subscriptions and supplementary resources provided to the Association in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by the Association in its operations; (2) Part II members, which payten percent of theirinitialsubscriptionsinfreely convertible currencies and the remaining ninety percent of their initial subscriptions and all additional subscriptions and any supplementary resources provided to the Association in their own currencies. The Articles of Agreement of the Association and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by the Association for projects financed by the Association and located outside the territories of the member except by agreement between the member and the Association. The amounts of $55,576,000 ($55,713,000-1979) under the heading Due from Banks, $162,860,000 ($154,790,000-1979) included under the heading Receivable on Account of Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources and $72,504,000 ($72,759,000-1979) included in Notional Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings under the headings Other Assets and Other Liabilities respectively, were subject to such restrictions.
Note B—Investments
The market value of investment securities was $95,618,000 ($159,564,000-1979) compared with a cost or amortized cost of $96,116,000 ($160,685,000-1979) and face value of $98,067,000 ($161,682,000-1979), including investments not traded in the market which were valued at their cost of $39,497,000 ($34,329,000-1979). Investments include securities purchased under agreements to resell amounting to $5,682,000 ($6,921,000-1979).
Note C—Maintenance of Value
Article IV, Section 2 of the Association's Articles of Agreement provides for the maintenance of the value, as of the time of subscription, of the Association's currency holdings or demand obligations substituted therefor representing ninety percent of each member's initial subscription, only so long as and to the extent that such currency has not been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. This Section requires: (1) the member to make additional payments to the Association in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Association, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2) the Association to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Association, appreciated to a significant extent in its territories.
The provisions of Article IV, Section 2 have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and supplementary resources of the Association through the third replenishment but are not applicable to those of the fourth and fifth replenishments. On June 19, 1972, the Executive Directors decided that for all members that established central rates for their respective currencies, pending establishment of new par values fortheir currencies, maintenance of value obligations be settled on the basis of those central rates. It was further decided that with respect to any member currency functioning under a system under which the market rate was not confined within announced intervention margins, maintenance of value obligations would be determined on the basis of market rates in effect on the respective dates of disbursement of such currency, but only for the amounts disbursed. Prior to April 1,1978, where market rates of exchange were not related to par values or central rates as in the cases of a majority of the members, and there were differences between market rates of exchange and the rates at which undisbursed subscriptions and supplementary resources of members through the third replenishment of the Association's resources had been paid or were payable, such differences were shown as Translation Adjustments on Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources under the heading Other Assets. The amounts $93,361,000 ($94,300,000-1979) established at that date and accordingly at lune 30,1980 represented notional receivables $108,395,000 ($99,094,000-1979) and payables $15,034,000 ($4,794,000—1979). Maintenance of value obligationsin respect of such undisbursed amounts are determined upon their disbursement. In accordance with the legal opinion of the Association's General Counsel referred to above, maintenance of value pursuant to Article IV, Section 2 of the Articles of Agreement is being determined provisionally on the basis of the SDR, and is treated in the financial statements on that basis. Since the Association is still considering the implications of the Second Amendment, and in view of the questions referred to above, the timing of any establishment and settlement of these notional maintenance of value items is uncertain. Accordingly, they are included in Other Assets, and Liabilities as notional maintenance of value obligations. Note D—Borrowings from Swiss Confederation The Association has entered into agreements to borrow a total of SwF 182 million (US equivalent $112,450,000-1980; $109,428,000-1979) from the Swiss Confederation. The first loan for SwF 52 million was made in fiscal year 1967 and the second loan for SwF 130 million was made in fiscal year 1973. The balance of these loans outstanding at June 30,1980 was SwF 181,480,000 (US equivalent $112,129,000). The Association and the Swiss Confederation have signed agreements which provide for the conversion of these loans into grant contributions, subject to ratification by the Swiss Confederation which will require legislative approval. It is not expected that these procedures can be completed before the latter part of 1980.
Note E—Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources
Subscriptions and supplementary resources have been translated as set forth under the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies. At June 30,1980 and 1979 these were as follows:
Note F—Transfers from International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
The Internationa! Bank for Reconstruction and Development fas authorized transfers by way of grants to the Association totaling $1,425,000,000 ($1,325,000,000-1979) from net income cf the Bank for the fiscal years ended June 30,1964 through June 30,1979. Of this amount, $61,325,000 ($47,325,000-1979) nay be used by the Association or had been disbursed for grants for agricultural research and for the control of onchocerciasis. At June 30, 1979, $25,000 previously allocated for such grants reverted to the Association for its genera! purposes.
Note G—Translation Adjustments
In accordance with the policies discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies the Association fas recorded translation adjustments for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1980 of $2,693,000 ($8,025,000-1979) representing ret charges of $2,655,000 ($7,294,000-1979) as a result of currency depreciations and appreciations [including $3,013,000 ($11,288,000-1979) of charges on the Swiss Confederation borrowings] and charges of $38,000 ($731,000-1979) representing the effect of the valuation change to the SDR on that portion of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources paid in United States dollars.
Since the value of the SDR in terms of current dollars may vary from day to day, the portion of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources paid in dollars will be subject to further adjustment at the end of each quarter.
Note H—Net Loss
The Association pays a management fee to the Bank in respect of administrative expenditures incurred for projects during tieir preparation and implementation. The major portion of such expenditures is incurred before substantial amounts of tie credits which finance the projects are disbursed. Service charges on development credits, which are levied only on amounts disbursed and outstanding, are estimated to be more tian sufficient to cover the costs incurred over the lives of the projects they finance. Because administrative expenses are incurred considerably in advance of receipt of income from development credits the Association incurs a temporary income deficit with respect to each such credit. While the present value of earnings from development credits approved during fiscal year 1980, as estimated by the Association, exceeds the management fee for that year, the amount of the income deficit which may be incurred in any year will be influenced by a number of factors including the scale of lending activities of the Association, the amount of credits on which service charges are being earned and the income from other investments the Association may have.
At June 30,1980, principal instalments of $84,000 and service charges of $296,000 payable to the Association on development credits were overdue by more than 60 days.The principal disbursed and outstanding on these development credits
amounted to $57,275,000. It is not anticipated that these delays will result in any loss to the Association.
Note I—Sixth Replenishment of the Association's Resources
On March 26,1980, the Board of Governors adopted a resolution authorizing the Association to accept additional resources from member countries, as a sixth replenishment of the Association's resources. Under the resolution the Association would be authorized to accept an aggregate of $12,000,000,000 equivalent, computed on the basis of representative rates of exchange and the SDR value on October 5,1979 and payable in freely convertible or otherwise usable currency. The resolution provides that these payments would be made in three equal instalments beginning on November 8,1980 (unless that date is postponed as provided in the resolution because sufficient notifications as described below have not been received). The resolution further provides that the members have certain options as to the amount and timing of payments. These resources would be divided into amounts for subscriptions carrying voting rights and contributions not carrying voting rights. In connection with the replenishment and in accordance with past practice, arrangements have been made to permit Part 11 members to maintain their relative voting power and for that purpose they have been authorized to make subscriptions carrying voting rights in the aggregate of $6,289,000 equivalent payable in the respective currencies of the subscribing members.
None of the above-mentioned subscriptions and contributions would become payable unless members, including at least 12 Part I members, whose subscriptions and contributions aggregate not less than the equivalent, computed on the basis described above, of $9,600,000,000 shall each have given the Association, on or before September 30, 1980, or such later date as the Executive Directors may determine, formal notification that they will make the total subscription and the total contribution authorized for such members in accordance with the terms of the resolution. These notifications may provide that the payment of a part of the subscription and contribution of any member is subject to obtaining the necessary appropriations. Countries whose contributions are so qualified would notify the Association from time to time when appropriate legislative action has been taken to permit payment of all or a part of their qualified contributions.
The resolution further provides that, for purposes of credit commitments by the Association, the subscriptions and contributions authorized thereunder shall be divided into three successive tranches of at least 29%, at least 33% and 38% (or the remaining balance) of the total. If and as long as unqualified contribution commitments have not been received from the United States for the respective minimum amount of any said tranches of its subscription and contribution, the amount of such tranche of all subscriptions and contributions which the Association may use for making new unqualified credit commitments will be reduced in proportion to such shortfall in unqualified contribution commitments.
The aggregate amounts not yet due, will be due as follows: