Chapter One
The World Bank: Fiscal 1983, in Brief
In fiscal year 1983,1 lending commitments by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and by the International Development Association (IDA), together with investment commitments by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), totaled $15,322 million.2 In the previous year, lending and investment commitments had been S13,628 million.
The increase, of $1,694 million, was the result mainly of record lending levels—$11,136 million, or an increase of $806 million (8 percent) over fiscal 1982—by the IBRD. Commitments by IDA increased $655 million, or 24 percent, to $3,341 million.
Investments by the IFC were $845 million, up S233 million, or 38 percent, from fiscal 1982 totals.
A total of 136 IBRD loans were approved during the year to forty-three countries. One hundred seven IDA credits to forty-four countries were approved. IFC's fifty-eight investment commitments were spread out over thirty-six countries.
Brazil, Indonesia, and India were the most active IBRD borrowers during the past year. Commitments to those countries totaled $1,458 million (seven projects), $1,330 million (twelve projects), and $1,088 million (eight projects), respectively. The most active IDA borrowers were India ($1,063 million for seven projects), Bangladesh ($367 million for seven projects), and Pakistan ($229 million for five projects).
IBRD loans and IDA credits helped finance about 34 percent of the cost of projects for which total amounts can be calculated.
At a glance, these are the other major operational and financial highlights of fiscal year 1983:
» The IBRD's net income was a record $752 million, up $154 million, or 26 percent, over fiscal 1982;
o Borrowings by the IBRD totaled $10,292 million, exceeding the previous year's amount, $8,521 million, by $1,771 million, or 21 percent. The IBRD was most active in borrowing US dollars ($3,537 million), Swiss francs ($2,514 million), Deutsche mark ($1,519 million), Japanese yen ($1,326 million), and Netherlands guilders ($811 million);
o Disbursements by the IBRD were $6,817 million. IDA disbursements stood at $2,596 million. Disbursements for the IBRD and IDA in
fiscal 1982 were $6,326 million and $2,067 million, respectively;
• The net transfer of resources by the IBRD and IDA was $4,498 million, up $142 million, or 3 percent, over fiscal 1982. The net transfer of resources is defined as disbursements minus repayment of principal, interest, and other charges;
• There was an increase in the subscribed capital of the IBRD in the amount of SDR9.237 million, of which SDR8,563 million was the result of subscriptions authorized by the general capital increase approved in January 1980;
• In fiscal 1983, eighty-eight IBRD and IDA projects, or 35 percent of total operations, involved cofinancing funds totaling $5,690.4 million.
IDA
The Sixth Replenishment of the International Development Association (IDA6) was negotiated at a level of SDR9.15 billion (USS12 billion) at exchange rates of October 5, 1979. It was envisaged that these contributions would be committed in the period, fiscal 1981-83. However, legislative delays in the United States and a subsequent reduction in its appropriations for IDA6 resulted in: (a) a thirteen-month delay in the effectiveness of IDA6: (b) a substantial reduction in IDA's operational program for the period, fiscal 1982-84; and (c) a delay in the start of negotiations for the Seventh Replenishment of the Association (IDA7).
1 The fiscal year of the World Bank, as well as of its [wo affiliates, runs from July 1 to June 30. All references to fiscal vcars in this Report, unless otherwise stated, refer to this time period.
2 Since the real value of loan commitments bv the IBRD and IDA is eroded to the extent that cost inflation occurs over the period of disbursements, the Bank plans and monitors its commitments in "'real terms." The deflator now used to express commitments in real terms is a weighted average of the price levels assumed to he prevailing over the period of disbursement of these commitments, where the weights are the proportion of a typical loan that would be disbursed each vcar. These price levels are US dollar-denominated indexes of the unit value of manufactured exports from developed countries to developing countries, which take account of both inflation in the former and changes in their currencies (for example. Deutsche mark. Japanese yen. and so forth) vis-a-vis the US dollar. If fiscal 1983 IBRD and IDA commitments were to be expressed in terms of 1982 dollars, they would be S14,346 million.
Note on Dollar Amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of the Annual Report refer to current United States dollars. Where special drawing right (SDR) amounts are used for the capital of the Bank, one SDR equals 1.06835 current United States dollars at June 30, 1983 (one SDR equaled 1.09224 current United States dollars at June 30,1982).
For a detailed discussion and the basis for SDR amounts used for IDA subscriptions and contributions, see IDA Appendices: Appendix F— Notes to Financial Statements.
At the beginning of fiscal 1983. a meeting of IDA Deputies was held in The Hague, the Netherlands (July 5-6, 1982), to review the status of IDA's commitment authority; to discuss special arrangements that could result in an increase in IDA's commitment authority in fiscal 1983 and fiscal 1984; and to address other important issues, such as the prospects for starting discussions on IDA7.
The central issue addressed by the Deputies at that meeting concerned the prevention of a large gap from emerging in resources available to IDA in fiscal 1984. IDA7 was originally expected to have become effective in that fiscal year; uncertainties regarding the US contributions for IDA6 resulted in a deferral of these negotiations. In the absence of action by donors, there would have arisen a marked decline in the commitment level for fiscal 1984, since only the US contribution and small balances from donors not releasing their contributions in full would have been available for lending. Deputies, therefore, studied different options to ensure that IDA's flow of annual commitments was maintained at appropriate levels in fiscal 1984—the year between the concluding stages of IDA6 and the beginning of IDA7.
These discussions were continued at the next meeting of the Deputies in Toronto, Canada (on September 4 through 8, 1982),3 where donors, other than the United States, agreed to provide Special Contributions in an amount, in general, equivalent to one-third of their total contributions to IDA6 through either an "FY84 Account" or a "Special Fund." It was agreed that these two schemes should be operated in parallel, permitting donors to choose whichever mechanism they felt would accommodate their concerns and facilitate approval for such special contributions in their respective legislatures. It is expected that these contributions will provide IDA additional commitment authority in fiscal 1984 of about SDR1.8 billion ($1.9 billion).
FY84 Account. Contributions to the FY84 Account add to the general resources of IDA and
carry voting rights (unless deferred). Twelve donors, whose special contributions account for SDR1.2 billion, or about 65 percent of the total amount to be provided in fiscal 1984, have, so far, decided to make their contributions through this account. Included in this group are the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom.
Special Fund. Contributions to the Special Fund constitute a fund separate from IDA's other resources. Since amounts repaid by borrowers for credits financed by the Fund would, at the time of repayment, flow back into IDA's general resources, voting rights could be provided on account of these reflows at that time. Procurement eligibility is restricted to contributors, Part II countries, and contributors to the FY84 Account who have agreed that their contributions be treated in the same manner as Special Fund contributions for the purposes of any future adjustment of voting rights. Six countries (Canada, Denmark, France, Italy, Norway, and Sweden) have, to date, decided to contribute SDR465 million, or about 25 percent of total special contributions. France has decided to advance a part of its Special Fund contributions—representing the equivalent of its IDA6 release beyond the pro rata level—to fiscal 1983.
Fourteen other donors, whose special contributions account for about 10 percent of the total, had not, as of June 30, 1983, chosen the vehicle for their special contributions.
Deputies recognized that these special-contribution arrangements were interim in nature, and reiterated the urgency of beginning negotiations on IDA7 as soon as possible. Thus, negotiations for the Seventh Replenishment of the International Development Association were launched with a meeting of IDA Deputies in Washington, DC, on November 22-23, 1982. The meeting was
3 Concurrent with that meeting, a report, entitled IDA in Retrospect, was published for the Bank. The report comprehensively reviewed IDA's work over the past two decades. It noted that IDA had committed $27 billion in more than 1.300 projects in seventy-eight countries since 1960. Details were given of specific projects and programs assisted by IDA—failures as well as successes. The broad analysis reached several conclusions:
• Twenty-seven nations, once eligible for IDA credits on the basis of their weak economics, have developed to the state at which they can finance further growth on conventional borrowing terms.
• Dramatic increases in agricultural production in South Asia, where IDA has been particularly active, have sharply reduced the need for massive food imports in the region and. in India's case, have resulted in virtual self-sufficiency.
• IDA lending has been effective in promoting development.
• IDA has gained a vast amount of understanding by "doing." including learning from past mistakes.
• IDA has been remarkably successful in attracting financial support.
• IDA has a key role to play in meeting the needs for concessional aid to the poorest countries.
opened by A. W. Clausen, the Association's Chairman and President, who stressed the importance of these negotiations. He noted that their outcome would have a profound bearing on the lives of several hundred million people in the poorest developing countries, on influencing the trend of global multilateral economic cooperation, and specifically, on the future course of the World Bank. In view of the urgent needs facing
the poorest and weakest members of the world community, whose economic prospects had been damaged severely by factors beyond their control, he stressed the importance of achieving a real increase in the resources provided under IDA7. In particular, the concessional-resource needs of IDA-recipient countries had increased substantially because of a number of factors, among them the need for reversing prolonged economic
decline in sub-Saharan Africa, the continued needs of other poor countries in South Asia, the Caribbean, and elsewhere, and China's need for concessionary assistance.
The main item for consideration at the November meeting was terms and conditions of IDA credits. Subsequent to this meeting. Deputies met on two other occasions over the course of the fiscal year: in Paris, France (February 1983), to discuss IDA's allocation criteria and in Copenhagen, Denmark (March 1983). to discuss burden-sharing arrangements for IDA7. Deputies are scheduled to meet again in July 1983 in Tokyo, Japan, to continue their deliberations on the Seventh Replenishment. They will address issues related to the size and implementation arrangements for the Seventh Replenishment— including conditions of effectiveness, methods of payments, maintenance of value, and voting rights. It is expected that negotiations will have reached a concluding stage by the end of calendar year 1983.
Fiscal 1983 commitment authority. The United States was expected to have provided a third installment of $945 million in fiscal 1983. However, on December 1,1982, an installment of $700 million, as authorized by the Continuing Resolution, was made available to the Association. This contribution, together with other donors' IDA6 releases, the Special Fund contribution advanced by France, and IDA's other resources, resulted in a level of commitment authority for fiscal 1983 of about SDR3.1 billion, or $3.3 billion.
Cofinancing
Over the past decade, there has been a steady increase in cofinancing with the World Bank. The number of operations with cofinancing has increased from an average of fifty-eight in the period fiscal 1974-76 to an average of eighty-nine in the period fiscal 1981-83. In recent years, official cofinancing and export-credit cofinancing have been running at an annual average of around S2,000 million, and the financing plans of IBRD operations at the time of their approval by the Executive Directors show a build-up in the involvement of private-sector cofinancers from an average of less than $300 million a year in fiscal 1974-76 to an average of between $1,500 million and $2,000 million a year in the period 198183. (See cofinancing tables on page 19.)
At the same time, however, it should be noted that while official cofinancing is usually firmly arranged at the time of Board approval of a Bank project (the poorest countries, requiring concessionary resources, do not proceed on the basis of uncertain financing plans), export-credit and commercial-bank financing are often not required until the implementation stage of a project. Such financing may well be arranged a year or two after
a Bank loan has been approved by the Board. The statistics in the accompanying table refer, therefore, to financing plans at the time of Board approval rather than actual operations, and may, particularly in the case of export credit and private cofinancing, be subject to later modification.
The general trend in cofinancing continues to show an overall rise; however, fluctuations can be expected from year to year. These fluctuations, particularly with respect to private and export-credit cofinancing, can be a reflection of a number of factors, among them the composition of the Bank's lending operations and the volatility of market conditions. Both factors played a role in the drop in operations involving private cofinancing in fiscal 1983. By contrast, cofinancing with export credits grew substantially in the number of operations and in the amounts committed during fiscal 1982 and fiscal 1983, as compared with the rather low level of fiscal 1981. The unusually high figure for 1983 is due to some very large operations.
A discussion of new cofinancing instruments, designed to attract more cofinancing from private sources, begins on page 38.
In support of the Bank's objective of continuing the expansion of its cofinancing operations with private banks, export-credit agencies, and public sources of finance, the position of Vice President, Cofinancing, was established in February 1983. Its purpose is to develop relationships with cofinancers, to assist in the formulation and implemenation of cofinancing policies, and to provide guidance to managers with line responsibility for operations. Another step to strengthen the Bank's organization in the area of cofinancing has been the designation of a Cofinancing Coordinator in the office of each of the six Regional Vice Presidencies. The regional Cofinancing Coordinators work closely with the regional staff and the staff of the Advisory Unit for Cofinancing on all matters relating to cofinancing.
Disbursements
The volume of annual disbursements on project lending is influenced by a variety of factors such as the complexity of projects, economic conditions in the borrowing countries, availability of expertise, the size of undisbursed balances on approved loans and credits, and the sector and age of the undisbursed balances. However, once again in fiscal 1983, agriculture absorbed the highest proportion of IBRD disbursements at 23 percent of the total, followed by transportation, power, and industrial development, with 15 percent, 13 percent, and 10 percent, respectively. For IDA, agriculture, at 39 percent of the fiscal 1983 total disbursed, was also the highest sector, fol-
lowed by power, nonproject, and transportation, with 14 percent, 12 percent, and 12 percent, respectively.
Bank Management and Staff
At June 30, 1983, total staff of the Bank (including staff on leave without pay, but who are still on Bank rolls) numbered 5.587, of whom 2,821 were higher-level staff representing 106 nationalities. It was a year of limited staff growth. The number of higher-level staff grew at a rate of 0.1 percent, compared with 5.3 percent in the previous fiscal year.
Efforts to increase the proportion of women and underrepresented nationalities continued,
with particularly encouraging results in the Young Professionals Program. Although only one selection took place in fiscal 1983, 70 percent of those appointed are nationals of developing countries. Twenty-six percent are Africans and 39 percent of the total are women.
Special attention was given during the past year to assisting managers in carrying out their personnel-management functions and to make optimum use of their resources. A number of initiatives affecting both managers and staff were introduced or implemented:
(a) Introduction of a new performance-appraisal system, called "Performance Planning and Review" (PPR), began. It calls for man-
agers and staff to set annual work objectives that are later used to assess performance, and to plan for staff training and development. The system was begun in May 1983 with performance planning by Vice Presidents.
(b) A revised reward system went into effect in May 1983. It aims to provide greater incentives for performance by giving managers more flexibility and scope to reward those who contribute more. It should also do away with past automaticity in granting pay increases by differentiating more for performance.
(c) Work began on the grading of jobs in the Bank, with the evaluation of some 450 benchmark positions at all levels. They provide the framework for evaluating the remaining 5.000 jobs. The results of the grading survey will be implemented in late fiscal 1984.
(d) Implementation of a Human Resources Information System (HRS) continued during the past year. It permitted, among other things, the launching of a project to develop computerized staff profiles that will assist in making more effective use of the abundant talent throughout the Bank.
(e) Follow-up to the Attitude Survey conducted in fiscal 1982 was carried out throughout the Bank, at both the unit and institutional level. After the results of the Survey were discussed with all staff members, managers in the institution formulated plans to bring about improvements. Senior management also discussed actions to be taken to meet issues of institutional concern arising from the Survey.
(f) A proposal for an integrated management-development training program, endorsed by-senior management, is in its final stage of development. Implementation will take place over the next three years.
Robert S. McNamara Fellowships
Ten Robert S. McNamara fellowships were awarded to twelve scholars during the past year— the first to be granted under a program set up in fiscal 1982 to honor the former President of the World Bank.
The fellowships are intended primarily for full-time study or research at the postgraduate level in fields related to economic development. It is intended that the research be imaginative and innovative; in addition, the work is not normally to be such as would lead to a postgraduate degree.
The first fellows come from Canada. Denmark, Ecuador (two). Guyana, India (two). Ivory Coast. Senegal, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Zaire. The youngest is thirty years old. the oldest, thirty-seven. All will work in countries other than their own. The total amount of the first year's awards was $187,500.
McNamara fellowships are financed from the
income of an endowment fund. Bangladesh, China, India, Kuwait, Nigeria. Pakistan. Peru, and Yugoslavia have contributed $1.9 million to this fund. The Bank has contributed $1 million.
Fellowship applications for the 1984 academic year will be received and screened by the Economic Development Institute. Selections will be made by a panel appointed by the Executive Directors on the recommendation of the management of the Bank.
Membership
Hungary became a member of the IBRD on July 7. 1982, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines joined the IBRD and IDA on August 30, 1982. bringing the total membership to 144 for the IBRD and to 131 for IDA.
At the end of the year, action was pending on membership in the IBRD for Antigua. Barbuda, and Malta and in IDA for Portugal.
IFC
The International Finance Corporation is the affiliate of the IBRD that was established in 1956 to supplement the Bank's activities by promoting and providing support for the private sector in developing member countries. With the authority to make equity investments and to provide loans without government guarantees, the Corporation can provide the type of financing and investment expertise particularly suited to attracting and lending confidence to private investors.
Even though it operates with its own staff and capital. IFC—through joint ventures, by building upon the World Bank's infrastructural achievements, or through the sharing of purposes and policies—works closely with the Bank towards the common goal of promoting economic development in member countries.
IFC's role is to stimulate the flow of private capital into productive private and mixed private/public enterprises—not to replace it. Thus. IFC operates as a catalyst in bringing together entrepreneurship, investment capital, and production.
In addition to providing its own funds, the Corporation seeks to raise financing, either directly, through the syndication of its own loans, or. indirectly, by helping to attract parallel financing from international capital markets.
One important feature that distinguishes IFC from commercial financial institutions is its commitment to provide project sponsors with the necessary technical assistance which will help ensure that their ventures are potentially productive and financially sound.
In addition, the Corporation provides policy assistance to its member governments in support of their efforts to develop the necessary invest-
ment climate that will encourage productive and beneficial domestic and foreign investment.
Recognizing the important contributions of financial markets to economic development, IFC has a specialized department that is the focal point of the capital market-development activities of IFC and the World Bank. The department provides specialized resources for addressing the financial-market needs and problems of developing countries.
Projects approved. In spite of the global economic difficulties which severely reduced domestic capital expenditures and foreign direct investment, the dollar volume of investments approved by IFC's Board of Directors increased 38 percent from $611.8 million in fiscal 1982 to $844.5 million. Of the total approved, $55.3 million was for equity investments in forty-one companies, compared with $32.3 million the previous year.
The Corporation raised $418.9 million through the syndication of its loans with international financial institutions. About $187.6 million was syndicated the previous year. Some twenty-six private and public institutions took up participations in IFC's loans.
A total of fifty-eight projects, with project costs of $2,894.1 million, were approved by the Board in thirty-six developing countries. About 38 percent of these were in countries with a per capita income of less than $731. Sixteen projects (28 percent) of the projects were in Africa, sixteen (28 percent) in Asia, nineteen (32 percent) in Latin America and the Caribbean, and seven (12 percent) in Europe and the Middle East.
IFC continued to broaden its investment activities. Manufacturing, which in the past accounted for about two-thirds of the number of projects, was less than one-third of the total. Twenty-four percent of the projects were in agribusiness, 12 percent in mining, and 22 percent in financial institutions.
Disbursements of $374.4 million were lower than the previous year by $155.8 million. Of this total. $342.9 million was for loans, including amounts disbursed for participants in IFC loans, and $31.5 million was for equity. Repayments and sales were $124.6 million; net disbursements, therefore, were $249.8 million.
Financial results. Interest and dividend income equaled $122.4 million, and an additional $5.1 million in capital gains was received from the sale of equity investments. While up slightly from last year's levels, total operating income of $137.4 million clearly reflected the difficulties faced by a number of companies in IFC's portfolio.
Recognizing the severity of the business climate and the potential effects of the weakening economic conditions, the Corporation added $25.7 million to its Reserve Against Losses. About
$10.1 million of investments were written off during the year. This brought the Reserve to $99.6 million, or 7.4 percent of the total outstanding portfolio, which is considered adequate.
Net earnings of $23.0 million, compared with $21.6 million in the previous year, were added to accumulated earnings, which brought that total to $203.8 million.
Portfolio. IFC's investment portfolio is well diversified in terms of both industry and country. At the end of the year, the Corporation's investment portfolio held for its own account (including undisbursed balances) was $1,881.9 million, up $46.9 million from the previous year. In addition, $1,122.7 million was being held and administered for participants in IFC financing.
Capital increase. August 1. 1982, was the terminal date for subscriptions and payments to the capital increase approved by IFC's Board of Governors in November 1977. Of the 106 member countries to which 468.800 shares ($468.8 million) were allocated, eighty-three of these had subscribed and paid-in a total of $420.3 million by the terminal date. Seven countries, representing an additional $1.8 million worth of shares, were granted a payment extension. Subsequent to the terminal date, five countries subscribed to $8.2 million worth of shares that had been allocated but not subscribed by others.
Borrowings. The Corporation borrowed $145 million equivalent from the World Bank during the year. This was only slightly more than one-third of the total borrowed during the previous year, which, in part, wasa reflection of the lower level of disbursements made during fiscal 1982 and the business slowdown in fiscal 1983.
The Corporation continued the practice initiated the previous year of providing more funds in currencies other than US dollars. A total of $111.6 million equivalent was allocated in Deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, Pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Equivalent funds were borrowed from the World Bank.
New members. During the year. Maldives and Guinea took up membership in IFC. This brought the total membership to 124 countries.
The IFC's Annual Report provides details of its activities.
ICSID
The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) is an international institution created in 1965 by the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States (the Convention). The purpose of ICSID is to provide facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes between Contracting States and nationals of other Contracting States in
accordance with the provisions of the Convention.
Contracting States are member States of the IBRD and any other State party to the Statute of the International Court of Justice which have signed and ratified the Convention.
On January 7,1983. Paraguay became the first Latin American State to adhere to the Conven-
tion. On June 22. 1983, Israel deposited its Instruments of Ratification, bringing the total of the Contracting States to eighty-three. The number of Signatory States was eightv-eight bv June 30, 1983^
The Annual Report of ICSID provides details of its activities.
Chapter Two
The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
The continuing recession in the industrial world severely constrained developing countries' growth in 1982. The drop in industrial-country demand resulted in declines in both the prices and volumes of developing countries' primary exports. Restrictive monetary policies, pursued in a number of industrial countries to control inflation, maintained interest rates at high levels, greatly increasing developing countries' service payments on floating-rate debt. Weakness in the price of oil created difficulties for oil-exporting developing countries. This combination of declines in export receipts and increases in interest payments created severe balance-of-payments problems. A number of countries were unable to meet their payments on foreign debt, and many had to pursue severely contractionary policies to contain their current-account deficits. Performance varied considerably in the developing world, but most countries experienced lower growth rates compared with those in the 1970s, while some suffered absolute declines in gross domestic product (GDP).
It appears that growth in the major industrial countries will become positive again in 1983 (compared to -0.2 percent in 1982), which should increase the demand for developing countries' exports. Interest rates have declined since mid-1982, although they remain unusually high in relation to inflation. The decline in oil prices will hurt developing countries that rely heavily on oil exports, although some of the major borrowers in this group will be aided by lower interest rates. Oil-importing countries will benefit from lower oil prices and lower interest rates, at the same time that the prices of some of their primary exports are showing signs of an upturn. These factors should ease developing countries' external constraints somewhat in 1983. although most countries (particularly those with high levels of commercial debt) will have to continue painful adjustment programs. It is likely that developing countries' growth in 1983 will still be considerably less than the average for the 1970s, and perhaps less than the increase in population.
Developments in Industrial Countries
Major industrial countries' continued to pursue restrictive monetary policies to restrain inflation in 1982. As a result, most suffered either reductions in GDP or very low rates of growth.
GDP declined in the United States, Germany, and Canada, while in most European countries, it stagnated. The growth of output was below the growth of population in most countries, and industrial production fell sharply. Japan was the only major developed country that exceeded a GDP growth rate of 2 percent, but even in that country, growth remained far below the average of the 1970s.
The cost of the recession was very high. The average unemployment rate reached 9 percent in the second half of 1982. with over 32 million persons looking for work, the highest level of unemployment since the Great Depression of the 1930s. The rate of bankruptcies increased sharply in both Europe and the United States, while capacity utilization declined, by over 11 percent in the case of US manufacturing. On the other hand, significant gains were made against inflation, which (measured by the GDP deflator in national currencies) dropped to 7.2 percent in 1982. The United Kingdom and the United States reduced their rates of price increases considerably in 1982; in countries with low inflation rates (such as Japan and Germany), the situation remained roughly unchanged. Restrictive monetary policies reduced inflation, and the recession contributed to moderating wage claims. Reduced demand was a major factor in the plunge of nonoil-commodity prices and in the weakening of the price of oil. which further contributed to slowing price increases.
Preliminary estimates for 1983 indicate that growth in the United States may increase significantly. Europe will also record an increase in GDP, but the rate is likely to be somewhat more modest than in the US. Industrial countries as a group are expected to grow at about 2 percent, a considerably higher rate than in either of the last three years, but well below the average for the period following a recession. For example, growth in industrial countries was 5 percent in 1976 following the recession of 1974-75. Slight improvements in unemployment rates are also expected in a number of countries.
1 Australia. Austria. Belgium. Canada. Denmark. Finland. France. Federal Republic ot Germany. Iceland. Ireland. Italv. Japan. Luxembourg, the Netherlands. New Zealand. Norway. Spain. Sweden. Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the'United States.
Movements in exchange rates in 1982 complicated economic management in industrial countries. The dollar continued its strong appreciation against other currencies; a trade-weighted index of the dollar exchange rate adjusted for inflation differentials increased by almost 20 percent over the 1981 average. The resulting decline in US import prices helped to moderate inflation in that country, while the increase in the foreign-currency price of US exports made them less competitive in world markets and contributed to deepening the recession in the US. Other countries may have been forced to pursue policies more contractionary than they otherwise would have been in view of the inflationary impact of their depreciating currencies. The benefit to Europe and Japan from the gain in competitiveness of their exports was vitiated somewhat by the extremely low level of economic activity in the United States and pressures for restrictions on imports.
Developing Countries
Developing countries suffered severely from the prolonged recession, as most aspects of their external environment continued to worsen in 1982. Low growth in industrial countries reduced demand for exports of developing countries, while restrictive monetary policies were accompanied by interest rates well above inflation rates. As a result, the prices and volumes of developing countries' exports fell, and their debt-service payments increased. The high cost of borrowing reduced their demand for private funds, while the commercial banks limited the flow of private capital to most developing countries as a result of their concern over high levels of exposure and reduced prospects for growth. Many developing countries were forced into severely contractionary policies to lower imports and contain the increase in their current-account deficits. Stagnation or decline, at least in per capita terms, was widespread.
Growth in the oil-importing developing countries decreased slightly from the already poor performance in 1981. The GDP of Latin American oil-importing countries declined by 3.3 percent in per capita terms, following a 4.5 percent decline in 1981. Most other oil-importing countries achieved little improvement or actual declines in per capita income. The major exceptions were East Asian countries, which achieved high rates of growth compared with most other countries. Their more flexible economies enabled them to cope better with the adverse international environment—despite their dependence on trade. Even these countries, however, saw their growth reduced in 1982 well below its historical trend, as a result of debt problems and reduced demand for their manufactured exports.
A few other countries (such as Jordan and Turkey), which have adopted more flexible economic policies, also achieved rates of growth well above the average for developing countries. Low-income countries in Asia maintained respectable growth rates, as India's and China's large domestic markets provided some insulation from the recession. India, however, suffered from a poor monsoon, which reduced agricultural production and growth in exports. Most alarming was the continued economic stagnation in low-income Africa, where GDP has declined steadily in per capita terms since the early 1970s.
Many oil-exporting countries also suffered from a severe reduction in growth rates in 1982, as oil prices weakened and volumes of exports stagnated. Many of these countries resorted to import restrictions in order to contain their balance-of-payments deficits. A number of oil-exporting countries had high levels of debt as a result of large borrowings—contracted when oil prices were increasing—to finance ambitious development plans. Falling oil revenues in 1982 created severe economic, and in some cases, social, problems.
Although exact statistics are hard to obtain, lower growth in the developing countries has undoubtedly resulted in increases in unemployment and underemployment, and hence additional poverty. In some countries, particularly in the more developed parts of Latin America, the recession has caused the progress made during the 1970s to be abruptly interrupted. In others, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, the recession has accelerated the decline in living standards that began in the 1970s. While this analysis must inevitably be presented in terms of rather dry statistics, for many communities, the current "cyclical downturn" is. in reality, a tragedy of no small proportion. Emergence from this condition for these countries will be a slow process.
Nonoil-commodity prices. The dollar prices of most nonoil commodities declined again in 1982, after falling steeply in 1981. Industrial production in the developed countries dropped by 4 percent, reducing the demand for the primary materials exported by many developing countries. At the same time, high interest rates increased the cost of holding inventories, while lower inflation lessened the attractiveness of commodities as hedges against inflation, further reducing demand. As a result, the prices of minerals, metals, fibers, timber, and rubber were sharply lower than in 1981.
Among the metals, the demand for copper, iron ore, aluminum, and lead fell steeply. The price of copper dropped by 15 percent in 1982. despite extensive production cutbacks in the United States. Reduced demand for capital goods, consumer goods, and construction reduced the price of aluminum, while decreased purchases of lead
resulted from the decline in the production of automobiles, which use lead for batteries. Despite the reduction in demand, the price of iron ore actually increased, as it is tied to long-term contracts negotiated in the beginning of the year. At that time, a substantial recovery in industrial production was anticipated in 1982, so there was a modest increase in price over 1981. The prices of agricultural raw materials, such as jute and cotton, were also lower, as a result of declines in demand and favorable harvests. Cotton prices have been particularly depressed since the record harvest late in 1981.
The price of foodstuffs declined substantially in 1982, as excellent weather in several parts of the world produced record or near-record crops. Cocoa stocks remained high owing to five consecutive years of oversupply. Coffee-export quotas, adopted by the International Coffee Agreement in September, helped to restrain the reduction in price, although stocks remained at high levels. Wheat production increased slightly in 1982 over the high level of 1981, and prices fell despite the poor harvest in the Soviet Union. Last year's increased rice production led to a reduction in prices of about 38 percent. While higher production over the past two years has greatly eased the world's food situation and alleviated the threat of famine in a number of areas, the resulting price declines have seriously reduced farm-
ers' incomes. A number of the poorer developing countries have seen their foreign-exchange receipts drop substantially, severely worsening their economic prospects.
On the average, the dollar price of nonoil commodities exported by developing countries fell 13.2 percent in 1982, with particularly severe reductions in sugar, rice, and groundnuts, the unit value of which, in each case, declined by 35 percent or more. The average price of commodities exported by industrial countries, such as wheat, maize, and sorghum, have not declined quite as steeply during the current recession as the prices of developing countries' primary exports. While the export prices of developing countries' commodities dropped by 25 percent over 1980-82, the prices of primary exports from industrial countries declined by only about 12.5 percent. The most recent data indicate that commodity prices began to increase slightly in early 1983, as a result of a reduction in stocks of some commodities, lower interest rates (which encourage the maintenance of higher inventories), and expectations of a recovery in economic activity in the United States, which would increase demand.
Commodity price agreements. International commodity agreements with market-intervention powers are currently in force for five commodities (cocoa, coffee, natural rubber, sugar, and tin). Their influence overprices during 1982
was mixed. The Coffee Agreement, with the most restrictive controls over trading activities of members, appears to have been most successful in preventing price declines. Coffee prices rose, on the average, during 1982. The agreements that rely on buffer-stock activities to stabilize prices (cocoa, rubber, and tin), experienced difficulties in gaining access to funds to buy into the buffer stock in the face of downward pressure on prices. However, the International Tin Council was able to invoke export restraints on producers to support its buffer-stock activities, and tin prices fell only about 8 percent. By contrast, cocoa and rubber prices fell 16 percent and 19 percent, respectively.
Oil prices. The market for oil has been subject to considerable uncertainty over the past year. The average price of internationally traded oil declined by 4 percent in 1982 owing to increased supply and reduced demand, reflecting the impact of the higher relative price of oil since 1973 and short-term cyclical factors. From 1973 to 1981, the dollar price of oil increased significantly relative to the average prices of manufactured goods and other primary commodities. This increase in its relative price led to efforts to reduce the consumption of petroleum products and to find substitute energy sources.
One reflection of this process has been the decline in oil consumption in the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) over the past decade. From 1973 to 1981. oil consumption declined from 39.2 million barrels a day to 35.5 million barrels a day. This trend appears to have accelerated in 1982. Part of the recent decline, however, may be attributable to the recession, which has greatly affected some of the manufacturing industries that make intensive use of oil. By contrast, oil consumption in developing countries was reduced by very little over the same period. The industrial countries were able to achieve greater savings, both because they relied less on energy price controls than did the developing countries (particularly the oil exporters), and because industrial countries could reduce oil consumption through implementation of broad-based measures, while developing countries had less flexibility. .The ratio of total energy consumption to GDP also declined between 1973 and 1981 in the industrial countries, indicating that the reaction to the oil-price rise involved both reduction in energy use and substitution among energy sources. Efforts at conservation and substitution can be expected to continue, as the capital stock is slowly modified and replaced to reflect
the existing relative price of oil, a process which can take many years to work itself out.
The increase in price has also spurred the search for new oil deposits, and has made relatively high-cost oil fields (such as in the North Sea and Alaska) profitable. A number of countries have emerged as significant oil exporters since the oil-price increase of 1973-74. One indication of this is that the share of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)2 in total oil production dropped from over 67 percent in 1973 to about 47 percent by the third quarter of 1982. This decline reflects both a 42 percent decline in OPEC production and a 40 percent increase in oil production by non-OPEC sources, in particular. Mexico and the United Kingdom.
The recession has accentuated the longer-term trend towards lower oil demand. The use of oil as an intermediate good in industry has declined significantly. Inventories of oil in OECD countries were reduced considerably, partially as a result of high interest rates, which increased the opportunity cost of holding inventories in general, and partially because of an anticipated drop in price. The mild winter of 1982 further lowered the demand for oil, relative to earlier years. Supply conditions also increased the pressure on official prices, as a result of the recovery of production in Iran.
These long-term and cyclical factors resulted in a decline in oil prices in 1982. While the official benchmark price of $34 a barrel for Saudi Arabian light marker crude did not change throughout the year, the spot-market price remained below the benchmark, falling under $30 a barrel in early 1982 before recovering later in the year. The appreciation of the dollar during 1982 may have compensated some oil exporters for lower prices by increasing the purchasing power of their dollar receipts in non-US markets. Conversely, oil importers whose export prices are not tied to the dollar may have experienced an increase in the cost of oil relative to their export receipts. In the first quarter of 1982, OPEC introduced a production-allocation system, with production quotas for each country based on its share in OPEC production in the fourth quarter of 1981. While this agreement did succeed in restraining the fall in prices, a number of members objected to the production ceilings. Some countries attempted to increase their total revenues by lowering their prices relative to the Saudi Arabian benchmark, in order to increase their share of OPEC exports.
In late 1982, noncompliance on the part of several OPEC members with the production ceilings contributed to continued price erosion. Spot prices dropped in the latter half of 1982 and early 1983, as well as contract prices on oil exported by the Soviet Union to Europe and
products sold by US refiners. In March 1983, the Gulf producers agreed to a reduction of $5 per barrel in the benchmark price, bringing it to $29 per barrel.
Terms of trade. The major factors affecting developing countries' terms of trade were lower oil prices, severe falls in nonoil-commodity prices, and stability in the prices of manufactures. Weakness in the price of oil meant that oil-exporting countries experienced a worsening in their terms of trade in 1982, although this was moderated by some decline in the prices of their imports in dollar terms. The benefit to the oil importers of weak oil prices was more than cancelled by the loss owing to the plunge in nonoil-commodity prices, and their terms of trade fell significantly below the 1980 level. The terms-of-trade loss of oil-importing countries in 1982 was due largely to cyclical factors, but it was superimposed on a continued erosion in their terms of trade, which have dropped by over one-fifth since 1970. Low-income countries in sub-Saharan Africa have been particularly affected, as they rely heavily on nonoil-commodity exports, the prices of which fell sharply in the 1970s relative to both manufactures and oil. These countries' terms of trade have declined by about 30 percent since 1970. Preliminary data indicate that oil-importing countries' terms of trade may have begun to improve, as commodity prices have increased since late 1982 and oil prices have fallen. The terms of trade of oil-exporting countries have no doubt fallen.
World Trade
Developing countries' exports of merchandise increased by less than 2 percent in 1982, well below the growth rates experienced prior to 1980. Developing countries' oil exports increased by over 3 percent, as the high-income oil exporters bore the brunt of the drop in the demand for oil. Even so, a number of oil-exporting developing countries also suffered declines in export volumes—Nigeria. Indonesia, and Venezuela, in particular. The overall increase in oil exports largely reflects the recovery of production in Iran after the sharp fall-off in 1981. The increase in the volumes of exports was not sufficient to compensate for the lower price of oil, and export receipts of oil-exporting countries declined slightly. Some countries suffered considerably worse than the average; Mexico's exports, in current terms, dropped by almost 12 percent and Indonesia's by over 20 percent, for example.
-Algeria. Ecuador. Gabon. Indonesia. Iran. Iraq. Kuwait. Libya. Nigeria. Qatar. Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela.
Exports in volume terms of middle-income oil-importing countries increased only marginally in 1982, with roughly no change in the volume of primary commodities exported, and an increase of less than 2 percent in manufactured exports. The decline in demand in industrial countries thus reduced the export growth rates of these countries from an average of 8.1 percent in 1973-80 to about 2 percent in 1980-82. Low growth in the volume of exports and the fall in commodity prices meant that exports in current dollars declined more than 8 percent in 1980-82. Many countries, which had achieved high rates of GDP growth through export expansion, saw their receipts fall substantially. For example, the export receipts of the Philippines declined bv over 13 percent in 1982.
The export volumes of low-income Asian countries increased significantly in 1982. India's exports increased by about 5 percent, and China appears to have maintained its program of expanding exports, albeit at a reduced rate. Still, declines in commodity prices meant that the dollar value of exports from low-income Asia were more than 3 percent below the 1981 level. Growth in the volume of exports from low-income African countries was close to zero, while price declines reduced exports in current prices to more than 14 percent below their 1980 level.
While the recession-caused reduction in demand probably accounts for the major share in the recent reduction in the volume of developing countries' exports, restrictions on imports of various kinds also played a role. Since the conclusion of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations in 1979, the drive towards trade liberalization has slowed considerably. Industrial countries have taken protectionist actions in a number of sectors, particularly automobiles, steel, textiles, and agriculture. Measures have included the imposition of so-called "voluntary restraints" on some countries' exports, agreements such as the Multifibre Arrangement, designed to limit import penetration in industrial-country markets, and bureaucratic delays in granting import licences. Many of these actions (with the important exception of the Multifibre Arrangement) affect other industrial countries more than developing countries. On the other hand, the incidence of nontariff barriers and the tariffs agreed upon at the Multilateral Trade Negotiations in 1979 are both relatively higher than the average on products exported by developing countries. There is a considerable concern that renewed protectionist activity could hinder developing-country exports, just when a recovery in export receipts is essential to meet debt-service payments and return to reasonable growth rates.
In the 1970s, trade among developing countries increased more rapidly than total trade. As a result, some observers believed that growth in this trade would partially compensate for reductions in demand from industrial countries during the current recession. Preliminary indications do not bear out this belief. In 1981, developing countries' exports to other developing countries declined at about the same rate as their exports to the world. In 1982, as more developing countries instituted controls on imports and restraints on internal demand, there is some evidence that trade among developing countries may have contracted more than total exports. For example, Brazil's exports, in current terms, to industrial countries declined by over 3 percent in 1982.' By comparison, Brazil's exports to oil-importing developing countries dropped by about 19 percent.
Current-account balances and their financing.
Changes in 1982 in the external accounts of developing countries reflected the already-discussed drop in export receipts, the increase in interest rates, and a reduction in borrowing. The combination of these factors forced developing countries to lower their imports, and hence their growth rates. As mentioned on the opening page of this chapter, interest rates remained high in both nominal and real terms in 1982, despite declines since the mid-point of the year. These high interest rates led many developing countries to reduce their borrowing from private financial markets. Still, interest payments in 1982 on private-source medium-term and long-term loans (MLT) by developing countries increased by S7.6 billion, which was about 65 percent as large as the total drop in their export receipts of $11.5 billion.
Supply conditions also contributed to the decline in medium-term and long-term lending in 1982. Commercial banks reduced their lending because of concern over developing countries' prospects and the already high exposure of many banks in these countries. In the third quarter of 1982, disbursements to developing countries from commercial banks dropped below repayments of principal. Claims on developing countries of banks reporting to the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) dropped by more than $1 billion. The reduction in lending might have been even greater, except that efforts of support by the IMF, the BIS, and individual industrial countries helped maintain confidence.
Despite the reduction in private lending, and although there was little change in official loans, the current-account deficit of all developing countries remained at the same high level of 1981. Direct foreign investment was also at roughly the same level as in 1981, despite efforts by some developing countries to encourage increased investment as an alternative to increasing their debt. With official development assistance showing little change, the deficit was financed by an outflow of reserves and short-term borrowing. For many countries, these short-term financing measures are now-exhausted, and if further stagnation in the world economy continues, even more severe cutbacks in imports will be required, thus imperiling further prospects for growth.
In contrast with 1981, when the current-account deficit of both oil importers and oil exporters increased, in 1982, the oil importers reduced their deficit by $11 billion; the deficit of the oil-exporting countries, on the other hand, increased by $11 billion over 1981. However, the contractionary impact of the external sector was greater on the developing countries than indicated by movements in the current-account deficit. For developing countries as a whole, little change in the deficit in 1982 was accompanied by an increase in their interest payments, while other components of their service income remained roughly the same. Many developing countries, therefore, had to reduce their trade balance by an amount greater than the reduction in their current-account deficit. Since export receipts fell in 1982, purchases of imports had to be compressed even further. Table 6 shows various components of the external accounts of developing countries.
Oil-importing countries underwent a strong adjustment in 1982, as they reduced their current-account balance by over $11 billion. Interest payments on medium-term and long-term loans increased by $6 billion, mostly as a result of high
Includes only first ten months of the year.
interest rates. The resource balance was about $15 billion less than in 1981. Export receipts declined by about $ 10 billion, so imports dropped by almost $25 billion. Oil-exporting countries were not forced into an adjustment as severe as that of the oil importers. Their current-account and net trade deficits increased somewhat in 1982, and the decline in their export receipts was slight .These countries, therefore, were able to increase their imports somewhat, but at a slower rate than in recent years.
A number of countries were forced to institute severely contractionary policies, including import controls, to limit their current-account deficits. In Nigeria, for example, the government responded to the deterioration in oil revenues and budget finances by increasing import restrictions, lowering the value of the naira, and placing limits on borrowing by the individual states. Imports were reduced by over 30 percent in the last nine months of 1982, and GNP declined by almost 2 percent. Brazil instituted severely contractionary policies to control imports and limit the increase in its outstanding debt. Restrictive measures included a sharp increase in reserve requirements to reduce expansion of domestic credit, a cut in dollar allowances for travel abroad, a freeze in government investment (which represents a decline in real terms), and import restrictions. In early 1983, the cruzeiro was devalued by 30 percent. As a result of these measures, Brazil achieved a trade surplus of some S2 billion in 1982 despite the 13 percent drop in export receipts, while GNP was flat after the decline of 3.5 percent the year before. Mexico announced a series of policy measures to limit its current-account deficit, including a severe devaluation of the peso, exchange controls to reduce capital flight, an increase in the value-added tax, and a sharp cut in the deficit of the public sector. GDP increased by
only 1 percent in 1982, and unemployment increased substantially.
Restrictive policies and the resulting declines in imports severely reduced growth in developing countries. But for the intervention of the IMF, the reduction in imports could have been even greater. This reduction of imports by developing countries also helped to lower exports of industrial countries. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) estimated that the decline in volume of exports by industrial countries was largely the result of reduced demand by developing countries, and the OECD estimated that the reduction in non-OECD imports may have reduced growth in GNP of its members by about half a percentage point. The world dealt with the worst recession since the Second World War by collectively reducing demand.
Official Development Assistance
Net disbursements of official development assistance (ODA) from member countries of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC)4 to the developing countries in 1982 increased to an estimated $28.0 billion, up $2.4 billion from the level in 1981. The effect on individual countries varied, depending on the source of assistance and the currency composition of their imports. Net disbursements of ODA from DAC countries represented 0.39 percent of these countries' GNP, a slight increase from 0.38 percent of GNP provided in 1980. Only five countries (Denmark,
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada. Denmark. Finland. France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy. Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway. Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Commission of the European Communities.
France, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden) provided more than 0.7 percent of their GNP in assistance, which is the target set by the United Nations for the Second and Third Development Decades.
Data for 1982 on ODA from countries that are members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) were not available as of June 30, 1983. In 1981, OPEC countries provided $7.8 billion in ODA to developing countries, a slight decrease from the year before, or 1.46 percent of their GNP. The major share came from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the United Arab Emirates. In those countries, ODA amounted to 4.77 percent, 1.98 percent, and 2.88 percent, respectively, of GNP in 1981.
External Debt
The 1980-82 recession, characterized by extremely high real interest rates, stagnation in world trade, and a sharp fall in commodity prices, seriously complicated developing countries' management of their external debt. The fall in export receipts, coupled with the increase in interest payments, made it very difficult for a number of countries to maintain their debt-service payments. The ratio of debt service to export receipts (including services) for all developing countries increased from 13.6 percent in 1980 to
20.7 percent in 1982. Outstanding medium-term and long-term debt increased from 76.1 percent of exports in 1980 to 103.8 percent in 1982. These aggregate measures can be misleading, as one country's excess debt-service capacity is not available to cushion the liabilities of another country, and the impact of a given level of each ratio varies according to the flexibility of each country's economy. However, there is no question that the external position of many countries worsened considerably in the past year.
Some developing countries borrowed heavily from commercial banks during the 1970s. For the most part, borrowing by these countries was not excessive, compared with the growth in their exports and income during that period, and taking expectations of continued high growth into account. Real interest rates were low or negative, which encouraged increased borrowing. The use of external capital for productive investment enabled a number of major borrowers to achieve rates of growth far in excess either of the industrial countries or the average for all developing countries. However, the interruption in export growth and decline in commodity prices, coupled with the increase in interest rates, have created serious liquidity problems for a number of major borrowers. These problems were accentuated by the fear on the part of some banks that
others might withdraw from international lending to developing countries. The level of net flows, particularly in the third quarter of 1982. was severely reduced. This reduction seriously complicated the already difficult cash-flow situation faced by many developing countries. In addition, the strong appreciation of the dollar contributed to an increase in the burden of debt-service payments, as about 70 percent of developing countries' debt is denominated in dollars. Four of the largest borrowers (Argentina. Brazil. Chile, and Mexico) recently have made arrangements with their creditors to defer repayment of principal on their debt.
Many smaller borrowers, on the other hand, mostly poorer countries in sub-Saharan Africa, rescheduled their external debt to official creditors through the •¦Paris Club"5 in 1981 and 1982. The debt of these countries is largely from official sources and at relatively easy terms. However, these poorer countries tend to rely on exports of primary commodities and lack the flexibility to switch the composition of their exports. The sharp fall in export prices has made it very difficult for the poorer countries to meet debt-service payments. Overall, almost as many developing countries have had to reschedule loans in the last two years as in the previous twenty-five years.
The rescheduling process has been accompanied by an increase in service charges. A country that has rescheduled must continue to pay interest on the full amount of outstanding debt, which includes the rescheduled portion. Interest payments, therefore, are increased over what they would have been had the country been able to meet its repayments of principal. In some cases, the interest rate charged on the rescheduled debt is higher than on earlier loans, as a result of the increased risk on the new loans. Reschedulings have been essential to avoid formal defaults and the consequences for countries' future access to foreign capital. The rescheduling, however, simply shifts the burden of repayments to the future and increases the total stream of interest payments.
Despite the difficulties a number of countries are now experiencing, the record shows that, given favorable conditions in the international environment, developing countries can achieve high rates of growth. Their success during the 1960s and 1970s may be a more reliable indicator of their long-term prospects than their current difficulties. Developing countries achieved an average rate of growth of 4.8 percent from 197380. well above the 2.5 percent rate of growth in industrial countries. Increased investment made a significant contribution to growth. The share of investment in GDP jumped from 22.2 percent in 1970 to 27.2 percent in 1980. and most of this
investment was financed out of domestic savings. Middle-income countries, which hold the lion's share of developing countries' commercial debt, increased their rate of investment growth to 8 percent a year in the 1970s, compared with an increase of only 1.5 percent a year among industrial countries. Developing countries' non-oil-merchandise exports increased, in volume terms, at 9.2 percent a year from 1973 to 1980. while exports of manufactures grew at an average annual rate of 12.4 percent. A number of major borrowers that are now experiencing difficulties have proven their ability to achieve high rates of export and income growth.
It is possible that debt levels of these countries would not have been considered excessive in the conditions existing during the latter half of the 1970s, when real interest rates were low and export volumes and prices were increasing. Today, however, the debt of a number of countries is less easily manageable in light of unprecedented real interest rates, falling commodity prices, and reduced demand for developing countries' exports. Assuming an intelligent response to current problems, it is likely that the crisis can be weathered without serious disruption to the international financial system. Unfortunately, the measures taken by many developing countries to restrain their borrowing have been, and will continue to be, extremely painful. Austerity programs and attempts to achieve trade surpluses are exacting a heavy toll. Just as seriously, in some countries, reductions in public expenditures have particularly affected investment projects, which could have adverse consequences for future living standards. Private investment has also declined sharply, in response to reduced demand, uncertain prospects, and high interest rates. Because reduced investment lowers the potential growth of the economy, it may take many years for countries, particularly those in Latin America, to recover from their current problems. The difficulties in the short term can be ameliorated, to a degree, through increased efficiency in the use of human and material resources. In the particular case of Latin American countries, as reported on page 100. "Over the long term, [they] are well positioned to resume strong growth."
Given the serious situation of many devcloping-country borrowers, commercial banks have been understandably reluctant to increase their exposure. Indeed, a major danger to the financial system in 1982 was the threat that the banks would curb
The Paris Club is the name given to the ad hoc meetings of Western creditor governments that, since 1956. have arranged, when necessary, for the renegotiation of debt owed to official creditors or guaranteed b\ them. Since then, it has handled the majority of renegotiations of olficial and officialh guaranteed debt. More than a dozen debtor countries have been involved through the vcars.
new loans to developing countries just when continued lending was most necessary. However, concerted action by international institutions (particularly by the IMF and the BIS) and a number of industrial-country governments has facilitated an increase in exposure by the major banks. In the process, a new approach to reschedulings has evolved, involving the construction of "package funding" by the IMF, the BIS. and various governments. Further lending by the major banks has been made one of the conditions for the implementation of the package; in earlier reschedulings, banks often cut a borrower off from new medium-term loans. As a result of these agreements, the exposure of commercial banks in Mexico and Brazil actually increased at a rate higher than inflation last year, although at a reduced rate compared with that which prevailed during the 1970s.
Despite the favorable long-term prospects of developing countries and the high degree of international cooperation that has been achieved notwithstanding, changes in the global economic environment are essential before current debt problems can be overcome. First and foremost, a higher rate of recovery of the industrial countries would help increase exports of developing countries. A high rate of growth in industrial countries would translate into a growth in the exports of developing countries only if protectionist pressures are not allowed to cause new barriers against trade to be erected. While more difficult to achieve, a reduction in current levels of protection would also, of course, facilitate expansion of developing-country exports. At the same time, a decline in the level of interest rates and an increase in the level of ODA will help the developing countries to recover from the depths of the current recession. All this was recognized by the leaders of the seven industrial countries who met in Williamsburg. Virginia, in May 1983.
Most recent data support the view that industrial-country growth is beginning to pick up; as a result, pressures for protectionism may ease. In addition, interest rates have declined significantly from the point they reached in mid-1982.
After a recession much deeper and more prolonged than expected, international economic conditions may, indeed, be improving, which is essential before developing countries can hope to recover from the current situation. However, the crisis is by no means resolved. Even the most optimistic scenario for short-term economic developments holds forth the promise that the next few years will be both difficult and painful.
The International Dialogue
Global economic difficulties have lent a note of urgency to the international dialogue. The growing perception of a world economic crisis has stimulated the debate on international economic
issues in a variety of fora. In meetings held between developed and developing countries and among the developing countries during the past fiscal year, attention was particularly focused on problems relating to financial flows, external debt, international trade, and commodities.
Global negotiations. There is still no agreement on a Resolution to launch global negotiations in the United Nations. Consultations were pursued at the Thirty-Seventh Session of the United Nations General Assembly without success. Proposals were made at the Western Economic Summit at Versailles in June 1982 for negotiations with the Group of 77. but, so far, there has been no Resolution.
GATT ministerial meeting. In November 1982, eighty-eight countries were represented at the ministerial level at a meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Geneva. A joint declaration issued at the end of the meeting reaffirmed a basic commitment against protectionism and a renewed consensus in support of the GATT system. One of the undertakings agreed by the parties in drawing up their priorities for the 1980s was to ensure that trade policies and measures are consistent with GATT principles. The declaration dealt with specific areas, notably agriculture, where negotiations concerned the integration of agricultural trade in the GATT Multilateral Trading System. A further area of concern was the safeguard system to ensure efficiency and predictability in the application of the safeguard clause under the GATT to both importing and exporting countries.
Development Committee meetings. The
Development Committee'1 met in Toronto. Canada, in September 1982 under the chairmanship of Manuel Ulloa Elias, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and Commerce of Peru. The Committee reviewed the world-development situation and prospects for the developing countries, noting in particular the desperate need for further assistance for the poorest countries served by IDA. The Committee particularly noted the importance IDA donors attach to providing IDA with additional commitment authority in fiscal
''' l-'ormallv. the Joint Ministerial Committee of the Hoards of Governors of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on the transfer of Real Resources to Developing Countries. Established in October 1974. the Committee consists of twentv-one members, generally Ministers of Finance, appointed in turn for successive periods of two vcars by one of the countries or groups of countries that designates a member of the Bank's or IMF's Board of Executive Directors, as the case may be. the Committee is required to advise and report to the Boards of Governors of the Bank and the IMF on all aspects of the broad questions of the transfer of real resources to developing countries, and to make suggestions for consideration by those concerned regarding the implementation of its conclusions.
1984. In regard to the lending program of the IBRD, the Executive Board of the IBRD and those of other multilateral development banks were invited to continue the study of the scope for expansion in real terms for further lending to developing countries. The Committee endorsed the efforts of the World Bank and regional banks to secure additional financial flows for developing countries through cofinancing on terms appropriate to borrowing countries. On lending for energy development, the limited resources available for lending for energy by the Bank were noted, and the Directors were requested to explore new approaches on financing mechanisms that could attract broad support from members with capital contributions.
At the Development Committee's April 1983 meeting in Washington, D.C, under the chairmanship of Ghulam Ishaq Khan. Minister of Finance, Commerce, and Economic Coordination of Pakistan, concern was expressed that the economic situation had remained difficult since the last meeting in September 1982. The Committee addressed the broad subject of the elements of global economic-recovery efforts, under the following items: financial flows from, and level of lending by, multilateral institutions and the implications for their capital base; the status and funding of IDA; the external-debt problems of developing countries; and the linkages between trade and the promotion of development. As for lending programs of multilateral institutions, the World Bank was invited to put forward proposals, with due regard to financial prudence, that would allow an expansion of the Bank's lending program. The management of the Bank was also requested to present a specific proposal to the Executive Directors for a Selective Capital Increase in line with the Eighth General Review of Quotas in the Fund by the time of the next Committee meeting in September 1983. The crucial importance of IDA in financing the development programs of low-income countries was reaffirmed. Note was taken of the critical situation facing the sixth replenishment of IDA, stretched out over four years with the resulting reduction in intended annual IDA commitments. With regard to the seventh replenishment of IDA, special needs for an expanded replenishment were noted. On external-debt problems, the need to maintain and increase financial flows to developing countries from official sources was emphasized. The linkages between trade and development were discussed by the Committee. In particular, the Committee called on governments to resist protectionist pressures. Both the Bank and the Fund were urged to collaborate with the GATT in keeping under review progress made in liberalizing the international-trade environment.
Nonaligned-movement summit. The Seventh Conference of Heads of State or Government of Nonaligned Countries was held in New Delhi, India, in March 1983 under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India. More than 100 countries were represented. The Economic Declaration of the Conference reaffirmed the commitment of heads of state to the early launching of global negotiations. They called for a program of immediate measures in areas of crucial importance to developing countries—in food, energy development, financial flows. World Bank assistance, IMF balance-of-payments support, trade, and raw materials. In the field of monetary and financial issues and the transfer of resources, the Declaration held that the official development-assistance (ODA) target, set by the United Nations, of 0.7 percent of GNP. should be attained by 1985 and, within this context, that a target be met of 0.15 percent of GNP for ODA to the least-developed countries. A substantial expansion, both of the current lending program of the Bank, as well as in the seventh replenishment of IDA, was called for. On external debt, the heads of state urged the development of a multilateral framework for the restructuring of the debt burden of the developing countries. They also called for reform of the international monetary system and the convening of an international conference on money and finance for development.
Group of 77: Buenos Aires meeting. The fifth ministerial meeting of the Group of 77 convened in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in March 1983. The purpose of the meeting was to prepare positions on issues for presentation to the Trade and Development Board and for the June 1983 meeting of UNCTAD VI in Belgrade. Yugoslavia. The Declaration that ensued from the meeting called for a reactivation of the world economy and accelerated growth in the developing countries through global solutions. Ministers reiterated their commitment to the immediate launching of global negotiations, thus supporting the decision of the nonaligned summit at New Delhi. In the interrelated fields of commodities, trade, money, and finance and development, a Program of Immediate Measures was called for, including the establishment of the Common Fund, accelerated World Bank lending, a substantial increase in concessional assistance, the restructuring of the external debt of the developing countries, an immediate and substantial allocation of special drawing rights (SDRs), and an increase in IMF quotas.
Commonwealth meetings. The Commonwealth finance ministers met in London. UK. under the chairmanship of Sir Geoffrey Howe, Chancellor of the Exchequer of the United Kingdom. The communique of the meeting
reported that there were wide-ranging discussions on the state of the world economy and on the growing strains in the international financial system. Special action was called for to expand the lending operations of the World Bank to meet the increased needs of its member countries. Regarding the poorest countries. Commonwealth finance ministers gave strong support to a substantial increase in real terms in the replenishment of IDA. There was particular support for donor countries to provide bridging contributions for 1984 in order to avoid a decline in IDA lending activities in that year. Commonwealth finance ministers also expressed the view that to avoid a further deterioration in the world economy and to initiate a process of sustained recovery, the whole framework of international cooperation would need reform. The Commonwealth Secretariat was accordingly mandated to carry out a study of the international trade and payments system and. in particular, of the role of the international institutions. A Steering Group of experts is preparing a report for the September 1983 meeting of the Commonwealth finance ministers.
On the eve of the GATT Ministerial Meeting, the Commonwealth trade ministers met in Geneva, Switzerland. The meeting gave substantial support for the concept of a standstill on protectionist barriers. The Commonwealth Meeting on Trade followed a protracted Commonwealth study with a report by an expert group on protectionism, which was presented by the Commonwealth Secretariat in preparation for the GATT Ministerial Meeting.
UNCTAD VI. The Sixth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development took place in Belgrade. Yugoslavia, in June 1983. The focus was on the deteriorating world economic situation and its impact on development, with the integrating factors of international trade and commodities and financial and monetary issues.
The Williamsburg summit. In late May 1983. leaders of seven industrial countries—Canada. France, the Federal Republic of Germany. Italy. Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States, as well as the President of the Commission of the European Communities—met in Williamsburg, Virginia (USA), to review the world economic situation.
The two-day summit ended in agreement on a series of broad policies designed to nourish the worldwide economic recovery over the next several years. Agreement was reached that anti-inflation policies be continued and that there should be a rollback of recently imposed trade barriers.
In their Declaration issued at the close of the meeting, the leaders acknowledged that the "weight of the recession had fallen very heavily on developing countries" and that "special attention" will be given to "the flow of resources, especially official development assistance, to poorer countries." They also reaffirmed their "commitments to provide agreed funding levels for the International Development Association."
Chapter Three:
Bank Policies, Activities, and Finances, Fiscal 1983
Bank Policies
Cofinancing
New cofinancing instruments that will permit the World Bank, for the first time, to participate directly in commercial loans were introduced during the past year. The instruments, designed to increase the participation of commercial banks in World Bank-assisted projects in developing countries, were approved by the Bank's Executive Directors in January 1983. They are intended to supplement the Bank's present methods of cofinancing with the private sector and provide a wider range of options for structuring cofi-nanced operations.
The Bank's need to play a larger role in mobilizing a greater flow of funds from other sources has expanded as demand has increased for external financing for development projects at a time when the Bank has faced capital constraints. Cofinancing, one of the most significant ways by which these flows can be increased, directly associates World Bank funds with those provided by other sources in financing specific projects or programs in developing countries.
The three main categories of cofinancing partners with the Bank are: (a) official sources, which include governments, their agencies, and other multilateral financial institutions; (b) export-credit institutions, which are directly associated with financing the procurement of certain goods and services from a particular country: and (c) private financial institutions, primarily commercial banks.
For those World Bank borrowers that can borrow at least some of their needs for capital on commercial terms, the most important source of additional external financing is commercial banks. In today's international capital markets, however, commercial banks are becoming reluctant to increase, or even maintain, past levels of lending to numerous developing countries. This reluctance comes at a time when developing countries continue to need substantial amounts of external capital on the best possible terms.
Extensive discussions with the Bank's borrowers and with commercial lenders during the past year indicated that the Bank's methods of attracting cofinancing funds were inadequate in
two important respects: In the current financial climate, they were unable to increase substantially private capital flows and they did not provide borrowers with more benefits than they could receive from regular commercial transactions. The traditional arrangement for cofinancing with commercial banks has been as follows: The Bank and commercial banks enter into separate loan agreements with a borrowing country; loans from the commercial banks are on market terms and are negotiated directly by the banks with the borrower. The loans are linked to the Bank loan through an optional cross-default clause, and a memorandum of agreement is signed by the Bank and the agent for the commercial banks.
As of January 1983, however, three additional options became available that permit the Bank to participate in financing from commercial sources in addition to making a direct loan. These options will be tested for the next year or two to see whether these additional approaches prove attractive to colenders and advantageous to borrowers.
All three options are intended to provide maturities to developing-country borrowers that are longer than those available from a direct-market operation. The new options are:
• Direct financial participation by the World Bank in the later maturities of a commercial loan. The Bank, in addition to providing a direct loan, may hold an initial share—ranging from 10 percent to 25 percent—in a syndicated loan from commercial banks for the same purpose. The Bank's presence in the commercial syndicated loan should result in loan maturities that are significantly longer than available in the market. Annual repayments of principal by the borrower would be made first to commercial lenders until their share of the loan is fully repaid; in later years, principal payments would be applied to the World Bank share. Example: A commercial-bank loan, under normal market circumstances, carries a maturity of eight years. Under this particular instrument, the objective is to persuade commercial banks to extend that term to nine or ten years in return for World Bank participation in the loan: the Bank would not be repaid until the eleventh and twelfth years. As the loan is amor-
tized, the World Bank's share would be made available for sale to the commercial lenders.
• Guarantees of the later maturities of a private loan instead of direct funding. Under this option, the Bank would guarantee repayment of the later part of a syndicated commercial-bank loan without participating in it directly. This approach, too, is designed to extend maturities. As the loan is amortized, and the guaranteed portion comes within the normal range of market maturities, the guaranteed share can be reduced.
• Contingent participation in the later maturities of a commercial loan that, initially, would be financed entirely by commercial lenders. Under this option, the borrower's annual debt service on the commercial loan would be fixed even though the interest rate carried by the loan would be variable. If the interest rate rises to a level above the initial rate, the amortization will not be completed on the original schedule. The World Bank's contingent commitment would be to finance the balance of the principal (if any) at the end of the term of the initial loan if rates turn out to be higher than anticipated. The commercial lenders would have the opportunity to purchase the outstanding balance for their own account. The benefit of this approach, in addition to extending maturities, is that it provides borrowers with a fixed-pavment schedule for their debt service, enabling better planning.
During the pilot phase of the new cofinancing program, the World Bank is authorized to provide up to S500 million for participation in commercial loans. About fifteen to twenty lending operations are expected to be cofinanced through the three new instruments. Assuming that the Bank's share of each commercial transaction would be 20 percent, the pilot program could
result in cofinanced funds totaling $2.5 billion. These funds would be used to finance sound investment projects already judged suitable for direct Bank lending.
It is anticipated that, by providing commercial banks ways by which they can become more closely associated with the World Bank, their perception of the quality and security of cofinanced assets may be increased. It is also hoped that the new instruments will strengthen investor confidence, result in an increase in net capital flows to developing countries, and extend loan maturities.
Special Assistance Program
A Special Assistance Program, designed to help developing countries restore their development efforts despite adverse external circumstances, was approved by the Executive Directors in February 1983. The program involves financial measures and policy advice to help those countries that are themselves pursuing appropriate policies.
The program was not intended as a solution to the problems of countries in difficulty. The Bank cannot, and should not. attempt to finance the balance-of-payments deficits of its members; it does have, however, a responsibility to assist member countries with policy advice and special financial assistance so as to maintain the maximum possible level of development activities and minimize the erosion of future growth prospects.
The objectives of the program are to:
• emphasize high-priority operations that support policy change;
• expand lending to help maintain crucial infrastructure and fuller use of existing capacity, particularly in export-oriented activities;
• expand Bank advisory services in the design
and implementation of appropriate policies, including the reordering of investment priorities:
• maintain the impetus of project activities by increasing the share of Bank financing in projects;
• accelerate disbursements out of existing loans and credits, where feasible; and
• urge other lenders to make similar efforts. The program was established for two years in
the expectation that the world economy will have begun to recover during this period. A review of the first year of the program will take place early in 1984. If recovery takes longer, however, an extension of the program would be considered.
The estimated increase in IBRD disbursements as a result of the Special Assistance Program is S2 billion over the period fiscal 1983-85, an 8 percent increase in total projected disbursements for those years. Net transfers (disbursements less interest and amortization) are expected to increase by nearly 25 percent in this period as a result of the program.
The Special Assistance Program relates primarily to IBRD loans and cannot easily be applied to IDA credits, because IDA already finances a high percentage of project costs. Moreover, even the relatively modest volume of accelerated disbursements that will be realized through the program would be difficult for IDA to finance; IDA disbursements are financed through calls on donors who already face severe problems in meeting existing calls as a result of current budget constraints.
The major impact of the Special Assistance Program on the Bank's financial position will be on the borrowing program of the IBRD. It is expected that IBRD borrowings will have to increase by about $1.6 billion to accomodate the needs of the program—a slight increase over the $30.2 billion previously anticipated for the period fiscal 1983-85.
The Special Assistance Program has five major elements. They are:
/. Expanded structural-adjustment lending. The Bank is prepared to set aside temporarily its previous policy of restricting structural-adjustment lending to 30 percent of a country's total lending program. Should it appear that total structural-adjustment lending, together with other nonproj-ect loans, may exceed 10 percent of the Bank's overall lending program—the level currently agreed upon as a ceiling—the matter will be brought to the Executive Directors for their consideration.
2. Sector-adjustment support. There are situations in which policy reforms focused on specific sectors are more appropriate than countrywide structural-adjustment programs. Such loans may involve export development, rehabilitation and modernization of existing facilities, and provision of agricultural inputs as part of a program to modify the incentive structure.
3. Financing an increased share of project costs. The Bank generally finances the foreign-exchange costs of projects. In the middle-income and higher-income countries, exceptions to this rule may be made when the foreign-exchange component is very small; in these cases, the Bank may finance 35 percent of total costs. In the lower-income countries, the Bank frequently finances a portion of the local costs. In the poorest countries, the Bank finances up to 95 percent of project costs.
To help ensure completion of high-priority projects and programs as expeditiously as possible, it was agreed to permit the Bank to modify its cost-sharing criteria on a country-specific and project-specific basis, on existing projects, by: a) reducing the scope of projects, while retaining the entire amount of Bank financing; b) extending supplementary loans, including retroactive financing; and c) amending loans to reduce the time period covered by projects.
As to new commitments, the Bank will consider financing a larger share of recurrent costs early in the life of a project and financing working-capital requirements of development finance companies or other intermediaries. The Bank also plans to make increasing use of revolving funds.
4. Enhanced policy dialogue. On request, the Bank will help governments review investment programs, macroeconomic policies, trade and pricing policies, expand its assistance for debt management, and assist in evaluating changes in development priorities.
5. Coordination with other donors. The Bank will intensify its use of various consultative mechanisms to urge other international lending institutions and bilateral aid donors to consider similar measures.1
Energy
The world entered an era of higher energy costs almost a decade ago. The transition was an abrupt one. and most developing countries have still not adjusted their energy consumption and production patterns fully to reflect the high cost of energy. The urgency of adjusting to higher energy costs is in no way diminished by the recent substantial reduction of international oil prices, as this reduction is likely to be temporary, and because
1 During fiscal 1983. the Bank participated in seventeen aid-coordinating or consultative meetings Fourteen were chaired by the Bank. They were for Bangladesh. Burma, the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (two meetings). India, the Republic of Korea. Madagascar. Mauritius. Pakistan. Sri Lanka (two meetings), and Sudan, as well as a meeting of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) and a donor seminar on the Onchocerciasis Control Program. The other three meetings—for Benin. Indonesia, and Turkcv—were sponsored by the UNDP, the Netherlands, and the OHCD. respectively. '
developing countries are still in the middle of the transition to energy strategies that are appropriate to the current level of oil prices.
In presenting the report. "The Energy Transition in Developing Countries." Bank staff outlined to the Executive Directors three measures that were necessary to facilitate the adjustment process:
• A rational pricing of energy and better demand management to improve efficiency in the use of energy;
• A reorientation of industrial, agricultural, and transport development to take account of higher energy costs; and
• An expansion of investment to develop those indigenous sources of energy that are cheaper than imported oil.
According to the report, the investment needed to develop the developing countries' potential energy resources is estimated at S130 billion a year (in 1982 dollars) for the next ten years, of which $64 billion is in foreign exchange (see Table 1). The Bank estimates that even if international oil prices fall to $25 a barrel (in 1982 dollars), most of these investments—half of which would be in
the power sector—will remain attractive. Developing countries have the potential to increase the production of commercial energy from 1.7 billion tons of oil equivalent (toe) in 1980 to 3.1 billion toe in 1995. Should this level be reached, the developing countries would be able to reduce substantially their energy imports. The report also stressed the critical importance of energy conservation in developing countries.
Outlining the role of the World Bank in the energy sector, many Directors emphasized that the Bank must serve as a catalyst in encouraging the flow of capital and technology to developing countries. During their discussion of the report, there emerged a general consensus among the Directors that because of the importance of energy in development, there was a need for the Bank to provide resources and assistance to member countries in solving the complex issues within the sector. It was also recognized that countries must strengthen their own efforts to define energy strategies and to mobilize resources to increase substantially their rate of investment in the sector. It was agreed that the Bank would continue its diverse program of energy activities
within (a) the constraints of overall resource availability and (b) the guidelines on sectoral allocation that had been previously agreed to— that not more than 25 percent of total Bank lending is to be for energy projects. Resources would also be allocated to projects in which the Bank has a substantial nonfinancial contribution, through, for example, sector-policy analysis, facilitating the transfer of technology, assistance in project design, institution building, and mobilization of resources.
Since fiscal 1978. when the Executive Directors first agreed to expand assistance for energy development, lending by the Bank has increased rapidly; by the end of fiscal 1983. that lending amounted to $14,036 million, constituting 20.1 percent of total commitments. As Table 2 shows, lending for electric power forms the largest part of the Bank's energy program; this trend is expected to continue over the next fifteen years, even though Bank loans now amount to less than 5 percent of the investment programs they support, compared with 30 percent in the 1960s. However, it is the lending commitments in the-oil and gas sector that have shown the most rapid increase. Since fiscal 1978, S2.723 million has been committed for oil and gas projects in more than fifty countries. Exploration-promotion projects, designed to assist in the collection of data and the promotion of petroleum exploration by international oil companies, have accounted for the largest number of projects; by dollar volume, hydrocarbon-development loans have been most important.
In addition to lending for traditional projects in petroleum, power, coal, and forestry, the Bank's program has also supported less-conventional projects as a means of developing alternative sources of energy. In Brazil, a $250 million loan is helping in the development of a national fuel-alcohol program. Kenya, the Philippines, and Yugoslavia have obtained assistance for exploring and developing geothermal energy. In
Morocco, a $20 million loan is being used to test alternative means of exploiting the country's enormous resources of oil shale. Other "unusual" projects that have been supported by the Bank through technical or financial assistance include peat resources, biogas plants, and promoting the development of solar, wind, and bio-mass energy.
As Bank loans for energy have increased, so has cofinancing of Bank-supported projects by aid agencies, export-credit agencies, commercial banks, and others. During the period fiscal 197982. $11.200 million of cofinancing were associated with $9,900 million of Bank funds. The highest degree of cofinancing is in oil and gas projects, whose financing plans anticipate that every $1 portion of a Bank loan will be matched by $1.78 from external cofinancers.
The Executive Directors recognized the limitations imposed on the Bank's lending by its capital base, and encouraged the Bank to help increase the flow of investible funds for energy from all sources, including equity flows. All available approaches should be explored; approaches mentioned by the Directors included the establishment of an energy affiliate, setting up a trust fund, borrowings from member governments for specific projects, advance commitments for projects from export-credit agencies, involvement of the International Finance Corporation, and examination of the possibilities of multilateral investment insurance.
The Directors generally agreed that maintaining an active involvement by the Bank in energy is justified by the priority the sector has in the overall adjustment process for many developing countries, by the difficult adjustment that is urgently needed within the energy sector (for example, shifting from the use of one primary energy source to another and industrial retrofitting), and by the large volume of funds that is necessary for energy investments in the coming years.
Bank Activities
Economic Development Institute
For more than twenty-seven years, the Economic Development Institute (EDI) has been concerned with the training of senior officials of developing countries that are members of the Bank, helping them to improve the management of their economies and to increase the efficiency of their investment programs. The target group for training includes officials of ministries of finance and planning, agencies dealing with various sectors of development, and central banks and development-finance institutions. A particular feature of EDI's intensive seminars is that they draw on the working experience, policy analysis, studies of comparative development, and other empirical research of the World Bank, as well as on outside knowledge and experience.
In fiscal 1983, the final year of its current five-year program, EDI conducted seventeen seminars in Washington and fifty-two activities overseas, which were attended by a total of about 1,500 participants. The seminars are listed in a separate table. EDI also provided assistance to a number of training institutions in connection with twenty-one of their own training activities.
The emphasis in EDI's program began to shift during fiscal 1983 toward increasing the number of training activities offered for trainers in other institutions, improving and expanding the training materials which are produced by EDI staff for their own use and for use by other institutions, and holding more policy-oriented seminars for high-level officials. Examples of the last mentioned include a series of four seminars on agricultural policies, which was held for African senior officials; a seminar on rural health care held in Washington in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO); and a seminar on the management of metropolitan growth held in Rio de Janeiro, which was cospon-sored by the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements.
Six seminars on a variety of topics were held in China, including two held under an expanded program of training for China financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), for which the World Bank is the executing agency.
Attention continued to be given to the needs of Arab countries, directly, through seminars, and indirectly, through assistance to the Arab Organi-
zation for Agricultural Development to help it organize a series of regional seminars on agricultural project planning and implementation for Arab countries.
In fiscal 1983, three books were published that had grown out of EDI training activities: Aspects of Development Bank Management, by William Diamond and V.S. Raghavan; Economic Analysis of Agricultural Projects (revised edition), by J. Price Gittinger; and Pricing Policy for Development Bank Management, by Gerald M. Meier. Five other book-length manuscripts are currently being prepared. EDI continued to expand the dissemination of its training materials worldwide to training institutions, universities, libraries, international organizations, development banks, and other groups. These training materials are currently being recat-aloged with a new referencing system.
Cooperation continued between EDI and UN agencies. In Washington, the sixth annual seminar on world-development issues, cosponsored with the UN Institute for Training and Research, was held for senior members of country delegations at the UN in New York. (A seminar of this type was also held by EDI for senior members of Washington embassies.) Also in Washington, the fourth and fifth seminars on preinvestment methodology, fully financed by the UNDP, were held for UNDP Resident Representatives and their deputies. EDI also cooperated with UN Habitat. WHO, the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, and the UNDP in offering seminars in Africa, Asia, and Latin America.
Among EDI's innovative activities in fiscal 1983 were seminars on costs, efficiency, and strategies in the education sector; industrial development for small economies; forestry projects; management of the project cycle; and telecommunications. In Latin America and the Caribbean, seminars were cosponsored for the first time with the Caribbean Agricultural Credit Association and the Inter-american Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture.
Fiscal 1983 was an especially noteworthy year in EDI's development because of the agreement by the Executive Directors of new directions for EDI. This action followed preparation of a report on "The Future of the EDI" by a task force headed by the Bank's Vice President for Operations Policy.
It was the consensus of the Directors that three priorities will, in broad terms, determine the future objectives and programs of EDI: (a) a program of institutional development for selected training establishments in developing countries. This program will include technical assistance, training of trainers, and preparation of appropriate training materials; (b) direct training efforts, with emphasis on training of officials from sub-Saharan Africa and from other countries lacking appropriate training facilities; and (c) a program of seminars dealing with national and sectoral policy issues, bringing together officials of developing countries, senior Bank staff, and academics.
According to the report on "The Future of the EDI," emphasis on institutional development is appropriate because of the evolution that has occurred since EDI's creation in 1955. First, there is today recognition that strong institutions and administrators able to formulate and implement sound government policies have as much impact on development—if not more—as the availability of financial resources. Second, in many regions, training institutions (national, regional, and international) have been created. Although these institutions are playing a major role in meeting the training needs of the developing countries, their expansion and strengthening are required because of the magnitude of the needs.
The underlying principle behind the new emphasis on institutional development is that, by
helping to strengthen training institutions, EDI's efforts can have a "multiplier" effect that enables more officials in developing countries to benefit from Bank experience than would be possible were EDI's staff limited to organizing seminars and lecturing. Institutional assistance by EDI will include training of trainers, the provision of EDI training materials, help in designing and delivering courses, and advice on improving organization and management.
While the annual number of EDI's overall training activities is projected to increase during the period fiscal 1985 to fiscal 1989, the new emphasis on the training of trainers will require a gradual decrease in the annual number of direct training activities conducted by EDI for development practitioners. By fiscal 1989, it is expected that approximately half of EDI's training will be for trainers and half for development practitioners. This compares with 10 percent and 90 percent, respectively, in fiscal 1983.
However. EDI direct training for development practitioners will continue to increase in sub-Saharan Africa. The reduction in direct training will principally affect Asia and Latin America, where the largest growth of training institutions has occurred. As noted, however, EDI intends, where possible, to increase its assistance to such institutions. EDI direct training will also continue to be made available to the institutionally least-developed countries in other regions, as well as to small
countries with special training needs. EDI also plans to hold more high-level policy seminars of the type that was held in the past year.
EDI is also reviewing and evaluating its existing stock of training materials, and additional resources will be devoted to increasing its output of case studies, exercises, and other training materials suitable for use by EDI and other training institutions.
Fiscal 1984 will be a year in which a start will be made in adopting the new program priorities. However, because of the lead time required to bring about such fundamental changes in the program, the new directions will only be fully implemented from fiscal 1985 onward.
Technical Assistance
The deterioration of the economic climate in many of the Bank's developing member countries and the obstacles this deterioration has placed in the way of the development process have brought increased attention to the technical-assistance role played by the Bank. In fiscal 1983, technical assistance continued to rise in volume, as well as to diversify, both in scope and in the mechanisms used to provide it.
As in the past, the largest element of technical assistance was that financed under the lending program. and particularly as a component of loans for other purposes. More than 90 percent of loans and credits now have some provision for technical assistance, and. in fiscal 1983, these technical-assistance components totaled SI.275.3 million in 219 operations; the figure was $1,151 million in 212 operations the year before. In addition, seven free-standing, technical-assistance loans and credits were approved for a total of S52.7 million. The comparable figures in 1982 were eleven loans and credits, with a total value of S72.5 million.
Among the larger amounts of technical assistance financed as components of Bank loans were S74 million in the third transmigration project in Indonesia: $30 million in a power loan to Zimbabwe; $24.9 million in a water and sewerage sector loan to Brazil; $22.7 million in an agricultural-education and research project in China; $14.6 million in a refinery-rehabilitation project in Bangladesh: and S12.1 million in an iron-ore project in Brazil.
Project-related training, which is included within the total of technical-assistance components, amounted to S230.4 million in 176 operations, up from comparable 1982 figuresof $185.1 million in 160 projects.
The free-standing technical-assistance loans and credits approved during the vear went to Congo (Sll million): Kenya ($6 million); Mali ($10.4 million); Mauritania ($4.6 million); Nepal ($6
million); Peru ($10.2 million); and Tunisia ($4.5 million).
Since 1975, the Bank has had a Project Preparation Facility (PPF), created to help overcome weaknesses in borrowers' capacities to complete project preparation and to support the entities responsible for preparing or carrying out projects. Under the facility, the Bank advances funds to meet gaps in project preparation and for institution building. During the year, advances from the PPF amounted to $33.9 million. At the end of the fiscal year, commitments, net of the amount of advances refinanced under subsequent loans and credits, stood at $64.1 million, against a net commitment authority of $99.5 million authorized by the Executive Directors in August 1981.
While the Bank's lending operations, including the PPF, are the major channels for the provision of technical assistance to its member countries, there are a number of other mechanisms that figure prominently in the Bank's overall technical-assistance effort. Among these is the program announced in fiscal 1982 to place and fund up to twenty staff in technical-assistance advisory positions in IDA-eligible countries. Three of these advisers took up positions (in Bangladesh, Senegal, and Nepal) in fiscal 1983. Commitments were made on nine more advisers—two each for Benin and Togo, and one each in the Central African Republic. Chad, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, and Sierra Leone.
The Bank continued to serve as executing agency for projects financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP); the number in progress at the end of the year stood at 127, down from 132 a year earlier. The technical assistance provided under these projects exceeds $160 million. Some thirty-three new projects, involving commitments of $33.1 million, were approved during the year; in fiscal 1982. the number was thirty-seven. with commitments of S41.8 million. The decline in UNDP projects reflects the continuing shortfall in donor contributions to that organization, the world's leading source of grant technical assistance.
Despite its funding difficulties, the UNDP agreed to finance, and to designate the Bank as executing agency of, a number of large and innovative projects during fiscal 1983. One of these, the preparation of a Water Sector Master Plan in Bangladesh, will utilize one of the largest grants ($6.6 million) the UNDP has ever made. Among the other large UNDP projects approved during the past year were a planning project in Gabon ($3.5 million) and assistance to the Uganda Development Bank ($2.0 million). In both of these projects, more than 85 percent of the needed resources are being provided as "cost-sharing" from other sources (an IDA credit in the case of Uganda and other government funds in the case
of Gabon). About one-third of Bank-executed UNDP projects now involve some form of cost-sharing, most of which is provided by governments out of the proceeds of IB RD loans and IDA credits.
The Bank's first activity in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, a study of a hydroelectric scheme, was launched during the past year, utilizing a $500,000 grant from the UNDP.
In order to enhance economic management and assist in the preparation and execution of investment projects in the small island states of the Caribbean, the Bank agreed to serve as executing agency for a S2.4 million Inter-Agency Resident Mission program in the region, involving cost-sharing contributions from the International Monetary Fund, the United States, and Canada, in addition to financing provided by the Bank and the UNDP.
In recent years, the Bank and the UNDP have worked closely on a number of innovative projects, classified by the UNDP as global and interregional. Many of these earlier arrangements continued, and during the past year, the UNDP provided new funding for a Study of Options and Investment Priorities in Irrigation Development; for a series of Power System Loss Reduction Studies; and for an EDI-run training project in energy and power (held in Turkey, in February/March for participants from throughout the Mediterranean area).
In the biggest of its global/interregional undertakings, the Bank and the UNDP reached agreement during the year on an Energy Sector Management Program expected to cost $47 million over four years. The program is an outgrowth and continuation of the sixty-country Energy Assessment Program jointly launched by the two organizations in November 1980. The new program was inaugurated in March 1983 on the basis of resources then available; the bulk of needed resources is being sought from other sources in the donor community.
Reimbursable Technical Assistance
The Bank's technical cooperation is extended to capital-surplus developing countries in the Europe. Middle East, and North Africa region on a reimbursable basis when the annual program exceeds one staff year of Bank input, such as in the case of Saudi Arabia. Oman, and the United Arab Emirates, and on a nonreimbursable basis in response to ad hoc requests for programs requiring less than one staffyear. In fiscal 1983, about twenty-nine staffyears of reimbursable technical assistance were provided bv the Bank.
Saudi Arabia received more than twenty-five staffyears of reimbursable technical assistance.
thus comprising about 86 percent of the 1983 reimbursable program. The activities were provided to several ministries and agencies and covered various sectors and subsectors such as human resources, systems and computer analysis, infrastructure, and engineering. Oman received over two staffyears of assistance, including 1.5 staff-years of field-stationed specialist services, mainly for the establishment of a manpower-planning unit in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor. Two new reimbursable technical-assistance programs were initiated in fiscal 1983, one in the United Arab Emirates for the establishment of a Labor Information System in the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs and one in Libya for a special economic study and an EDI course in project evaluation.
The Bank also provided nonreimbursable technical assistance to the United Arab Emirates, in the form of a general economic review and a preliminary study prior to the conclusion of the technical-cooperation agreement on the Labor Information System, and to Bahrain, for an energy-policies study.
Interorganizational Cooperation
The need for cooperation among international development-assistance institutions continues to grow as worldwide economic constraints limit the potential impact on development of individual governments and agencies. To address the aid needs that exist in a variety of socioeconomic sectors and geographic regions, collaboration between the Bank and other institutions includes a wide range of arrangements, from ad hoc programs set up to address specific sector or regional problems or needs, to formal agreements such as the cooperative programs with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (Unesco). and the World Health Organization (WHO).
Lending for the development of energy resources continues to be a worldwide sectoral priority. Accordingly, the response to the joint World Bank/United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Energy Sector Assessment Program has been strong; by the end of the fiscal year, thirteen assessments had been completed and eighteen were under way. Governments are making extensive use of the advice in the Assessment Reports, and many have requested further assistance.
In response, the Bank and the UNDP have recently launched an Energy Sector Management Program, which will provide up to $1 million to countries that have had assessments for assistance in improving governments' ability to
manage their energy sectors, prefeasibility work on priority investment plans, and short-term assistance in institutional and manpower development.
Increasing worldwide attention is also focusing on the social sectors. This past year, the Bank continued to cooperate with WHO and other agencies in the Diarrhoeal Diseases Control Programme and in the preparatory committee for the Health Resources Group. The Bank also sponsors, jointly with WHO and the UNDP, the Special Program for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases, for which WHO is the executing agency. The Bank has been supporting this program financially since fiscal 1981.
In the environmental field, the Bank continued its active interorganizational cooperation. Close collaborative relationships with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) included the Regional Seas Impact Assessment and Environmental Guidelines and Training, among many others. The Bank continued its leadership role in the work of the Committee on International Development Assistance Institutions on the Environment, through which the Bank assists the member institutions in strengthening their capacity for handling the environmental dimension of development.
The Office of Environmental Affairs worked with WHO on a continuing series of guidelines for environmental health in the development process and on advising the Ecological Panel of the Onchocerciasis Control Program: with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on several technical matters relating to occupational health and worker safety; with UNTDO on pollution-control guidelines for industry: with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in helping the bilateral-aid programs of its members strengthen their capacity for dealing with environmental and development issues and harmonizing their environmental policies: with the Commission of the European Communities to establish an environmental affairs office; with FAO/UXDP on environmental management for vector and disease control: and with the Organization of American States (OAS) on control of oil pollution in the Caribbean basin. In addition, the Office worked directly with bilateral development-assistance agencies (in Canada. Norway, and the United States, for example) on environmental-assess-ments training, policy development, and matters relating to the environment in recipient countries.
In support of the UN International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade, the Bank's Transportation and Water Department collaborated extensively with other agencies in a range of special activities, including investment proj-
ects and training in low-cost sanitation, development of rural water-supply handpumps, research and development in integrated resource recovery, and the establishment of regional offices to assist governments in project preparation.
This past year, the Bank's relations with the ILO further expanded. The Bank and ILO jointly organized a special training course for training officers of ministries of public works from Latin America. A series of seminars and workshops was organized in the Bank to present the ILO's Management Development Program, and ILO staff contributed to the 1983 edition of the World Development Report on development of management competence. Close cooperation with the ILO continued in the area of development of modular approaches to vocational and management training, and the Bank has undertaken to finance the ILO production of new guidelines for space requirements and equipment in vocational workshops, laboratories, and classrooms.
On a regional basis, the Bank has strengthened cooperative efforts in those areas with particular development difficulties and little recourse to other sources of aid.
In fiscal 1983, an interagency resident mission (I ARM) was established in Antigua for the purpose of supplementing the development efforts of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development by addressing the specific needs of the seven less-developed countries of the Eastern Caribbean. As executing agency, the Bank will cooperate closely with other agencies2 in providing development assistance, facilitating aid flows and the execution of investment projects, and in assisting the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States and the Caribbean Development Bank to strengthen their capacity to assume their service role in the 1ARM.
In Eastern Africa, the Bank took measures to strengthen ties with the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries. As part of its economic and sector-work program, the Bank is executing three regional cooperation studies: a farming-systems study, an industrial-sector study, and a study of the Great Lakes Community Institutions. Particular interest in the last-named study stems from the Bank's increased awareness of the need to adopt an integrated regional approach to the development problems facing the three countries of the Community (Burundi. Rwanda, and Zaire).
The United States Agency for International Development, the Canadian International Development Agcncv. the Inler-American Development Bank, the Organization of American States, and the Caribbean Development Bank. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) provides a regional adviser lor the Hastern Caribbean. The adv iscr consults with the I ARM on matters that fall within the competence of the IMF. including fiscal and monetarv matters.
Cooperative Programs. The Bank continued to meet 75 percent of the costs of the Cooperative Programs (CPs) with FAO. Unesco. WHO. and UNIDO. Its aggregate share during the past year was S9.2 million.
In the nineteen years since its establishment, the Bank/FAO Cooperative Program has participated in the formulation of over 300 Bank-assisted projects. During fiscal year 1983, the CP fielded eighty-eight missions in thirty-six countries, and also participated in seventy-five Bank appraisal, supervision, and sector-survey missions. It collaborated in the preparation of 29 percent of all agriculture and rural development projects approved for Bank financing during the year. Special importance is attached by the CP to increasing its activities in the poorest countries, for example, the Sahelian countries of Africa, Bangladesh, the Yemen Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. While most of the projects on which the CP is working continue to be for rural development and irrigation, more emphasis is being given to agricultural credit, livestock, and, in particular, forestry. The CP is also increasingly assisting borrowers on technical aspects of ongoing projects.
The Bank/Unesco CP. established in 1964. continues to facilitate the financing of education projects in developing countries that are members of both organizations. Under the current arrangement, the Unesco CP assists in sector work and project-preparation tasks and. as necessary, in project appraisal and supervision; in recent years, it has also become more involved in project-completion work. In fiscal 1983. the CP assisted primarily in project-preparation work; secondly, in sector work and project completion; and finally, in project-identification, appraisal, and supervision work, and Unesco Secretariat activities.
As in previous years, the Bank continued to interact with other Unesco units, especially the Unesco Statistical Office, the Science Policy Division, and the Higher Education Division, and with the International Institute for Educational Planning.
During the past year, the Bank/UNI DO CP shifted its focus from staff support for Bank-initiated sectoral studies and project work in various countries to developing collaboration between the two institutions for more effective utilization of their comparative strengths for the benefit of member countries. Special attention was devoted to exploring ways in which UNIDO might provide technical assistance to Bank-assisted projects. Technical staff in UNIDO's Industrial Operations Division, which has responsibility for organizing technical assistance financed through various sources, are now closely involved with work that is directly relevant to
ongoing or proposed Bank-assisted projects in several member countries.
Begun in 1971. the Bank/WHO CP focused in its early stages on sector studies, with additional involvement in preinvestment studies and project preparation, to define needs in the field of water supply and sanitation. The detailed sector studies were followed by "rapid assessment surveys" of the water and sanitation situation in numerous countries in preparation for the United Nations International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade. Since most of the studies have now been completed, the CP has begun to decrease its activities. A few new studies have been conducted in Latin America. West Africa, and in India, and the Bank has updated prior work on other countries through project work or specific assignments. Having accomplished the goals for which it was set up, the current program is gradually being phased out, and it is scheduled to terminate in mid-1984. The Bank is developing, however, cooperative relationships with WHO and its regional organizations in the health sector; these relationships are expected to remain informal.
Cooperation with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) involved in development assistance and education expanded and took on a new dimension during fiscal 1983. Bank staff and the Bank-NGO committee increased their efforts to strengthen cooperation by educating both Bank and NGO staff about policies and procedures of the Bank and the many NGOs and by identifying specific opportunities for cooperation at the country, sector, and project levels. The types of Bank-NGO operational associations ranged from planned and contractual NGO roles in Bank-assisted projects to provision of parallel inputs and informal consultations on project design. Cooperation on project work focused mainly on the agricultural sector, although work in the fields of education and urban development continued, as well. Xonproject operational cooperation involved mostly sector studies. In the field of development education, the Bank supported information activities carried out by NGOs. particularly in industrial countries.
The initial phase of the Bank-NGO dialogue can now be considered successfully concluded: The cooperation policy has been enunciated: an information and consultative network has been set up; models for country/sector reviews have been developed; a mechanism to monitor Bank-NGO cooperation at the project level is in place at the Bank. Accordingly, the Bank-NGO Committee will consider expanding the policy dialogue to include, for example, issues on the international economic agenda.
Cooperation in agricultural research. Agricultural production is a critical factor in develop-
ment in the poor countries of the world. Production can be increased by expanding the area under cultivation, by using more labor, nutrients, and water, or by improving the efficiency of these inputs. Historically, increased production has been achieved primarily by-bringing more land under the plow. In the past twenty years, however, with accelerating land pressure, two-thirds of the growth in agricultural output in the major producing regions of Asia, the Middle East, and North Africa has resulted from higher output per unit of land. In Africa, most of the growth has come from opening up new land. Although there are large areas of unused but potentially arable land in the developing countries, in much of it there are serious biological and physical constraints to cultivation. The land is also often inaccessible to farmers and markets. In regions where food needs are greatest, as in Asia and the Middle East, there is little unused land. Inputs are expensive, and their use is sometimes associated with greater risk. A sophisticated infrastructure is often needed to make them available to farmers. Consequently, making agriculture more efficient will remain the key to meeting the world's food needs. Increasing efficiency is the role of agricultural research.
The objective of the international research centers supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) is to develop technologies farmers in developing countries can use to grow more food. The CGIAR. sponsored by the World Bank, the FAO, and the UNDP, is an informal association of donor countries, private foundations, multilateral development agencies, and countries representing the developing regions of the world. Its thirty-six donor members will be providing an estimated S165 million in calendar 1983, of which the Bank is expected to contribute $19 million, to thirteen international agricultural research institutions.
The network of activities supported by the Group includes nine international research institutes, all based in developing countries and staffed and equipped to high international standards. These institutes carry out research on all important food crops, on livestock, and farming systems. They also maintain an important training function. In addition, the Group supports a worldwide effort to collect, conserve, and use genetic materials and supports research on rice by an association of West African governments and research on food policy. Technical assistance is also provided to developing countries in the design and implementation of their own agricultural-research systems.
In the last few years, the work of the CGIAR and the international centers has received recognition from both developed and developing
countries. In 1980, the CGIAR was awarded Belgium's King Baudouin International Development Prize for having made a unique and lasting contribution to development. In April 1983, the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) was awarded the Third World Prize for 1982 by the Third World Foundation for Social and Economic Studies, an organization formed to represent the viewpoint of the developing countries. IRRI, established in 1960 in the Philippines, has developed new rice varieties that combine greater resistance to insects and diseases with yield potential double and triple that of the varieties previously available. These "modern" varieties have been widely adopted by the eleven most populous countries of South and Southeast Asia. They are now grown on 40 percent of the total rice area in those countries and generate about $1.5 billion a year in increased rice production.
In acknowledgement of its work on the African continent, the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) received two awards this past year: the Gold Mercury International Prize from an association of African countries and the Malbrant Feunteun Prize from the Academie Veterinaire de France.
Economic Research and Studies
The World Bank devoted about 3.3 percent of its administrative budget, roughly S17.3 million, in fiscal 1983 to economic and social research. Since the formal inception of the research program eleven years ago, 159 research projects, including twenty-two in the past year, have been completed. Some 150 centrally approved and funded research projects are currently in progress, and an additional sixty-five smaller projects are being conducted by research units within Bank departments.
Research is undertaken by the Bank's own research staff, usually in collaboration with other researchers. Except in collaborative projects, the Bank does not provide funds to outside institutions or individuals for economic and social research.
The program of research is shaped by the Bank's own needs as a lending institution and as a source of policy advice to member governments, and by the needs of member countries. Its main purposes are to gain new insights into the development process and the policies affecting it, to introduce new techniques or methodologies into country, sectoral, and project analyses, to provide the analytical bases for major Bank documents such as the World Development Report, and to help strengthen indigenous research capacity in member developing countries.
In fiscal 1983. thirty-three new research starts were made, including nineteen grants for the preparation of research proposals. This prepar-
atory facility, which is relatively new, is designed to allow researchers scope for exploration of issues on the cutting edge of research, to enhance the research capacity of units within the operations complex of the Bank, to carry out some pilot analysis, and to visit member countries to negotiate collaborative arrangements for research. Also, in fiscal 1983, some twenty new or ongoing research projects involved the application of earlier research findings in new contexts in order to test their broadened applicability or to expedite and hasten the dissemination of results. The successful application of a research technique generally leads to its becoming part of the stock-in-trade of Bank analysts who no longer consider such an activity as research, but as part of operating procedures.
In the past year, a reorganization of the staff and management of the research program led to the creation of a research department in the Economics and Research Staff (ERS), a new Country Policy Department in the Operations Policy Staff (OPS), and new or strengthened research units in OPS departments, and in the Energy and Industry departments. Also during this period, a new Vice-President, Economics and Research Staff, assumed responsibility for developing and guiding the Bankwide research program.
The thrust of the reorganization was to give greater emphasis to those research activities that have a more direct and immediate payoff in terms of the Bank's daily operational requirements. By the end of fiscal 1983 and as currently projected for fiscal 1984, economic and social research within the Bank was (and will be) almost evenly distributed between the Economics and Research Staff and the Operations Policy Staff. Previously, about two-thirds of the research activity was carried out by the Development Policy Staff, the predecessor to ERS.
The intent of the realignment is to give greater weight to the following two objectives: improvement in the Bank's capacity to give policy advice to member countries and further development of local research capacity in member countries. In support of the latter, the Bank's criteria for selecting research projects were altered to encourage more collaborative projects involving researchers and institutions in developing countries to the maximum extent possible. Indications are that such personnel and institutions will be increasingly tapped for the conceptualization, execution, and evaluation of a larger share of the research portfolio. For example, funding for recently approved projects on the determinants of fertility in Bangladesh, tax systems in Mexico and Pakistan, and public enterprises in China was contingent upon involvement with on-site collaborators from the countries under study.
While the broad objectives of Bank research have not changed, the ordering of the priorities has varied. In the wake of the current reorganization, the research program's priorities are being reassessed in view of the growing perception of the need for more applied research, increased emphasis on research on the international economy as the context for domestic economic policy, and multicountry comparative studies of development policy.
Until now, the program has tended to focus on issues and questions that pertain to sectors around which Bank lending has usually been organized. A revised orientation follows from the fact that many policy questions are relevant across sectors and that the units of economic analysis are not always confined to a single sector. In terms of the program's emerging priorities, issues are increasingly being identified in the areas of international trade and finance, public economics, household economics, and technology. These issues are important to countries in all regions of the world; however, in accordance with the Bank's special emphasis on Africa, major efforts are being made to address these issues in an African context. Research on issues related to energy and to structural adjustment also continue to merit special attention.
In the face of budgetary stringency as a result of the worldwide recession and related stagnation of world trade and retrenchment of commercial lending, member countries are seeking advice on the impact of alternative policies affecting growth and welfare. Analyzing the tradeoffs implicit in such choices has become an important part of the research program. In the past three years, the amount of research resources devoted to development policy and planning has risen from 14 percent to 23 percent of the budget. As part of that effort, computable general equilibrium models developed for the economies of the Ivory Coast, Turkey, and Yugoslavia are being transferred to those countries for their continuing use and application by researchers there trained by Bank staff.
The importance of designing policies that permit developing countries to cope more effectively with fluctuations and adverse trends in the international environment has prompted the research program to look at wider issues in international trade, particularly those surrounding impediments to trade in services and labor migration. The impact of migrating labor on host and beneficiary economies continues to be investigated.
A large part of the analytical work and research activities of the Bank is concerned with the role and effect of government interventions on economic development. Most research has been aimed at market-oriented economies, but a few
recent studies are looking at the methods by which the resources in centrally planned economies can be allocated more rationally. State-owned enterprises is the major collaborative research topic undertaken with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
In the social sectors, the pricing of public services and the difficulties associated with achieving a balance between recovering recurrent costs without putting service beyond the reach of low-income families have been the focus of Bank research. New research is under way in the areas of charging for irrigation water, deregulation of the transport sector, the costs and methods of controlling congestion, and new mechanisms for the efficient management and control of supplying water and disposing of waste.
With the household recognized as an integrated unit of economic analysis and with improvements in the design of survey instruments, a larger number of research initiatives are looking at household behavior, particularly in estimating demand for public services—education, health services, water and sanitation services, and personal travel. The importance of interhousehold transfers of money and goods has been highlighted as a source of savings and investment for poor families, notably those headed by women, and warrants more research.
The use of advanced technology in promoting increased production, as a source of growth and efficiency, and of disseminating information and educational material in developing countries is also receiving more scrutiny. Typically, such research projects are costly and are. therefore, more likely to involve collaboration at some stage with other development-oriented institutions.
All centrally funded research projects in progress are described in the annual publication. Abstracts of Current Studies: The World Bank Research Program. The results of completed Bank research appear in a variety of formats, including articles in professional journals, books published under World Bank auspices or by independent publishers, and World Bank Staff Working Papers. The World Bank Catalog of Publications provides information on material issued by. or on behalf of. the World Bank. World Bank Research News, a thrice-yearly bulletin now in its fourth year of publication, gives news of research projects being started, describes the findings of studies as they are completed, and includes a feature article surveying a particular area of Bank research. It is distributed to more than 12.000 individuals in governments, research institutions, and other organizations in the field of development.
Operations Evaluation
In fiscal 1983. the Bank adopted a selective system of project-performance auditing. Under
the modified system, member governments and Executive Directors continued to receive staff reports on the outcome of all completed projects. These project-completion reports (PCRs) are read by staff of the independent Operations Evaluation Department (OED). and borrowers' comments are sought for all completed projects. About 55 percent of the projects reviewed were subjected to performance audit by OED staff during fiscal 1983. The criteria for selection as applied by OED have been approved by the Joint Audit Committee of the Executive Directors.
The new system of selected auditing does not jeopardize the integrity of the Bank's project-evaluation system. There is sufficient evidence that project-completion reporting by operational staff is now firmly established in the Bank and that major inadequacies are being spotted by OED's evaluation officers, who continue to scrutinize all PCRs.
During fiscal 1983, borrowers not only made increasing contributions to project-completion reports, but commented on most project-performance audits prepared by OED. as well. Project-evaluation capacities in several borrowing countries were initiated or strengthened with support from the Bank and OED. Borrowers' representatives visited OED for associative training and attended courses on monitoring and evaluation arranged by the Economic Development Institute.
Ninety-two projects were subjected to performance audits in fiscal 1983. bringing the cumulative total of completed projects evaluated by OED to 872. In addition, seventy-six project-completion reports (covering seventy-eight projects) were passed on to the Executive Directors after scrutiny by OED. but without OED audit. Reflecting the expansion of Bank operations in the mid- and late 1970s, the number of project-completion reports submitted by the Bank's operating departments to OED is expected to increase to approximately 240 in fiscal 1984.
The ultimate objective of Bank evaluation continues to be to identify and disseminate lessons that can contribute to improvements in the design and implementation of future Bank-supported projects. By bringing together experience with similar projects, lessons can be more readily drawn and more efficiently confirmed and disseminated. The Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results continues, as in the past, to be a valuable mechanism for summarizing experience by sector and. through a process of review with operating staff, bringing that experience to bear on the design of future projects.
OED's eighth Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results was published in
December 1982. It dealt with the experience of 108 operations supported by IBRD loans and IDA credits. The total amount of IBRD and IDA finance provided for these projects was approximately S3.200 million; the total cost of the projects assisted was approximately $11.300 million. As in earlier reviews, the Eighth Review concluded that these projects were, with few exceptions, either successful in achieving their principal objectives, or were well on their way to doing so. and that they had contributed substantially to the development of both material and human resources in the countries concerned.
However, more than half of the projects were changed during implementation and experienced time and cost overruns. The dominant reason for these changes was the high rate of inflation in the mid- and late-1970s, which often led to a reduction in project scope in order to keep down total expenditures. Some of these changes reflected built-in flexibility in design and implementation management; but there were others that were judged as having initially deficient project preparation and design. A number of projects were also affected by weak management, general instability of economic conditions, and political changes in the countries in which they were located. Many of the lessons of the projects covered in the Eighth Annual Review are similar to those noted in earlier reviews: the importance of full understanding and agreement between the Bank and borrower on project objectives and the institutional arrangements for achieving them: project designs that are realistic and responsive to local conditions; and borrower policies that are conducive to the success of the project within a longer-term plan of development.
Parallel with the project-performance auditing system. OED continued to prepare special studies. A number of such studies were completed during fiscal 1983: they were reviewed by the Joint Audit Committee of the Executive Directors, and some were also discussed in the full Board.
The Joint Audit Committee maintains continuing oversight of the OED work program and of its effectiveness. The conclusions of the Joint Audit Committee, the annual report of the Director-General, Operations Evalution. on the status of the Bank's evaluation system, and OED's Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results were all reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Internal Auditing
Internal auditing is an independent appraisal function within the World Bank that examines and evaluates Bank activities as a service to the Bank, with particular emphasis on examining, report-
ing on, and where necessary, recommending improvements concerning the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank's system of internal control. This appraisal function is accomplished through operational audits of the financial and operating systems and procedures used in the conduct and management of the Bank's operations. The principal objective of the Internal Auditing Department (IAD) is to assist the vice-presidents, department directors, and other managers in the effective discharge of their responsibilities by furnishing them with periodic reports on independent audits and appraisals carried out on activities within their respective areas of responsibility. Other departmental objectives include the identification of possible means of improving the efficiency and economy of operations and use of resources.
In carrying out operational audits, the department's examination and evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems, procedures, and internal controls used in the conduct and management of an activity include the review and determination of the reliability and integrity of financial and operating information and the means used to identify, measure, classify, and report such information. IAD also reviews the systems established to ensure compliance with those governing agreements, instruments, and related decisions, regulations, policies, plans, and procedures that could have a significant impact on operations and reports, and determines the extent of such compliance. The means of safeguarding Bank assets from various types of losses are reviewed, and each audit also includes an appraisal of the efficiency and economy with which resources are used, where appropriate.
The work program designed to achieve the objectives of the department covers a broad range of activities covering financial, accounting, administrative, data processing, and the supervisory aspects of IBRD loans and IDA credits under disbursement. Some of these activities are reviewed annually, others biennially or less frequently depending upon the materiality or risk aspects of the activity. In addition. IAD's work program includes special assignments requested by Bank management.
The audits of electronic data-processing (EDP) and project-supervision systems form an important part of the department's work program. The EDP-systems audits include the review of controls, security, and efficiency of computer facilities and information-processing systems in operation and those under development. IAD's involvement in the development of new EDP-information systems before they become operational provides a timely and cost-effective opportunity for an independent assessment of the
operational and control aspects of such systems. The department has also recently started to carry out effectiveness reviews of major EDP systems to determine whether the systems are functioning as intended. Project-supervision activities are selected for audit on a sectoral/regional basis and are reviewed in the light of existing policies and guidelines established by the Bank.
The implementation of recommendations arising from its review work are followed up by IAD, and the department advises Bank management where such recommendations are not being acted upon and on the effects or risks associated with such inaction. The review work of IAD also includes visits to selected countries to review the auditing standards applied by borrowers' external auditors, to review internal-auditing and financial-reporting standards of selected borrowers, and to upgrade national auditing and accounting education and practices in countries where they might be needed.
In carrying out each assignment, the director and staff of the department have unrestricted
access to all Bank records, documents, and personnel relevant to the activity under review. Where relevant, IAD coordinates its work with the Bank's external auditors and makes its working papers and reports available to assist them in planning and coordinating their examinations of the annual financial statements of the Bank.
The IAD reports administratively to the Senior Vice President, Finance, but, in order to enhance its independence, the director also has direct access to the President and to the Joint Audit Committee (J AC) of the Executive Directors. The results of each audit undertaken are reported to the vice presidents, department directors, and others concerned, as it is considered appropriate. Liaison is maintained with the JAC, which has the responsibility of satisfying itself that the Bank's internal-auditing function is adequate and efficient. In this context, the JAC reviews the department's master work program and annual work program, receives periodic briefings on its activities, and a subcommittee of the JAC reviews selected reports of the IAD.
Bank Finances
Fiscal 1983 was characterized by a series of financial achievements and new financial developments for the IBRD. These include record high amounts for gross revenues, net income, liquid assets, and borrowings; the introduction of programs of lending at variable rates and borrowing in the short-term capital markets; and notable expansions of currency-swap transactions and the lending of portfolio securities.
Income, Expenditures, and Reserves: IBRD
The IBRD's gross revenues, generated primarily from its loans and investments, reached a total of $4,232 million in fiscal 1983, up $860 million, or 26 percent, from last year. Gross revenues have risen steadily during the last decade as loan and investment balances have continued to expand.
The outstanding loan portfolio totaled $33,747 million at the end of the fiscal year, an increase of $4,580 million over fiscal 1982. The average interest rate on outstanding loans during the year was 7.9 percent, producing income of $2,487 million. In addition, commitment charges on undisbursed loan balances produced $213 million, and front-end fees earned on new loans, $97 million. Altogether, the income on loans was $2,797 million. In fiscal 1982, the average interest rate was 7.6 percent, interest income was $2,161 million, commitment charges were $191 million, and front-end fees were $39 million, for a total of $2,391 million.
In July 1982, the IBRD instituted a new pool-based variable-rate lending system. It applies to loans for which invitations to negotiate were sent after July 1, 1982. The new system uniformly adjusts interest charges applicable to outstanding balances on all loans made under it. All borrowers under this new system equitably share the benefits of a decline, or the burden of an increase, in borrowing costs—not just those who receive new loan commitments. Under the new system, the lending rate is adjusted semi-annually, on January 1 and July 1. by adding a spread of 0.50 percent to the IBRD's average cost of a "pool" of qualified borrowings. The pool consists of outstanding borrowings of the IBRD settled since June 30, f982 plus, until June 30, 1985, outstanding borrowings undertaken in fiscal 1982. These fiscal 1982 borrowings were included tem-
porarily in order to moderate rate volatility while the pool of borrowings to which the variable rate applies builds up.
The new system has worked to the advantage of borrowers as a whole during the first year of operation. Borrowing costs declined, as fears about increased volatility of IBRD lending rates were not realized. The initial variable lending rate was 11.43 percent. On January 1. 1983 it was reduced to 10.97 percent. On July 1. the lending rate was set at 10.47 percent. The variable lend-ing-rate system has also enabled the IBRD to make substantial progress in reducing the "overhang" of undisbursed loans carrying fixed-rate disbursement obligations, which might differ markedly from the actual cost of financing.
In August 1982, the Executive Directors authorized a new short-term borrowing program, with a $1.5 billion ceiling on notes outstanding. The notes could have maturities of up to one year. The objectives were to achieve additional financial flexibility by gaining access to the growing market for short-term instruments and its diverse customers and to reduce the overall cost of funds through lower-cost borrowings in that market. The IBRD's first short-term notes were sold in the United States market on September 29, 1982, and the ceiling was reached within a month. The IBRD's short-term notes have been widely accepted as a premier credit and generally have been sold and traded competitively within the price range for the highest quality short-term securities. The IBRD's average cost of short-term note borrowings was about 250 basis points lower than the cost of the planned alternative—intermediate-term US-dollar borrowings—and in late April, 1983, the Executive Directors raised the authorized ceiling to $2.0 billion. On June 30. 1983. outstanding short-term notes totaled $1.5 billion.
Favorable financial experience in the first part of the fiscal year produced an improved outlook for the IBRD's profitability for the year and led the IBRD to reduce the 1.5 percent front-end fee on new loan commitments. The front-end fee was introduced early in calendar 1982 to forestall a potential decline, primarily from volatility in the movements of interest and exchange rates, in the Bank's net income over the medium-term. The fee was lowered to 0.75 percent on December 7. 1982, and to 0.25 percent on March 1. 1983. It is a one-time fee agreed to at the time of a loan
commitment which can, at the borrower's option, be capitalized and added to the loan amount, thereby allowing the additional burden to be spread over the life of the loan. The IBRD will continue to review the front-end fee and other loan charges periodically to determine whether future adjustments are desirable.
The IBRD has aimed at maintaining a liquid position of marketable short-term assets equal to 40 percent of estimated net cash requirements for the next three years. In May 1983. the Executive Directors reviewed that policy and decided upon a target liquidity range of between 40 percent and 45 percent, including maturing short-term notes. This liquidity policy is designed to assure flexibility in the IBRD's borrowing decisions and to permit it to meet adequately its cash requirements in case borrowing operations are temporarily affected by adverse conditions in the capital markets. At June 30, 1983, liquid assets aggregated $13,196 million net of commitments for settlements and cash collateral received on loaned securities, an increase of $3,802 million over June 30. 1982. The IBRD invests its liquid assets throughout the year. In fiscal 1983, these investments yielded an average realized rate of return of 12.15 percent and generated $1,417 million of investment income, compared with 11.25 percent and $954 million in fiscal 1982.
Initiated in fiscal 1982, the securities-lending program grew this past year. This program produced over $22 million in additional income this past year, and a total of over S30 million since its inception in January 1982. Under this program, the IBRD lends its securities to primary security-dealers and to the Federal Reserve system for its open-market operations. Each of these security loans is secured by collateral of at least equal market value delivered to the IBRD by the borrower. If the collateral is another security, then the IBRD earns a fee on the transaction. If cash is given as collateral, the IBRD earns income by reinvesting this cash in the money markets. Legal agreements covering these transactions with a select group of primary dealers further guarantee the safety of these security loans.
An additional $18 million of revenues was derived from other income.
Expenditures of the IBRD, which include administrative expenses, interest, contributions to special programs, and issuance costs on borrowings, totaled S3.480 million, up 25 percent from last year. Costs associated with the IBRD's increased borrowings—interest of $3,085 million and bond-issuance charges and other financial expenses of $50 million—were by far the major expenditures. Administrative costs totaled S322 million, up S32 million, after deducting S214 million for the management fee charged to the International Development Association and $3.7
million for the service-and-support fee charged to the International Finance Corporation.
Net income for fiscal 1983 was S752 million, up $154 million from the year before. The 26 percent increase was largely due to high rates of return on the IBRD's liquidity. These were caused in part by capital gains resulting from the substantial decline in interest rates experienced in the fiscal year, a decline which is not expected to recur in the near future. Other factors that made a major contribution to the rise in net income were: the IBRD's substantial access to low-cost currencies, which is discussed later under "Borrowings"; the initiation of the short-term note program with attendant low borrowing costs and positive spreads on the investment of the proceeds of those borrowings; and proceeds from the securities-lending program described earlier.
During fiscal 1983. $303 million was added to the General Reserve of the IBRD, bringing the total to $3.134 million. Of the $598 million in net income earned in fiscal 1982. $125 million was allocated by the Board of Governors as a grant to IDA: the remaining $473 million was allocated to the General Reserve.
The IBRD does not trade in any currencies for its own account. Adjustments arising from translation of currencies to US-dollar equivalents do not result in realized gains or losses as would occur with actual conversions into US dollars. Because of this, the General Reserve, rather than net income, is charged or credited annually with the amount of adjustment resulting from currency depreciations or appreciations. In fiscal 1983. the translation of currencies into US-dollar equivalents resulted in a debit to the General Reserve of S191 million, compared with $279 million debited in fiscal 1982. (A more detailed explanation is provided in the "Notes to Financial Statements.")
When gold was formally abolished in 1978 as a common denominator of the monetary system, the IBRD began expressing its capital, for purposes of the financial statements, on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR). As a result, the portion paid in US dollars and the national-currency portion of the capital subscriptions released by certain member countries for lending in US dollars are revalued at the rate of exchange of the US dollar to the SDR. The adjustment resulting from this revaluation is also charged against, or credited to, the General Reserve. In fiscal 1983. these adjustments resulted in a credit to the General Reserve of $22 million, compared with S34 million credited in fiscal 1982.
Other Financial Operations: IBRD
As of June 30. 1983. the IBRD held $69,820 million worth of loans. This amount included S7.938 million of loans which had been approved
but not yet become effective, and $977 million of loans to the International Finance Corporation. Loans disbursed and outstanding totaled $33,747 million, including $501 million to the International Finance Corporation.
Disbursements on loans to countries totaled $6,817 million in fiscal 1983. up $491 million over fiscal 1982. Since the IBRD began operations, it has disbursed a total of S51,205 million to its borrowing member countries.
Repayments of principal on the IBRD's loans, based on exchange rates at the time of disbursement, amounted to $2,167 million in fiscal 1983. This included S16 million to investors who had purchased portions of loans. Cumulative loan repayments as of June 30, 1983. were $16,388 million: $13,438 million to the IBRD and $2,950 million to purchasers of loans.
Borrowings: IBRD
Borrowings in international capital markets provide a major portion of the funds necessary for the continued growth of the IBRD's lending operations and are supplemented by the other principal financial resources of the IBRD, which are its paid-in capital, accumulated earnings, and loan repayments.
Total borrowings by the IBRD in fiscal 1983. including short-term notes outstanding on June 30, 1983. amounted to the equivalent of $10,292 million. This record amount of borrowings was some $1,771 million over fiscal 1982 totals. The higher amount reflects the IBRD's requirements resulting from its desire to maintain substantial liquidity.
During the fiscal year, the IBRD continued to engage in numerous currency-hedged transactions, commonly referred to as currency swaps. These transactions are viewed as a means of increasing the IBRD's access to Swiss francs, Deutsche mark, and other currencies. In fiscal 1983. the IBRD executed forty-nine currency-swap transactions aggregating $1,731 million; $1.116 million was swapped into Swiss francs. $324 million into Deutsche mark. $152 million into Pounds sterling. $108 million into Netherlands guilders, and $31 million into Austrian schillings. This compares to a total of $758 million in fiscal 1982, when the IBRD initially engaged in currency-swap transactions; $198 million was swapped into Deutsche mark and S560 million into Swiss francs.
In a currency swap, the IBRD, having borrowed in a particular currency (normally US dollars), converts the currency borrowed into another currency (Swiss francs, for instance) while, at the same time, entering into a long-term, forward-exchange contract with a counterparty of the highest credit standing. Under the forward-exchange contract, the IBRD agrees to repurchase the bor-
rowed currency from the counterparty in exchange for the currency obtained through the swap. The amounts repurchased under the contract correspond to the IBRD's debt-service obligations on the borrowing that has been swapped. In this way, the IBRD effectively borrows the swapped-for currency on a fully hedged basis at a known cost. The IBRD follows a policy of seeking to raise funds through swaps at a cost no greater, and frequently less, than that which it would have paid had it borrowed this currency directly.
IBRD's intermediate-term dollar borrowings in the US domestic market have benefited from the recent move to quality in financial markets. During the year, the trend in the IBRD's borrowings in that market was toward narrower spreads over US Treasury notes of like duration. During the first half of 1983, the IBRD engaged in several intermediate-term borrowings in the US domestic market. These borrowings sold at considerably lower spreads over US Treasury notes than those achieved by the IBRD in the past twenty-five years.
The IBRD sells its securities through direct placement with governments, government agencies, and central banks, and in the public markets where securities are offered to investors through investment-banking firms, merchant banks, or commercial banks. Of the eighty-six medium-term and long-term borrowing operations that the IBRD conducted during fiscal 1983. seventy were public issues or private placements throughout the world and accounted for $6,994 million, or 68 percent of total funds borrowed. The other medium-term and long-term issues, totaling $1,780 million, or 17 percent of the funds raised, were placed with official sources, namely, member governments of the IBRD, central banks, and government institutions. Short-term borrowings outstanding on June 30, 1983, totaled $1,501 million.
The IBRD's securities have been placed with investors in more than 100 countries in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, and North and South America. This diversity allows the IBRD flexibility in selecting the markets that will allow optimum borrowing conditions and lessens its dependence on any specific market.
The $10,292 million borrowed by the IBRD in fiscal 1983, including $1,501 million of short-term notes outstanding on June 30, 1983, consisted of the currencies listed in the table on this page.
Of these borrowings, $9,224 million represented new funds, and $1,068 million represented refinancing of outstanding medium-term and long-term borrowings.
A total of $2,848 million equivalent of debt, not including short-term notes, matured during the year. Additional debt, not including short-term notes, aggregating $95 million, was retired by means of sinking-fund and purchase-fund operations.
Outstanding obligations of the IBRD increased $7,567 million to $39,407 million as of June 30,1983. These obligations were denominated in eighteen different currencies. A summary classification of outstanding borrowings, by currency at June 30, 1983, is set forth in Appendix E.
Borrowing Costs: IBRD
The cost of total borrowings by the IBRD in the fiscal year, weighted by amount, was 8.75 percent. The average cost of all funds to the IBRD, including paid-in capital and accumulated earnings, was about 7.36 percent. The cost of the IBRD's average outstanding borrowings was 8.72 percent.
The cost of the IBRD's average outstanding borrowings for each of the past six fiscal years is summarized in the table on page 62.
Capitalization
The capital stock of the IBRD and the subscriptions thereto of its members are expressed, under the Articles of Agreement, in terms of the United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1. 1944 (1944 dollars). Until 1971, the current United States dollar had the same value as the 1944 dollar and the special drawing right (SDR), which was instituted in 1969. In 1972^ the current dollar value of the 1944 dollar and the SDR increased to $1.08571, and in 1973 to $1.20635, as the result of devaluations of the dollar. Until mid-1974, both the 1944 dollar and the SDR continued to be valued in gold and had the same gold value. Thus, on July 1, 1974, the value of the SDR. expressed in terms of United States dollars, was $1.20635. which was the equivalent of one 1944 dollar.
Since July 1, 1974, when a valuation method for the SDR that was based on a number of major currencies was adopted, the SDR's value has fluctuated daily against the US dollar. The current dollar value of the 1944 dollar, on the other hand, was deemed to remain fixed at the rate established bv the US par-value legislation of 1973.
Since the effectiveness on April 1. 1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), currencies no longer have par values, and the basis for translating the 1944 dollar into current United States dollars no longer exists. The IBRD is examining the implication of this change on the valuation of its capital stock and the impact it will have on its financial statements.
For purposes of its primary financial statements, the IBRD has expressed the value of its capital stock on the basis of the SDR in terms of United States dollars as computed by the IMF on June 30. 1983 ($1.06835 per SDR).'
On January 4, 1980, the IBRD's Board of Governors adopted a resolution that increased the authorized capital stock of the IBRD by 331,500 shares; this represents an increase of approximately $40,000 million. The resolution provides for a paid-in portion of 7.5 percent, compared with the 10 percent paid-in portion of previously
existing capital stock. Subscribing members are required to pay 0.75 percent of the subscription price in gold or United States dollars and 6.75 percent in their respective currencies. The Governors also adopted a resolution that increased the authorized capital stock by an additional 33,500 shares (representing a further increase of approximately $4,000 million) and that authorized each member to subscribe to 250 shares of this additional capital, none of which must be paid in. Increases in subscriptions authorized by the terms of these resolutions amounted to SDR 6,908.4 million as of June 30,1982.
Capital subscribed during fiscal 1983 is shown in the table on page 63.
On June 30,1983, the authorized capital of the IBRD stood at SDR7L650 million; its subscribed capital was SDR48,756 million.
IBRD: Financial Statements in SDRs
In accordance with a decision made by the Executive Directors in June 1982, this Annual Report includes, for the first time, comprehensive IBRD financial statements expressed in terms of SDRs, in addition to those expressed in terms of US dollars (see IBRD Appendices). While the SDR statements may serve to reduce, or eliminate, some distortions caused by exchange-rate movements, the financial statements expressed in terms of US dollars remain the IBRD's pri-
mary financial statements. A summary of these financial statements is presented in the tables below.
Finances: IDA
The International Development Association (IDA) held a total of 529,064 million in credits on June 30, 1983, including $1,856 million approved but not yet effective and $485 million from exchange adjustments. Of the $27,208 million of effective credits, $9,839 million was undisbursed at the end of the year.
Disbursements totaled $2,596 million in fiscal 1983, compared with $2,067 million last year. As of June 30, 1983, IDA had disbursed a total of $17,739 million since the start of its operations.
The total resources provided to IDA increased $2,868 million in the period, primarily from subscriptions and contributions to the Sixth Replenishment, which aggregated $2,814 million. The value of resources provided by members in prior fiscal years decreased by $253 million, mostly the result of currency depreciations. The IBRD granted $125 million to IDA from its fiscal 1982 net income.
Other resources that became available to IDA during the fiscal year totaled $182 million, and were derived primarily from releases by Part II countries or grant participations in, cancellations of, and repayments on, credits.
Chapter Four
1983 Regional Perspectives
Eastern Africa
The deterioration in economic conditions in Eastern and Southern Africa, a condition that has been detailed in recent Annua! Reports of the World Bank, continued during fiscal 1983. Drought in many parts of the region depressed farm output. International prices of those primary commodities that figure prominently in the region's exports fell precipitously. Adding to these strains was the fall-off in amounts of official development assistance (ODA); after increasing fairly rapidly for many years, net disbursements of grants and concessional loans have leveled off. Faced with a critical economic environment, governments have intensified their search for adjustment policies, including those relating to energy production and conservation. In some cases, they have taken remedial measures, often with the assistance of the Bank and the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund (IMF). It is clear, nevertheless, that these policy initiatives have fallen short of those required to deal effectively with the magnitude of accumulated problems.
Deteriorating Economic Situation
Four countries experienced a marked decline in total agricultural production in 1982. In Zimbabwe, food output—mainly maize—fell by 19 percent from the peak level of 1981. In Zambia, too, the decline was from the previous year's bumper crop; in 1982, however, food crops were less affected than other crops (such as tobacco and cotton), which suffered a contraction of 11 percent. Although decreases in production in Madagascar and Ethiopia were not as steep, the declines were not from the extraordinary high levels of the previous year. In Ethiopia, the
decline was sectorwide: food, cash crops, and livestock. In six other countries of the region, farm output either stagnated (Burundi, Kenya, and Rwanda) or increased at a rate that was less than the rate of growth of the population (Malawi. Tanzania, and Zaire).
By and large, the agricultural sector has continued to display the same adverse trends during the early 1980s that characterized it throughout the previous decade. Drought, which in 1982 particularly affected Botswana, Ethiopia, Lesotho. Zambia, and Zimbabwe, was superimposed on an underlying weak situation of long standing. For example, producer prices have not kept pace with inflation in many countries, thereby prolonging the downward trend in the terms of trade of farmers that took place throughout the 1970s. Marketing arrangements have also tended to undermine incentives. In addition, the acute scarcity of foreign exchange has made it difficult for governments to ensure sufficient supplies of imported fertilizer, pesticides, and spare parts, thereby reducing the impact on production of such policy reforms as have taken place.
The region's capacity to import was dealt a severe blow by a sharp decline during 1982 in world market prices of copper (15 percent), cotton (14 percent), sugar (49 percent), and tea (4 percent). The combined index of six major primary commodities of the region, accounting for 52 percent of its total exports, fell by 10 percent.
The foreign-exchange constraint was relieved, to some extent, by a reduction in petroleum and food prices but, on balance, the terms of trade of the region continued to deteriorate significantly. The index number of the commoditv terms of trade fell from 100 in 1978-80 to 81 in 1981, and to 75 in 1982. Terms of trade in 1982 were 36 percent below the average of the entire decade of the 1970s. Some recovery is expected during the period ahead, but it is very likely that, for the whole of this decade, the terms of trade of the Eastern and Southern African countries will remain far worse than during the 1970s.
Another negative factor in the region's balance of payments was the turnaround in the flows of ODA. During the four-year period, 1977-80, the value of grants and concessional medium-term and long-term loans rose rapidly—from S2.1 billion in L977 to $4.7 billion in 1980. These external resources helped to offset, to some extent, the impact of the external shocks sustained during the 1970s; they also financed a substantial share of total public investment, as well as of total imports. This strong upward trend in external aid was interrupted in 1981; total ODA declined by 16 percent in current prices. Data for 1982 are not yet available. Because the bulk of external capital flowing into the region consists of ODA, the reverse flow of debt service has not been very prominent in the aggregate balance-of-pay-ments picture, except in a few countries. It is worth noting, however, that there was a dou-
bling of these payments in 1982, thereby reducing further the region's capacity to import.
The balance-of-payments situation in the region is a grim one. It is reflected in the increase in arrears on external payments in several cases and a widespread decline in official external reserves. At the end of 1982, these reserves constituted less than 10 percent of imports in ten countries, a margin which is far below the critical minimum required as a cushion to cope with the incidence of fluctuations typical in the region. Most important, the crisis in the balance of payments is reflected in an acute scarcity of imports. Last year's Annual Report noted the setback in capital accumulation; since then, many governments have cut back further on public investment. A scarcity of imported intermediate goods has resulted in closings of factories, a deterioration in road-transport systems, and a reduction in the use of fertilizer and pesticides. In 1982, total imports in current prices fell in Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Zaire, and Zambia.
Poor agricultural performance and tightening balance-of-payments constraints, which adversely affected import-dependent sectors, especially industry, resulted in little gross domestic product (GDP) growth. Total real output (GDP) in Madagascar declined for a second year in a row and failed to recover fully in Tanzania and Zambia after sizable declines in 1981. In Ethiopia, Kenya, Zaire, and Zimbabwe, output increased at significantly slower rates than in 1981. Given continued rapid increases in population, the result has been a decline in per capita output in most countries. The only exceptions are Somalia, Sudan, and Uganda, where recoveries were from previous years' lows. For several countries, 1982 marked the third consecutive year in which per capita output has declined.
Adjustment Efforts and the Energy Sector
During fiscal year 1983, many Eastern African governments intensified their search for suitable adjustment policies. Discussion on reforms has begun in many countries, and, in some, measures aimed at managing aggregate demand, making exchange rates more realistic, improving agricultural incentives, and preparing public-investment programs have been undertaken. Thus, Kenya, Somalia, Sudan, Uganda, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe have begun actively to reduce distortions in exchange rates. In Malawi, Somalia, Sudan, and Uganda, producer prices have risen markedly. In a number of other countries, governments have raised producer prices in nominal terms; because these increases fell short of the rate of inflation, however, farmers failed to respond to the incentives. Uganda and Sudan have accepted the discipline that is inher-
A literacy class for adult women in Ethiopia is just one of the many components of the Agricultural Minimum Package Project.
ent in adopting multiyear public-investment programs, whose size is constrained by available resources and whose project mix corresponds to perceived priorities.
The Bank and the IMF have played key, complementary roles in stimulating policy discussions, carrying out background analytical work, and supporting policy changes through a combination of IMF stand-bys (arrangements by which members can use IMF resources in case of need) and Bank financial assistance. The Bank's analytical work, particularly that which focuses on sectoral issues, has expanded rapidly in recent
years. Consultative Group meetings were held for Sudan, Madagascar, and Mauritius during the past year to help build a consensus among donors around policy reforms adopted by those governments and to help mobilize financial resources supplementary to those provided by the Fund and the Bank.
The case of Uganda is instructive. As a result of major policy initiatives begun in June 1981, the government undertook to put into place a set of measures affecting the exchange rate, interest rates, farm prices, and taxes. These measures have already caused coffee exports moving through official channels to increase significantly and have resulted in a large rise in the output of cotton, textiles, cement, and sugar. The country's GDP increased in real terms in both 1981 and 1982 after nine years of decline. The rate of inflation has begun to subside. It is also clear that the impact of these policy changes would have been far greater had more external financial support been available.
The case of Sudan is also of interest. An important element in the Sudan crisis was the protracted decline in cotton production, which accounts for 50 percent of total exports. Measures affecting, among other things, the exchange rate, taxes, and producer prices succeeded in restoring incentives for cotton cultivation. An IDA credit helped finance critical imported inputs for the irrigated cotton subsector. The result was a 35 percent increase in cotton production in 1981/ 82, a year during which weather conditions were also favorable. This outcome provides some hope for the future and gives credence to the belief that a turnaround in exports can be secured through sustained efforts by the government and donors. Early in calendar 1983. the Sudanese government designed a new policy package comprising short-run stabilization measures (such as fiscal restraint), as well as a three-year public-investment program. The Consultative Group for Sudan meeting in January 1983 recognized the interdependence of actions to be taken by aid donors, the IMF. the Paris Club, commercial banks, and other creditors in order to facilitate the country's economic recovery. A joint committee was established to monitor the implementation both of the government's economic program and of supporting actions by other parties involved.
In Sudan and Uganda, as well as in other countries of the region, new initiatives have been taken in the important energy sector.
The Bank, together with the United Nations Development Programme, has completed energy-assessment reports for Burundi. Kenya. Malawi. Mauritius, Rwanda. Zambia, and Zimbabwe; others are under way (as in Sudan and Uganda), or will soon be scheduled, in the rest of the region's member countries. These reports have
provided a good basis for discussion and meaningful policy action.
The emphasis of energy policy must be on expanding local production, since the scope for conservation is limited by low levels of present, per capita consumption. The region has large hydro, coal, and geothermal potential that awaits exploitation. Potential also exists in the long run for utilizing, economically, energy from the sun and wind. There is room for considerable improvement in the utilization of energy from fuelwood. The charging of economic prices and suitable taxation of petroleum products must sharpen incentives for saving foreign exchange and exploiting local resources.
The hydroelectric potential in the region is very-large, particularly in Ethiopia, Uganda, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Only a small part of this resource has been developed so far. Demand for power is spread thinly over a vast geographical area, while the underdeveloped hydro potential is concentrated at a few sites. The cost of installing senerating capacity can varv from $1.000 per kW (1980 prices) for small units'to $2,600 per kW for large ones. The Bank has played a substantial role in helping these countries to design least-cost solutions to their power needs, to establish and develop institutions in this sector, and to mobilize external finance for hydropower investments. In addition, financing has been provided for coal-based power projects in Botswana and Zimbabwe. These conventional projects constituted nearly 82 percent of total energy lending by the Bank to Eastern Africa in fiscal 1983.
Importance of Fuelwood
While hydro and coal-based power is important, by far the most important source of energy in the region is fuelwood. It accounts for over 90 percent of total energy production and consumption, except in a few countries of the region. The fuelwood situation is a cause for concern. Mounting demographic pressure and the widespread practice of consuming wood as a free good without replanting it have precipitated a supply crisis in some areas. Rural women and children in many countries have had to devote a growing amount of time to the gathering of wood. Degradation has occurred, especially around densely settled areas, although the problem is not yet as widespread as in many Asian countries, where farmers are compelled to burn plant and animal wastes. If current trends continue, however, environmental damage will accumulate and cause serious injury. To counter these trends, the Bank has helped finance two purely industrial plantation projects in Kenya. More recently, the Bank has followed up with a third scheme, which includes a major rural afforestation component aimed at expanding seedling production from 13
million in 1981 to 53 million in 1986. In Malawi, the Bank assisted the first project exclusively geared to solving the fuelwood problem. It consists of a pilot program for a national network of seedling distribution; in the much larger second phase, the emphasis will be on integrating forestry with other aspects of overall farm management. A similar project for Zimbabwe was approved in fiscal 1983. Most other countries need to consider similar approaches; to balance demand for fuelwood with sustainable supply, planting levels have to increase fifteenfold by the year 2000.
To some extent, demand for fuelwood can be restrained by improving the efficiency of its use. In Burundi, Kenya, Malawi, and Rwanda, the Bank is participating in attempts to improve the efficiency of wood and charcoal burners and to introduce improved cooking stoves. If it were not for sociocultural and other impediments to their adoption, improved woodstoves, costing from $5 to $10 each, could achieve savings in energy of up to 50 percent. Conservation in industrial processes is improving; for example, in Malawi, attempts are being made to improve furnaces, burners, and flue designs in the tobacco industry with a view to reducing consumption of fuel-wood by 50 percent. These examples need replication.
Another recent thrust of Bank lending in Eastern Africa is for exploration and development of indigenous energy sources. In fiscal 1983. finance was extended for coal engineering in Zambia and Tanzania, as well as petroleum exploration in Ethiopia and Madagascar. Activities financed by the Bank in gas exploration in the Songo Songo field area in Tanzania have resulted in gas finds to date that have far exceeded earlier expectations (about 500 billion cubic feet). Proven reserves are now established, which are the equivalent of sixty-five years to seventy-five years of electricity consumption at existing levels. In Kenya, two Bank-assisted geothermal projects, totaling 30 mW, supplied 10 percent of the country's electricity consumption in fiscal 1983. Kenya is considering further investments of this kind.
Eastern Africa's potential in other renewable resources—biomass, solar, wind, small hydro— holds out promise in the long term that the needs for small-scale decentralized power sources for agricultural and rural development can be met.
The Bank is encouraging solar research in Zimbabwe and Mauritius; and. in Burundi, the use of peat.
Possibilities for conservation of imported energy, and therefore for saving foreign exchange, are also being explored within the transport sector, which, on the average, absorbs about half the oil imports in Eastern African countries. This burden of imports is particularly acute for the landlocked countries, which had to pay landed costs averaging $100 per barrel of oil in 1982. Overall, most countries seem to be moving toward a more efficient use of energy by improving maintenance procedures for roads and vehicles and by acquiring light, energy-efficient vehicles. Possibilities for saving fuel are also being tapped in the industrial sector; for example, the substitution of coal for petroleum in the Bamburi cement factory in Kenya will reduce fuel costs by at least 25 percent. In Zaire, the change-over from using oil-fired boilers for heating and producing process steam to electric boilers means that idle hydropower capacity there will be put to use. Programs for reducing losses in electric-power systems through the rehabilitation of transmission and distribution networks also form part of this effort.
In general. Eastern African countries have reacted to the increase in petroleum prices during the period 1974-81 by passing them on to the consumer. However, distortions exist, and a common one has been subsidized diescl fuel and kerosene. To determine the cost of supply and to design a structure for tariff rates, the Bank has financed many tariff studies. Based partly on these analyses, power tariffs in 1982 rose by 50 percent in Tanzania, 20 percent in Swaziland, and 8.5 percent in Malawi. An increase of about 85 pet-cent took place in Sudan in mid-1983.
These policy initiatives in the energy field are encouraging. In this sector, as in others reviewed earlier in this chapter, the policy-reform process has just begun. Implementation has been slow, uneven, and far short of what is required. Much remains to be done in agriculture and public finance, as well as in industrial and trade policy, parastatal efficiency, and resource mobilization. The Bank has supported policy reform through increased technical and financial assistance; in fiscal 1983, IBRD and IDA commitments were at record levels in terms of both amounts and the number of projects approved.
Western Africa
During fiscal year 1983, Western Africa continued to suffer from depressed markets for commodities, high interest rates, and stagnating levels of official development assistance. While by no means the only cause of poor growth of the Western African economies, the worldwide recession, now in its fourth year, has been a dominant factor since 1979, in contrast with the 1960s and 1970s, when country structural problems and inadequate policies were the principal reasons why growth was slow in the region.1
Estimates of cumulative growth of gross domestic product (GDP) over the three years, 1980-82, show that average per capita incomes have increased in two countries only: Cameroon (by 26 percent) and Congo (by 40 percent).2 In three countries (Ivory Coast. Togo, Sierra Leone), GDP grew at rates slightly less than the population. In nearly all the other eighteen countries of the region—including Nigeria (although growth there was very fast in the period 1974-79)—there
was a net decline in overall per capita incomes. There is no indication that there will be much relief to this bleak picture in 1983. If indications of economic recovery in the major industrial countries are confirmed, the impact on African exports is unlikely to be felt before 1984—even though some commodity prices (coffee, cocoa) began a modest recovery during the first half of 1983.
Because of the sharp decrease in foreign-exchange earnings, countries of the region have experienced persistent and often widening trade deficits on current account—with Cameroon and Gabon the only notable exceptions. As a pro-
See Accelerated Growth in Sub-Saharan Africa: An Agenda for Action (Washington. D.C: The World Bank). 1981. Congo's boom is based on extraordinary growth, both of petroleum exports (about an 85 percent increase in 1981). and of borrowing: at 25 percent of GDP. Congo had one of the region's largest current-account deficits in 1981.
portion of gross national product (GNP), current-account deficits for most countries now exceed 10 percent; in some cases, the deficit is several times that level. External reserves have fallen to their lowest level ever. In two-thirds of the countries of the region, they amounted to less than one month's imports at the end of 1982. They are even negative for countries that make up the West African Monetary Union (UMOA)3—particularly Ivory Coast and Senegal—although foreign exchange for high-priority uses in these two countries, as in other members of the franc area, is ensured through the working of the "operations account" of the UMOA-country central bank (BCEAO) with the French treasury.4 In the industrial sector, the shortage of imported inputs—raw materials, spare parts, fuel—has led to widespread reduction in production. In many Western African countries, there is substantial unused capacity and a shortage of finished goods that had once been in ample supply.
The fiscal constraint has also become extremely severe—with the exception of Cameroon and Gabon. That constraint is manifested in several ways. Cuts in expenditure, first of all. have affected public-investment programs. It is probable that current investment levels allow for net capital formation in only a handful of the countries in the region. It is also probable that in more than half of the countries, lack of maintenance is resulting in a real erosion of capital stock. Thus, the continuing crisis is not only reducing the level of activity, it is also jeopardizing future growth. Current public operations are similarly affected, albeit less drastically. Because both foreign exchange and domestic revenues are scarce, shortages of fuel and other imported inputs are widespread. Insufficient local financing has slowed down the implementation of ongoing projects; and in perhaps a half dozen countries, delays of several weeks in meeting the payrolls of the civil service have become the rule rather than the exception.
One of the potentially most damaging effects of the crisis is that its persistence and severity make it difficult for governments to carry out structural-adjustment policies needed to foster long-term growth. Restructuring investment programs that are out of phase with sectoral developments; reducing input subsidies, let alone increasing producer prices, in the face of falling export prices; removing food subsidies when consumers' real incomes are declining; recapitalizing public enterprises when public budgets cannot meet the wage bill; reducing government employment at a time of high urban unemployment—these are some of the challenges that governments in Senegal and Ivory Coast. Mali and Niger, Togo and Benin. Liberia and Guinea, and
others face. Against such odds, not surprisingly, progress over the last two or three years in implementing reforms has been uneven.
To make things worse, agricultural production in 1982 was severely affected by unusually poor rainfall in parts of the Sahel (Mali, Upper Volta) and in the coastal countries, particularly Benin, Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo. The drought, in several countries, also led to severe crop losses through fires. In Ivory Coast, drought and the harmattan combined to produce fire conditions considered to be the worst in living memory, with even the high forests burning out of control in some instances. Ten percent of the stock planted in teak in a 1979 Bank-assisted project was totally destroyed. Fire also damaged cocoa and coffee plantations in Ghana. Ivory Coast, and Togo.
Oil Exporters, Traditional and New
The situation in Nigeria—the largest economy in sub-Saharan Africa—indicates the gravity of the crisis. Foreign-exchange earnings, virtually all from oil exports, have fallen dramatically since the end of 1981. Foreign-exchange reserves declined in 1982 from a level equivalent to three months' worth of imports to less than three weeks' worth. Investment, equal to about a third of GDP in 1980-81, has been radically reduced, as both foreign exchange and government resources contract (85 percent of government revenues, both federal and state, are directly generated from oil exports). Imports in 1983 are likely to be reduced to about halftheir 1981 level. GDPthat is not accounted for by oil declined about 4 percent in 1982, and was declining at an even higher rate in the first half of 1983. This decline has also reduced incomes in Togo and Benin because of their dependence on exports to Nigeria, particularly of food and of commodities in transit. As early as April 1982, the government took a number of emergency measures involving import restrictions and fiscal contraction. The measures have proven insufficient—as the price of oil and the volume of oil exports continued their downward course—to restore fiscal and external bal-
' The L'MOA. established in 1962. has as its aim. the recognition of a common currency whose issue is entrusted It) the Central Bank of the West African States, this monetary unit is fhe franc of the African financial community (CF A franc). which is legal tender throughout the territory ol the Union. Members are Benin. Ivory Coast. Niger. Senegal. Togo, and Upper Volta.
4 This is the account of the French treasury into which the foreign-exchange reserves of the BCF.AO are deposited. It can have a negative balance without any limit fixed m advance. In such a case, however, measures are taken in the deficit countries to restore the balance. When the overall account is in credit, the member countries' reserves augment those of France; if it is negative. France's reserves arc reduced accordingly. The reserves can thus be considered to be pooled, while being managed by France.
ance. Medium-term and long-term indebtedness, however, is low; the country, therefore, is likely to borrow heavily in 1983, possibly through some combination of medium-term refinancing from foreign banks of part of the arrears on trade payments, through borrowings from other countries that are members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), and through additional Eurodollar borrowing.
The downturn has brought investment programs in Nigeria's states to a virtual standstill. Since many projects involving IBRD assistance have shortages of counterpart funding, the pace of project implementation has slowed considerably. The Bank is taking steps to speed up disbursements and to cover a greater proportion of project costs. In addition, a loan of about $250 million to finance the cost of fertilizer imports was at an advanced stage of preparation as fiscal 1983 ended.
By contrast, income in the Congo grew rapidly in 1982. In 1982, investment expenditure was at a level six times higher than the average of the previous five years, a reflection of greatly increased petroleum exports and increased borrowing under a very ambitious five-year plan. However, since the beginning of 1983. the government has undertaken to make deep cuts in the program as official reestimates. made in early 1983, showed that oil revenues for the year may be 40 percent lower than had been originally forecast.
The region's newest oil exporter. Cameroon, continued to grow rapidly, with GDP probably increasing by more than 7 percent in 1982. Twenty-five years ago, Cameroon was a low-income country overwhelmingly dependent on coffee and cocoa as sources of foreign-exchange earnings. Now. with one of the highest incomes in the region ($880 per capita in 1981). more diversified exports, and increased creditworthiness. Cameroon has graduated as a borrower from IDA to become eligible for IBRD borrowing. Cameroon's government perceives the medium-term problem as one of the opportunities and perils that accompany large oil exports. The government has had a measure of success in avoiding the all-too-frequent consequences of a booming oil sector, which produces abundant foreign exchange and fiscal resources: atrophy of other commodity-producing activities, particularly agriculture, as food imports become easily available and agricultural exports less critical.
Energy Problems in the Region
The problem of energy supply in Western Africa is primarily that of fuelwood, which, in most countries, accounts for more than 80 percent of all energy consumption. The depletion of forest capital is most pronounced in the Sahelian countries, but even in the coastal states further south, local imbalances between supply and demand create similar problems on an increasing scale.
A palm-oil plant nursery in the Ivory Coast. The IBRD is assisting the country in financing its programs for the development of oil palms, coconuts, and cocoa.
Current wood consumption in the Sahelian countries is approximately one kilogram of dry wood per person daily and far exceeds the capacity of local forest resources. If wood-consumption practices continue unchanged, only 65 percent of domestic energy needs will come from natural forests and managed tree plantations by the year 2000. Most countries will have to halve their fuelwood consumption by the turn of the century if there are to be any forests left. Reduction in wood consumption can be achieved through more efficient usage and substitution of other energy sources, but considerable deforestation also takes place because of land being brought into cultivation and because of overgrazing. A recent study by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN estimates that the areas affected add up to a million hectares each year in the Sahelian countries. Consequently, in order to avoid irreversible damage to the environment, agropastoral programs are needed in addition to those designed to deal with the fuel-wood scarcity.
It is becoming apparent that afforestation is only a partial solution to the fuelwood-supply problem. A more comprehensive approach to energy supply in rural regions is necessary, specifically to examine how commercial energy could become a substitute for fuelwood (by appropri-
ate policies on pricing, supply, changing traditions, and introduction of efficient appliances).
Commercialized energy supply to the modern sectors of the national economies in Western Africa is hampered by the lack of basic infrastructure. Hence, much Bank activity is being directed toward improved knowledge of energy resources. Petroleum-sector assistance is being provided to nine countries to promote exploration and. eventually, exploitation of indigenous resources. Inventories of hydroelectric-power resources are being made under IDA technical-assistance credits to Benin and Togo and under an IBRD-administered UNDP grant to Guinea. Because the major hydro resources of the region are concentrated in a few countries, the preparation for their development will be facilitated by regional cooperation in joint studies of water resources and electrical interconnections. The Bank supports, therefore, the organizations established for such a purpose by the countries of the region, such as the Niger Basin Authority.
Another problem in meeting the energy requirements of the modern sector in Western Africa is that of institutional weakness, the root cause of which is a shortage of trained manpower. In Bank technical-assistance projects, increasing attention is being paid to manpower-training needs in those energy-sector entities that
have difficulty coping with the demands imposed by economic growth. In addition, there is increasing concentration on the relationships between governments and parastatal enterprises, as well as to their rehabilitation.
Three Restructuring Efforts
In Ivory Coast, structural-adjustment policies continued to be pursued with determination. The IBRD's first structural-adjustment loan (of $150 million) in support of the government's initiation of a stabilization plan was fully disbursed early in 1983. As a result of the continuing adverse external environment, further declines in the country's terms of trade were registered: GDP declined in real terms by 1.8 percent in 1982. The government's response was to move swiftly to strengthen and intensify its structural-adjustment program. It adopted a bold and forceful package of policy reforms designed to promote growth, improve productivity, and generate public savings. Measures include reforms in investment programming, in public enterprises, and in agricultural incentives. New features of adjustment include a major restructuring of the system of industrial incentives and protection and reform of the costly public-housing scheme. In support of this program, a second IBRD loan (for $281 million) was negotiated at the end of fiscal 1983.
The Togolese government, with support from the IMF. has designed a program that concentrates on reform of public enterprises, agricultural pricing, and macroeconomic management, with emphasis on reducing the government deficit. IDA has supported this program through a structural-adjustment credit of $40 million. In neighboring Benin, the government introduced a new five-year plan and presented a package of policy reforms, notably in agriculture and the public-enterprise sector, at a Round Table meeting of aid donors and private investors organized jointly with the United Nations Development Programme in March 1983.
Adjusting to Reduced Prospects
Nowhere in the region has the crisis been more acute, or indeed more chronic, than in Ghana. For the past decade, exports, imports, investment, and production have all been in decline. In the period 1976-1982. Ghana's consumer price index increased by more than thirty-twofold. In 1982. however, the new government took immediate measures to reduce expenditures and domestic credit so as to contain inflation and restore cocoa exports by rehabilitating roads and raising producer prices. In 1983. several further basic adjustments were undertaken. They included a de facto devaluation of the cedi. rehabilitation and investment in agriculture, further budgetary
austerity, and reduced growth of the money supply. To implement the program. Ghana sought the help of both bilateral and multilateral donors. The IMF agreed to a stand-by agreement equivalent to 150 percent of Ghana's quota and a compensatory drawing to cover 1982's shortfall in exports. IDA provided a fast-disbursing import credit during the year and agreed to accelerate preparatory work on an export-rehabilitation credit in fiscal 1984.The unexpected arrival in February 1983 of hundreds of thousands of Ghanaians from Nigeria put further pressure on Ghana's resources—particularly food supplies, which were already low as a result of a poor harvest in 1982. The response of the aid community to this untimely event provided a measure of relief.
After years of destruction and economic deterioration wrought by civil conflict. Chad began reconstruction in fiscal 1983 with an acute shortage of spare parts, production inputs, machinery, equipment, and imported goods. The Bank is working with the government and other donors in preparing a reconstruction program that could be supported with an IDA credit.
The three neighboring countries of Guinea. Sierra Leone, and Liberia all suffered further decreases in their terms of trade in fiscal 1983 and recorded either stagnation or further declines in their per capita incomes. Through various policy changes, the governments of all three countries have attempted to adjust to their reduced prospects. In Guinea, the government alleviated, to some extent, the extreme shortage of foreign exchange by legalizing imports that are financed through the parallel market for foreign exchange. This measure followed that which legalized the private marketing of locally produced food at market-determined prices. Agricultural exports at the official exchange rate, however, continue to be very limited—less than 5 percent of the level of two decades ago.
In Liberia, the government has successfully adopted a number of extremely difficult measures. Following the elimination, in fiscal 1982. of the consumer rice subsidy, public-sector salaries were reduced in January 1983 by between 16 percent and 25 percent. In addition, a development strategy—aimed at increasing food production, exports, and employment — was enunciated that emphasized rural development in general, and smallholder agriculture in particular. The government has also undertaken to improve the operations of public enterprises, in part so as to avoid using scarce government revenues to cover their operating deficits; plans even exist to sell some of the public corporations to private buyers. To support efforts at rehabilitating public corporations, the government is working with the Bank to develop a technical-
assistance project to such enterprises. The credit proposal is expected to be readied before the end of calendar 1983.
In Sierra Leone, total output has declined in the last two years, as have the prices of its major exports—diamonds, coffee, and cocoa. As a result, the deficit on current account of the balance of payments increased to 10 percent of GDP by fiscal 1982. To move toward a position of exchange equilibrium, the government introduced, with IMF support, a dual exchange rate as a first step in the full devaluation of the leone. And effective January 1983, producer prices for coffee and cocoa were increased by between 8 percent and 50 percent. The government has also introduced measures to contain public expenditures and increase domestic revenues.
Examples from the Sahel
Since exports account for a third of GDP. Senegal is highly vulnerable to changes in its terms of trade. For example, when, in late 1982. the world prices of groundnut products—which normally account for about a quarter of export revenues—fell to their lowest level, in real terms, since the 1930s, the country's overall terms of trade fell 10 percent. Foreign-exchange earnings were so reduced that scheduled debt-service payments would have risen from around 14 percent of export receipts in 1981/82 to 33 percent in 1982/83 had not a second round of debt rescheduling taken place following agreement with the IMF on a stand-by arrangement. Balance-of-payments support was also provided by France, Iraq, Kuwait, Oman, and Saudi Arabia. For its part, the government has made a number of difficult adjustments. To bring about a measure of fiscal balance, consumer subsidies on cooking oil, wheat flour, sugar, and, above all, rice have been decreased; the price of rice was raised, successfully, by 31 percent. Reform of public enterprises is continuing (to eliminate deficits, a number of public firms recently increased their tariffs). The International Development Association is assisting the country's reform program through an ongoing technical-assistance project, which was approved in fiscal year 1981.
Among the other Sahelian countries, Mali is perhaps most advanced in carrying through economic reforms. Even though GDP grew about 4 percent in 1982, largely as a consequence of a good harvest, it was not enough to compensate for the slow erosion in living standards that had taken place throughout the 1970s—a decade during which large external and fiscal imbalances had emerged. To deal with the situation, the government undertook, during the past year, sweeping policy changes, many of which were written into the new Development Plan (1981-1985) and presented at a UNDP-sponsored Round Table
meeting in December 1982. Higher prices for petroleum products and basic consumer imports have been introduced, producer prices for locally produced cereals have been substantially increased, and retail sales have gradually been liberalized. State enterprises—they account for most production in the modern sector—are being restructured, in part through increases in tariffs and through closure of the least efficient units. The civil-service wage structure and recruitment policies are being rationalized. To support these efforts, the government is making use of a wide range of bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, including an IDA credit extended in November 1982. What has evolved is a carefully developed plan of economic adjustment reflecting the government's basic and persistent commitment to change.
In Niger, a financial-rehabilitation program was introduced in 1982 in order to cope with the effects of reduced revenues resulting from two factors: low prices and unanticipated lower production of uranium; and second, greatly increased debt-service payments arising from excessive commercial borrowing contracted for an overambi-tious investment program prepared during the years of rising uranium revenues. In addition to expanding its program of regular projects, IDA is also preparing, with the government, a technical-assistance credit designed to strengthen the country's capacity for macroeconomic analysis and debt management.
Assistance to the Region
As noted in previous Annual Reports, improved conditions in the Western Africa region can result in the short term and medium term only from a combination of expanding export markets in the industrialized countries, gradual increases, in real terms, in the level of official development assistance, a resumption of private capital flows towards the more creditworthy countries, and sustained efforts by governments to introduce necessary institutional and policy reforms. By the end of fiscal year 1983, most countries in the region had undertaken to implement many of the necessary changes; but results in the form of improved overall economic performance are likely to be limited if the world economic environment does not also become more favorable.
To assist Western African countries through the current difficult period. IDA committed $428 million during the past year, or 83 percent more than in fiscal 1982, and 12 percent more than the previous highest level (fiscal 1981) despite severe constraints on the Association's resources. This volume of lending is in line with lending objectives of maintaining sub-Saharan Africa's share of total IDA allocations for the period fiscal 198286 at 30 percent at the least. Because of project-
implementation difficulties in Nigeria, however, the level of IBRD commitments to the region fell to $237 million, a little over a fourth of the extraordinary amount committed in the previous year ($854 million), when there was an unusual conjunction of six projects for Ivory Coast, including one for energy ($101.5 million) and one for structural adjustment ($150 million).
At the same time, the policy dialogue between the Bank and most of the countries in the region continued to broaden and gain in depth. Increasing awareness on both sides that appropriate sectoral policies are essential elements of project success has led to much closer attention being given in sector work and lending operations to pricing as well as to institutional aspects, including the reorganization of public enterprises directly or indirectly involved in project execution. These considerations obviously apply in
structural-adjustment lending, but also in traditional sectors such as agriculture, industry, transport, public utilities, and urban development, as well as in areas of more recent Bank involvement, such as health care. Concern with greater efficiency in the use of scarce resources, including existing physical assets, has led also to renewed emphasis on maintenance, rehabilitation, and training. Funding for such components, as well as provision for adequate cost-recovery systems, have become a frequent feature of Bank-assisted projects in the region.
The Bank has also greatly expanded financing for technical-assistance projects—which cut across sectors and, generally, include important training components—to strengthen governments' capability for policy analysis of macroeconomic, as well as sectoral issues, and which assist thereby in the design of policy-reform packages.
East Asia and Pacific
The developing countries of the East Asia and Pacific region—with the exception of China— have experienced the full force of the world recession. Their economic prospects have been dominated by the poor performance of the world economy, and their economic policies have been preoccupied with the search for appropriate means to deal with the changing economic situation. After a decade of high growth, accompanied by moderately high inflation, low and often negative real interest rates, and a plentiful supply of private capital from the international banking system, fiscal 1983 was characterized by low growth, falling inflation, high and positive real interest rates, and a reduction in the flow of overseas capital. The reduction was, in part, due to some hesitancy on the part of the world banking system to extend further credit to countries perceived to have relatively large debt burdens.
The world recession has had varied effects on the countries of the region. The largest country
in the region, China, continues to grow, despite the recession, while making internal adjustments in its economic system. Two major net oil-exporting countries, Indonesia and Malaysia, have had to adjust to lower world oil prices and weaker demand. Both face substantial internal adjustments at both the macro and the micro levels. Another group of countries affected by the recession consists of the three newly industrializing countries, the Republic of Korea, Thailand, and the Philippines. These three countries were already under pressure from the oil-price increases of 1979-80 and from the high (and variable) interest rates of 1980-81. While interest rates began to come down in mid-1982, oil prices remained high until 1983. Other aspects of the world recession, such as falling commodity prices, declining export markets, and rising protectionism have hit these countries hard. All three have programs of structural adjustment, which are being supported by IBRD loans. The remaining
countries of the region include the poor countries of Laos and Viet Nam, and the island countries of the Pacific—Papua New Guinea, Fiji, Western Samoa. Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu. These island nations, particularly, have suffered from the steep decline in commodity prices and the other aspects of recession.
The Newly Industrializing Nations
The impact of the sharply deteriorating external environment in 1982 is perhaps most clearly illustrated in the case of the Philippines. Its real rate of growth, as measured by the gross domestic product (GDP), slowed to 2.5 percent in 1982, about a third of the rate achieved in 1978-79, with the main decline being experienced in the rate of industrial growth. Both investment and exports fell sharply. The country's real income was reduced by further adverse movements in the terms of trade, which worsened by about 25 percent during the period 1979-82; the deterioration in 1982, alone, was 8 percent.
These developments can be traced to the poor market situation for the country's principal export products—copper, coconut products, sugar, and forest products. Although nontraditional manufactured exports—electronics, garments, and leather and sporting goods, for example—grew by 2 percent in 1982 in the face of increasing protectionism in export markets, this growth was not enough to offset the decline in traditional exports. The fall in the value of total exports in 1982 was
larger than the decline in imports, and the current-account balance-of-payments deficit widened to $3.4 billion. While GDP growth is unlikely to be much higher in 1983 than in 1982. some improvement in the balance-of-payments situation is expected: Lower prices for imported fuel and declining interest rates on the large external debt will reduce the burden of external payments.
There is a double impact upon the Philippines from the world recession. There is the direct impact on incomes and employment. But there is also the effect on public revenues and resource mobilization, making it more difficult for the country to carry out its development programs. Despite the difficulties, the Philippines has embarked on a program of needed structural changes. The program includes measures of energy conservation and self-sufficiency, industrial restructuring, poverty alleviation, and human-resource development. All have been hampered by the inadequacy of domestic resources to match the available external capital. Loans from the IBRD are assisting with the structural-adjustment measures, and project lending is aimed at other long-run development needs.
While facing equally difficult world conditions, the economy of the Republic of Korea grew by 5.4 percent during 1982. and there were signs that some of the structural imbalances that had emerged during the period of rapid growth in the
This small-scale wood-processing plant in the Philippines has received financial support from a development finance company assisted by the IBRD; its mahogany products are now breaking into the export market.
second half of the 1970s were gradually being removed. Further, the dislocation caused in 1979— 80 by the second oil shock and political uncertainty seems far less evident today. Inflation, which averaged 25 percent over the two-year period, 1980-81, fell to less than 5 percent in 1982. Investment, which had stagnated for almost three years, began to recover, and recovery was accompanied by a dip in the unemployment rate. Export growth was encouraging; there was a rise of 1.5 percent in the value of exports and by more than four times that amount in volume. Meanwhile, imports declined by 4.0 percent in value terms, mainly because of a fall in the prices of fuel and raw materials. This decline in imports, combined with a buoyant expansion of invisible exports (income from construction firms and workers' remittances), led to a reduction in the current-account deficit by almost half—from $4.4 billion in 1981 to around'$2.5 billion in 1982. The shrinking balance-of-payments deficit, which in part reflects the slower growth in gross national product (GNP), is also an indication of a revival of domestic savings, which had dropped quite sharply in the recession of 1980-81 from its peak of 26 percent in 1979. Despite the small deficit in
the balance of payments, the steady accumulation of foreign debt borrowed at high and variable rates of interest led to a small increase in the debt-service ratio (which includes short-term debt) from 20.7 percent in 1981 to 21 percent in 1982.
Korea's performance in 1982 was stronger than most other countries in the region and was appreciably superior to that of other nonoil-exporting developing countries around the world. Its ability to increase exports, if only by a small margin, was undoubtedly a factor in economic-expansion, but a good harvest and the government's counter-cyclical policy of encouraging construction, together added close to 4 points to the growth rate. The sharp decline in inflation was closely related to the stabilization of oil and raw-material prices, but these, in turn, were reinforced by the conservative monetary policy followed in 1981 and through the first half of 1982. Supplementing monetary actions was an informal, but nonetheless effective, wages policy.
Encouraged by the economic achievements of 1982, Korean planners project a growth in GNP of 7.5 percent for 1983. a current-account deficit of 2.7 percent of GNP, and an inflation rate of no
more than 4 percent. However, economic expansion and a current-account deficit in the balance-of-payments anticipated to be in the amount of S2 billion will depend, to a considerable extent, upon an increase in the volume of exports of just under 10 percent, some improvement in the terms of trade, and on a growth in imports of no more than 9 percent. While this is certainly within the realm of possibility, continuing economic sluggishness of Korea's major trading partners among the industrial countries would make the export target a difficult one to achieve; growth, therefore, may have to be sustained by domestic demand—as it has been for the past year. As a consequence, the balance-of-payments deficit could be somewhat larger than is currently projected.
Thailand has also been adjusting to the adverse world conditions. By international comparison, its GDP growth—at about 4 percent—was above average in 1982. but the economy suffered a sharp deterioration in its external terms of trade. Inflation was greatly reduced, and consumer prices increased by only 5 percent during the year. Low-investment and destocking of inventories resulted in substantially lower imports, while exports, on the other hand, continued to grow—albeit at a pace slower than in previous years. This confluence of events resulted in a current-account deficit in the balance of payments that was lower than in recent years, falling to 3 percent of GDP in 1982. down from 7 percent the year before. Thus, with continued, though reduced, growth in GDP. lower inflation, and a significant reduction in the current-account deficit. Thailand weathered the international recession of 1982 quite well, except for a considerable deterioration in public-sector savings. The budget deficit in 1982 was about 4 percent of GDP. or roughly twice the amount budgeted, and was largely the result of shortfalls in revenue. These shortfalls were the result of lower inflation, less domestic activity, and fewer imports.
Since 1980. government policy in Thailand has emphasized those programs and policies that aim at adjusting the economy to a sustainable medium-term balance-of-payments position, while maintaining the impetus of growth. Both the programs and reforms under way. coordinated in a structural-adjustment program supported by the Bank, are attempting to integrate the longer-term concerns of socioeconomic development and equity with improved medium-term external and internal financial stability.
The program concentrates on five major policy areas.
• In agriculture, it promotes continued rapid growth on the basis of improved incentives and secure land tenure for farmers.
• The growth of industry is being supported by
policy changes to make industry more efficient, labor intensive, and export oriented.
• In the energy sector, further steps are being taken to promote conservation, adjust prices, and develop indigenous energy resources.
• In the fiscal area, both short-term and longer-term reforms are planned to reduce the extent to which public deficits have contributed to the balance-of-payments problem and to make more efficient the allocation of public resources.
• Finally, all these elements of the structural-adjustment program depend on effective institutional development, to be pursued through improved planning, budgeting, and management in the public sector and the creation of additional analytical capability in the government.
The Oil-exporting Countries
The region includes two oil-exporting developing countries, Indonesia and Malaysia. Both have been hard hit by the recession and both have been forced to revise their development prospects in the face of lower receipts from exports.
The prolonged world recession has caused a sharp reversal in Indonesia's current-account balance. In both fiscal 1980 and 1981, the country enjoyed a current-account surplus in excess of $2 billion, with oil and liquid natural gas accounting for about two-thirds of export earnings. Only two years ago. the outlook was for continuing, large surpluses throughout the early part of the 1980s, and medium-term development plans were drawn up based upon that expectation. But in fiscal 1982. the volume of oil exports fell, world demand for other export commodities, such as rubber, timber, tin, and coffee, softened, and Indonesia's nonoil terms of trade deteriorated substantially—by about 25 percent from their level of 1979. As the world recession intensified and oil prices weakened, the current-account deficit of $2.8 billion (in fiscal 1982) increased to almost $7 billion in fiscal 1983. equivalent to approximately 8 percent of GNP for that year.
Domestic production has also been affected. Following an average annual growth in GDP of 8 percent between 1970 and 1981. growth in 1982 is estimated to have been no more than half that average, largely as a consequence of lower export receipts.
The policies implemented by Indonesia in recent years have helped to ease the impact of the worsened external-resources position. Part of the increased oil revenues in 1979 and 1980 were used to accumulate substantial international reserves, and the country's external debt has been prudently managed; thus, at the beginning of fiscal 1983. Indonesia had a healthy cushion of foreign-exchange reserves and the capacity to raise
significant quantities of external finance. The structure of production is also well diversified, relative to many oil exporters, and agriculture, in particular, has performed well in recent years; Indonesia has moved from being the world's largest rice importer towards self-sufficiency. However, the extent of the decrease in oil-sector receipts has underlined the need for significant changes in domestic policy.
During 1982 and 1983, the government acted swiftly to this loss in export income resulting from the world economic recession. Subsidies on domestic sales for fuels, fertilizer, and certain food items have been reduced, or altogether eliminated, with the prices of subsidized domestic fuels having been raised by between 60 percent and 70 percent in both 1982 and 1983. An austere budget has been introduced for fiscal 1984; there was a 28 percent devaluation of the rupiah in March 1983; and a significant rephasing of planned large-scale, import-intensive industrial investments was announced in May 1983. In addition, in June 1983, the government introduced a major reform in financial policy aimed at the mobilization of private savings and greater efficiency in the allocation of credit by state banks. This package of measures represents a major reorientation in policy that should effectively support the transition to a sustainable external account. In the course of the transition period, however, there will be a need to maintain the level of external borrowing of recent years to finance the current-account deficit.
The experience of Malaysia has been similar to that of Indonesia. Although less dependent upon oil exports, it has been extremely hard hit by the fall in the world prices of tin and rubber, two of its principal commodity exports. As prices of imports did not lessen, the terms of trade worsened by 20 percent in the period, calendar 198082. after rising by 40 percent during the previous five years. With worsening terms of trade, the balance-of-payments position has changed dramatically. From a situation of current-account surpluses, there has been a shift to deficits, amounting to 10 percent of GNP in 1981 and 13 percent in 1982.
Until the second half of 1982, the government continued to maintain high expenditures relative to income, acting in a counter-cyclical fashion. Tax revenues, reduced by export taxes on commodities that fell in price, were not sufficiently buoyant to prevent large deficits from emerging—up to as much as 20 percent of GNP in 1981-82. Much of these deficits was financed externally; in fact, Malaysia's relatively low debt burden of the late 1970s permitted an expansion of debt obligations and a rise in debt service.
Adjustment to the impact of recession is now under way; it began with reductions in the 1982
budget and was followed by budget cuts in 1983. The country's short-term stabilization effort is to be accompanied by efforts to come to grips with the longer-term structural issues that are now emerging, issues that are reflected in a slowdown in the rate of growth of the economy, which fell to 4 percent in 1982. Foremost is the need to revitalize agriculture: The output of several major crops has declined for the last few years. Secondly, there is a need in the manufacturing sector to discover new sources of growth in the face of weaker internal demand and a heavy concentration in manufactured exports on a small number of commodities. There are also problems arising from shortages of skilled and unskilled labor.
China: The Least Affected
China's experience during the past year has differed markedly from the other countries of the region. Since 1979, Chinese economic policy has had two main objectives: to adjust the structure of production and expenditure in such a way as to raise the share of consumption in national income and to reform the system of economic management so as to increase the efficiency of production and investment. Though neither objective has proved easy to attain, this strategy, on balance, has had rather good results.
Agriculture has done particularly well. Systemic changes, which enhanced incentives and producer discretion, in conjunction with higher procurement prices for agricultural products and fairly good weather, caused gross output in the five-year period, 1978-82, to grow at an annual average real rate of 7 percent. Real income per farmer (which increased very little in 1958-1977) has risen even faster during the past five years— at an annual average per capita rate of over 10 percent. Since the rural population makes up four-fifths of the total, this growth in income has contributed substantially to raising the average standard of living.
Industrial output, in aggregate, has grown somewhat more slowly in the past five years than in the preceding twenty. But light industry— mainly producing consumer goods—has grown rapidly (at an annual average real rate of 12 percent). There has also been increased emphasis— partly through administrative regulation, but also through systemic innovations such as profit retention and greater enterprise autonomy in production and marketing—on reducing wastage of energy, raw materials, and capital, and on improving the quality of output. Progress in these respects, however, has been limited by price distortions, lack of managerial skills, and obsolete equipment.
The greater autonomy that had been given to lower-level units in 1979-80 led, to a certain
extent, to a low rate of growth in government revenues. Meanwhile, the planned reductions in investment were not realized. This caused unexpectedly large budget deficits that were accompanied by some unwelcome price rises (the latter resulting partly from greater freedom in price setting). In response, investment (particularly in large, centrally controlled projects) was cut drastically and price controls were strengthened, which reduced the budget deficit and stabilized prices. Output growth was slow in 1981 (there was a 3 percent real increase in national income), but recovered impressively in 1982 (there was a 7 percent real increase in national income).
The investment cuts reduced imports of equipment: they also depressed output from heavy industry, which lowered domestic energy-consumption and enabled energy exports to be maintained. China's manufactured exports continued their expansion despite the world recession. Expansion was restrained, however, by an increasing number of protectionist barriers abroad.
The net effect of these policies on the balance of payments was to turn a current-account deficit of about $2.5 billion in 1980 into a surplus of over S4 billion in 1982. equivalent to two-and-a-half months' imports. However, the surplus may only be temporary: a moderate current-account deficit is expected by 1984.
China is thus well placed to resume a more normal level of investment, within the framework of the recently published sixth five-year plan. Yet. the requirements for external finance, especially concessional aid to help finance its development and modernization programs, will increase substantially during the remainder of the decade. New investment will emphasize energy production and transport infrastructure, two major constraints facing the economy: this emphasis is to be complemented by an extensive investment program to modernize the country's huge but technologically backward industrial sector. The Bank's lending program reflects this
emphasis; support for high-level manpower development and expansion of agricultural output is also continuing.
The Vulnerable Remainder
At the opposite end of the spectrum from China—in terms of size and vulnerability—are Laos and the island countries of the Pacific— Papua New Guinea and the smaller island states. All have been seriously affected by the world recession. Less developed than the other countries of the region, with open economies, and heavily dependent on the export of a small number of commodities, they have had little choice but to adjust to the impact of the recession.
During both 1981 and 1982. Laos continued the process of recovery from the very low levels of economic activity brought about between 1975 and 1977 by the aftermath of war. poor climate, and shortages of foreign exchange. Economic recovery—there has been an average growth in GNP of about 7 percent in real terms over the past four years—has been led by agriculture, and. in particular, by rice production. Indeed, in 1982, the country was self-sufficient in food for the first time in many years.
Papua New Guinea, a moderate-sized country in terms of population, experienced a fall in the value of its exports of 10 percent in 1982. which followed a 22 percent drop in 1981. Its two most important products, copper concentrates (including gold) and coffee, together account for 60 percent of total exports. In 1982. exports of the former fell in value by one-third; coffee fared as badly. A decline in the terms of trade, equivalent to 15 percent of GDP over the period 198182. was also registered. Since exports are the primary source of incomes and government revenues, a severe strain has been placed on the country's development efforts. The government reacted to straitened circumstances bv reducing public expenditures by 5 percent in real terms, and targeting cuts in public-service employment by 3,000, or about 6 percent of the total.
South Asia
In a number of major respects, the economic performance of the countries in the South Asia region in fiscal 1983 was similar to that of the previous year. Despite the deepening world recession, and notwithstanding the effects of a poor monsoon, by and large the economies of the region again demonstrated an encouraging resiliency against adversity and a capacity to sustain their economic development.
Although the pace of growth slackened and balance-of-payments deficits— accentuated by weakening terms of trade—remained of concern, the toll that might otherwise have been taken by the recession was eased by the countries' domestic policies, as well as by foreign assistance, which, to most countries of the region, was maintained at. or exceeded, levels of the previous year, although, in some cases, it was on harder terms. As a consequence of the assistance received on concessional terms in the past and of their own prudent debt-management policies.
South Asian countries have been spared the more serious problems encountered in some other developing regions in the management of external debt.
While generalizations for the region need to be qualified to allow for individual variations, adjustments to the impact of world recession were of two varieties: short-term measures aimed at responding to the pressures resulting from the weakening of external demand and policies with a longer-term focus directed at altering the structure of countries' economies.
In the first category were measures to restrain the growth of domestic spending (public investment and various subsidies, for instance) and imports, while simultaneously attempting to raise domestic revenues. Policies to enhance longer-range productivity and improve balance-of-payments positions included measures to increase producer incentives and stimulate greater efficiency in production, policies to promote exports.
and measures to reduce dependence on imports. Measures included in this last-mentioned category were led by those that aimed at achieving greater energy independence through an expansion of domestic production or production potential, and through a variety of energy-conservation policies. These policy initiatives, many of which were introduced in previous years, encourage the belief that world economic recovery should find the South Asian countries better positioned to accelerate the pace of their economic development in the next few years—provided adequate support is forthcoming from the donor community.
The Bank has sought to reinforce countries' own adjustment efforts both through lending and technical assistance (including analysis of general economic and sector issues). Lending to assist balance-of-payments adjustment has included quick-disbursing structural-adjustment loans and import credits (to Pakistan and Bangladesh), which have provided urgently needed foreign exchange while supporting comprehensive policy-reform initiatives. Lending to expand domestic production of items currently imported has included credits to increase energy output and its efficient use in Bangladesh, and credits or loans to increase domestic food production in Bangladesh and Pakistan. Recent credits to Burma and Sri Lanka will help these countries to expand exports of agricultural products.
Bank financial assistance to promote adjustment has been supplemented by technical assistance that, in some instances, has been closely associated with lending. A broad range of macro and sector-adjustment policy issues was analyzed in economic reports, which were discussed with countries' policymakers. In-depth analyses of issues in the energy sector—including ways to promote energy production and conservation, and examination of long-term development requirements—have been undertaken, and the results discussed with governments in a number of countries (for example, Bangladesh, Nepal. Pakistan, and Sri Lanka). To assist governments in.expanding exports, trade-policy issues have been the subject of extensive examination in Bangladesh. Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. As a rule, these analyses have been carried out jointly by governments and the Bank.
India: Positive Aspects
After two years of fairly solid performance, following the recovery from the drought of 1979. the poor monsoon in mid-1982 caused India to face a difficult year in fiscal 1983. Food-grain production, which hit a record 133 million tons in fiscal 1982, is expected to fall to around 125 million tons in fiscal 1983. In total, agricultural value added may drop from between 4 percent and 5 percent. Industrial production is expected to grow by 4 percent, down from 8 percent the year
A young boy gathers the bagasse (waste material) from sugar cane to be used by the Pakistan Paper Corporation, whose modernization and expansion has been assisted by both the IBRD and IFC.
before. This slackening of growth resulted from several factors, the more important of which were a decline in agricultural income, persistent (though lessened) power shortages, and a textile strike in Bombay. This combination will bring down the economywide rate of growth in gross domestic product (GDP) to around 2 percent, as compared with 8 percent and 5.2 percent in the previous two years. While somewhat disappointing, the performance of the Indian economy in fiscal 1983 was significantly stronger than that which followed the 1979 drought; then, food-grain production was 109 million tons, and GDP fell by about 5.5 percent.
There were, therefore, positive aspects to the past year's performance. Inflation was held to 2.2 percent in 1982. down from 9 percent the year before and down, as well, from the high rates in previous years of drought. Food prices did rise during the summer of 1982, but successful eco-
nomic-management policies (primarily a blend of domestic procurement and distribution efforts and timely efforts to import 4.5 million tons of wheat) were able to mitigate this and some other adverse effects of the drought. Despite the need to import agricultural products to offset lower levels of domestic production, the total volume of imports grew by less than 1 percent, thanks to significant gains in domestic production of cement, fertilizer, and other basic goods. Coupled with growth in the volume of exports of about 5 percent and a slight improvement in terms of trade, India's balance-of-payments position improved in fiscal 1983. The current-account deficit, which had been $3.8 billion and 2.5 percent of GDP in fiscal 1982, declined to $3.4 billion and to 2.2 percent of GDP.
The year's improvement in the balance of payments, to a significant degree, is the result of India's development and adjustment efforts over the past three years. The improvement (in terms of current-account deficit as a percent of GDP) would have been even greater had not the drought both increased the need for imports of food and decreased the growth in GDP. Nevertheless, it is expected that the country's balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years, for India's development strategy itself generates a significant demand for imports. Imports of raw materials, capital goods, and modern technology and equipment are required to allow for additional capacity, increase existing utilization of capacity, and enhance efficient production for both domestic and export markets. India's efforts to reduce imports through efficient substitution of domestic production have yielded substantial benefits, particularly in terms of oil imports, which have dropped from 64 percent of consumption in fiscal 1980 to 47 percent in fiscal year 1983. However, demand for India's exports, while sufficient in some product categories to allow for some volume growth over the last two years, continues to be adversely affected by the world recession. That the country has been able to attain significant growth in exports in such conditions is heartening.
In the past few years, bottlenecks in key areas of infrastructure have caused major problems for the economy and constrained economic growth and performance. India's Sixth Five-Year Plan, adopted in 1981, in addition to concentrating on an easing of infrastructural constraints (particularly in power and transport), focuses on export promotion, production of import substitutes where economically justifiable, implementation of an energy program designed to encourage conservation and expand domestic production, and maintenance of growth in the agricultural sector. Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks has come primarily from better utilization
of existing capacity. In the future, however, most improvements must result from added capacity—thus the importance of adequate resource mobilization to allow for the full implementation of the Sixth Plan. India has made a major effort in this direction by raising railway tariffs, increasing the retail prices of petroleum products, and also by raising prices of a number of items produced by public enterprises. Even if the domestic-savings effort, which is already quite high (over 20 percent) is increased, resources necessary for investment will remain tight. External finance, therefore, will continue to be an important supplement to India's investment resources.
This increasing requirement for external finance comes at a time when concessional aid has become scarce. Aid disbursements in real terms from all donors declined throughout the 1970s and, based on known commitment levels, are expected to continue to decline. Terms of aid from the World Bank, in particular, have hardened, resulting from the increasing share of IBRD lending relative to that of IDA. The average cost of all borrowing will also continue to rise as a more-creditworthy India increases its access to commercial sources of finance.
Governments Act to Adjust
After a period of sustained growth and development, Bangladesh suffered setbacks in both fiscal years 1981 and 1982. Economic growth, which averaged 5.8 percent a year between fiscal 1975 and 1981, slowed down to 1 percent in fiscal 1982. The balance of payments and the budget came under severe pressure, and investment levels—both public and private—had to be cut back. In the past year, government policies designed to cope with these economic difficulties, as well as the decline in oil prices, partially alleviated balance-of-payments and budgetary pressures; nevertheless, economic growth is expected to be only about 2.5 percent as a result of drought and recession in the economy.
The global recession and poor harvests have both contributed to Bangladesh's recent economic difficulties. The international recession severely affected export demand for, and prices of, raw jute and jute goods and of other important exports and led to a 35 percent decline in the terms of trade between fiscal 1980 and fiscal 1982. During the same period, inflows of aid stagnated. Since these inflows finance about half of total imports, and since import-based taxes provide 60 percent of government revenues, the government's ability to finance both imports and its development budget was reduced. In addition, a series of poor crops, caused by drought, necessitated substantial imports of food grains on commercial terms (further straining a weak balance of payments), reduced rural incomes
and the demand for goods and services produced by the nonagricultural sector, and generally reduced economic activity throughout the past two years.
The government responded to these difficulties in fiscal 1982 by restraining import growth through restrictions on imports and bank credit, by depreciating the taka by 22 percent in relation to the US dollar, and by cutting back public-sector development spending. In the past year, several further bold measures were taken to improve the budgetary situation. They included a further 20 percent depreciation of the taka, substantial increases in prices of key commodities and services supplied by the public sector, a significant effort to increase resource mobilization, a reordering of the public-investment program, and a limitation of its size to available resources. A sharp increase in workers' remittances and increased aid inflows (donors have provided more food and commodity aid) have also helped Bangladesh cope with the external-payments situation of the past year.
A continuation of the government's recent policies should help to place the Bangladesh economy on a footing that would permit it to benefit from an international economic recovery. However, the scope for increasing exports in the short term is limited, although export incentives are being progressively increased. Special emphasis is also being placed on the production of food grains and fertilizers, the substitution of imported petroleum by domestic natural gas, increasing the role of the private sector in economic activity, and on devising a new trade and industrial policy to foster efficient industrialization. Nevertheless, the balance-of-payments and budgetary outlook for the next few years will remain tight, and unless external-resource inflows are substantially increased, overall growth of investment and economic activity will be adversely affected.
Despite several adverse circumstances—and especially the world recession—Pakistan's real GDP is projected to grow at about 6.2 percent in fiscal 1983, equaling the mark achieved in the previous year. In contrast, both balance-of-payments and budgetary positions have deteriorated, largely as a result of the slowdown in the world economy and falling commodity prices. Mainly as the result of the depressed state of the world rice and cotton markets, exports have been sharply lower in the past two years. Pakistan's balance-of-payments situation, as fiscal year 1983 drew to a close, remained manageable, however. Contributory factors were improvements in world trade and commodity prices late in the year, the favorable effect on migrant remittances and a number of minor exports of adjustments in the value of the rupee, and the continued flow of resources from the IMF's Extended Fund and Compensatory Financing Facilities. Despite the 17 percent increase in its external indebtedness since 1978, debt servicing is not as
pressing a problem for Pakistan as it is for some other developing countries. In fiscal 1982. Pakistan's public and publicly held guaranteed external debt amounted to only 25 percent of total GNP, and debt service was only 13.6 percent of the exports of goods and services.
Supported by an Extended Fund Facility arrangement and a structural-adjustment credit from IDA, tighter demand-management and supply-side measures have been adopted to promote structural adjustment and to increase efficiency and production in those key sectors that can contribute to better balance-of-payments performance. In agriculture, producer prices have been raised to bring them more in line with international prices. Subsidies on fertilizers and herbicides have been reduced, while efforts have been made to increase the supply of inputs and the availability of credit. Investment is being increasingly directed towards rehabilitation of the irrigation system and improvement of water conservation and of drainage facilities in waterlogged and saline areas. Water charges have also been increased to defray higher operational and maintenance costs. In industry, steps have been taken to improve the climate for the private sector through constitutional guarantees against arbitrary nationalization, tax and trade incentives, and simplified investment-sanctioning procedures. To reorient the trade regime towards exports, incentives for exports have been increased and a program of phased import liberalization initiated. In the field of energy, government initiatives include a strengthening of energy-planning, encouragement of private-sector participation in energy development (through increases in producer prices for oil and gas to encourage increased exploration and development), and increases in consumer prices of oil and gas to encourage conservation.
Affected by the Weather
Growth of GDP in Sri Lanka is estimated at 5.1 percent in real terms in 1982, compared with an annual average growth of 6.5 percent over the previous four years. The slower growth is explained by a drop in tea and paddy production—partly- due to drought—and a contraction in construction activities, apparently influenced by the uncertainty of an election year in Sri Lanka and the restraint in government spending on housing and urban development. Budgetary pressures remained strong in 1982, and the overall budget deficit increased from 15.7 percent of GDP in 1981 to 17.4 percent in 1982. Net foreign financing continued to fill about half the financing gap, and the growing share of foreign commercial borrowing by both the public and private sectors had adverse implications for Sri Lanka's debt-service burden. Payments of interest and amortization on all external debt are now equiv-
alent to about 20 percent of total exports of goods and services.
A number of adjustments are needed to alleviate continued large deficits in the budget and the balance of payments. Steps have been taken to add to the revenues of the central government by increasing import duties and business-turnover taxes. These, together with restraint in spending, are expected to reduce substantially the need for deficit financing from domestic sources during 1983; a more comprehensive program to encourage production of both exports and import substitutes is also essential. A heavy dependence on both foreign remittances and inflows of foreign capital makes Sri Lanka particularly vulnerable to repercussions from the changing attitudes and financial situations in the Middle East and donor countries.
Nepal's economic performance continues to be heavily influenced by the weather and by international demand for its exports. Good harvests in 1981 and 1982 resulted in real GDP growth of between 4 percent and 5 percent in those years. Increased agricultural output, in turn, usually results in strong export gains (as in 1981). particularly of food grains. In 1982, however, despite another sharp increase in rice exports, total export earnings remained at the previous year's level as a result of a decline in jute and nontraditional exports (hides, skins, handicrafts). Thus, despite a substantial slowdown in the growth of imports, Nepal's trade deficit widened further to 10.2 percent of GDP in 1982. As in previous years, about two-fifths of this deficit was offset by net earnings from tourism, other services, and remittances; further increases in foreign grants and concessional loans resulted in an overall balance-of-payments surplus. Nepal's external debt is currently less than 10 percent of gross domestic product, and its annual debt-service ratio is less than 2 percent of GDP. To address its weakening trade balance, the government last year enacted a new trade policy aimed at promoting exports, substituting imports, and rationalizing trade.
Weak monsoons in fiscal 1983's growing season caused a decline in food-grain production during the past year estimated at 17 percent below the 4 million metric tons obtained in 1982. Quick procurement of emergency food grains by the government and assistance from donors staved off major shortfalls in supplies, but exports of food grains had to be curtailed. This development underscored the need to strengthen efforts at raising long-term agricultural productivity-through irrigation and better water management, added capability in the country's agriculture-extension service, an adequate and timely supply of fertilizers and other inputs, additional farmer credits, and improved marketing.
Export Boost Needed
Burma's real GDP is estimated to have grown by about 6 percent in fiscal 1983, supported by yet another record level of paddy production. Generally, however, Burma's economic performance over the past year has been seriously constrained by an unfavorable export market for the country's principal crops, particularly rice. Favorable agricultural production, combined with the slowdown in export growth, has led to a sharp increase in inventories of rice and other export-ables. The decline in real export earnings has had the effect of reducing public-sector revenues and restricting imports to essential intermediate and capital goods. However, Burma's overall external position weakened in 1982.
Various adjustment measures are now being taken in Burma to sustain growth with price stability in the face of adverse export-market conditions. In 1983, the growth of public investment (in nominal terms) is being held to 5 percent (as compared with 43 percent in 1982). Additional revenues are being sought through a strengthening of the tax administration. And, over the medium-term, the government has announced plans to diversify Burma's agricultural output into crops other than rice and to foster agroindustrial activities with export potential. To this end, the public-investment program is being focused more on export-oriented sectors within the framework of a new four-year plan.
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
The slowdown in global economic growth during fiscal year 1983 has formed the background to the difficult development and adjustment efforts of the Bank's member countries in the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa (EMENA) region. Despite the widely disparate social, economic, and political characteristics of these countries—with per capita incomes ranging from among the highest for current IBRD borrowers (such as Cyprus and Yugoslavia) to the very low per capita income levels of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Yemen Arab Republic (both recipients of IDA credits)—the need for adjustment to changing economic conditions represents a widely shared common denominator.
During the recent past, the international economic environment has been an unsettled one, and these countries have sought to adjust to significant fluctuations in energy and food prices, slower growth in the industrial economies,
increasing restrictions on international trade, and difficult conditions in the international financial markets as interest rates rose and private capital flows decreased substantially. Simultaneously, earlier domestic economic policies, which led to public-sector imbalance and uneconomic investments, have reinforced the need for adjustment. While in a number of countries the medium-term adjustment process may be well in place and is already bearing its first fruits, in others, only the first beginnings have been set in motion. With only a modest near-term recovery foreseen for the more developed economies, the task of adjustment is likely to continue to be a difficult one.
Oil Exporters: Less Room for Manoeuvre
Until recently, events had not forced the region's net oil-exporting borrowers to carry out comprehensive economic-adjustment programs. However, as a result of recent declines in prices of, and demand for, petroleum, coupled
with reduced financial flows through international capital markets, the process of adjustment has become imperative for them, also.
For several years, Egypt has benefited from an unprecedented growth in revenue from petroleum exports, earnings from the Suez Canal, emigrant remittances, and tourist receipts; yearly growth in gross domestic product (GDP) averaged over 8 percent. In 1982, however, as a result of the impact of the international recession on these sources of earnings, the country's current-account deficit widened to nearly 14 percent of GDP, its fiscal deficit reached 22 percent of GDP, and growth in GDP slowed. Inflation was at an officially estimated annual rate of 17 percent. Although a large proportion of capital inflows remains concessional, the burden of debt-service payments has increased moderately—to about 21 percent of the value of goods-and-services exports in fiscal year 1982. While some corrective measures have been taken to address this adverse turn of events, more comprehensive policy reforms are needed to help the economy sustain rapid economic growth and provide for increased employment. The policies should be designed to exploit more fully the economic potential of Egypt and should comprise measures aimed at increased mobilization of domestic resources, trade policies to encourage more rapid export growth and economically justified import
substitution, further alignment of domestic prices with opportunity costs, more efficient financial markets, and improved investment decisions in industry and agriculture. The need also exists to raise the productive efficiency and financial soundness of public-sector enterprises.
Algeria's recent economic-management policies—on both the external and domestic fronts— have cushioned the impact of destabilizing exogenous forces and supported initiation of a process of internal adjustment. During 1980, 1981,and 1982, growth of nonhydrocarbon GDP averaged about 7 percent. Imports have been constrained to fit within the limits permitted by exports and prudent management of foreign debt, while the growth in the budget of the public sector has been restrained. Concurrently, the authorities are implementing a program of governmental reorganization, regional and public-sector decentralization , financial restructuring of industrial and agricultural enterprises in the public sector, and incentives to small-scale activities in the private sector through credit and fiscal policies. The Bank has continued its dialogue with the government to identify those possible lending operations for which the Bank's contribution of staff and financial resources could be the most productive.
As a result primarily of a downturn in agricultural output, Tunisia's GDP growth rate in 1982 was a modest 1.5 percent. Concurrently, infla-
Irrigating a cotton field on the Adana plain in Turkey, an area developed with assistance from both the IBRD and IDA.
tion accelerated to 14 percent, while the current-account deficit and the overall government budget deficit were, respectively. 9 percent and 6 percent of GDP. As a consequence of three factors in 1983—better weather favoring the agriculture sector, growth of manufacturing output, and continued strong investment—GDP growth should recover to about 6 percent. As the economy is shifting to a net oil-importing position, weakness in the export prices of oil will not significantly affect the current-account deficit; more serious is the effect on the country's nonpetro-leum export earnings of the recession in Europe, which has depressed the growth of such earnings from the projections set out in the current (19821986) development plan. Over the medium term, the basic issues facing policymakers in Tunisia are the need for promoting employment creation to absorb a rapidly growing labor force and accommodation of the economy to a gradual reduction in net petroleum export earnings. Major reforms to promote the adjustment of the economy to the
post-hydrocarbon era are being implemented during the current plan period; measures are being taken to promote exports, expand employment, assist small enterprises, adjust energy and agricultural prices, liberalize the economy, and encourage regional development. The Bank's strategy, through its lending operations, as well as its economic and sector work, is to support actively these and other structural reforms.
Opportunities for Broader Adjustment
There are several countries in the region which, while having already introduced tentative stabilization measures to adapt their economies to changed circumstances, have yet to follow through with more comprehensive adjustment programs.
Since the latter part of the 1970s, Morocco has been beset by large fiscal and external-account imbalances. Its attempt to retrench on expansionary investment programs in the face of the sharp drop, in the mid-70s. of world prices for
phosphates—a principal export—was complicated by sharp increases in energy prices, in interest rates on international capital markets, and in imports of cereals induced by a severe drought in 1981. Growth in GDP, which had fallen to 4 percent a year during the period 1978-80, turned negative in 1981 and then recovered in 1982 (owing primarily to a good harvest). External debt service has increasingly become burdensome, despite increased access to concessional assistance since 1980. Additional adjustment measures, focusing on reducing the budgetary and external-account deficits, rationalizing the investment program of the public sector, redesigning trade policies to provide greater export incentives, and reducing distortions in the price system remain to be taken. The Bank's lending program supports such adjustment measures and emphasizes directly productive projects in agriculture, export promotion, efficient development of domestic energy resources, and education.
In Portugal, growth in GDP of 3.3 percent in 1982 far outstripped the average for the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). However, this growth was accompanied by a substantial worsening of the current-account deficit. Inflation continued at a relatively high rate of about 22 percent, and the budget deficit of the public sector is expected to be at about the level, as a percentage of GDP, of 1982. This fiscal imbalance, to a large extent, has resulted from interest increases on the accumulated public debt, as well as from transfers to public-sector enterprises. The relatively large proportion (about 30 percent) of the country's external debt with near-term maturities further complicates the readjustment process, although the government is making considerable efforts to reduce this proportion. The government has moved to restore the escudo to an appropriate level through devaluation measures, to adjust domestic prices of important commodities, and adjustments in administrative prices have started to be implemented as a means of reducing subsidies, thus contributing to the reduction of the public-sector deficit. Domestic interest rates have been raised to generally positive real levels, and other monetary and fiscal policies have been tightened. The authorities face a substantial challenge in correcting this deterioration in the internal economic situation at a time of slow world economic growth. Simultaneously, major restructuring efforts have assumed a sense of urgency as Portugal moves to join the European Communities in the near future.
Through the introduction of vigorous demand-management and trade-policy measures, Romania has sought to correct the imbalances that devel-
oped during its rapid growth in the 1970s and that were aggravated by the changed environment on international capital markets. Aggregate growth of demand has been moderated through cutbacks in consumption and investment growth rates. Growth in GDP is estimated to have been about 4 percent in 1982, up from the 1981 rate of 3 percent. While consumption was constrained, investment grew by 3 percent. Special emphasis has been given to the expansion of energy production, exports, and import substitution. A remarkable turnaround in the current-account balance has occurred, from a deficit of $2.4 billion in 1980 to a surplus of $250 million in 1982. These efforts towards short-term stabilization have been accompanied by a more balanced blend of directives emanating from the central economic-planning authorities and by reforms of pricing mechanisms, interest rates, and exchange-rate policies to align domestic prices more closely with relative resource costs. As these policy initiatives progress further and permeate the resource-allocation processes, a resumption of economic growth rates in accord with the economy's longer-term prospects is entirely feasible.
At the start of the decade, Yugoslavia introduced a series of economic-stabilization measures to correct its deteriorating external-accounts situation. Aggregate demand was compressed, and GDP growth fell to 1.5 percent in 1981 and 0.5 percent in 1982; real investment levels fell in both years. With these stabilization measures in hand, the current-account deficit was reduced from $1.8 billion in 1980 to $750 million in 1981, and to less than $100 million in 1982. In addition to the exchange-rate policies and interest-rate policies already introduced, it is anticipated that further initiatives will be taken during calendar 1983 in the areas of trade policy, investment rationalization, and demand management. (This adjustment process is being supported by a concerted response of the Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the international financial community, which negotiated a package of financial support early in 1983 to assist Yugoslavia through its short-term problem of external financial liquidity.) These policies, which form part of the country's medium-term adjustment program, should provide a firm basis on which the economy can establish a sustainable rate of economic growth.
Progress in Structural Adjustment
A few of the active borrowing member countries in the region have already had in place for several years programs of structural adjustment in their economies.
In the case of Turkey, notable progress has been achieved since the initiation in 1980 of a major economic-reform program. Through a series of demand-management and trade-policy measures, the inflation rate has been reduced from 107
percent in 1980 to 25 percent in 1982, while an upsurge of exports, combined with modest import demand, has reduced the current-account deficit from 4 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in 1981 to 2 percent in 1982. Concurrently, GDP grew in 1981 and 1982 at over 4 percent, and growth is projected to approach 5 percent in 1983. The principal challenges on which the government is now concentrating are to: reinvigorate private investment to provide a firm basis for future sustained growth; increase the efficiency of public-sector enterprises by giving them greater operational autonomy and introducing financial discipline and a greater market orientation into their activities; reform the financial sector; liberalize imports further; and rationalize further the public-sector investment program. The Bank has been supportive of the government's reform program; four structural-adjustment loans have been approved since fiscal 1980, for a total of SI,180.3 million; numerous other project loans, totaling $1,458.9 million, have also been made.
The newest Bank member in the region, Hungary, is among those middle-income countries that are implementing a multifaceted program of economic adjustment that aims at harmonizing the growth of aggregate demand and resource availabilities to the changed external economic environment. The program's components are being implemented within a longer-term policy framework that is characterized by a greater reliance on prices, reduction of subsidies, macro-economic policy signals to guide economic decisionmaking, a broadening of participation in international trade, and an increase in the managerial and financial autonomy of enterprises. The combination of a modest (about 2 percent) growth of GDP in 1982 (led by a good harvest) and restraints and cutbacks in consumption and investment resulted in a deficit in Hungary's convertible-currency current account of only about $100 million in 1982; the account is projected to show a surplus of around $500 million in calendar 1983. External debt is anticipated to lessen slightly and its maturity structure to lengthen. During this first year of Hungary's membership in the IBRD, a comprehensive report on the economy was completed, and two loans, one for industrial restructuring and the other to support agricultural mechanization and grain storage, were approved by the Executive Directors.
Low-income Countries
IDA is currently active in only two countries in the region. In the Yemen Arab Republic, GDP growth in 1982—the first year of the new five-year plan period—was in the 4 percent-to-5 percent range, slightly less than the average for the previous plan period, but above the 3 percent figure
for 1981. The fiscal deficit reached a disquieting 17.5 percent of GDP in 1981, while the current-account deficit was 23 percent of GDP. The government reduced budgetary expenditures in 1982, and the investment program comprised only fully funded projects. Because the concessional element in the Yemen Arab Republic's public-sector external debt is large, the debt-service burden is a modest 5 percent of current-account receipts.
In December 1982, a major earthquake shook the rural province of Dhamar, killing 1,600 and leaving 150,000 people—a quarter of the population of that province—homeless. The Bank prepared a damage-assessment report focusing on the reconstruction needs—particularly housing—of the province. Partly as a result of that report, some donors have already provided grant funds for reconstruction; an IDA credit for that purpose is in an advanced state of preparation.
Provisional data for 1981 suggest that GDP growth in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen was between 6 percent and 8 percent, a propitious start for the 1981-85 Development Plan period. Tragically, in early 1982, unusually severe floods wrought widespread damage to productive infrastructure and caused severe crop losses. (IDA responded with a $7 million roads-rehabilitation credit.) The GDP growth rate in 1982, therefore, may fall to 4 percent or 5 percent; in addition, the relative price stability of recent years gave way as consumer prices increased by about 16 percent. The government budget deficit as a percentage of GDP remained high, at about 29 percent, as did the current-account deficit, at 32 percent of GDP. The external debt (around 68 percent of GDP) has not resulted in the past in burdensome service payments—3 percent of the sum of exports and substantial remittance receipts—owing to the highly concessional nature of most external finance. However, the rapid growth of imports arising from the country's ambitious development plan and flood-rehabilitation efforts suggests the need for a review and reassessment of priorities.
Assistance to Lebanon
During fiscal year 1983, the Bank responded to the urgent request of the Government of Lebanon that it play a central role in assessing the country's reconstruction needs and providing rapid assistance to repair the extensive damage to its economic and social infrastructure. Bank missions visited Lebanon in November 1982 and February 1983 and prepared a report reviewing the situation in priority sectors: transportation, water supply and sewerage, telecommunications, power, education, health, housing, and urban development. Specific projects and studies were identified which could provide the basis for a medium-term reconstruction program, and
the financial framework needed to support this program was assessed. This report, approved by the government, and widely distributed, can be used as a basis for discussions with potential donors on the financing of the reconstruction program. A meeting of potential donors is scheduled to take place in July 1983.
Capital-surplus, Oil-exporting Countries
In fiscal 1983. the decline of world oil prices and reduced production by most capital-surplus, oil-exporting countries caused a sharp fall in their oil incomes. These negative factors became especially acute towards the end of calendar year 1982 and affected the scope of anticipated development expenditures for 1983. Given the current relative excess production capacity, the short-run
stability of the pricing and production formulae recently agreed to by the OPEC producers may yet be subjected to further strain. Under the circumstances, there may be a need to cut back on planned investment programs and/or stretch out the completion of projects already begun. The consequences of this course of action would be adverse for the civil-works and contracting industries in several countries and could be deleterious to expatriate labor demand and thus the inflow of workers' remittances to a number of neighboring and Asian countries. Over the longer run. should export-revenue growth stagnate or even turn negative, the ability of capital-surplus, oil-exporting countries to continue to support bilateral and multilateral development-aid programs at current levels could also be affected.
Latin America and the Caribbean
During the past year, the economies of the countries of the Latin America and the Caribbean region experienced further deterioration. The magnitude, extent, and duration of the decline that occurred in output, employment, and income throughout the region has been unprecedented in the post-World War II period. Virtually every country in Latin America experienced a per capita decline in its real gross domestic product (GDP). The year 1982 thus stands in contrast with 1981, when all oil-exporting countries and even some oil importers continued to have positive per capita growth in GDP. The already difficult situation that developed in 1981 was compounded as the impact of the world recession spread to most Latin American countries. The region's GDP per capita declined 3 percent in 1982 and is now 5 percent below the level of 1980. The fall in gross domestic income per capita (a more accurate reflection of real
resource availability) since 1980 has been even greater (7 percent) as a result of the marked deterioration in the region's terms of trade. Thus, the impetus towards development was interrupted, as investments were scaled down or rephased.
The marked slowdown in economic growth and the external-debt difficulties that occurred in several countries in Latin America in 1982 were rooted in the external shocks and adjustment process of the previous decade. Performance of the Latin American economies following the first round of oil-price increases and the world recession of the mid-1970s was one of the strongest of any region in which oil-importing countries predominate. Their impressive response was achieved by increasing the availability of resources for expanding investment, output, and employment. External resources were increased by maintaining relatively high growth of exports and
by increased foreign borrowing. Increasing interdependence with the world economy, a secular trend for the past thirty years, accelerated in the second half of the 1970s.
The sharp deceleration of growth in the industrial countries since 1980. together with Latin America's increased interdependence with the world economy (and consequent greater vulnerability to external shocks), resulted in the deteriorating external position and slowdown of growth that has occurred in most countries in the region since 1980. High real rates of interest in international capital markets, declining demand for their exports in industrial countries, collapse of newly developed markets in some oil-exporting countries outside the region, severely depressed prices for major export commodities (copper, lead, nickel, silver, and tin among metals and coffee, wheat, sugar, soybeans, corn, and fishmeal among foodstuffs), increased protection in several important trading partners, and a decline in intra-Latin American trade operated to reduce growth in all Latin American countries. While the entire region experienced difficulties in 1982 as a consequence of the adverse external environment, some of the problems could have been influenced, to a certain extent, by domestic policies and the unique circumstances of each country.
The second round of oil-price increases in 1979— 80 and continued high levels of external borrow-
ing made it possible for most oil-exporting countries in Latin America to maintain ambitious development programs and high rates of economic growth through 1981 despite a weakening world economy. A softening of world petroleum markets in 1981 and 1982, however, resulted in considerable pressure on the balance of payments of these countries. To stem the deterioration in their reserve and payments positions, most were forced to reduce their external borrowing and development expenditures; for the first time in over a decade, their economies showed no growth. While it is true that these countries have increased their dependence on petroleum revenues, the large investments they made in the 1970s are expected to contribute to accelerated growth in the second half of the 1980s.
Decline of Trade
One of the most striking changes that occurred in Latin America during the past year was the decline in the region's international trade. During the 1970s, expansion of trade provided many of the countries in Latin America an avenue for growth, industrialization, and diversification of their economies. Export earnings grew rapidly in that decade compared with the rest of the developing world. Sustained expansion of exports provided the resources to acquire the imported goods and technology essential for sustaining accelerated investment, technological innova-
A train station in Santa Maria, Colombia. Cumulative tending by the World Bank for railways now exceeds $.1,700 million.
tion. and growth in productivity. In 1982, Latin America's export earnings declined by about 10 percent, the first such decline in over three decades. This decline was mostly the result of the sharp fall in world prices of the region's major exports.
To curb the deficits in most Latin American countries' balance of payments and to reduce financing requirements, which rose steadily after 1977. governments in the region were forced to cut imports. This action had an adverse effect on economic growth throughout Latin America. The value of imports fell by 20 percent during 1982; most of this fall (84 percent) represented reductions in the volume of imported goods.
The decline in trade was widespread. Only Colombia expanded both its imports and its export earnings. As a result of restrictive demand-management and import policies. Latin America's merchandise trade balance moved from deficit in 1981 to a surplus of $9 billion in 1982. However, an explosive rise in factor payments abroad, the result of higher interest payments on external borrowing, absorbed most (80 percent) of the additional resources generated by a strengthened trade balance. Factor payments abroad doubled from 1980 to 1982 and are now equivalent to 40 percent of exports. The net result of these large swings in the components of the current account was a reduc-
tion in the region's current-account deficit from $38 billion in 1981 to $33 billion in 1982. Thus, despite the sharp rise in factor payments abroad, most countries in Latin America were able to reduce the deficit in their current accounts and. as a consequence, reduce their recourse to foreign borrowing, as well.
Reduced Capital Flows
During 1982, there was a marked decline in capital flows to Latin America. In previous years, such flows had made it possible to finance sizable current-account deficits and to sustain high levels of investment, growth, and employment. By contrast, the principal mode of adjustment to external imbalance forced on most Latin American countries in 1982 was reduced growth. Net disbursements to the region fell to half the 1981 level. This marked decline was the result of the increased cost of borrowing, a deliberate effort by several governments to reduce external borrowing, and of greater caution on the part of commercial banks. Given the continued rise in interest payments and declining net disbursements, net transfers to Latin American countries in 1982 were negative for the first time in the post-World War II period. However, some countries have had negative net transfers on medium- and long-term debt over the period 1979-1982.
For the first time in over a decade, Latin American countries were forced to finance a major portion of their current-account deficits by drawing down their foreign-exchange reserves. The reserve loss in the region totaled $11 billion in 1982. All countries in the region, with the exception of Peru and El Salvador, experienced falling foreign-exchange reserves. Latin America's international reserves had by year-end declined to $34 billion, equivalent to just two months of the region's imports of goods and services.
The Caribbean Countries
The economies of the Caribbean countries continued in 1982 to be buffeted by the ill winds of the international recession. These small, open, typically island economies have a highly vulnerable export sector concentrated in just four activities—production of sugar, bauxite/alumina, and bananas and tourism. During 1981, the demand for their exports dropped sharply, in 1982. further drops in export volume were minimal, but declines in prices, some to record real post-war lows, put further pressure on already badly strained foreign-exchange resources. Moreover, as most Caribbean currencies are tied to the US dollar, appreciation of that currency, together with devaluations in several Latin American countries, reduced the competitiveness of Caribbean products in industrial-country markets. Finally, financial difficulties in their oil-rich neighbors. Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela, cut sharply into flows of aid to Caribbean countries.
The adverse trend in the balance of payments was reflected in the growth performance of these economies. Real per capita income growth rates were lower in 1982 than in 1981: for Barbados. Belize, Guyana, and Jamaica, they were negative. While the early months of 1983 appear to indicate the beginning of a mild upturn, it will be quite some time before these economies fully recover.
The mini-economies of many Caribbean countries possess limited resources, both human and financial. As a result, they must rely on export expansion and diversification of their economic base to attain long-term economic viability. External assistance is required in relatively large amounts. In view of the limited creditworthiness of these countries, much of the external assistance must be on concessional terms, and a substantial portion of available concessionary assistance must be directed toward implementing an export-oriented development strategy.
The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development continues its role in the coordination of assistance to its developing member countries. The next meeting of the Group
as a whole will take place in December 1983; during the past year, ad hoc meetings were held for Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
Restructuring External Debt
During the past decade, the countries of Latin America increased their medium-term and long-term public external debt5 by an average of 23 percent annually, slightly higher than that of other developing countries (19 percent). Latin America now has the largest external debt (public and private medium-term and long-term debt is estimated at $203 billion) of any region in the developing world. This debt is concentrated in a relatively few countries: Argentina, Brazil, Chile. Mexico, and Venezuela. Together, they account for 75 percent of the region's total outstanding debt.
Many of the semi-industrial countries of Latin America are at a stage similar to that of North America in the late 1800s, when foreign capital played a major role in accelerating development. Transformation of these economies was substantial between 1950 and 1980. During this period, population more than doubled, the pace of economic growth was rapid, industrialization and urbanization accelerated, and significant progress was made in health, education, and in the provision of basic social services. These impressive gains were achieved through large investments in productive capacity and economic and social infrastructure.
The flow of external resources to Latin American countries accelerated the pace at which these countries have achieved their development objectives. Expansion of resources provided the basis for the rapid growth of the region's trade with the rest of the world, which occurred during the past decade and which itself required increased financing from abroad in the form of short-term, self-liquidating trade credits. From the longer-term developmental perspective, the countries of Latin America will continue to be net capital importers for the foreseeable future.
Superimposed on the secular requirement for external resources to finance infrastructure, industrialization, and modernization of agriculture was the need on the part of the oil-importing countries of the region for temporary adjustment financing to ensure the continuity of their
txeept where noled. the external-debt figures presented in this section arc based on public and publicly guaranteed medium-term and long-term external debt outstanding and disbursed tit end-1981 as reported to the World Bank. There are currently no reliable estimates tor short-term debt (maturities of less than one year) and private-sector debt without a government guarantee, hstimatcs of this debt range from S42 billion to $75 billion and S20 billion to $60 billion, respectively.
growth and development in the face of the post-1973 disruptions in the world economy.
As noted, following the first round of oil-price increases and the world recession of the mid-1970s, most Latin American countries that were in a position to do so, borrowed abroad to ease adjustment to the deteriorating external environment. The countries that were most successful in sustaining the impetus of development in the face of these external shocks simultaneously expanded investment, output, employment, and trade. This expansion required that appropriate export, savings, investment, and production incentives (including pricing policies) be adopted to ensure adequate mobilization of domestic savings and the desired allocation of resources.
This process was critically dependent on the availability of external finance. Such a mode of adjustment benefited the capital-importing countries—provided the borrowed resources were used to accelerate economic development and attention was given to expanding export earnings from which to service the incremental debt. It also benefited the capital-exporting countries by supporting growth of the world economy and demand for their exports.
The most striking change in the region's external borrowing during this period of adjustment was the shift away from official and bilateral sources of finance providing concessional assistance to commercial sources. The share of Latin America's total external debt on commercial terms has increased steadily over the past decade; it is now above 95 percent. Countries in Latin America have made considerable progress over the past several decades in expanding their economies, and their capacity to carry increased debt has also grown. Increased indebtedness, however, has had the effect of dramatically increasing the vulnerability of Latin American countries to interest-rate fluctuations in the Eurodollar market, since most of the debt that was contracted was at variable interest rates. From only 3 percent of the region's external debt in 1970. variable-rate debt has risen to over two-thirds of the region's debt. For other developing countries at present, variable-rate debt comprises 21 percent of the total.
Average terms of total Latin American debt have hardened over the past decade as a result of the greater reliance on commercial sources (average interest rate of 14.2 percent, maturity in 10.1 years, with a 3.7-year grace period at present, as compared with an average interest rate of 7.1 percent, maturity of 14.3 years, with a grace period of 3.6 years in 1970). Rapid growth of borrowing, the shift in composition of that debt, and the consequent hardening of terms have resulted in rapid growth of the debt-service burden on countries in the region. In addition, most
Latin American countries have taken on a greater amount of short-term debt during the past two years, making roll-overs increasingly necessary. The proportion of outstanding debt to gross national product (GNP) for the region as a whole has increased from 18 percent in 1970 to a current 30 percent. The debt-service ratio of countries in the region has risen from 26 percent in 1970 to 57 percent.6 This increase in the debt-service burden has been concentrated in relatively few countries, most of which now have high debt-service ratios.
While the quality of management of external borrowing has varied considerably among countries, such borrowing generally has played a positive role by contributing to the sustained expansion of imports needed to accelerate investment and growth of output. Avoidance of liquidity problems for those countries that were the heaviest borrowers was crucially dependent on three external conditions:
• that any recession in the industrial countries and disruption of world trade would be of short duration (that is, disruption would follow the pattern of previous recessions that had occurred in the post-World War II period);
• that real interest rates would stay within the historic range that had prevailed over the previous three decades; and
• that commercial banks would provide appropriate levels of net transfers of funds to borrowing countries.
In the event, expectations throughout the industrial countries and Latin America concerning these conditions were proven incorrect.
The result has been three fundamental mismatches. First, there has been a mismatch between foreign-exchange earnings of the countries of Latin America over the past two years and the rising debt burden that occurred on their variable-rate debt. Second, is that between the maturity structure of the debt and the gestation periods of the projects that these resources are financing. Third, is a mismatch between the capacity of the public sector to save and the requirements of their large investment programs.
To aggravate the situation further, commercial banks became more cautious in 1982 in the aftermath of the difficulties experienced by several Eastern European countries in servicing their external debt. Total external debt in Latin America increased 7 percent in 1982, or at one-third the pace of previous years.
Attacking the Problems
Since the second half of 1982. the situation has improved. There is increased awareness
11 On public and private debt.
throughout the region that primary responsibility for overcoming these problems rests with the countries themselves. To enhance the mobilization of resources and improve allocative efficiency, a number of countries are moving to reduce the distortions that have been created by some pricing, subsidy, and interest-rate policies. The countries with the largest debt problems are attempting to restructure the maturity of their debts; some are also attempting to curb the growth of consumption and restructure their investment programs. Countries are also taking action to expand and diversify their exports, add productive capacity to substitute for imports where this can be done efficiently, and adopt financial policies that will discourage capital flight and attract foreign capital.
Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico have adopted measures aimed at attacking the disequilibria that gave rise to the liquidity crisis. These measures, as well as those of many smaller Latin American countries, have received the support of the International Monetary Fund, official bilateral lenders, other international financial institutions, and commercial banks. Participation of commercial banks, critical to the successful resolution of the short-term liquidity problems these countries face, took the form of restructuring short-term debt into longer-term obligations, as well as provision of moderate amounts of new capital.
Concurrently, there have been changes in the external environment faced by most countries in the region that, if they persist, will make these liquidity problems more manageable. First, nominal interest rates in the Eurocurrency market have declined sharply since mid-1982. The six percentage-point decline in the London Interbank rate that has occurred since mid-1982 reduced the interest payments of Argentina. Brazil, and Mexico by S7 billion annually (or 26 percent of total interest payments that would have been due in 1982 had there been no drop in rates). Second, current-account deficits in the balance of payments of most Latin American countries declined in 1982 and are continuing to decline. Third, there is now evidence in the industrial countries of a resumption of economic growth, which is expected to lead to a resurgence of world trade. Recovery is by no means certain, however, and it is now more important than before
that there be no lag between perceptions and realities in the world economy.
For the oil-exporting countries, the situation is today more difficult. The external position of these countries deteriorated rapidly after mid-1981 as world petroleum markets weakened and demand for their nonpetroleum exports declined. The cumulative effect of several years of large current-account deficits in their balance of payments, stemming in part from large development programs and insufficient savings, gave rise to steady increases in their external indebtedness. While the decline in nominal interest rates during the second half of 1982 reduced the debt-service payments on their variable interest-rate debt, lower petroleum prices reduced these countries' export earnings. Most have had to cut imports, reduce development spending, and curb economic growth.
Over the long term, Latin American countries, including the oil exporters, are well positioned to resume strong growth, accelerate development, and to reduce gradually their dependence on external financing. Rates of population growth have begun to decline in most countries. Simultaneously, domestic-savings efforts have showed improvement throughout the region. Latin America has considerable human resources, unexploited energy and mineral resources, and great potential for achieving further productivity increases in agriculture and industry. Development of the region's infrastructure is greater than that of the rest of the developing world. The foundation for strong expansion of sustained production already exists.
Nevertheless, the problems that Latin American countries face in the short-term are formidable. It is likely that the achievement of developmental objectives will have be delayed. The liquidity problems that these countries are facing are expected to continue for some time. Over the medium term, however, these problems should prove manageable—provided economic health is restored on a worldwide basis, expansion of international trade is resumed, and the countries of the region implement and sustain policies that increase domestic savings, promote and diversify exports, improve allocative efficiency, enhance public-sector financial viability, and improve income distribution.
Chapter Five Executive Board
With the exception of certain powers specifically reserved to them by the Articles of Agreement, the Governors of the Bank have delegated their powers for the conduct of the general operations of the Bank to a Board of Executive Directors that performs its duties on a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters. There are twenty-one Executive Directors: each Director selects an Alternate. As provided for in the Articles of Agreement, five Directors are appointed by the five members having the largest number of shares of capital stock and the rest are elected by the Governors representing the other members. The President of the Bank is Chairman of the Board.
The Executive Directors fulfill dual responsibilities. They represent their constituents' interests and concerns to the Board and management when determining policy or considering individual projects, as well as the interests and concerns of the Bank to the country or countries that appointed or elected them. The Directors, therefore, act as a two-way channel of communication between the Bank and the member countries. Since the Bank operates on the basis of consensus (formal votes are rare), this dual role involves frequent communication and consultations with governments so as to reflect accurately their views in Board discussions.
Policy is decided by the Executive Directors within the framework of the Articles of Agreement. The Directors consider and decide on the loan and credit proposals made by the President. They are also responsible for presentation to the Board of Governors at its Annual Meeting of an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, the Annual Report on the operations and policies of the World Bank, and any other matter that, in their judgment, requires submission to the Board of Governors. Matters may be submitted to the Governors at the Annual Meeting or at any time between Annual Meetings.
The growing volume and complexity of Bank operations have been accompanied by detailed consideration and determination of an increasing number of policy matters in recent years. The Articles of Agreement are general enough to give the Executive Board sufficient flexibility to adjust Bank policies to the realities of a changing world. It does so in three general areas:
a) By its annual oversight of the financial and
operating programs, and administrative budgets, it determines the allocation of financial and staff resources for the coming year, informing itself, in the process, of staff forecasts of expected developments during the next five years:
b) By reviewing specific policy proposals, either annually (for example, on the allocation of net income, staff compensation, the research program) or periodically (for example, the Bank's capital requirements, financial policies, lending terms, sectoral priorities), it determines the direction of Bank policies; and
c) By reviewing evaluations of completed Bank projects and of the Bank's experience in individual sectors and with particular policies, and by considering proposals for future evaluation activities, the Board ensures that the Bank and member countries are able to benefit from the lessons of experience.
This pattern is evident in the major policy decisions made in fiscal 1983. Thus, in accordance with (a), the Executive Directors set the IBRD lending program for fiscal 1984 at S12.000 million, with a $3,300 million IDA program entailing, together, about 261 lending operations.
They considered the financial and operating programs, and administrative budgets, and the annual report on the Bank's research program. In the second half of fiscal 1983, they conducted the mid-year review of the fiscal 1983 administrative budgets and the fiscal 1983 lending program, and considered the Bank's fiscal 1984 financial and operating programs and extension of IBRD/IDA programs through fiscal 1987, and the fiscal 1984 administrative budgets.
In accordance with (b). the Executive Directors gave considerable attention to financial policy matters during the past fiscal year.
In mid-1982, they approved IBRD authority to borrow in fiscal 1983 up to $1.5 billion in short-term notes, completely new to the IBRD. Also approved was the pool-based variable lending rate which, over time, will reduce the IBRD's existing exposure to interest-rate risk. Later in fiscal 1983. in order to expand the discount-note program, the Directors authorized an increase in the short-term US-dollar borrowings from $1.5 billion to S2.0 billion. Also, in a review of the IBRD's liquidity policy, they approved new target levels of liquidity and agreed that, to implement these.
the IBRD's borrowing program for fiscal 1983 could be increased by SI billion, from $9.8 billion to $10.8 billion. With the expected rapid growth in loans disbursed and outstanding requiring substantial additions to reserves, the Directors undertook a review of the IBRD's reserve policy and agreed on reserve objectives. Also, they agreed on criteria for the allocation of net income. Before the end of the fiscal year, the Directors had completed a general review of the new borrowing practices and lending-rate policy.
As another important response to the changes in the Bank's financial environment, the Executive Directors agreed that the Bank should commence a pilot program, for a trial period of two years, of offering new instruments for cofinancing with commercial banks. The Executive Directors will be apprised of the progress of the new cofinancing instruments; the first phase of the operation will be reported on early in calendar 1984 and periodically thereafter. It was also agreed that much more action was needed, including continued expansion of the Bank's operational program, particularly in a period when other sources of capital were more restricted and the need for increased capital was great. This meant that, at the appropriate time, the Directors should consider selective and general capital increases.
In light of the further deterioration of the world economic environment, the Bank revised its 1983 and 1984 fiscal-year programs to assist better its borrowing member countries with policy advice and special financial assistance to maintain the maximum possible level of development activities and minimize the erosion of future growth prospects. The Executive Directors approved a program of special assistance to member countries for 1983 and 1984 which includes expanded structural-adjustment lending, sector-adjustment support, and the financing of an increased share of project costs.
The Executive Directors considered a report entitled, "World Bank's Poverty Focus." and endorsed its general conclusion that a balanced strategy of growth, combined with poverty alleviation, provides the best general framework for development in the 1980s. This policy should remain a key and integral part of the Bank's overall development and lending strategy.
The Directors considered a report on the future of the Economic Development Institute and approved in principle a five-year program designed to make the Institute more responsive to the needs of developing countries.
They considered the 1983 World Development Report and agreed that the Report should be transmitted to the Development Committee as a staff paper, and be published.
The Directors approved the appointments of the selection panel for the Robert S. McNamara Fellowships.
Before the end of the 1983 fiscal year, they received, for later discussion, staff studies on the proposed multilateral investment-insurance agency.
The Directors also lowered the front-end fee charged by the IBRD, and approved a streamlining of arrangements for the Project Preparation Facility, which is designed to meet the needs of member countries for assistance in accelerating project preparation and implementation. Also, in terms of enhancing the resources available to IDA, they endorsed arrangements for special contributions to the Association.
Annual reports with which the Directors dealt related to project implementation and supervision, the activities of the Joint Audit Committee, the IBRD/IDA financial statements, the Economic Development Institute, and the Staff Retirement Plan.
In addition to formal, regular Board meetings, the Directors meet as the Committee of the Whole to discuss certain matters prior to their submission to the Board for formal action. They also meet informally as frequently as required. Periodically, the Executive Directors hold seminars with Bank management that permit more informal discussion than can take place at regular Board meetings. Topics covered by the Committee of the Whole and in seminars during the past fiscal year included cofinancing with commercial banks, external relations, the Bank's research program, rates of return in the Bank's project work, liquidity policy, methodologies for updating the Bank's operational per capita income guidelines, the future of the EDI, the IBRD's lending plans and capital requirements, and borrowings from central banks.
As a result of the structural changes in the working of the Development Committee, the involvement of the Executive Directors in the determination of the Committee's work program, and its work generally, has continued to increase. These changes have continued to be reflected, in an increasing measure, in all the preparatory work undertaken for the meetings of the Committee, held in September 1982 in Toronto, Canada, and in April 1983, in Washington, DC. The Directors participate in all the meetings of the Development Committee.
Three standing committees of the Board have been established to aid the Executive Directors in carrying out their duties. They are: the Committee on Directors' Administrative Matters, the Joint Audit Committee, and the Committee on Staff Compensation Issues.
The Committee on Directors' Administrative Matters was established in 1968. It considers.
makes recommendations, and reports its findings to the Executive Directors for their decision on matters of adminstrative policies relating to Executive Directors. Alternates, Advisers, and their staffs. Its terms of reference involve it in a wide spectrum of administrative matters and charge it with responsibility of assisting Executive Directors. The Committee coordinates many of its recommendations with a similar committee established by the Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund. In making its recommendations, the Committee endeavors to maintain a balance between the overall organizational and administrative objectives of the institution and the unique circumstances faced by the Executive Directors in discharging their responsibilities.
The Committee meets as frequently as necessary, normally about once a month. The membership consists of six Executive Directors for a term of two years after each regular election of the Executive Directors. Since December 1980, Said El-Naggar has served as its chairman.
The Joint Audit Committee was established in 1970, essentially to represent the shareholders of the Bank in maintaining vigilance over the soundness of the Bank's financial practices and procedures. In pursuing its responsibilities during fiscal 1983, the Committee nominated a firm of private, independent, internationally established accountants to conduct the annual audits of the IBRD, IDA, and the IFC, discussed with them the scope of their examination, and reviewed with them the annual audited financial statements and the opinions thereon. In addition, through meetings with the Bank's senior financial officers, the Committee sought to ensure that the Bank's financial affairs were properly conducted.
The Committee is also charged with the responsibility of satisfying itself that the Bank's operations evaluation and internal audit are adequate and efficient. It therefore reviewed the work programs of the Operations Evaluation and Internal Auditing Departments, the work in progress, desirable standards, and procedures of reporting. Through a subcommittee, it gave special attention to Project Performance Audit Reports to determine how well the Operations Evaluation Department carries out its assessment of individual projects. The Committee itself reviewed and identified those giving rise to policy issues that may be considered by the Executive Directors. Through another subcommitee,
the Committee examined a number of Internal Audit Reports to determine how well the Internal Auditing Department carries out its individual audits.
Of continuing concern to the Committee is the adequacy of the flow of financial information to the Executive Directors in order for the Board to discharge its responsibilities properly with respect to the financial policies of the Bank. Accordingly, the system for providing financial information to the Board is reviewed periodically by the Committee.
The Committee provides a continuous channel through which the internal and external auditors can communicate with the Executive Directors should the need arise. It meets as frequently as necessary, normally once a month. The Committee consists of eight Executive Directors, who are appointed by the Board for a term of two years after each regular election of Executive Directors. Since January 1983, Reinhard Munzberg has served as chairman of the Committee.
The Committee on Staff Compensation Issues was established in July 1980. Its terms of reference mandate it to keep under continuing review and, where appropriate, to advise the Executive Directors on questions of staff compensation policy and to maintain close liaison on all such matters with the Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), bearing in mind the need for general parallelism between the two institutions.
Since its inception, the Committee has addressed a wide range of topics. These include: issues arising from a review of expatriate benefits; modifications in the Financial Assistance Program; a revised version of Principles of Staff Employment to be adopted by the Executive Directors, as well as draft rules implementing them on sensitive issues such as separation and demotion; options for the 1983 "intervening year" salary review; the approach to the forthcoming 1984 major compensation review; and issues arising from a joint Bank-IMF review of their pension plans.
The Committee, which meets as frequently as necessary, consists of eight Executive Directors, who are appointed by the Executive Directors for a term of two years after each regular election of Executive Directors. Since December 1982. Bruno de Maulde has served as chairman of the Committee.
Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1983, by Sector*
Agriculture and Rural Development
BANGLADESH: IDA—$100 million. Increased agricultural production, additional employment opportunities, and higher income for the rural poor are to be generated through a second rural development project that includes provision of credit, institution-building measures, expansion of the Irrigation Management Program, and assistance to the Bangladesh Rural Development Board in providing a special package of inputs to the rural poor. Cofinancing is expected from CIDA ($17.2
million), the ODA ($10.5 million), and the UNDP ($1.6 million). Total cost: $176.9 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$68 million. Some 4,000 deep tubewells will be installed, the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation will be strengthened, and technical assistance and training provided to the Integrated Rural Development Program. Cofinancing is being extended by the ODA
*Data used in this section have been compiled from documentation provided at the time of project approval and year-end revisions.
($31.2 million) and the ADAB ($9 million). Total cost: $141.9 million.
BENIN: IDA—$20 million. Rural incomes will be raised and the production of both export and food crops increased through the strengthening and support of local institutions and the provision of research, extension, seed production, training, and social services. Cofinancing is being provided by the CCCE ($6.5 million) and the FAC ($3.7 million). Total cost: $62.7 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$400 million. A third agro-industries-credit project will provide financing for new construction, expansion and modernization of plant, and working capital to industries throughout the country that are processing agricultural products and inputs. Total cost: $1,200 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$67.8 million. A second rural development project in Bahia state seeks to raise the incomes and living standards of 45,000 small-farm families through improved land tenure and redistribution of land, improvements in research and extension activities, and expansion and upgrading of social services and physical infrastructure. Total cost: $173.6 million.
BURMA: IDA—$19 million. The project's main components include the construction of two medium-sized earthfill dams, one at Kin-mundaung, the other at Azin, construction of complementary irrigation-distribution systems, and rehabilitation of existing facilities. It will also provide year-around irrigation at both locations, and, at Azin, a water-supply component has been included for Mudon township. Total cost: $27.1 million.
BURMA: IDA—$14 million. About 6,000 farm families will benefit directly from a project that entails the construction of about 106 new deep tubewells and corresponding irrigation and drainage systems. The project also provides for agricultural support, including extension, applied research, fertilizers, and chemicals. Total cost: $22 million.
BURMA: IDA—$9 million. Rubber production is expected to increase through rehabilitation and expansion on eight government rubber estates and by establishing a 120-hectare estate at Sonsin. Cofinancing ($900,000) is to be provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $13.7 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: IDA—$10.4 million. A rural development project, which includes increasing the efficiency of the agricultural-extension service, provision of farmers' inputs, rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads, construction of village wells, support of applied
research and seed-multiplication programs, and improvement of five cotton ginneries, is expected to rehabilitate cotton production, increase food-crop production, and help the country's major rural-development institution become more effective. Cofinancing is expected from the CCCE ($8.5 million), the EDF ($5.8 million), the FAC ($3.9 million), and BADEA ($3.4 million). Total cost: $51.2 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$35.3 million; IDA—$45 million. More than 440,000 tons of grain and soybeans will be produced each year as a result of a project that will develop about 200,000 hectares of virgin land in Hei-longjiang province in the northeast of the country. Principal features of the project include drainage, provision of agricultural machinery and construction equipment, roads, housing, and supporting infrastructure. Training and technical assistance are included. Total cost: $271 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$63.4 million. Through provision of research infrastructure, technical assistance and training, and incremental operating costs, the capacity of the Colombian Agricultural Institute to improve and expand its research and technology-transfer activities will be increased. Total cost: $206.6 million.
CYPRUS: IBRD—$16 million. About 2,000 hectares of land in western Cyprus, dependent on rainfall for agriculture, will be supplied irrigation infrastructure so as to enable high-quality, high-value horticultural crops to be produced for export. Total cost: $46.2 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$81.2 million. Funds will be provided to four participating banks to finance agroindustrial investments throughout the country, including facilities for processing, marketing, and distributing basic foodstuffs and associated service and input activities. Technical assistance to the banks will also be made available. Total cost: $134.53 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$41.5 million. Almost half a million farm families could benefit from a project that provides financing for thirty irrigation and drainage-pumping stations serving about 1.2 million feddans in Upper and Lower Egypt. Total cost: $68.5 million.
HONDURAS: IBRD—$45 million. Some 36,000 persons are to benefit directly from a project that will provide funds for farm and nonfarm investments in rural areas, and for working capital complementary to such investments. In addition, institutional capacity to provide credit efficiently and to
assist farmers to develop bookkeeping and managerial skills will be improved. Total cost: $74.1 million. HUNGARY: IBRD—$130.4 million. As a result of increased investment in grain-storage capacity and improved storage management, post-harvest losses will be substantially reduced. In addition, the provision of additional onfarm mechanization will increase grain production. Total cost: $313.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$150 million. This four-year project will continue the government of Haryana's statewide canal- and watercourse-modernization program by lining about 2,900 kilometers of branch, distribu-tory, and minor canals; by lining about 7 million meters of watercourses; and by providing supplementary irrigation water through the installation of 325 augmentation tubeweils. Total cost: $300.3 million.
INDIA: IDA—$127 million. The first phase, covering a four-year period, of a large-scale development project in the states of Bihar, West Bengal, and Orissa—involving irrigation and associated support activities—will be financed. When complete, the scheme will provide a reliable water supply to more than a quarter million hectares of land, provide water for industrial and municipal use. and reduce flood damage. Total cost: $181.9 million.
INDIA: IDA—$101 million. A second tube-well project in Uttar Pradesh state will help finance a four-year time slice of the state government's development program in the public groundwater sector. In addition to constructing new tubeweils, provision of agricultural-support services, and technical assistance, ways to improve the performance of 18.000 existing tubeweils will be tested. Total cost: $192.2 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$22.7 million; IDA—$32 million. Agricultural production and farm incomes are expected to increase under a project that will upgrade the minor irrigation network and drainage systems in five existing irrigation schemes covering 95,000 hectares. The project also includes training, adaptive-research, and improved water-management components. Total cost: $78.1 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$46.2 million. A project involving the establishment of fuelwood, timber, and fodder plantations, soil-conservation measures, livestock and horticulture development, and research and training will initiate a program to minimize the degradation of the Himalayan ecosystem caused by the depletion of forest cover.
overgrazing, and bad land use. Total cost: $69.1 million.
INDIA: IDA—$33 million. The supply of fuelwood for domestic use in rural areas will be increased through the establishment of 44,000 hectares of plantations in Jammu and Kashmir state and 67,000 hectares in Haryana state. In addition, poles, bamboo, small timber, fodder, fruit, oilseeds, and other forest products will be provided from the plantations, jobs will be created for the rural poor, and the social Forestry Wings of the Forest Departments of both states will be strengthened. Total cost: $67.1 million.
INDIA: IDA—$31 million. A second phase of the Chambal Irrigation Project consists of two parts—improvements to canal-conveyance and drainage works begun under the first phase, along with construction of additional roads and prevention of ravine erosion, and intensive block development that includes groundwater development and provision of water-storage facilities, and upgrading and extending the water-distribution system. Total cost: $61.8 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$154.6 million. The project will assist the government's nucleus estates and smallholders' development program by establishing about 50,000 hectares of tree crops in East and West Kalimantan and South Sulawesi provinces. In addition, about 9,000 hectares will be cleared for smallholder houses, gardens, and food crops. About 19,000 smallholder families will benefit and another 4,000 estate-worker families will be provided with full-time employment. Cofinancing ($30 million) will be provided by the CDC. Total cost: $369.8 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$101 million. Financial assistance will be provided for studies to identify and evaluate suitable land for about 300,000 transmigrant families, for the settlement of 2,000 families adjacent to an earlier Bank-assisted project in South Sumatera, and for training, research, and environmental monitoring designed to assist transmigration-program development. Total cost: $187.3 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$63.5 million. A fourth transmigration project aims at settling 6,000 families on two sites in East Kalimantan. The project includes provisions for site preparation, settler relocation, agriculture and community development, and estate development. Total cost: $121 million.
IVORY COAST: IBRD—$32.2 million. By bringing into production 16,000 hectares of rubber planted under earlier Bank-assisted projects and establishing 7,400 hectares of
new planting, the production of rubber in the country will be more than doubled. Cofinancing is anticipated from the CCCE ($21.2 million) and the CDC ($14 million). Total cost: $98.5 million.
KENYA: IDA—$15 million. Sustained increases in agricultural production in thirty of Kenya's forty-one districts will be promoted by reorganizing and strengthening the country's agricultural-extension system and by improving linkages between research and extension. Cofinancing ($6 million) is expected from IFAD. Total cost: $28.6 million.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: IDA—$6.2 million. About 60,000 small-farm families will benefit directly from a project that will finance six subprojects all aimed at increasing agricultural production: small-scale irrigation, agricultural-production support; agricultural-road maintenance; livestock-feed production; sugar processing; and warehousing and inventory management. Cofinancing is expected from IFAD ($7.4 million), the OPEC Special Fund ($3.1 million), and the UNDP ($900,000). Total cost: $24.8 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$18 million. Through the rehabilitation of existing irrigation infrastructure, the supply of farm inputs, and management and institutional technical assistance, rice production and the marketed surplus of rice from the Lac Alaotra region will increase, thus saving foreign-exchange expenditures on rice imports. Cofinancing is to come from the CCCE ($10 million) and the FAC ($4.5 million). Total cost: $38 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$10.6 million. About 10,500 farm families will benefit directly from a project that constitutes the fourth phase of the country's National Rural Development Program. The project includes strengthening and expanding extension, training, and research activities, a livestock-development component, provision of marketing facilities, credit, and potable water, and the strengthening of project-management, monitoring, and evaluation capacities. Total cost: $12.5 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$5 million. About 400,000 farm families are expected to benefit from a project designed to increase their productivity by ensuring the reliable and timely availability of fertilizer throughout the country. Cofinancing of $10.3 million is anticipated from IFAD. Total cost: $30 million.
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$56.9 million. The project—including the replanting of about
15,100 hectares of old rubber areas, maintenance of 13,200 hectares, the establishment of 240 processing centers, the construction and rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes, farm and access roads, and small house orchards, and the development of 210 hectares of freshwater fishponds—will help raise the incomes of more than 20,000 low-income rubber smallholders and padi farmers. Total cost; $195.1 million.
MALDIVES: IDA—$5 million. Through strengthening of the fisheries infrastructure and the fuel-distribution system, by improving the fish-pricing mechanism, and by providing technical assistance for training and management, a second fisheries project aims to increase foreign-exchange earnings and incomes of fishermen from tuna exports. Cofinancing is to be provided by NORAD ($4.1 million), IFAD ($2 million), and the OPEC Special Fund ($900,000). Total cost: $12.6 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$138.4 million. Over a six-year period, more than 17,000 families will benefit from a rainfed development project that will increase crop production (primarily sorghum) on about 400,000 hectares, 240,000 of which are already cultivated. Total cost: $350.7 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$115 million. Credit will be provided to promote greater private-sector participation in modernization of the food-distribution system. Marketing facilities will be improved and modern technologies adopted to reduce product losses and costs and improve the quality of products delivered to consumers. Total cost: $227 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$42 million. Three traditional irrigation perimeters will be rehabilitated and two new perimeters will be established, complementary infrastructure will be introduced, and the capacity of regional offices of the Ministry of Agriculture to plan and implement small and medium-scale irrigation projects will be increased. Total cost: $101.6 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$30 million. The standard of living of those living in the Oulmes and Rommani areas will be improved through investments in agriculture, livestock, and forestry development and by providing better social and agricultural services. More than 50,000 farmers will benefit directly from the project. Total cost: $105.5 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$16 million. Food-grain production, foreign-exchange earnings, employment opportunities, and net farm incomes will be increased through the completion,
operation, and maintenance of sixty-four tubeweils, the construction of improved tubeweils and power-transmission facilities, the provision of technical support, training, and agricultural-extension services, the improvement and repairs of Birganj tube-wells, and a study to determine groundwater-development strategies for the Terai. Total cost: $19.4 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$6 million. Production of sugarcane, tobacco, and oilseeds is to increase through improved support services and the upgrading of agricultural-extension services and research. In addition, rural roads will be upgraded and, in some cases, constructed. Total cost: $7.36 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$65 million. Agricultural productivity will increase through the reduction of waterlogging and salinity by installing subsurface drains on about 30.350 hectares, providing an improved system of surface drains and improving on-farm water-management practices on about 120,000 hectares, and furnishing technical assistance. Cofinancing is expected from the ODA ($9.8 million) and the NMDC ($3.5 million). Total cost: $101.4 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$ 10 million; IDA—$47.8 million. The Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan will make available loans to farmers for medium- and long-term agricultural investments in farm mechanization, implements and equipment, private minor irrigation, on-farm development, and dairy animals. Cofinancing ($25 million) is expected from IFAD, the AsDB ($20 million), and the DCD ($20 million). Total cost: $661 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$10.2 million. By providing operating and maintenance equipment, tools, spare parts, buildings, and other necessary items, through provision of technical assistance, and by including a training program, the capability of the Water and Power Development Authority to operate and maintain the Chashma, Mangla, and Tarbela reservoir projects will be strengthened. Cofinancing is expected from the ODA ($ 14 million). Total cost: $42.2 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD—$14.1 million. Finance will be provided to help expand and improve the country's agricultural-support services in the areas of research, education and training, extension services, sector planning, agricultural-project development, and regulatory services. Total cost: $24.4 million.
PARAGUAY: IBRD—$40 million. About 5,000 small and medium-sized crop farmers will benefit from a project that improves their access to credit through the
establishment of a nationwide agricultural-credit program in the National Development Bank (BNF). Institution-building assistance to the BNF is included. Total cost: $72 million.
PERU: IBRD—$130 million. More than 21,000 farm families will receive investment loans from the Agrarian Bank of Peru (BAP) through this sixth agricultural-credit project. The project also includes technical assistance and training to improve the efficiency of BAP's operations. Total cost: $239 million.
PERU: IBRD—$30 million. The incomes and general living conditions of about 12,800 families living in the northeastern jungle highlands will be improved through the provision of extension, credit, irrigation, and other agricultural-support services and through the construction and improvement of 180 kilometers of rural roads, provision of land titles, improvement of health and education infrastructure, and technical assistance. Cofinancing ($ 19 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $84 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$16.3 million. This second phase of a long-term development program for the Bugesera and Gisaka Migongo regions is aimed at strengthening support services for agricultural and livestock activities, increasing the production of subsistence and cash crops and livestock, increasing trade and transport in and out of the project area, and reducing fertility rates through a program of family planning. Cofinancing ($3 million) is being provided by the FAC. Total cost: $21.6 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$23 million. Through rehabilitation of irrigation tanks, forestry and horticultural development, provision of inputs and services for directly productive sectors, and development of economic and social infrastructure, the productivity, employment, incomes, and living standards of people living in two northern districts of the country will be increased. Total cost: $31.2 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$9 million. The project—including a forestry master plan, training, industrial-wood plantations, and technical assistance—is expected to strengthen planning capability in the forestry sector, reduce constraints caused by the lack of skilled manpower, improve the management of existing forest plantations, and strengthen research and trial programs to improve sector productivity. Cofinancing ($2.4 million) will be provided by FINN-IDA. Total cost: $15 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$80 million. More than 100,000 tenant farmers, 200,000 migrant laborers, and 80,000 permanent laborers are to benefit directly from a project that aims, over a five-year period, at raising crop levels and production through the rehabilitation of the Gezira irrigated area and its supporting services. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AFESD ($50 million) and the DCD ($7 million); cofinancing in the amount of $ 16.4 million is being sought from other sources. Total cost: $262.7 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$50 million. The government's attempt to expand agricultural-export earnings through the rehabilitation of the irrigated agricultural subsector will be supported. Finance will be made available for the purchase of recurrent inputs, irrigation spare parts, spare parts needed by the agricultural-transport system, and for studies in the agricultural sector. Total cost: $146.3 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$70 million. The broad-based lending activities of the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives will be supported over a two-year period. As many as 150,000 farmers will be assisted, a third of whom are expected to be small farmers in the north and northeast regions, the country's poorest. Cofinancing ($20.2 million) is expected from IFAD. Total cost: $188.7 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$ 17 million. By strengthening the capability of the Agricultural Land Reform Office to implement a series of land-reform/development projects on encroached lands and by demonstrating the viability of a land-reform and infrastructure-development model, the project will help intensify rainfed agriculture, expand agricultural exports, alleviate poverty, and improve land use. Total cost: $31 million.
TOGO: IDA—$23.5 million. The project aims to expand the production of food crops and cotton on small farms by providing research and extension services, fertilizer, pesticides, and equipment to farmers and by upgrading feeder roads and constructing tubeweils, stores, workshops, and housing. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing is being provided by the CCCE ($16.2 million) and the FAC ($4.4 million). Total cost: $48.7 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$16.5 million. This project is designed to increase agricultural production, farm incomes, and employment in central Tunisia—one of the country's least-developed areas. It includes investments in irrigation infrastructure, farm-access roads, credit, support services
of the development agencies implementing the project, aquifer-monitoring equipment, a pilot livestock-development program, studies for future investments in the area, training, and technical assistance. About 12,000 families are expected to benefit from the project. Total cost: $43.8 million. TURKEY: IBRD—$150.4 million. The incomes of some 270,000 farm families are expected to increase through increased agricultural production as a result of this second agricultural-credit project. Medium- and short-term loans will be channeled to farmers through the Agricultural Bank of Turkey, which, itself, will benefit from an institution-building component. Total cost: $363.5 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$70 million. Through a program of rehabilitation of (mainly) crop-processing facilities, by providing imports needed to increase the production of agricultural exports and livestock, by establishing and staffing an Agricultural Secretariat, and through improved marketing of export crops, the country will be helped in achieving its goal of increasing foreign-exchange earnings from agricultural exports. Cofinancing ($10 million) is being provided by the DCD. Total cost: $97.6 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$7 million. Farmers will be provided with equipment, inputs, and extension services to test agricultural techniques for their effectiveness and acceptance by farmers in two pilot areas in the central part of the country. Cofinancing ($2.9 million) is being provided by the NMDC. Total cost: $10.8 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$6.8 million. About 46,000 poor farm families will benefit from increased crop production, higher incomes, better nutrition, and more opportunities for onfarm employment through research and extension services, village-group development, supplies and credit to farmers, and technical assistance. Cofinancing is being provided bv IFAD ($7.9 million), the CCCE ($1.9 million), and the FAC ($1.2 million). Total cost: $22.1 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$4.7 million. Agricultural-extension services will help raise domestic food production, increase cotton exports, and improve the quality of life for some 40,000 poor farm families living in the Hauts-Bassins area. Cofinancing is being provided by the CCCE ($6.4 million), IFAD ($3.1 million), and the FAC ($2.9 million). Total cost: $20.8 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$8 million. Funds will be provided to help strengthen the institutional capability of the
Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank and to increase its ability to provide credit finance needed for viable farm-level agricultural-development projects. Total cost: S12.7 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$9 million. Almost 1,000 families will benefit directly (and some 200.000 people indirectly) through a project that would increase agricultural production and farm incomes on 3,225 hectares in the Wadi Hadramawt subgovernorate. The project includes an irrigation-intensification component, technical assistance, training, and provision of inputs, equipment, and research. Cofinancing is expected from the AFESD ($ 12 million), the KFAED ($10.6 million), and the UNDP ($200,000). Total cost: $36 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$136 million. Funds will be passed on by the Udruzena Beo-gradska Banka to a specialized agricultural bank in the Socialist Republic of Serbia to help finance onfarm investments and support services to individual farmers, rehabilitation and modernization of agroindus-tries. and land improvement, including drainage, for the development of the Kolu-bara and the Danube regions. Total cost: $485.8 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$79 million. Udruzena Kosovska Banka (KBP) will finance investments in the individual sector for increasing onfarm primary production in twelve lowest-income communes in the less-developed province of Kosovo. Financing will also be provided for upgrading village-access roads, supporting a land-consolidation program in the project area, and improving rural communications through staff training and radio equipment. The project will also contribute to institution building within the KBP and agricultural-extension, veterinary, and cooperative services. Total cost: $170.7 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$13 million. By increasing livestock and food-crop production and by strengthening rural-development institutions, some 120,000 low-income farmers in the northeast part of the country will benefit through increased incomes, and the country will be assisted in its goal of achieving food self-sufficiency. Cofinancing is to come from CIDA ($10 million) and the FAC ($3 million). Total cost: $30.2 million.
ZIMBABWE: IDA—$30.4 million. The incomes and living standards of some 27,000 farm families living in communal areas will be improved through the financing of credit for farm inputs and improvements. Facili-
ties for the Agricultural Finance Corporation will be provided, as will staff training and technical assistance. Cofinancing ($4 million) is being provided by Germany (KfW). Total cost: $47.3 million. ZIMBABWE: IDA—$7.3 million. This first project in the country's forestry subsector will assist in developing a suitable implementing organization, collection of additional socioeconomic and technical information, and the testing and development of appropriate approaches to rural afforestation. Total cost: $10.6 million.
Development Finance Companies
CARIBBEAN REGION: IDA—$7 million. Funds will be onlent by the CDB to the smallest and poorest CDB members for the financing of small projects that would otherwise be too costly and difficult for the Bank to appraise and supervise.
CHINA: IBRD—$40.6 million; IDA—$30 million. The project supports the establishment of a new institution, the China Investment Bank, which will provide investment loans for small and medium-sized industries in Shanghai, Tianjin, and Jiangsu. Training and technical assistance are included.
COMOROS: IDA—$2.3 million. The newly created Development Bank of the Comoros will be strengthened by providing it with finance needed for lending during the 198386 period to small and medium-scale enterprises and by furnishing it with technical assistance and training.
COSTA RICA: IBRD—$25.2 million. Exporters will be provided with timely and adequate access to foreign exchange through the establishment, in the Central Bank, of a revolving Export Financing Fund. Improved capacity utilization in export industries is anticipated, thus generating new employment and income. Technical assistance is included.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$208.9 million. Foreign exchange will be provided the Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO) to finance medium-sized and large industrial projects. In addition, finance will be made available to the government for export-related and sectoral and policy studies that would guide policy and could lead to further investments. Technical assistance to BAPINDO will also be furnished.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$30.1 million. Foreign exchange and credit will be provided, through the country's Export Development Fund, to exporters of nontraditional manufactured and agricultural products and to
qualified domestic enterprises producing inputs for the export producers. JAMAICA: IBRD—$15.1 million. Efforts to encourage industrial development, particularly for export-oriented industry, will be aided through this loan that will provide the foreign-exchange component of subloans to manufacturing, agroindustrial, tourist, and mining enterprises. Technical-assistance, training, and equipment needs of the National Development Bank will also be financed. Total cost: $23.2 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$255 million. As many as 160 high-priority investment projects will be financed from a $250 million credit component that will be made available for onlending to the Korea Development Bank and the Korea Long-Term Credit Bank. In addition, a $5 million technical-assistance and training component will be allocated to the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Korea, commercial banks, and other financial institutions.
MEXICO: IBRD—$350 million. Mexico's strategy to expand nonpetroleum exports will be supported through a project that includes expansion of the $ 100 million Export Development Fund (providing foreign exchange to exporters), credit for fixed investments needed by exporters, technical assistance and training for exporters, and technical assistance to project-implementing agencies for studies to improve the government's export-development strategy and for institutional strengthening. Total cost: $452 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$16 million. This pilot project will provide a line of credit and technical assistance to the Fonds d'Equipe-ment Communal to help finance revenue-earning infrastructure projects in the country's communes—the basic local government unit.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$120 million. The Nigerian Industrial Development Bank will be provided with foreign exchange for funding industrial-investment projects and for consultancy services for strengthening further its institutional capacity. Cofinancing is anticipated from the EIB ($45 million) and commercial banks ($20 million). Total cost: $300 million.
PORTUGAL: IBRD—$40.3 million. Small and medium-sized industries (SMIs) are the beneficiaries of this project that supports the government's strategy for industrial growth and employment and forthcoming EEC accession, which assigns high priority to the small and medium-sized industrial sector. SMIs will be aided through a combi-
nation of policy dialogue and technical and financial assistance. RWANDA: IDA—$7 million. By providing finance to the Rwandese Development Bank (BRD), needed foreign-exchange resources for high-priority investments will be made available, the development of a small-scale enterprise program in the country will be promoted, and the evolution of the BRD into an even stronger and more mature financial institution will be aided. Cofinancing is being provided by CIDA ($4.2 million) and the EDF ($ 1 million). Total cost: $26.4 million.
WESTERN AFRICA REGION: IBRD—$6.1 million; IDA—$14 million. IBRD funds will be relent for projects in Ivory Coast and Senegal and IDA funds will be relent for projects in IDA-eligible countries that are members of the BOAD, a twenty-year-old regional institution established by the Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine to further national development objectives of its six member states and to strengthen ties among them. Total cost: $30.8 million.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD—$70.6 million. By making available foreign exchange to finance priority imports of raw materials, spare parts, components, balancing equipment, and export-promotion services, the country's manufactured exports can increase and additional employment can be generated.
Education
BANGLADESH: IDA—$12 million. Through assistance to the Public Administration Training Complex and the Establishment Division (technical assistance, fellowships, construction, furnishing and equipping of facilities, and financing of incremental staff salaries and student stipends), expanded and improved training for civil servants and more efficient administrative procedures will be developed. Total cost: $14.71 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$7.8 million. Assistance will be provided to the Institute of Business Administration, the faculties of commerce at the Dacca, Chittagong, and Rajshahi universities, and the Bangladesh Management Development Center to help improve the country's business-management capability by developing a cadre of professionally trained and qualified management personnel. Total cost: $9.6 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$15.8 million. The quality, equity, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness of basic education and junior secondary education will be improved through a program of construction, furnishing, and
equipping of a variety of educational institutions; provision of materials needed for the production of teaching aids; and assistance in project administration, teacher training, and educational planning. Total cost: $19.3 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC:
IDA—$11 million. The government will be assisted in beginning the task of maintaining and rehabilitating its deteriorated education infrastructure, the upkeep of which had been largely neglected in the 1970s. The quality and cost-effectiveness of the education system will be improved through provision of technical assistance for education planning, financing, and evaluation. Total cost: $12.2 million.
CHINA: IDA—$75.4 million. In support of the government's program to strengthen higher education and research in the agricultural sciences, the project will provide assistance to eleven agricultural colleges, six research institutes, and a new National Rice Research Institute in the form of civil works, furniture, equipment, specialist services, and fellowships. Total cost: $201.6 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$15 million. This first phase of the government's ten-year program for strengthening rural basic education will help increase the coverage, quality, and efficiency of primary education and bring about institutional improvements by training teachers, introducing new curricula, supplying educational materials, furniture, and equipment, financing civil works for repair and upgrading of existing buildings, and by developing a computerized management-information system. Total cost: $43.3 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$38 million. The government's efforts to increase the supply of skilled and semi-skilled manpower and alleviate acute shortages of trained workers in two key sectors, construction and industry, will be supported through a program of construction and equipping of vocational schools, technical assistance, and training. Total cost: $79.3 million.
GUATEMALA: IBRD—$18.5 million. Through textbook development and production, school construction and equipping, and measures aimed at management improvement, the government's institutional capacity to provide relevant textbooks will be developed, sufficient classrooms to meet the demand for primary education in Guatemala City's poor urban areas and surrounding municipalities will be provided, and planning of the educa-
tional system will be improved. Total cost: $31.2 million. GUINEA: IDA—$11 million. More skilled workers will be trained, the goverment's capacity for education and human-resources planning will be improved, and the quality of primary education will be upgraded through this second project. Cofinancing is expected from the ADF ($11.7 million) and the SFD ($4.1 million). Total cost: $30.2 million.
HAITI: IDA—$9 million. A third education project includes a school-mapping exercise to determine school locations; construction of 180 classrooms; revision and testing of curricula; development of textbooks and teachers' guides; training of teachers and other school personnel; provision of equipment, furniture, and office supplies; studies; and technical assistance to provide increased access to primary education in rural areas. Cofinancing ($900,000) is being provided by UNDP/ Unesco. Total cost: $10.9 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$107.4 million. So as to increase the supply of middle-level manpower, existing polytechnic schools will be expanded and new ones constructed; a Polytechnic Education Development Center will be constructed, equipped, and supplied technical assistance; and the management capability of the Ministry of Education and Culture strengthened. Total cost: $165.8 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$30 million. The effectiveness of the Ministry' of Public Works' (MPW) construction activities will be improved by strengthening the management of MPW staff-training and related planning activities, expanding and improving the MPW's training facilities and staff-training program, including establishing a Curricula and Materials Development Unit in the Ministry, and by providing experimental training for small and medium-sized contractors and subcontractors. Total cost: $47.85 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$18.8 million. Through a program of construction and equipping of schools and by providing technical assistance, the output of skilled female and male workers will be increased and access to secondary education in remote, rural areas will be improved. Cofinancing is expected from the SFD ($22.1 million) and the ODA ($3.2 million). Total cost: $88.9 million.
LIBERIA: IDA—$13.5 million. The project aims to improve the quality and efficiency of primary education and to expand access to primary schools further through support for institutional development of the Minis-
try of Education and a primary-school development program that includes establishment of a national textbook program, upgrading 2,250 primary-school teachers, strengthening the educational inspectorate, and construction, equipping, and furnishing of twenty-four new primary schools and furnishing thirty additional primary schools. Cofinancing is being provided by the AfDB ($9.8 million). Total cost: $25.1 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$34 million. Through construction and expansion of schools and provision of technical assistance to the Ministry of Education, this fifth education project in the country seeks to improve the quality of primary education, expand secondary education, increase the number of trained accountants and accounting technicians, and strengthen the management of the education and audit systems. Total cost: $42 million.
PERU: IBRD—$17.3 million. The National Agrarian University will be assisted in its efforts to improve its facilities and the quality of its courses and research activities and to expand its graduate program through the rehabilitation of the central campus, the establishment of instruction and research facilities at regional development institutes, the provision of related equipment, and technical assistance. Total cost: $35.1 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$24.4 million. Civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials, technical assistance, and operating costs will be provided to support the training of 76,000 people in seven priority subsectors to help meet the country's industrial-development needs. Total cost: $41.7 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$20 million. The quality of primary education will be improved through support for primary-teacher training and the provision of textbooks, and access to primary education in rural areas will be increased through the construction of primary schools. Governmental efforts to strengthen educational planning, administration, management, evaluation, and project implementation will also be assisted. Cofinancing ($1.9 million) is expected from the ODA. Total cost: $27.3 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$27 million. This fifth education project will improve the country's agricultural-education and training system by providing equipment and technical assistance to local institutions and will strengthen the planning and management capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture. It
will also assist the Ministry of Education in expanding and improving its primary teacher-training capacity by constructing and equipping four primary schoolteacher-training colleges and finance studies for the assessment of the country's training needs for middle- and higher-level technicians. Total cost: $40.7 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$32 million. A third education project will assist the country's educational system, from primary schools to technical schools and Makerere University, with text and library books, teachers' guides and classroom equipment, roofing materials, and spare parts and tools. Various studies, each addressing educational issues, will also be undertaken. Total cost: $34 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$10 million. Through expansion of training facilities (notably in rural areas) and improved teacher-training curricula, the supply of trained teachers will increase and their training improved. The expansion of literacy and basic occupational-skills training in rural areas and assistance to the Ministry of Education will benefit about 15,000 people yearly. Cofinancing ($1.1 million) is expected from USAID. Total cost: $20.1 million.
Energy
BOTSWANA: IBRD—$32.5 million. To establish an integrated, national electric-power system for the country, a 90-mW coal-fired pithead power plant and related transmission and control facilities will be constructed, tariff and organizational studies will be carried out, and training, coal-drilling programs, and engineering consultancy services will be provided. Cofinancing is being provided by the AfDB ($22.7 million), the EIB ($15.5 million), the CDC ($12.5 million), the SFD ($10.2 million), BADEA ($10 million), and the KFAED ($10 million). Total cost: $249.2 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$162.4 million. The project is aimed at developing a new reservoir in the Daqing oilfield, introducing modern technology into the Chinese petroleum industry, training personnel, and improving oilfield practices through the import of modern equipment, establishment of a computer center, a training center and laboratories, execution of various studies, and provision of technical assistance. Total cost: $674.3 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$100.8 million. Introduction of modern technology into the Chinese petroleum industry, a process started under the Bank's first petroleum project, will be
continued. This second project provides modem oilfield equipment, computer and training centers, laboratories and technical assistance, along with the development of the South Wcnliu oilfield, the exploration of the East Wcnliu oilfield, and the establishment of an LPG plant. Total cost: $499.8 million.
CYPRUS: IBRD—$10.2 million. Two separate loans, one to the government for $3.6 million, the other to the Electricity Authority of Cyprus for the remainder, will help the country to develop a comprehensive energy-development and conservation program, including the introduction of appropriate energy policies, and attain its longer-term objective of reducing its almost total dependence on imported fuels for its energy needs. Total cost: $13.1 million.
EQUATORIAL GUINEA: IDA—$2.4 million. Technical assistance will be provided to the government for the initial functioning of the Department of Petroleum Affairs and for the strengthening of the overall management of the energy sector. Total cost: $2.7 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$7 million. Through a program of technical assistance, acquisition of seismic data, training, and provision of consultancy services, the efforts of Ethiopia's Ministry of Mines and Energy to attract renewed exploration efforts by international oil companies and to establish the feasibility of gcothcrmal-energy development will be supported. Cofinancing ($1.3 million) will come from the UNDP. Total cost: $9.5 million.
GHANA: IDA—$11 million. The collection, processing, and evaluation of existing and new seismic data, technical assistance to a proposed Ghana National Petroleum Corporation and the National Energy Board, and the revision of the legal and contractual framework aim at enhancing the capacity of the petroleum-subsector organization to rekindle and accelerate petroleum exploration in the country. Total cost: $12 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU:'iDA—$13.1 million. A second oil-exploration/promotion project will concentrate on shallow-water areas and includes the collection, processing, and evaluation of data, integrating the evaluation with existing information, negotiation of contracts with oil companies, monitoring of exploration work programs, and institutional support and training. Cofinancing ($10 million) is being provided by Digicon Corporation (US). Total cost: $23.3 million.
HAITI: IDA—$26 million. To assist in the development of the country's energy sector,
a diesel power station will be constructed at Port-au-Prince, about ten kilometers of the distribution network at Port-au-Prince will be rehabilitated, an office will be built for the Electricite d'Haiti, repairs will be made at the Peligre hydropower station, various surveys and a feasibility study will be carried out, and bid documents prepared for the Guayamouc 1 hydropower project. Total cost: $34 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$156.4 million; IDA—$170 million. A hydroelectric power plant will be built in the Eastern Region to help increase the power-generating capacity in Orissa state by about 600 mW, thereby helping to reduce power shortages common to the area. Roads, bridges, sewerage facilities, and other related facilities will also be constructed. Total cost: $506.7 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$250.7 million. The project, consisting of a series of single and double-circuit transmission lines and associated substations, will provide a major transmission capability to the southern part of the country and interregional transmission links, which will permit larger power transfers between major regions, thus enabling them to meet growing system needs in a more integrated manner. Total cost: $617.3 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$222.3 million. The project comprises the first phase of the Oil and Natural Gas Commission's program to produce gas from the South Bassein field located sixty-five kilometers west of Bombay. Infrastructure will be installed and underwater pipelines laid. Cofinancing ($50 million) is expected from the KFAED. Total cost: $701.5 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$165.5 million. The project will assist the Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) in establishing the commercial potential of hydrocarbon reserves within part of the Krishna-Godavari basin and further enhance ONGC's overall technical capability in petroleum exploration in complex geological and environmental conditions. Total cost: $633.8 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$300 million. This twelfth power project is aimed at diversifying the sources of electricity production, mainly through the use of geothermal energy and coal, improving the operational efficiency of the National Electricity Authority's distribution networks, reducing system losses, and providing training and consultant services for continued institutional development. Cofinancing ($95.5 million) is being provided by the AsDB. Total cost: $ 1,470.9 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$279 million. Through the construction of a major storage dam and related hydropower infrastructure, peak hydroelectric-generating capacity will be provided to complement the steady growth of base-load, coal-fired thermal generating capacity on the Java grid from 1984 onwards. Cofinancing is anticipated from export credits ($68 million) and the CDC ($20 million). Total cost: $769.1 million.
KENYA: IBRD—$ 12 million. This follow-up expansion project to the first Olkaria Geo-thermal Power Project (approved April 1980) will help assure the availability of a firm source of power and energy within the country to meet the growth in demand, which is expected to exceed the capacity of existing facilities in 1984, as well as reduce the country's heavy dependence on imported oil. Cofinancing is being provided by the CDC ($9 million equivalent) and the EIB ($8.8 million equivalent). Total cost: $41.6 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$11.5 million. The government's efforts to evaluate the country's hydrocarbon potential will be supported through a ten-well exploratory-drilling program, an engineering study for testing production of heavy oil under enhanced-recovery techniques, a feasibility study of ways to upgrade heavy oil, and training. Cofinancing ($5 million) is being provided by the OPEC Special Fund. Total cost: $ 18 million.
MALI: IDA—$24 million. Technical assistance will be provided to the Energie du Mali to help alleviate its major managerial and operational constraints, and the construction of a 2-megawatt biomass power plant and distribution-system works and the provision of vehicles and equipment will help ensure a more reliable and cost-effective water and power service. Cofinancing is being provided by the OPEC Special Fund ($6.4 million), the CCCE ($6 million), and the FAC ($4.8 million). Total cost: $43.2 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$75.2 million. The main benefit of this petroleum-exploration and appraisal project—which includes drilling and testing of wells, geophysical and technical studies, exploration-promotion activities, and technical assistance and training—would be the generation of data, the institutional reinforcement, and the policy measures needed for the eventual design and implementation of a gas-development project that would permit the replacement of imported products by domestic natural gas and liquid condensates. Total cost: $ 106.2 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$43 million. The Sui Northern Gas Pipeline system will be expanded and technical assistance provided to Sui Northern Gas Pipelines, Ltd. in an effort to support the government's plans to increase gas supplies in the country. Cofinancing from suppliers' credits, in the amount of $27.5 million, is expected. Total cost: $196.8 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$7 million. Pakistan's efforts to increase the use of local coal will be supported by a project consisting of a geological survey in northern Baluchistan, followed by a detailed evaluation of the more promising areas; a mine feasibility study; a technology assessment of using minimum water and high-sulphur coal in thermal power plants; and technical assistance. Total cost: $8.8 million.
PANAMA: IBRD—$32.1 million. About 50,000 new customers will be served as a result of a project that aims at rehabilitating and expanding the subtransmission and distribution systems of the Instituto de Recur-sos Hidraulicos y Electrification for the period 1984-86. Total cost: $63.8 million.
PANAMA: IBRD—$31.3 million. This supplement to a $42 million loan approved in July 1977 will help the country develop its hydroelectric resources and reduce dependence on imported oil.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IDA—$3 million. The project is aimed at accelerating petroleum exploration through the collection and reassessment of past exploration data, strengthening the government entity in charge of petroleum exploration, and by setting up an appropriate data base on petroleum geology and prospects. Cofinancing ($2 million) is being negotiated with the OPEC Special Fund. Total cost: $5.6 million.
PERU: IBRD—$81.2 million. Through the purchase of equipment, infrastructure, drilling and project-management services, training, and consultants' services, the production level of oil fields on the country's north coast will be increased. Cofinancing is expected from export credits ($60 million) and commercial banks ($60 million). Total cost: $241.2 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$37.5 million. Seismic surveys, studies, exploratory drilling, and technical assistance will be provided to the Bureau of Energy Development and the Philippine National Oil Company Exploration Corporation to help extend exploration activities to relatively unexplored onshore areas and attract foreign investment in the sector. Total cost: $69.4 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$36 million. Thisgeo-thermal-exploration project, including studies, exploratory drilling, and technical assistance, is aimed at improving the national strategy for geothermal exploration—with particular emphasis on exploring new areas close to the Manila market —and strengthening geothermal-policy development to encourage private-sector involvement. Bilateral aid, totaling $ 1 million, is expected from the OECF ($400,000), the DCD ($300,000), and New Zealand ($300,000). Total cost: $71.5 million.
PORTUGAL: IBRD—$126.4 million. A seventh power project in the country comprises a three-year time slice of the state-owned electricity authority's overall investment program. The object of the program is to meet, at least cost, the forecast growth in demand, while maintaining the required reliability of the system. Cofinancing is being provided by the EIB ($61.2 million) and Germany (KfW) ($10 million). Total cost: $2,732 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$9.5 million. Assistance will be provided to the Directorate of Mines and Geology and the Societe des Petroles du Senegal (PETROSEN), basin studies will be carried out, and a geophysical program and an exploration program will be implemented in the Diam Niadio and the Casa-mance offshore areas, respectively, in order to help promote exploration by foreign oil companies. Cofinancing is being provided by the Petro-Canada International Assistance Corporation ($13.7 million) and NORAD ($515,000). Total cost: $25.2 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$6.3 million. Detailed geological data on the Kabulo Ridge area in the Songwe-Kiwira coal field will be provided, and a feasibility study for commercial development of this deposit, if warranted, completed. Assistance with the exploration and delineation of further reserves at the country's only producing coal mine will also be provided. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $6.97 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$30.6 million. A total of about 130,000 rural customers will benefit from a project that consists of providing electric service to about 1,500 unelectrified villages and extending electric service to households in another 1,500 partially electrified villages. Cofinancing ($1 million) is expected from the ADAB. Total cost: $51.6 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$163 million. The construction of about 1,500 kilometers of 380-
kv transmission lines to accommodate new generating capacity from plants being commissioned between 1983 and 1986 will be supported. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the ESF ($6.3 million) and the French government ($2.5 million). Total cost: $294.6 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$55.2 million. The hydrocarbon potential of the Turkish Petroleum Company licenses in the Thrace basin will be assessed and the company's ability to design and implement an integrated basin-oriented exploration program will be strengthened. Total cost: $99 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$19 million. As many as 125,000 rural and urban inhabitants will benefit from a project designed to assist the Yemen General Electricity Corporation extend its services and utilize better its generating and transmission facilities. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the IsDB ($9 million). Total cost: $42.9 million.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD—$105 million. Finance will be made available to help the country meet its power demands up to the end of 1986. Electricity-generating capacity will increase through construction of two 220-mW units at the Hwange Thermal Power Station and a transmission line. In addition, engineering consulting services and studies on electricity-tariff structure and energy pricing will be financed. Cofinancing, totaling $223.2 million, is being provided by the EIB, CDC, UK suppliers' credits, Italian suppliers' credits, a UK grant, and a Eurodollar loan. Total cost: $458.4 million.
Industry
BANGLADESH: IDA—$28.5 million. Refinery facilities in Chittagong will be rehabilitated, technical assistance will be provided the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation, feasibility studies on gas-based, export-oriented projects financed, energy conservation/diversification programs developed, and assistance provided for research and development on the uses of methanol as a blend in middle-distillate petroleum products. Total cost: $36 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$304.5 million. Iron ore from the vast iron-ore deposits in Para state will be developed, exploited, and exported, thus contributing to the country's foreign-exchange earnings and easing its balance-of-payments constraints. Cofinancing is expected from the ECSC ($600 million), Japan ($336 million), Germany (KfW) ($ 130 million), the US Export-Import Bank ($58 million), and
other commercial-bank financing ($227 million). Total cost: $4,926.6 million.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE: IBRD—$ 12 million. The project aims to help the country diversify its exports and promote economic development in northern Congo by establishing an integrated logging and wood-processing complex. Cofinancing is anticipated from suppliers' credits ($7.8 million) and the Saudi European Bank ($4.4 million). Total cost: $42.6 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$165.3 million. The construction and operation of an integrated reinforcing bar plant will help meet the needs of the domestic market for a stable supply of rebar, a vital input for the construction industry. Local manufacture would substitute for annual imports of about 750,000 tons of product, thus saving foreign exchange. The IFC is making a parallel investment in the project in the amount of $102.4 million. Additional cofinancing ($156.5 million) is anticipated from the OECF. Total cost: $800 million.
HUNGARY: IBRD—$109 million. Hungary's energy-import bill will be contained through a project with four main components: institution building, support for the Energy Rationalization Facility of the National Bank of Hungary, support of energy diversification and conservation, and technology development. Total cost: $309.6 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$5.5 million. This basic engineering project will provide funds for procurement assistance for the proposed Central Java pulp and paper project, technical assistance for finalizing wood-supply arrangements for the project, training of project staff, and a pulp-and-paper-subsector study that will provide the basis for restructuring the industry. Total cost: $7.8 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$12 million. The project includes first-stage design and basic engineering work for a hydrocracker project that will upgrade low-value fuel oil into higher-value distillates that are currently in deficit supply and will provide institution-building measures to strengthen the ability of ENAR Petrotech Services Ltd. to undertake industrial-energy audits and conservation measures at selected facilities. Total cost: $16 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$7.7 million. Needed funds will be provided for studies and tests that could help the phosphate mining and processing operations in the country maximize their overall efficiency. The project is also designed to help orient the country's development efforts to exploit its phosphate resources in
the most promising direction. Total cost: $9.6 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$18 million. Internationally recruited management services will be provided the Southern Paper Mills Company, Ltd. to manage and operate the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Mill, currently under construction, and to market its output. In addition, the mill's power boiler will be converted so that it can use fuelwood as well as oil and coal. Imported start-up supplies and materials will also be financed. Cofinancing is anticipated from SIDA ($13.5 million) and Germany (KfW) ($8.5 million). Total cost: $45 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$16.8 million. Through a program of construction and installation of equipment at the largest foundry company in the country, the output of foundry products will increase by more than 100 percent over current levels at full production. Cofinancing is to be provided by three recently established joint-venture development banks ($5.6 million as equity and $14.9 million as long-term loans)—Tuniso-Saudi Investment and Development Corporation, Tuniso-Kuwaiti Development Bank, Tu-niso-Emirates Investment Bank—and by the Arab Mining Company, the Arab Industrial Development Company, and the IsDB, which, together, are expected to contribute $12.1 million in share capital. Total cost: $54.1 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$7 million. Studies and consultants' services in support of efforts to restructure the organization of GECAMINES (the country's most important mining concern) to improve its management and help prepare the company's long-term rehabilitation program will be financed. Total cost: $9.3 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$4.3 million. The government's efforts to diversify the country's energy consumption from petroleum fuels by determining the technical and economic viability of rehabilitating the Maambe coal-mining operation in the south will be supported through technical and economic-feasibility studies, procurement of spare parts, and training. Total cost: $6.1 million.
ZIMBABWE: IDA—$1.2 million. Funds will be provided for economic and engineering studies of petroleum fuels-supply options available to the country in order to determine the preferred system and to recommend improvements in the procurement, pricing, and internal distribution of petroleum fuels. Consultant services and training are included. Total cost: $1.4 million.
Nonproject
BANGLADESH: IDA—$110 million. Foreign exchange will be provided to finance essential imports in support of a broad range of improvements in public financial-resource mobilization and budgetary management, agricultural and food policies, and trade and industrial policies.
GHANA: IDA—$40 million. Funds will be made available to help meet the priority import requirements—fertilizers; insecticides; agrochemicals; agricultural implements, spares, and tools; and truck tires, batteries, and spare parts—of the government's economic-recovery program. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AfDB ($20 million) and CIDA ($5 million).
JAMAICA: IBRD—$60.2 million. A second structural-adjustment loan, to be disbursed in two tranches, will finance the import of raw materials, intermediate goods, essential consumer items, capital equipment, and spare parts. The aims of this loan include improvements in bal-ance-of-payments management, industrial and agricultural policy, public administration, and savings and investment, as well as the achievement of economic deregulation and export development.
KENYA: IBRD—$60.9 million; IDA— $70 million. The government's program to rationalize the trade regime, promote exports, stimulate agricultural output, encourage conservation and efficient production of energy, and reduce population growth will be supported by this second structural-adjustment operation.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$302.3 million. Essential imports will be financed in support of the second phase of the government's structural-adjustment program, which aims at improving the allocation and efficiency of investment over the medium term.
THAILAND: IBRD—$175.5 million. A second loan in support of the government's structural-adjustment program—aimed at restoring a sustainable medium-term bal-ance-of-payments position while maintaining the economy's momentum of growth —will provide foreign exchange needed to finance essential imports.
TOGO: IDA—$40 million. The goverment's structural-adjustment program—designed to strengthen the balance of payments and to restructure the economy in a more productive direction—will be aided through this credit, which will finance imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, capital equipment, and spare parts.
TURKEY: IBRD—$300.8 million. This loan, which will be used to finance imports, is the fourth in a series of loans to support the government's structural-adjustment program initiated in January 1980, and is aimed at redirecting the country's economy towards a development path placing more reliance on market forces and adopting a more outward-oriented strategy.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$275 million. This structural-adjustment loan, in support of the government's program to place the balance of payments on a sounder footing and to improve the efficiency of investment selection and resource allocation in the economy, will finance essential imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, spare parts and imported components for turnkey industrial projects, civil works, ships, and capital-goods exports.
Population, Health, and Nutrition
INDONESIA: IBRD—$27 million. The project aims to assist the government in its efforts to improve the health status of the population by increasing the effectiveness of health-care services and reducing the incidence of malaria in three provinces of Sulawesi. Total cost: $54.8 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$6.8 million. Primary health services will be extended to 120,000 people through this first health project that focuses on strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Health to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of its health-delivery system. Grants, totaling $600,000, are anticipated from the UNDP, WHO, and UNICEF to help cover the project's costs. Total cost: $8.7 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$18 million. Through a project that concentrates on software aspects, including conversion of existing single-purpose, family-planning clinics into family-welfare centers, motivation and education to encourage the small family norm, training, technical assistance, and monitoring and evaluation, the government will be aided in implementing its new Population Welfare Plan and in establishing a sound basis for a sustained and effective population-planning effort over the longer term. Cofinancing is expected from USAID ($3.4 million) and the ODA ($2.7 million). Total cost: $28.2 million.
PERU: IBRD—$33.5 million. About 3.5 million people, most of whom live in absolute poverty and suffer from high rates of mortality and morbidity, will benefit from a project that aims to establish a primary health-care system by providing staff train-
ing and through the construction, furnishing, and equipping of health facilities in four regions. Total cost: $56 million. SENEGAL: IDA—$15 million. Better health-care services, especially maternal and child-health care, will be provided to a large segment of the rural population through the strengthening of basic health services, in-service training of health personnel, improved utilization of drugs, development of health-education services, and by strengthening the capability of the Ministry of Public Health. Total cost: $16.7 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$10.5 million. Technical assistance, training, civil works, equipment, and supplies for infrastructure development will be provided to the Ministry of Health to help strengthen and expand its capability to plan, staff, and manage the country's health-care system. Total cost: $15.8 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$7.6 million. Eighty-three percent of the estimated population (in 1987) of three governorates in the country will benefit from a project that seeks to improve their health status through a cost-effective, primary health-care approach. Cofinancing has been obtained from WHO ($600,000) and UNICEF ($400,000). Total cost: $10.4 million.
Small-Scale Enterprises
BARBADOS: IBRD—$10.5 million. The development of the industrial and tourism sectors will be supported by making credit available through eligible financial intermediaries. About 1,000 new jobs are expected to be created through the investments that will be partly financed by subloans. The IBRD loan will also provide initial resources for a newly created Industrial Credit Fund in the Central Bank of Barbados. Total cost: $16.5 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$220 million. Funds will be provided to support the government's program to reduce distortions affecting trade and industrial development, to provide resources to small and medium enterprises, to assist the National Economic and Social Development Bank's efforts to strengthen the capabilities of state development banks, and to undertake studies that will lay the groundwork for industrial policy change. Total cost: $1,379 million.
ECUADOR: IBRD—$40.6 million. Funds will be onlent through the Central Bank to small enterprises for some 1,200 projects to support the government's efforts to generate
employment, improve income distribution, and promote regional development. Total cost: $84.2 million.
GHANA: IDA—$9.3 million. Ciments de 1'Af-rique de l'Ouest will be helped in implementing an action program designed to set the company on a sound operational and financial footing. The clinker-producing firm will receive technical assistance, equipment, and spare parts, finance to buy fuel oil, and its working capital will be restored to a healthy level. Cofinancing is to be provided by the CCCE ($12.8 million), the EIB ($7 million), and COFACE ($3.6 million). Total cost: $51.9 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$70 million. About 660 individual enterprises will receive technical assistance and about 3,300 managers, engineers, and supervisors will be trained in manufacturing processes and management techniques. The participating development finance companies are expected to finance more than 100 subproj-ects. Total cost: $119.8 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$175 million. The project will support the country's integrated program of assistance to small and medium industry by providing credit and technical assistance to enterprises for maintaining or expanding production and employment levels. About 10,000 new jobs will be created and 20,000-30,000 jobs preserved in the 3,000 firms that are expected to be helped by the project. Total cost: $349.6 million.
TOGO: IDA—$5.7 million. See project description under 'Ghana.'
Technical Assistance
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE: IBRD—$11 million. Technical assistance will be provided to help improve, through institution building, the quality of the government's public-finance management and the execution of its urban infrastructural-in vestment program. Total cost: $14.9 million.
KENYA: IDA—$6 million. The government's structural-adjustment program in the agriculture sector will be supported, and its capability to address long-term land issues and effectively implement agricultural programs and projects enhanced, through the provision of technical assistance and consultant services in three key areas: grain pricing and marketing, land policy, management and budget. Total cost: $7 million.
MALI: IDA—$10.4 million. The government's efforts to improve planning and implementation of better economic policies will be supported by a project that will provide
assistance for cereals marketing, rural-development agencies, state enterprises, economic-policy analysis and data mangement, the civil-service bureau, and other local agencies. Total cost: $11.5 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$4.6 million. Assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Planning to formulate and monitor macro-economic policy, implement the fourth Five-Year National Investment Plan, support technical ministries and sectoral planning, and continue the rehabilitation of twenty key public enterprises. Consultant services and staff training are included. Total cost: $5.4 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$6 million. A second technical-assistance project will provide assistance for the preparation of a number of high-priority projects suitable for financing by the government and external donors. Assistance will also be provided for consultancy services and training for developing project-preparation and implementation capacities of the borrower's institutions.
PERU: IBRD—$10.2 million. To improve management throughout the public sector and make better use of the country's scarce financial and human resources, funds will be provided for the design and implementation of a program-budgeting system and an adequate compensation system for the central government. Support will also be given to public-sector, management-training programs in two private educational institutions and the Central Bank. Total cost: $21.2 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$4.5 million. Technical assistance will be provided to help prepare and promote a portfolio of investment projects to increase the number and improve the quality of projects, particularly in agriculture, industry, and energy, and to strengthen local project-preparation capabilities in both public and private sectors. Total cost: $9 million.
Telecommunications
BANGLADESH: IDA—$35 million. Through the provision of equipment and transmission facilities, by increasing telephone service to rural areas, and through technical assistance, this third telecommunications project seeks to improve the efficiency of a wide range of economic and social activities. Cofinancing ($3.6 million) is to come from the OECF. Total cost: $69.7 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$22 million. An essential part of the rehabilitation and investment program of the Uganda Posts and Telecommunications Corporation for the period
1982-87 will be financed. It includes rehabilitation of telecommunications, postal, and common services; technical assistance; and two years' worth of imported spare parts and materials. Total cost: $26 million.
Transportation
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$100 million. This project, a part of the country's 1983-86 Four-Year Highway-Investment Program, will help prevent further deterioration of aged pavement, alleviate urban congestion, promote traffic safety, assist in technology transfers to participating provinces, promote improved sector policies, and strengthen local capabilities to plan and manage highway-sector programs. Total cost: $1,430 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$6 million. This credit supplements the $25 million credit, approved in June 1973, to help finance a number of investments in the highway subsector.
BELIZE: IBRD—$5.3 million. Road-maintenance organization and practices will be strengthened through training and technical assistance and provision of equipment and spare parts. In support of the road-maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Ministry of Works, three road sections will be rehabilitated and drainage-improvements made. Total cost: $7.12 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$154 million. Funds will be provided for the construction, improvement, and rehabilitation of about 8,000 kilometers of feeder roads, thereby helping to expand and diversify agricultural production by providing rural communities with all-weather access to storage, marketing, and processing facilities. Total cost: $502.3 million.
BURMA: IDA—$50 million. The project is designed to enable the port of Rangoon to handle, up to 1990, the projected growth in international breakbulk and will facilitate containerized traffic by improving port efficiency and basic port services. Total cost: $97.5 million.
CAMEROON: IBRD—$22.5 million. A third port project will assist the National Port Authority to expand the Douala port capacity, mainly through extension of general cargo facilities and provision of fruit-handling equipment. Port operations and management will be further improved through provision of data-processing facilities and technical assistance. Total cost: $33 million.
CAPE VERDE: IDA—$7.2 million. The project—including civil works, cargo-handling and workshop equipment, equipment and
technical assistance for the maritime-training center at Mindelo, and technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport and Communications—is aimed at reconstructing and improving the port infrastructure and operations at Praia port and assisting in transport planning. Cofinancing is being provided by BADEA ($10 million), Portugal ($8 million), and NORAD ($4 million). Total cost: $31.7 million.
CHILE: IBRD—$128 million. Through a program of road reconstruction and maintenance, as well as the purchase of road-maintenance vehicles, the serious deterioration of Chile's major north-south road link will be arrested. Total cost: $273.6 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$124 million. Facilities at the three ports of Huangpu, Shanghai, and Tianjin will be modernized and expanded to help meet traffic requirements. The project also includes staff training and a con-tainerization study of the hinterlands to identify intermodal terminals, related facilities, and transport equipment required to optimize the transport potential of these three ports. Total cost: $427.4 million.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE: IBRD—$12.7 million. Assistance will be provided to the National Administration of Public Works to carry out efficient road-rehabilitation and maintenance operations and thereby help to increase economic activity in two pilot regions of the Congo through improved highway access and reduced transport costs. Total cost: $ 19.9 million.
DJIBOUTI: IDA—$6.4 million. A three-year road-improvement and maintenance program and the improvement of maintenance facilities will help provide easier and more reliable communications between Djibouti City and the interior and will reduce transport costs. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $8 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD— $24 million. The government's efforts to improve the roads subsector will be supported through a two-year program of road maintenance, upgrading of the Roads and Bridges Authority's training program, and improvements in traffic safety and control. Total cost: $26.7 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$13 million. Port infrastructure in Conakry will be rehabilitated or replaced and help in strengthening the autonomous and well-organized port authority will be furnished. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AfDB ($14 million) and Germany ($6 million from the KfW and $2.7 million from the GTZ). Total cost: $54.1 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA—$16 million. Port infrastructure at Bissau will be rehabilitated and port operations improved; in addition, technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Transport and Tourism and to the Bissau port authority. Total cost: $17.26 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$200 million; IDA—$200 million. A second railway project is aimed at upgrading the maintenance and reliability of the fleet of existing diesel electric locomotives in the Indian Railways network, continuing a program of modernization of electric locomotives, improving fuel efficiency, and upgrading the operation of bulk freight movements. Total cost: $1,215.7 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$15 million. The Ministry of Construction's maintenance program, intended to forestall further deterioration of the 4,700-kilometer road network, will be supported through periodic maintenance and technical assistance, as well as provision of vehicles and equipment. A cofinancing arrangement, with either multilateral or private sources and totaling $8.5 million, is under discussion. Total cost: $47 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$125 million. The project—including the improvement of about 1,000 kilometers of provincial and county roads and the provision of equipment, consultant services, and training—will help reduce transport costs and promote economic development in rural areas. Total cost: $259.7 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$122 million. The necessary capacity in rail, ports, and inland terminals will be provided to handle efficiently the coal and cement traffic forecast through the 1980s and to address system inefficiencies in coal and cement distribution. Cofinancing, in the amount of $32.3 million, is to be arranged by the government. Total cost: $479.4 million.
LIBERIA: IDA—$1.8 million. This credit supplements a loan approved in June 1978 to support a Fourth Highway Project, aimed at rehabilitating two roads that link Monrovia, the capital city, with important agricultural areas.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$45 million. Through a three-year maintenance and rehabilitation program, training, the financing of spare parts, and provision of consulting services, the efforts to improve the condition of the road network started under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects will be continued and expanded. Cofinancing is expected from the ADF ($ 19.2 million) and IFAD ($ 1.4 million). Total cost: $81.7 million.
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$86.2 million. Rural trunk roads and agricultural-access roads in Sabah will be constructed and improved, staff in the Sabah and Sarawak Public Works Departments will be trained, Sarawak's road-maintenance organization will be strengthened, and the federal government, as well as the governments of the two Eastern Malaysian states, will be assisted in efforts to improve transport planning and staff training. Total cost: $148.11 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$85 million. Through a program of road works, maintenance, studies, and technical assistance, transport costs are expected to lessen. In addition, regional income disparities will be reduced, and the planning capability of key institutions in the transport sector will be strengthened. Total cost: $286.7 million.
NIGER: IDA—$23.6 million. A fourth highway project includes pavement strengthening and resealing. the establishment of a Road Management Unit in the Directorate of Public Works, construction and equipping of a training school in the Directorate, and technical assistance. Total cost: $32.11 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$50 million. The project —including improvement in locomotive maintenance, installation of a management-information system, facilities and equipment for operating an international container service, spare parts, and technical assistance and training—is designed to assist Pakistan Railways in meeting the country's increasing need for an efficient transport system. Total cost: $132.7 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD—$31 million. This effort to improve transport facilities at both the national and provincial levels involves road and bridge improvements and provision of consulting services and technical assistance. Cofinancing ($7 million) is expected from the KFAED. Total cost: $55.5 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$23 million. Road maintenance will be carried out, technical assistance provided to the Civil Engineering Department (under the Ministry of Public Works), and 216 kilometers of roadway strengthened and improved. Cofinancing ($16.3 million) is to come from the AFESD. Total cost: $43.5 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$100 million. About 1,000 kilometers of provincial roads will be constructed and improved, and another 1,000 kilometers of paved national and provincial roads strengthened and rehabilitated. Also included are sector and project-
preparation studies and technical assistance. Total cost: $166.85 million.
URUGUAY: IBRD—$45 million. The government will be assisted in carrying out its Five-Year Highway-Investment Program and National Feeder-Road Program. Through the project, the country's export-oriented strategy will be supported and transport coordination improved. Total cost: $137 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$7 million. To help restore normal traffic conditions in the Abyan and Aden governorates, following severe damage caused by floods in March 1982, and to encourage economic development to continue in the country, road reconstruction and maintenance works will be carried out, technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Construction, and a transport-sector study will be undertaken. Cofinancing is being provided by the AFESD ($3 million), the UNDP ($800,000), and the Swiss Disaster Relief Unit ($100,000). Total cost: $12.4 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$43.5 million. Through support of the 1983-85 work program of the Office des Routes, the transport needs of the country's main network of 40,900 kilometers will be better ensured, and the transport of agricultural inputs and other commodities to rural areas, and of agricultural produce to urban areas, will be facilitated. Cofinancing is to come from the ADF ($20.6 million), USAID ($2.5 million), the AGCD ($2.1 million), Germany (KfW) ($1.5 million), and the ODA ($800,000). Total cost: $121.1 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$25 million. Through the rehabilitation of the deep-water port at Matadi and the river port at Kinshasa, deterioration of the facilities will be arrested and the productivity of the two ports improved. Cofinancing is to be extended bv the AfDB ($21 million), the CCCE ($5 million), and the FAC ($1 million). Total cost: $90 million.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD—$26.4 million. A project that includes civil works, training, and provision of consulting services is designed to improve the existing road network, expand and improve training facilities, and develop a coordinated strategy for transport development. Cofinancing ($ 10 million) is anticipated from BADEA. Total cost: $66 million.
Urban Development
BRAZIL: IBRD—$8.9 million. The preparation of specific investment projects for two metropolitan regions in Northeast Brazil will be financed. Also to be financed: pilot
infrastructure works and institution-building programs to test new technologies and organizational arrangements with a view to strengthening the capacity of institutions responsible for urban-development planning and management. Total cost: $25.1 million.
CAMEROON: IBRD—$20 million. This first urban-development project is designed mainly to provide basic infrastructure, school and health facilities, and improved shelter to lower-income urban groups in Douala and Yaounde, the country's major economic centers. It will introduce the concept of slum upgrading in the government's urban-development program and will strengthen existing institutions. Cofinancing is being provided by the SDC ($5.5 million). Total cost: $55 million.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: IBRD—$7.1 million. Technical assistance will be furnished the Municipality of Santo Domingo to handle complex issues of city management, planning, and development arising from rapid growth. Small, pilot development projects in the municipality will also be financed. Cofinancing is expected from bilateral sources ($700,000). Total cost: $17.5 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$20 million. Existing settlements in Addis Ababa will be upgraded and new plots for self-help housing construction developed through this first project, which will also assist the government to broaden and strengthen its land-development, servicing, and maintenance systems. Some 16,000 households, about three-fourths of which are estimated to be below the country's urban-poverty threshold, may benefit. Total cost: $26.8 million.
HAITI: IDA—$21 million. This first IDA involvement in urban development in Haiti includes rehabilitation and upgrading of the Port-au-Prince central-market area, a sites-and-services scheme for families displaced by that upgrading, sites-and-services schemes in both Cap Haitien and Les Cayes, and measures aimed at institutional development. Total cost: $23.8 million.
INDIA: IDA—$147 million. Investments made under this third Calcutta project are to benefit directly some 6 million people. Building on earlier work, urban management in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area will be improved through a comprehensive approach in which institutional and financial reforms go hand-in-hand with physical improvements. Total cost: $303.1 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$24.1 million. Urban services (area development, slum upgrading, and
sanitation) in up to ten cities in Madhya Pradesh state will be improved, and national, state, and local institutions involved in policy, planning, and implementation of urban-development projects strengthened. More than 55,000 households will benefit through area development and slum upgrading, while almost ten times that number will benefit from improved sanitation facilities. Total cost: $50.1 million.
KENYA: IBRD—$7 million; IDA—$22 million. Funds will be onlent by the Ministry of Finance to the National Housing Corporation and the Local Government Loans Authority. Servicing of land and construction loans for residential and small-enterprise development; community facilities; financial, project-management, and urban-maintenance support; and urban-policy studies will be provided. This third urban project will benefit about 29,000 lower- and middle-income urban households in five secondary towns and will strengthen local and central-government capacity and procedures for urban development. Total cost: $37.4 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$100 million. More than 22,000 low- and middle-income urban-housing plots will be developed, about 10,000 housing units for low-income families and 10,000 middle-income serviced lots will be provided, and technical assistance will be made available to local agencies for project preparation, training, and studies. Total cost: $316 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$9.2 million. Consultant services will be provided to support the preinvestment stage of a deconcentration program for the Mexico City region. Planning and management-advisory services in program definition, including policy formulation and evaluation, will be provided, as well as detailed engineering and the economic and financial analysis of individual projects. Total cost: $15.2 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$60 million. Some 13,000 new housing units affordable to households in the lower half of the urban income-distribution scale will be constructed from funds onlent to the Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH), a financial institution responsible for housing finance. CIH will also receive technical assistance.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$16 million. Local institutions in Lahore will be better able to prepare and implement integrated urban-development programs through their association with a project that includes provision of slum upgrading and sites and services, as
well as technical assistance and training. Total cost: $24 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$67 million. This first multisectoral urban project in support of the government's regional development strategy aims at reducing infrastructure bottlenecks to economic development in the project cities (Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro, Davao, and Iloilo), providing basic urban services, and improving the project-management capabilities of the cities and the participating government agencies. Total cost: $114.6 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$25 million. About 77,000 people will benefit from a third urban-development project that aims to provide shelter and urban services to low-income groups, strengthen and coordinate the activities of the urban sector's technical and financial institutions, and contribute to housing-development planning and policies. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $60.1 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
BRAZIL: IBRD—$302.3 million. State Water and Sewerage Companies will be eligible to borrow funds from the National Housing Bank to finance investments in support of the Plan Nacional de Saneamento, whose objectives are to provide, by 1990, 90 percent of the urban population with piped water and 65 percent with sewerage services. Total cost: $863.2 million.
GHANA: IDA—$13 million. Technical assistance will be provided to the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation for the purpose of improving its management, operating, and financial performance. Emergency rehabilitation of the Kpong-Tema-Accra pipeline will also be undertaken. Total cost: $22.4 million.
INDIA: IDA—$72 million. Water-supply and sewerage facilities will be expanded in eight urban areas through the construction of reservoirs, transmission lines, treatment plants, and related facilities, and tubewells will be built to provide safe water to more than 300 villages. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $161.8 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$30.6 million. Through provision of piped water-supply systems, the development of management and financial systems for eight beneficiary water enterprises, training for water-supply staff, and consulting services, the basic water-supply needs of an estimated 720,000 people in East Java, half of whom are in the relative poverty group, will be met. Total cost: $50.95 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$22.4 million. The project is the first step in developing a sewerage system in Jakarta and complements the public-health measures carried out under previous Bank-assisted urban-development projects. It includes a basic waterborne sewerage system, drainage improvements, sanitation improvements (leaching pits, public toilets, public water taps, and desludging facilities), consulting services, and training. Total cost: $37.3 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$17 million. The project will help improve water-supply and sewerage services, as well as stormwater drainage, in the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa and will contribute to the institutional development of the Water Supply Corporation. Training and technical assistance are included. Cofinancing is being provided by USAID ($15 million), Germany (KfW) ($14.4 million), and the IsDB ($7.8 million). Total cost: $103.6 million.
MAURITIUS: IBRD—$12.2 million. Water-supply facilities in the Mare-aux-Vacoas, Triolet, and Mt. Blanc areas and in sixty-two housing estates scattered over the island will be improved and expanded. About 79,000 additional consumers will be provided with safe water, and improved services will be made available to 446,000 existing consumers. Technical assistance to the Central Water Authority is included. Total cost: $ 18.2 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$100.3 million. Provision of water-supply and sewerage services will be financed in medium-sized cities throughout the country and in smaller cities in Sinaloa state. Institutional assistance will be provided to make the Sinaloa State Water Board a model of an efficient water-supply and sewerage company at the state level. Technical assistance to key sector institutions is also included. Total cost: $193.3 million.
NIGER: IDA—$6.5 million. The project will help support the government's efforts to rationalize policies and strategies in the water-supply sector through studies, technical assistance, and training to local agencies. Cofinancing ($1.1 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $8.2 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$25 million. The water-supply system in Karachi will be expanded, service improved (as many as a half million low-income consumers will receive additional supplies of safe water), and technical assistance provided to the Karachi Water and Sewerage Board. Total cost: $36.54 million.
PANAMA: IBRD—$21.6 million. The health and living conditions in several urban areas will be improved and the institutional capabilities of three local water-supply and sanitation agencies strengthened to benefit some 260.000 people, 41 percent of whom belong to the poorer segment of the population. Total cost: $46.3 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$35.5 million. By financing part of the government's rural water-supply and sanitation program, the project will benefit more than 6 million people and will strengthen local institutions responsible for the rural water-supply and sanitation sector. Research, training, consultant services, and technical assistance are included. Total cost: $58.4 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$13 million. Water demand in five project towns will be satisfied up to 1988, safe water will be provided to about 40,500 additional people and improved service to about 20,000 more, and the needs of governmental institutions, commerce, and industry will be met through a first water-supply project. Institution-building assistance to the state corporation responsible for water supply is included. Total cost: $16.9 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$22.5 million. This first phase of a long-range program to rehabilitate the existing sewerage system and develop basic sanitation services in Dar es Salaam will focus on low-cost, on-plot sanitation and the development of the services, institutions, and management practices required for improving sanitation facilities. Total cost: $29.1 million.
TOGO: IDA—$12 million. The entire population of Lome, 55 percent of whom have incomes at or below the poverty level, is expected to benefit from a project that will increase the number of people served by the city's water-supply system, improve the
quality of the water, and establish a sound policy and institutional basis for future sector development. Cofinancing is anticipated from the CCCE ($4.1 million), the OPEC Special Fund ($4 million), and the BOAD ($3.5 million). Total cost: $27.6 million. TUNISIA: IBRD—$34 million. The existing sewerage and stormwater systems in thirty urban centers will be rehabilitated and expanded. About 1 million people will benefit from improvements to the environment and public health, and some 400,000 people will benefit directly from new or improved sewer connections. Total cost: $78.5 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$25 million. Watercourses will be rehabilitated, dikes extended, a belt canal constructed, and minor flood-protection works furnished so as to minimize the flood-damage potential in Sfax and neighboring communities. Total cost: $48 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$30 million. The development of the first phase of a regional water-supply system will help reduce water shortages in the Tuzla area and improve the environmental conditions in the Spreca river basin. It is also aimed at ensuring the financial self-sufficiency of the borrower, the Regional Works Organization, KOMPRED, and improving its institutional capacity in project preparation and implementation, works operation and maintenance, and financial management. Total cost: $64.4 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$16 million. Safe water will be provided to nearly 140,000 persons —30,000 by piped systems and 110,000 by wells and boreholes. In additon, key sector institutions, most notably the Department of Water Affairs and district councils with responsibility for local water supplies, will be significantly strengthened. Total cost: $21.64 million.