Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1992
In fiscal 1992, the World Bank moved closer to the realization of a dream shared forty-eight years ago by the participants in the June 1944 Bretton Woods Conference—of an institution that would promote the economic development of the unified family of nations—when the Bank's governors approved resolutions that provided for membership in the institution of all fifteen of the Soviet Union's former republics. Their action was an important step in making the vision of Bretton Woods a reality. The efforts of the fifteen republics to transform their societies and economies have many risks. Their success or failure will have important consequences for the entire world. Yet, the resources at their disposal are few. The time they have is short. There is an urgency in bringing all possible assistance to bear on this historic undertaking.
The dissolution of the former Soviet Union into independent, sovereign states and the progress towards peace in several of the Bank's regions have led to a sharp expansion in the demand for Bank services (see accompanying box). Membership in the Bank of Latvia, Lithuania, and eleven other republics of the former Soviet Union—an occurrence that is likely to take place before the end of calendar year 1992—would bring Bank membership to 173. Bank membership applications submitted by Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, and Slovenia are also under consideration. Eight borrowing countries that joined the Bank during the fiscal 1991-92 period—Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Marshall Islands, Mongolia, Namibia, and the Russian Federation—are in a start-up phase, which requires incremental resources, particularly for the preparation of lending activities and economic and sector work. Lending programs—in El Salvador, Iran, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Romania, Sierra Leone, and Zambia—have been reactivated. The potential also exists for resumption of lending in the near future to Afghanistan, Guatemala, Lebanon, South Africa, and Viet Nam, and for initial lending to Cambodia.
The increased demand for the Bank's lending and advisory services comes at a time when
a consensus is emerging on the priority development objectives for the 1990s. They are the achievement of sustainable economic growth and the reduction of poverty; actions to protect the environment are seen as being essential to the achievement of both objectives.
There is also a growing convergence of views on approaches as well as objectives: greater reliance on markets and a strong, but more limited role for government, particularly focused on the policy framework and on environmental and social responsibilities.
In recent years, the World Bank has articulated its strategies for reducing poverty, promoting private-sector development, and contributing to the global effort to safeguard the environment. These strategies shaped the Bank's activities during the past year and are expected to continue to do so in the years ahead.
The Bank is now placing greater attention on concrete issues of implementation: How can accelerated growth, poverty reduction, and environmental strategies best be applied in specific country programs? How can these objectives and strategies best be integrated into policies and investments in particular sectors? In the different situations of individual countries, how should practical complementarity between private-sector activity and public-sector intervention be achieved? The emphasis is thus on pursuing these strategies across all relevant programs, rather than through narrowly focused special programs. Country circumstances dictate the particular sectoral distribution of lending and the private/public sector mix that are the most effective in reducing poverty. This means that—with a few obvious exceptions, such as recent increased financing for human-resource development and the environment—the pursuit of these objectives and strategies does not neatly translate into trends for lending to individual sectors.
The Bank's most recent annual report on its portfolio of operations under implementation, covering fiscal 1991, confirmed that the portfolio continues to be well oriented toward the Bank's primary missions: poverty reduction, sustainable growth, and an active response to
The Challenge of Transition
Fifteen new countries have come into being in place of the former Soviet Union. All are expected to become members of the Bank in 1992. The simultaneous creation of new political and economic systems in countries once dependent upon a powerful center is posing wrenching problems of transition for the authorities. Preparing programs for fifteen new members in such urgent need of help is an equally unprecedented task for the Bank.
For the authorities, the task of transition is complicated by the disintegration of the old order and the weakness of public institutions in creating a new one. Stabilization programs must be designed and implemented even as central banks and new systems of taxation are put into place. Institutions to design and implement fiscal policy are new and must deal with the absence of large transfers that occurred within the former Soviet Union. The few privatization agencies that exist are mostly understaffed and must cope with privatization programs of an unprecedented scale. However, the pressure for reform is great: Production disruptions could lead to a further fall in output in 1992 in excess of 10 percent. The need for international assistance is thus large and immediate.
With special funding approved by the executive board, the Bank undertook three stages of activities in fiscal 1992 to help ease the transition by the republics of the former Soviet Union to market-oriented economies:
• the design, launching, and implementation of a $30 million program of technical assistance for the four states that signed the Technical Cooperation Agreement (Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Kyrghyzstan);
• the completion of reconnaissance work in the other eleven states and the acceleration of membership activities in all fifteen; and
• the design of economic and sector work programs and intensive development-training ef-
forts for all republics so that the Bank may begin lending for reform programs as soon as conditions permit.
Progress was made in all areas. Implementation of the technical-assistance program is well advanced. Economic reports are being prepared for nine countries and should be completed for all fifteen in fiscal 1993. Preparatory work is also under way to initiate lending operations in several new members later in 1992.
During fiscal 1992, the Bank assisted the countries with some of the critical tasks in the transition and began to identify some of the major elements of Bank assistance strategies. These will be developed for each country and complemented with an assessment of financing needs. The general elements include (a) key aspects of systemic reform, especially trade and price liberalization, private-sector development, and privatization; (b) sector-specific reforms, covering in particular the financial, food, energy, transport, and housing sectors; (c) improvements in policies and programs related to social safety nets; and (d) human-resource development, including training and institutional development.
To develop these programs, the Bank has initiated a rapid build-up of the requisite staff, after drawing up rules of redeployment to ensure the continued quality of other Bank programs. All of the internal redeployment was completed by the end of the fiscal year; most of the external recruitment is expected to have been completed before the end of 1992. To serve better the needs of the anticipated members, four new Country Operations Divisions were created as of April 1, 1992. However, more decentralization will not diminish communication among staff. Management will ensure that the insights and experiences from each country are quickly shared and readily applied.
environmental concerns. In particular, poverty reduction, including human-resource development, was a primary objective for about 20 percent of the portfolio under implementation in terms of commitments ($13.8 billion in 307 projects). Environmental concerns were also addressed in an increasing number of operations. About 80 percent of the portfolio was judged to be performing satisfactorily, despite the difficult global and domestic macroeco-nomic environments for implementation. However, among projects in their fourth and fifth year of implementation, 30 percent had major problems in all regions except Asia. This deterioration was largely driven by the Africa portfolio, which reflected difficult country situa-
tions. The main constraints on timely and effective implementation continued to be inadequate country macroeconomic policies and strategies, frequently resulting in insufficient financial-resource allocation to projects. Countries that sustained their commitments to structural and economic reforms improved their implementation performance significantly.
The effective implementation of the Bank's portfolio is vital to the growth prospects of the institution's borrowing countries. The advice the Bank provides through the supervision of its operations is one of the most important forms of development assistance it offers. Successful implementation of approved operations is as important as new annual commitments as
an indicator of the Bank's development effectiveness. The priority of this area of the Bank's activity was underscored during the year by the appointment of a high-level task force to review and make recommendations for improving the institution's portfolio-management and evaluation process. The task force's report is scheduled to be completed by the end of calendar year 1992.
Implementation is the responsibility of the borrower; supervision is the responsibility of Bank staff. The annual report on implementation and supervision noted that Bank resources allocated to supervision in all regions and to most sectors had increased significantly. Nevertheless, it added, some concerns remained about (a) the adequacy of supervision resources, in particular for such sectors as population, health, and nutrition, as well as for projects with environmental impacts, where lending has expanded very rapidly and the ratio of consultants over staff resources has increased; and (b) the adequacy of technical skill inputs. Other areas of concern include the supervision of complex projects (such as sector-investment loans and loans that combine policy and investment components) and the management of trust-funded and local consultants for supervision. These issues are to be reviewed further as part of the fiscal 1992-93 implementation and supervision action plan, which is intended to forestall a further deteri-
oration in portfolio performance and to minimize future risk that projects will not achieve their original objectives.
The Bank is also striving to ensure that the unfinished agenda of the 1980s is carried through, where appropriate, while the priorities for the 1990s are being addressed. In some instances, the complementarities are obvious: Female education, for example, promotes the interests of women in development and enhances human development more broadly. In other instances, the links and tradeoffs are more complex and cannot be resolved except in concrete country programs.
The number and complexity of objectives and policies that are crucial to development pose new challenges in the design and implementation of programs. They are also far more demanding on Bank resources and staff. Designing a country strategy for agriculture, for example, is now much more complex and must go beyond "traditional" technical and economic concerns to focus on strengthening the roles of the private sector and women, protecting the environment, enhancing agriculture's role in combating poverty within and beyond the sector, and addressing links to trade and other economywide policies.
In fiscal 1992, the Bank's longstanding commitment to the reduction of poverty was reinforced when its president, Lewis T. Preston, stated that sustainable poverty reduction was
the "overarching objective" of the institution. That statement formed part of the preface to the Bank's Poverty Reduction Handbook, which surveys Bank experience in poverty-reduction activities and provides guidance to Bank operational task managers about "good-practice" operational approaches. In addition to the Handbook, an operational directive on poverty reduction, which summarizes Bank procedures and guidelines for operations in poverty reduction, was issued. The handbook and the directive both benefited from a far-ranging review and discussion by members of the executive board.
During the year, the Bank published World Development Report 1992, its intellectual contribution to the June 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED). That report, which explored the links between economic development and the environment, concluded that continued, even accelerated, economic and human development is sustainable and can be consistent with improving environmental conditions—if major policy, program, and institutional shifts, accompanied by adequate financing, take place.
World Development Report 1992 called for accelerating programs for reducing poverty, removing distortions that encourage wasteful use of energy and natural resources, clarifying property rights to encourage people and communities to manage resources better, and expanding programs for education (especially for girls), family-planning services, sanitation and clean water, and agricultural extension, credit, and research. The report described targeted measures that can bring dramatic improvements in environmental quality at modest cost in investment and economic efficiency. To implement them, the study says, will require overcoming the power of vested interests, building strong institutions, improving knowledge, encouraging more participatory decisionmaking, and building a partnership of effort between industrial and developing countries.
Progress continued in integrating environmental concerns into the Bank's operations: Almost 30 percent of projects approved in fiscal 1992 were either freestanding environmental projects or had some environmental components. Agreement was also reached during the year on the principles for a restructuring of the Global Environment Facility (GEF), which was set up in 1990 to help developing countries solve global environmental problems. The principles provide for the goal of universal membership in the GEF, broader and more equitable representation, and greater transparency and accountability in the facility's operations. Participating governments also
agreed that the GEF should be available as the funding mechanism for the conventions on climate change and biodiversity. In subsequent negotiations, governments designated the GEF for now as the financial mechanism for both conventions, which were signed by more than 150 countries at UNCED in June 1992. A final decision will be made by the respective conferences of the parties once the conventions have been ratified by the requisite number of countries and have entered into force.
The Bank's executive directors also gave their approval during the year to a continuation of the institution's ability to finance debt-reduction and debt-service reduction (DDSR) operations. The DDSR program enables the Bank to extend financing and/or negative-pledge waivers for operations that lead to a reduction in member countries' debt or debt-service obligations to their commercial-bank creditors. A waiver of its negative-pledge clause to Nigeria was the only debt-service operation mounted by the Bank in fiscal 1992.
The directors also agreed to extend the operations of the Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries, a mechanism established in 1990 to ease the burden of commercial external debt owed by the poorest developing countries. A total of seventeen severely indebted, low-income countries have expressed an interest in gaining access to the resources of the Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries. Two debt-reduction operations, in Mozambique and Niger, have been completed, and it is expected that three others, for Bolivia, Guyana, and Uganda, will be brought to the executive directors for their approval by the end of calendar year 1992.
Work began in fiscal 1992 on the preparation of private-sector assessments. Preparation of assessments was one of a series of specific actions agreed upon in fiscal 1991 to reinforce implementation of the Bank's private-sector development action plan (the others included enhanced cooperation among members of the Bank Group and expansion of research on private-sector development issues). Assessments contribute to the formulation of proactive Bank Group private-sector development strategies as part of overall country-assistance strategies and provide a basis for the Bank's country-policy dialogue. They identify priority policy reforms and actions critical for private-sector development. The first twenty assessments are scheduled to be completed by the end of fiscal 1993.
Total commitments by the World Bank during fiscal 1992 amounted to $21,705.7 million: $15,156.0 million from the IBRD and $6,549.7 million from IDA. Commitments by the IBRD
were off $1,236 million from the fiscal 1991 total. IDA lending increased by $256 million.
The reduction in IBRD lending resulted from shortfalls in commitments in the South Asia, Europe and Central Asia, and Middle East and North Africa regions. Commitments to the South Asia region were delayed because of the need of the governments of India and Pakistan to forge a consensus on elements of their reform programs. Lending to countries in Central and Eastern Europe decreased as a result of the advancing, to June 1991 (fiscal 1991), of five projects whose commitments totaled more than $1 billion. The record delivery of $3.9
billion in commitments to that region in fiscal 1991 temporarily depleted the Bank's pipeline of operations. The shortfall in the Middle East and North Africa region was the result of the deferral of two large planned operations, in Algeria and Egypt.
World Bank assistance to the poorest countries—those with a per capita gross national product of $610 or less—totaled $9,896 million: $4,662 million from the IBRD and $5,234 million from IDA (see accompanying figure).
Adjustment lending amounted to $5,847 million, or 27 percent of commitments (see table on adjustment lending); in fiscal 1991, lending
for adjustment—excluding $215 million provided for debt and debt-service reduction support—was $5,671.4 million.
Net disbursements from the IBRD to member countries totaled $1,818 million, down by $272 million from the fiscal 1991 total. IDA's net disbursements were up $167 million, to $4,441 million.
The IBRD borrowed the equivalent of $11.8 billion in the world's financial markets. Net income was $1,645 million.
Albania joined the IBRD on October 15, 1991, Marshall Islands joined on May 21,1992, Switzerland joined on May 29, 1992, the Russian Federation joined on June 16, 1992, and Estonia joined on June 23, 1992, bringing the total membership in the IBRD to 160. At the end of the fiscal year, action was pending
on membership in the IBRD for Armenia, the Azerbaijan Republic, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrghyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Micronesia, Moldova, Slovenia, Tadjikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.
Albania became a member of IDA on October 15, 1991, Switzerland became a member on May 29, 1992, and the Russian Federation became a member on June 16, 1992, bringing total membership in the association to 142. At the end of the fiscal year, action was pending on membership in IDA for Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrghyzstan, Latvia, Micronesia, Moldova, Namibia, Portugal, Slovenia, Tadjikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.
A street scene in Bangkok, Thailand, the venue for the October 1991 annual meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
Section One
The Executive Board
Under the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, all the powers of the Bank are vested in a board of governors, consisting of one governor from each member country. With the exception of certain powers specifically reserved to them by the Articles of Agreement, the governors of the Bank have delegated their authority to a board of executive directors, which performs its duties on a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters. This board consists of twenty-two executive directors, each of whom selects an alternate. As provided for in the Articles of Agreement, five of the executive directors are appointed by the five members having the largest number of shares of capital stock, while the rest are elected by the governors representing the other member countries. Formal votes by the executive directors are rare, however, since most decisions of the board are reached by consensus.
The president of the Bank is the chairman of the board of executive directors. The president is also the chief of the operating staff of the Bank and conducts, under the direction of the executive directors, the ordinary business of the Bank. The executive directors are responsible for the conduct of the general operations of the Bank, which includes deciding on Bank policy in the framework of the Articles of Agreement and approving all loan and credit proposals.
The executive directors are also responsible for presenting to the board of governors an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, the Annual Report on the operations and policies of the World Bank, and any other matters that, in their judgment, require submission to the board of governors. Matters may be submitted to the board of governors at its annual meetings or at any time during the year.
The executive board exercises its authority, under the Articles of Agreement, in three general areas. First, through its annual oversight of the financial and operating programs, and administrative budgets, the board determines the allocation of financial and staff resources for the coming year. Second, through its review of evaluations of completed Bank projects and the
Bank's experience in individual sectors and with particular policies, the board ensures that the Bank and member countries can benefit from the lessons of experience. Finally, through its review of specific policy proposals, either annually (for example, the allocation of net income, staff compensation, the Bank's environmental activities) or periodically (for example, the Bank's financial policies, lending terms, sectoral priorities), the board determines the direction of Bank policies.
Oversight of Financial and Operating Programs
In fulfilling its responsibilities to oversee the Bank's financial and operating programs, the executive directors approved a fiscal 1992 borrowing program for the IBRD of $10.0 billion to $11.0 billion equivalent; the program was carried out according to agreed broad parameters. The board reviewed, at mid year, the status of the 1992 fiscal year financial and operating programs and administrative budgets and approved a small supplemental budget to support work in the former Soviet republics before they became members of the Bank. Before the end of the fiscal year, the board set indicative IBRD lending for fiscal 1993 at between $18.5 billion and $21.5 billion, with an indicative IDA lending program of 5.0 billion in special drawing rights (SDRs). The executive directors also met as a Committee of the Whole to discuss development priorities and the fiscal 1993 budget-policy directions, the medium-term (fiscal 1992-94) budget-planning framework, and the special-programs planning framework. They also held a colloquium to discuss informally with senior management the Bank's policy directions. In order to simplify an increasingly complex budget cycle, the board endorsed a modified budget system that will take effect with the fiscal 1994 budget cycle.
The board also considered the allocation of fiscal 1991 net income and approved the addition of $250 million of net income of the IBRD to the general reserve to achieve the IBRD's reserves target. It also allocated an additional
$200 million to allow for a waiver for all payment periods, beginning July 1, 1991, of twenty-five basis points on the interest rate charged to those borrowers that have serviced all their loans from the IBRD in a timely manner. The board also agreed to recommend to the governors that $350 million be transferred to IDA.
Operations Evaluation; Project Implementation and Supervision
In order to fulfill its responsibility to review project evaluations and proposals for future evaluation activities, the board continued to give particular attention to the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The OED, under the direction of its director general, is linked administratively to the Bank's president, but is directly responsible to the executive directors. The executive board considered the OED report on its work program and staff budget for fiscal year 1993, the current status of the department's work, and the report on operations evaluation. The executive board also discussed the OED's annual review of evaluation results and agreed that the review should be published for distribution outside the Bank.
In addition, the board considered the seventeenth annual report on project implementation and supervision, which summarized the status of ongoing operations in fiscal 1991. The emphasis of the board's discussion was on efforts to strengthen project supervision, the linkage between OED evaluation results and the report's project-performance classifications, and the linkage between countries' adjustment efforts and portfolio performance.
Review of Policy Proposals
The executive board reviewed many policy proposals during the fiscal year, covering finance, operations, development economics, sector policies, and administration.
Finance. In fiscal 1992, the board concentrated on various issues related to IDA. Directors reviewed a report on IDA's policies, operations, and finance in the first year of the ninth replenishment (fiscal 1991) and expressed general satisfaction that progress was being made towards the key objectives set out in the report on the IDA-9 replenishment. The board also considered proposals for the use in fiscal 1992 of IDA reflows and approved (a) an increase in the level of advance commitments against reflows of SDR75 million annually in the period fiscal 1992-93 (from SDR575 million to SDR650 million); (b) a continuation of annual allocations at the already-approved 90 percent coverage level of IBRD interest pay-
ments (which translated into an annual allocation level for fiscal 1992 of SDR118 million); and (c) an allocation of SDR75 million to IDA-only borrowers that are undertaking debt work-out programs to supplement their normal IDA allocations. Later in the year, the board approved the distribution of reflow allocations to sixteen countries.
The board considered a proposal on IBRD debt repurchases and authorized the Bank to repurchase from time to time, on the open market or otherwise, notes, bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued by the IBRD. The financial gain to the Bank of market-based debt repurchases results from the replacement of one asset already in the market with another asset that is preferred by investors and for which they are willing to pay a higher price. The difference in price provides the basis for the Bank's financial advantage. In order to better monitor this new program, the board agreed that if either (a) repurchase transactions during fiscal year 1992 or fiscal 1993 resulted in a net decrease in the IBRD's income of $50 million or (b) a total of $500 million face amount of IBRD bonds were repurchased during fiscal 1992 or fiscal 1993, management would return to the board before undertaking additional repurchases. Management also agreed to return to the board prior to implementing a debt-repurchase program in a currency other than U.S. dollars. The global-borrowing authorization was also amended accordingly. As in recent years, the board continued to be concerned with issues related to the Bank's practices with respect to countries in arrears. The executive directors were briefed on the status of the IBRD loan portfolio and considered, in a series of meetings, the IBRD's loan-loss provisioning requirements. They approved a proposal by management that loan-loss provisioning for fiscal 1992 should remain at a level equal to 2.5 percent of outstanding loans and the present value of guarantees at the end of the fiscal year and that provisions for fiscal 1993 should be accumulated at 2.5 percent of the growth in the overall portfolio.
In addition to considering these specific financial policies, the executive directors followed closely the status of the IBRD's borrowing program through regular market briefings and quarterly reviews of funding-operations reports.
Operations. In fiscal year 1992, the board dealt with several issues fundamental to the Bank's operational priorities and strategies. Following on its work over the past several years on operational guidelines and procedures concerning the debt strategy, the board consid-
ered a review of progress under the Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries and a review of the program to support debt and debt-service reduction.1
The board reaffirmed the importance of poverty reduction as an integrating theme in nearly all Bank assistance in its discussion of the draft operational directive on poverty and the staff poverty handbook, which followed on the board's fiscal year 1991 review of the Bank's assistance strategies to reduce poverty.2 The executive directors stressed that the Bank's attention should be on strengthening implementation of the poverty-reduction strategy and on completing poverty assessments. They agreed to examine further the Bank's progress in this area in the next fiscal year.
In the area of privatization, the board reviewed, in a series of meetings, a report on the lessons of experience of Bank Group lending, which presented practical recommendations to assist borrower governments and the Bank Group in realizing the potential positive results of privatization while minimizing its costs.3 The executive board also reviewed the Bank's program of expanded cofinancing, which is intended to support borrowers' access to private capital markets within the context of the Bank's overall country-assistance strategies and risk-management constraints.4 In order to further strengthen the Bank Group's activities in promoting foreign direct investment, the executive directors approved the organization and funding of the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) as a program jointly administered by the Bank, the IFC, and MIGA.
The board also examined Bank policies guiding financial-sector operations. It agreed that there was a need to ensure that loans made to and through local financial institutions are consistent with, and supportive of, coherent strategies for the sector's development.5
In the area of adjustment lending, the board reviewed the third report on adjustment lending.6
The environmental aspects of projects financed by the Bank remained an important issue during the year. Following on its work in fiscal year 1991, the board concluded its review of the Bank's policies in the forestry sector, endorsed the principle of a multisec-toral approach to relieving pressures on forests, and established conditions for Bank involvement in the forest sector, including the Bank's stance of not financing commercial logging in primary tropical moist forests.7 In addition, the board followed progress made in the pilot program to conserve the Brazilian rainforest that had resulted from a request by the heads of state of the seven major industri-
alized countries at the July 1990 economic summit in Houston.
The executive directors discussed the second annual report on the Bank and the environment (covering fiscal year 1991) and endorsed its publication and submission to the Development Committee as background material for the committee's October 1991 meeting. The board was also briefed on the progress of the Global Environment Facility, whose funding it had approved in the previous year. In a series of seminars and Committees of the Whole, the executive directors also reviewed World Development Report 1992, which analyzed the links between economic development and the environment, and discussed the operational directive on environmental assessments.
The board also reviewed the Bank Group's policies with respect to tobacco projects and supported the Bank's formal cessation of support for tobacco production and processing and the addition of tobacco-processing machinery to the negative list of imports under adjustment loans and credits. While emphasizing the importance of measures to encourage a reduction in the use of tobacco products, the executive directors urged the Bank to treat the subject with sensitivity and flexibility, as some countries were heavily dependent on tobacco as a source of foreign exchange.
The board carefully followed the developments in the international economic and political environment. Throughout the course of the year, the board had briefings, seminars, and regular meetings on developments in the countries of the former Soviet Union. Major board actions in this area included: early in the fiscal year, approval of a transfer from the Bank's surplus to fund technical assistance to the Soviet Union; in mid fiscal year, a review of the Bank's work program and progress in the former Soviet republics; and, shortly before the April 1992 meeting of the Development Committee, approval of a report and draft resolution to the board of governors recommending membership of the fifteen former Soviet republics in the Bank.
The board also followed the development strategies of a large number of member countries. Country-strategy reviews of forty-one IDA-only countries were discussed, as were the policy-framework papers on eighteen countries that were jointly prepared by Bank and
1 For details, see pages 65-68.
2 For details, see page 46.
3 For details, see page 62.
4 For details, see page 76.
5 For details, see page 63.
6 For details, see page 68.
7 For details, see page 57.
International Monetary Fund (IMF) staffs and the countries concerned. Directors were also regularly briefed on the activities and progress of the increasing number of consultative and aid groups chaired by the Bank at the request of recipient countries (see Table 1-1), on the progress of the onchocerciasis-control program, and on the meetings of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research. The board also discussed the Bank's operational approach to Peru, a country with protracted arrears; held a seminar on the social dimensions of adjustment in Africa; and received briefings on developments in South Africa and Yugoslavia.
The board monitored the progress of the Bank's lending program through regular brief-
ings with senior management. In addition, the board held biannual discussions on its own work program, as recommended by the executive directors' steering committee, covering fiscal year 1992.
Sector policies and development economics. The board reviewed in regular board sessions, Committees of the Whole, and seminars a number of sector reports covering Bank policies and "best practices." These included reports on export-processing zones; reform of public-sector management;8 governance; and effective family planning. The board also reviewed the activities and priorities of the Of-
For details, see page 62.
fice of the Vice President-Development Economics and Chief Economist and the Office of the Vice President-Sector and Operations Policy. A number of major products of these offices were considered by the board, including the annual report on the Bank's research program, the work program of the Economic Development Institute (EDI), and the outline and final draft of World Development Report 1992. In recognition of the importance of the international economic environment on development prospects, the board discussed reports on global economic prospects and developing countries and the short-term outlook for the global economy; held a briefing on the publication, World Debt Tables; and attended a two-day colloquium on emerging issues in the former republics of the Soviet Union.
Administration. The board continued to be active in terms of setting major policies for the Bank's administration. In fiscal year 1992, it was particularly involved with issues concerning the Bank's human resources. Following on the extensive work of the Committee on Personnel Policy Issues, the board considered the committee's report on the implementation of the Bank's human-resources strategy. Later in the year, it discussed management's annual report on human-resources strategy, which reviewed progress in meeting the Bank's strategic priorities in the light of substantial changes in the Bank's membership and external environment and in the new and more complex demands being placed on the Bank staff.
In connection with personnel policies, the executive directors reviewed staff-benefits policies and approved a modified home-leave and education-travel benefit plan that provided additional flexibility for staff, while being cost-neutral and more simple for the Bank to administer. They also approved an adjustment in the education grant and extended interim measures (which they had approved in fiscal 1990) to protect non-U.S. Bank staff from the effect of a 1988 change in U.S. estate-tax law. As it does each year, the executive directors considered a review of staff compensation and approved an annual salary adjustment.
After authorizing, in fiscal 1989, a plan for the rehabilitation of the Bank's main complex, the board continued to follow closely the progress of the program, including reviewing revised projections on space requirements of the Bank Group into the next century.
On the occasion of the retirement of Barber B. Conable, the executive directors adopted a resolution of appreciation for Mr. Conable's leadership of the World Bank Group over the past five years. The executive directors welcomed Lewis T. Preston as the new chairman
of the board of the IBRD, IDA, the IFC, and MIGA commencing September 1, 1991.
In the area of collaboration with the IMF, the board discussed a memorandum on Bank-IMF collaboration, and general agreement was reached on the need for close and effective coordination between the two institutions in addressing the complex and unique situation facing the countries of the former Soviet Union. While recognizing the close interdependence between macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform, which needs to be reflected in collaboration between the Bank and the IMF, both institutions should maintain their respective mandates. Collaboration that went beyond this, some directors cautioned, could be interpreted as amounting to cross conditionality. Directors noted, for instance, that Bank investment lending in a particular country should not be subject to the existence of understandings reached between that particular country and the IMF, provided that the Bank itself was satisfied with the direction of the country's economic policies.
Development Committee
The executive directors were actively involved with the Development Committee, assisting committee members in preparing for their meetings, considering the draft provisional agenda, and discussing the president's reports and background papers, which were used as the basis for the ministers' discussions. In addition, several months prior to each meeting, the executive directors met as a Committee of the Whole to discuss the preliminary agenda and the outlines for the background papers to ensure that the main issues and concerns of committee members were reflected in the documentation.
In preparing for the Development Committee's semiannual meetings, the board discussed a broad range of papers and reports, which touched on many of the most important issues for the Bank such as poverty reduction, private-sector development, the effect of industrialized-country policies on developing countries, debt reduction, and the transfer of resources. The papers for the October 1991 meeting included: "Development Priorities of the 1990s and Their Implications for the World Bank Group" and "Development of Human Resources in Developing Countries." There were also reports on the Bank's women-in-development activities,9 the Bank Group's progress in expanding private-sector activities,10 the implementation of
9 For details, see page 53. For details, see page 60.
the debt strategy and its effect on the development prospects of severely indebted countries, trends in the transfer of resources, and current international-trade developments. The papers for the April 1992 meeting included: "The Interlinkages between the Policies of the Industrial and Developing Countries Emphasizing Trade Aspects" and "The Interaction of Environmental and Development Policies." The board also reviewed progress reports on trends in the transfer of resources; the implementation of the debt strategy, covering both official and commercial-bank creditors; the status of negotiations on the tenth replenishment of IDA resources;" the implementation of the Bank's plan of action for the reduction of poverty;12 and a legal framework for foreign direct investment.
The executive directors' Steering Committee reviewed the communiques released by the Development Committee following its semiannual meetings and made suggestions to ensure that the board's work program was responsive to the directions set out by the Development Committee.
Committees of the Executive Directors
Joint Audit Committee. Established in 1970, the Joint Audit Committee represents shareholders in overseeing the soundness of the Bank's financial practices and the adequacy of the work of the operations-evaluation and internal-audit units. The committee provides a channel through which the internal and external auditors can communicate with the executive directors.
In fulfilling its responsibilities during fiscal 1992, the committee nominated a firm of private, independent, internationally established accountants to conduct the annual audits of the Bank. The committee reviewed the scope of the independent accountants' examination and their annual audited financial statements. The committee also held its second executive session with the external auditors without management's participation to discuss the auditors' findings and recommended actions.
During the year, the committee reviewed the report of the Independent Panel of International Audit Experts, which was established in March 1991 to assist in the committee's first performance review of the incumbent external auditors. The committee concurred with the conclusions and recommendations of the panel that, based on the performance of the incumbent auditors, there was no basis to consider a change in external auditors at this time, and that it would be appropriate to repeat the performance-review process in three or four years. In addition, when the committee pre-
pared its fiscal 1992 work program, it took into consideration the panel's recommendation that contacts between the external auditors and the committee should be more frequent.
Further, through regular meetings with the Bank's senior financial officers, the committee helped to provide assurance to the executive board that the financial affairs of the Bank were properly conducted. In this regard, the committee reviewed and endorsed recommendations pertaining to the fiscal 1992 implementation of the IBRD's policy for loan-loss provisioning. It was also briefed on the status of the current IBRD loan portfolio. In addition, the committee reviewed the situation of countries in arrears and heard reports on recent developments in nonaccrual countries. The committee also reviewed and endorsed the recommendations regarding the annual allocation of IBRD net income. In this context, the committee discussed incentives to encourage borrowers to repay their loans on time and endorsed a proposal to limit incentives for timely loan repayment to a conditional waiver of twenty-five basis points of the loan-interest rate. The committee also revisited the issue of a conditional waiver of the commitment fee in the course of its consideration of fiscal 1992 net-income recommendations made to the board. Two other areas reviewed were the management of the IBRD's liquidity and the Bank's various lending instruments.
To strengthen its oversight responsibility for the Internal Auditing Department, the committee initiated the practice of holding executive sessions with the auditor general. In addition, it undertook its annual review of the work program of the Internal Auditing Department. Through the informal Subcommittee on Internal Auditing Department Reports, the committee examined specific audit reports to determine whether the department had performed its functions adequately and efficiently. The committee reviewed and endorsed the recommendations of the subcommittee.
Further to its oversight function, the committee also undertook its annual review of the work program of the Operations Evaluation Department. It reviewed and endorsed the recommendations of the informal Subcommittee on Operations Evaluation Department Reports, which had examined specific products of the department to determine whether it had performed its functions adequately and whether appropriate systems were in place to ensure that its findings were being disseminated and
" For details, see page 75. 12 For details, see page 46.
utilized. In addition, the committee reviewed a number of papers by the Operations Evaluation Department as part of an ongoing effort to identify problems or policy issues for consideration by the executive directors. The committee also addressed the issue of a broadened mandate for the Operations Evaluation Department.
The committee consists of eight executive directors who are appointed by the board after each regular election for a term of two years. Jean-Pierre Landau has served as chairperson of the committee since December 1991.
Committee on Cost Effectiveness and Budget Practices. The committee was established in 1986 to examine aspects of the Bank's business processes, administrative policies, standards, and budget practices that significantly affect the cost-effectiveness of its operations.
Early in the fiscal year, the committee forwarded to the president its report on "Externally Funded Activities." The report was prepared in response to concerns about the administration of trust funds and reimbursable programs, which have been one of the most rapidly growing areas of Bank activity. The committee commended management for the steps being taken to improve the administration of these programs. Nevertheless, the committee felt that further progress could be made.
In response to the president's request for its views, the committee held a series of meetings to consider the report of the Technical Assistance Review Task Force; its comments were submitted to the president in January. The committee was in full agreement with management's intention to improve the delivery of Bank technical assistance and urged rapid implementation of the task force's recommendations.13 In addition, the committee generally endorsed the proposal for a grant facility for technical assistance, to be called the Institutional Development Fund (IDF).
The committee reviewed the proposed revised budget system. The committee endorsed and strengthened the proposed system as one that would lead to a simpler, more transparent, less time-consuming, and more cost-effective process. The new system will take effect with the fiscal 1994 budget cycle.
The committee also began a review of the Bank's travel policy, which was last subject to the committee's scrutiny in 1988. It was expected that a report would be issued in mid 1992.
Other significant topics considered by the committee were the Bank's publications policy, communications technology, the fiscal 1991 work program and budget retrospective,
and charges for special guests and visitors to the annual meetings.
The committee is composed of eight executive directors. J. S. Baijal has served as chairperson of the committee since November 1990.
Committee on Personnel Policy Issues. The committee, which was established in 1980, is charged with keeping under continuing review, and, where appropriate, advising the executive directors on, staff compensation and other significant personnel-policy issues. It also maintains close liaison with the executive directors of the IMF on these issues, bearing in mind the need for general parallelism between the two institutions.
The committee reviewed the final paper on changes in benefits resulting from the 1990 Quadrennial Benefits Survey. Thereafter, the committee reviewed the 1992 update of the Bank's human-resources strategy. The 1992 update addressed issues touched on during previous committee reviews, reported on progress made, and outlined actions and plans to strengthen human-resources implementation. Major concerns of the committee were the need for greater nationality and gender diversity among staff, the need to adjust the staff s skills mix to meet the Bank's evolving needs, and the importance of a strengthened and centralized personnel function. The committee intends to continue to address the issue of an appropriate skills mix for the Bank during the coming year in the context of a broader debate on how the Bank's personnel policies, including its human-resources strategy and the role of field offices, should be modified in order to provide for a more effective implementation of the Bank's poverty-reduction strategy and the Bank's areas of special operational emphasis.
The committee also received a briefing by the head of the Advisory Group on Higher Level Women's Issues and commended the group on its findings and recommendations concerning the hiring and promotion of women for higher-level positions in the Bank. The committee expects to follow the progress made in implementing the advisory-group's recommendations.
In reviewing the 1992 Review of Staff Compensation, the committee generally found that the recommended salary adjustment struck the right balance between the interests of the staff, the institution, and the shareholders.
The committee consists of eight executive directors. Eveline Herfkens has served as chairperson since December 1991.
13 For details, see page 95.
Committee on Directors' Administrative Matters. The committee was established in 1968 to consider, make recommendations, and report its findings to the executive directors for their decision on administrative matters relating to executive directors, alternates, advisers, and their staffs.
The committee is responsible for assisting executive directors in the formulation and implementation of new administrative policies and changes in existing policies. Matters taken up during the year included amendment of Section 2(f) of Rules of Procedure for Meetings of Executive Directors; executive directors' travel to member countries outside their constituencies (group travel); staffing of executive directors' offices; travel of executive directors' assistants; the status of the Bank's main-complex rehabilitation project; and remuneration of advisers and executive directors' assistants.
The committee coordinates many of its recommendations with a similar committee established by the executive directors of the International Monetary Fund.
In making its recommendations, the committee tries to maintain a balance between the organizational and administrative objectives of the institution and the unique circumstances faced by the directors in discharging their dual responsibilities.
The membership consists of six executive directors. Felix Alberto Camarasa has served as chairperson since November 1990.
Ad Hoc Committee on Board Procedures. The ad hoc committee was established in Feb-
ruary 1991 to review the functioning and procedures of the executive board and to report to the board on ways to conduct the board's work more efficiently. Included in the committee's work program are reviews of board procedures as they relate to policy discussions and policy implementation, discussions of the Bank's country-assistance strategies, consideration of the external environment, lending operations, board reports, and board discussions in general. The committee's report is expected to be considered by the executive directors early in fiscal 1993.
The ad hoc committee has been chaired by Moises Nairn since August 1991.
Executive Directors' Steering Committee. The Executive Directors' Steering Committee, an informal advisory body of executive directors, composed of the dean and the codean of the board and the chairpersons of the other standing board committees, meets monthly to consult on, and review with the Bank's vice president and secretary, the executive directors' work program. The committee also provides a consultative framework on various board issues. In addition, the committee reviews the Development Committee's communiques to ensure that the implications for the executive directors' work program are fully considered. Fawzi H. Al-Sultan, the dean of the board, has served as chairperson of the committee since November 1990.
The meetings of committees of the executive board are open to participation by all executive directors.
Section Two
The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
In 1991, for the second year in a row, the economies of low-income and middle-income countries virtually stagnated, as measured by an increase in per capita gross domestic product (GDP). Aggregate output for developing countries advanced by slightly less than 2 percent during 1991 (similar to the weak performance of 1990), implying an easing in per capita income of 0.1 percent.
Aggregate statistics for 1991 were influenced by the sharp decline in output in Central and Eastern Europe, as well as by the adverse effects of the Gulf crisis on several economies in the Middle East. Excluding Central and Eastern Europe, growth in developing countries in 1991 was 3.4 percent, compared with 3.8 percent during the 1980s. Estimates of GDP growth by major geographic region show an acceleration in Latin America and in sub-Saharan Africa; an increase in China's growth rate helped to sustain high rates of growth in the East Asia region.
International conditions for growth in developing countries deteriorated in 1991. The seven major industrial countries (the G-7) experienced a significant slowdown in GDP growth—from 2.8 percent in 1990 to 1.9 percent during 1991 as recession gripped Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States and growth rates slowed in continental Europe and Japan. In important respects, the slowdown was different from those that occurred during the 1970s and 1980s. Rather than reflecting the effect of disinflationary policies, weakness in demand was more closely related to the loss of momentum that had built up during the long period of expansion that began in 1983. In addition, a common factor underlying the slowdown in many industrial countries was the cyclical deceleration in investment spending.
Although the weakness in demand in the United States led to a sharp decline in short-term dollar interest rates—a positive development for many developing countries—it also contributed to a drop of over 6 percent in nonoil commodity prices and to a slackening, to 3 percent, in the growth of world trade. These trends were compounded by worsening economic conditions in the Soviet Union and
its successor states, where a growing shortage of foreign exchange led to a compression of imports from Eastern Europe and an acceleration of certain commodity exports (aluminum, gold, and lead, for instance) to earn hard currencies.
Against this deteriorating global background, the improvement in economic performance in a few developing regions in 1991—which carried over into 1992—was especially noteworthy. This improvement is attributable, in part, to the implementation by many governments of measures to stabilize their economies and restructure incentives to encourage private initiative and international trade. Policy reforms in Latin America helped to moderate inflation and domestic demand; East Asian economies, supported by growth in export volume in the range of 10 percent and by robust domestic demand, continued to grow rapidly. Sub-Saharan Africa raised its real GDP growth rate from 1.3 percent in 1990 to 2.4 percent in 1991.
Also noteworthy was the implementation by the Paris Club of a new menu of enhanced concessions in debt reschedulings for the severely indebted, low-income countries. The menu was introduced in agreements with Benin and Nicaragua, and was subsequently applied in agreements with Bolivia and Tanzania. Nonconcessional but special extended rescheduling terms were also accorded to ten severely indebted middle-income countries.
In the commodity market, prices of all major categories declined in 1991. The index of nonoil primary commodity prices in nominal dollar terms declined for the third consecutive year, and the index in real terms hit an all-time low. Growth in the volume of world trade in constant dollar terms declined from 5 percent in 1990 to 3 percent in 1991, mainly the result of the slowdown in industrial countries' import demand. There were no breakthroughs in the Uruguay Round of GATT negotiations on key elements, and the outcome remains in doubt.
In matters relating to the environment, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in June 1992 in Rio de Janeiro, produced an "Earth Charter," or dec-
Iaration of basic principles for the conduct of nations and peoples with respect to environment and development; agreements on specific legal measures, including conventions on climate change and biodiversity, and principles for a framework agreement on forests; and an agenda for action ("Agenda 21"), establishing the environmental work program agreed by the international community for the period beyond 1992 and into the twenty-first century.
Major Industrial Countries
Growth in the G-7 countries decelerated from 2.8 percent in 1990 to 1.9 percent in 1991 (see Table 2-1). The broad trend was the outcome of largely unexpected setbacks to recovery in the United States and the United Kingdom and the apparent onset of a slower period of economic growth in Japan and Germany. A cyclical slowdown of investment was apparently a major component of the slowdown: Investment decelerated or fell during 1991 in all the G-7 countries. In Japan, the cyclical slowing of investment was probably the dominant factor in weaker growth, but a slump in construction of rental housing and the fading of a tax-cut-induced boom in auto sales also contributed. In Germany, the role of investment
was dominant, as well. Unification further boosted investment, which then appeared to diminish, as expectations of profitability were dampened by higher wages and high short-term nominal and real interest rates. Upward pressures on wages and interest rates generally dampened economic activity in Germany during 1991. The special factor there was the pressure on interest rates that arose from the financing of unification and from anti-inflationary monetary policy. Inflation as measured by the GDP deflator slackened in most of the G-7 countries. It continued to decelerate in North America and edged down in Japan. The record in Europe was mixed, however: Inflation eased somewhat in Italy and in the smaller economies such as Spain and Portugal, but accelerated by about one half of a percentage point in the United Kingdom (the result of statistical anomalies) and by more than a point in Germany.
The slowdown of the industrial countries in 1991 partly originated in structural problems inherited from the 1980s. Slower growth in Europe in 1991 revealed that unemployment, for instance, was still a structurally problematic area. The unemployment rate in the four largest European economies was 7.8 percent in
1990, near the peak of the business cycle, and rose to 8.3 percent in 1991. Financial stress brought on by excessive debt in the household and corporate sectors was an example of another kind of structural problem, in particular for the economies of Japan and the United States. Financial institutions in these two countries adopted more conservative lending policies, curtailing financing of higher-risk projects such as commercial construction and highly leveraged corporate transactions. A number of weaker institutions were also consolidated through bankruptcy, merger, and reorganization. These developments played some part in the general tightening of credit during 1991, which may have helped to slow the pace of investment in the United States and Japan. Weak growth of credit and a fall in some asset prices probably slowed consumption, as well.
A notable development in 1991 was a narrowing of current-account imbalances of most major industrial countries (see Table 2-2). The U.S. current-account deficit moved to near balance (only 0.2 percent of gross domestic product). The trade component of the deficit narrowed as lower inflation and earlier dollar depreciation improved competitiveness, while the transfers component moved into substantial surplus because of war-related payments. Moreover, there was a remarkable swing in the
German current account—from a surplus equivalent to 3.2 percent of GDP in 1990 to a deficit of 1.3 percent. A continuation of the surge of imports that followed unification, as well as the earlier appreciation of the deutsche mark, contributed to the swing. The Japanese surplus on current account rose from 1.2 percent of gross domestic product in 1990 to 2.1 percent in 1991.
Several important developments in monetary conditions also took place in 1991. Reflecting more accommodative monetary policy, nominal short-term interest rates fell in the United States and Japan (see Figure 2-1). In contrast, the increase in German nominal short-term interest rates to post-war highs narrowed the potential of some European Monetary System partners to reduce their rates. The German short-term real interest rate also rose relative to real interest rates in the United States and Japan (see Figure 2-2). The slope of the Japanese yield curve became less negative and the United States' curve more positive as short-term interest rates fell more quickly than long-term rates in both countries. In Germany, the slope of the yield curve turned positive.
Developing Countries
Output for the developing countries advanced by 1.9 percent during 1991—comparable to the weak performance they registered in
1990 (see Table 2-3).' In terms of per capita income, real output in developing countries apparently eased somewhat, by -0.1 percent. A number of factors—some broad-based, others more specific—contributed to the weakness of performance:
• Because slowdown in industrial-country growth dampened demand for exports of both primary commodities and manufactures from developing countries, the volume of merchandise exports of developing countries declined by 2 percent.
• The influence of the Gulf crisis, including the spike in oil prices and dislocations in the Middle East, was widespread; the effects of the crisis on Iraq and Yugoslavia (these two countries alone account for some 4 percent of developing countries' aggregate GDP) resulted in steep declines in output.
• Structural transformation and the collapse of trade with the Soviet Union and its successor states combined to induce a deep recession in most of Central and Eastern Europe, while the sharp compression of imports by the Soviet Union adversely affected its other trading partners (such as India).
• Weakness of policy implementation affected economic performance in a number of countries.
Aggregate statistics for 1991 were dominated by the sharp decline in output in Central and Eastern Europe and by the severely adverse effects of the Gulf crisis on the economies of Middle Eastern countries. Estimates of GDP by major geographic region reveal that growth of output accelerated in Latin America and in sub-Saharan Africa, while a pick-up in China helped sustain Asian activity. Despite a sharp slowdown in India, where GDP growth fell from 5.5 percent in 1990 to 2.5 percent, the population-weighted growth rate of developing countries' GDP—3.5 percent in 1991—continued to exceed the ordinary measure.2
Despite the slowdown in the industrial countries—particularly in the United States—improvements in economic performance in Latin America were widespread. The region's GDP rose by 3.0 percent in 1991, thus reversing the slide in annual per capita income that had taken place over the past decade. Growth rates were in excess of 4 percent in Argentina, Chile, and Mexico,, and reached a high of 9.1 percent in Venezuela. Policy reforms covering fiscal adjustment, trade and investment liberalization, the financial sector, and public-enterprise restructuring and privatization, supported by debt restructuring, have helped to moderate inflation in the region and strengthen domestic demand. Chile has now been growing at an average annual rate of 4.5 percentage points
for the past six years, and since 1989 Mexico has been enjoying a broad-based expansion at rates of 3 percent to 4 percent a year. Recent major policy steps undertaken in Argentina have brought a recovery in confidence and growth, and a reflow of capital to a number of countries in the form of foreign direct investment and portfolio investment suggests an increased level of market confidence in the progress achieved to date.
Growth in output in East Asia, supported by the continued vibrant performance of the region's exports, as well as by a firming of domestic demand, particularly in China, accelerated to about 6.8 percent in 1991. The sharp acceleration of GDP growth in China, from 4.5 percent to over 6 percent, was supported by improvements in industrial output, higher levels of consumer spending, and significant gains in the export of manufactures. Despite the slowdown in industrial-country markets, export volumes for the group of East Asian countries advanced at double-digit rates, implying gains in market share. A moderate slackening in GDP growth from the rapid 9 percent-to-10 percent gains of 1990 occurred in the dynamic economies of the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, and Thailand, in part reflecting a catch-up of imports. The major risk facing this highly trade-oriented region is the potential for sluggishness or disruption in world-trade flows. Economic weakness in some of the region's traditional export markets has underlined the importance of market diversification, including a further strengthening of ties within the region. Increasingly buoyant intra-regional trade in East Asia may be viewed as evidence of an ongoing process of "market-oriented" regional integration, a development that could partially offset lackluster progress in the area of multilateral trade agreements.
The GDP growth rate in 1991 of the South Asia region was 2.8 percent, down from 5.6 percent in 1990. The decline was partly caused by India's reining in of its budget deficit and the short-term effects of the implementation of strong emergency stabilization measures, which, coupled with the collapse of the Soviet market and recession in the U.S., contributed to a sharp slowdown in industrial activity and exports. The emergency measures included a
' Because of data limitations, states of the former Soviet Union are not included.
2 Average GDP growth rate for a group of economies is computed as a weighted average of individual economies' GDP growth rates. Ordinarily, the weights consist of individual economies' GDP shares, while in population-weighted methodology, the weights are individual economies' population shares.
severe compression of imports, tight credit policies, and exchange-rate devaluation.
Output in the Middle East and North Africa region grew weakly at 0.8 percent in 1991, reflecting the shocks from the Gulf crisis. Petroleum-price declines reduced revenues in oil-exporting countries, and many countries in the region were adversely affected by declines in workers' remittances and tourism revenues, as well as by the need to increase social spending in support of workers repatriated from Iraq and the Gulf countries.
In Europe and Central Asia, GDP contracted by about 7 percent, as stabilization and reform programs in several countries had not yet led to a bottoming-out in their economies. Average output of the Central and East European economies, including Yugoslavia, is estimated to have dropped by 14 percent, following a decline of 8.7 percent in 1990. Estimates of economic decline among the five reforming economies in this region range from 7.5 percent in Hungary to 26 percent in Bulgaria. However, efforts to liberalize imports and diversify exports—which followed the disbanding of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) trading block—led to strong growth in trade between Eastern Europe and the industrialized countries.
Growth accelerated in sub-Saharan Africa to 2.4 percent in 1991, in part the result of the indirect stimulation of Nigeria's economy by the Gulf crisis, not only through temporarily higher oil prices but also through its success in exploiting new oilfields quickly. For the past five years, the prices of nonoil commodities exported by most West African countries (ro-busta coffee and cocoa, for example) have fared worse than those that are particularly important for East and Southern African countries (mild arabica coffee and copper, for example). Such sustained losses in terms of trade have contributed to growth performance in West Africa that is poorer than in East and Southern Africa.
Progress of the Debt Strategy
The Paris Club arrived at a far-reaching understanding with Egypt and Poland in 1991 that could effectively reduce their debt burden by 50 percent. To achieve the full benefit of the agreement, however, Egypt and Poland must have an agreed program in effect with the International Monetary Fund, must keep current with respect to the payments due under the terms of the agreement during 1991-94, and must have obtained comparable terms of debt relief from other creditors. The total face value
of eligible debt covered by the agreements is estimated at $30 billion for Poland and $28 billion for Egypt. The Paris Club creditor countries stressed that Egypt and Poland were special cases and that concessions extended to them would not necessarily be available to other developing countries. By the end of the year, nonconcessional but special extended Paris Club rescheduling terms had been accorded to ten countries: Congo, Cote dTvoire, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Honduras, Jamaica, Morocco, Nigeria, Peru, and the Philippines.
(At the April 1992 meeting of the G-24, ministers stressed that due attention should be given to debt-distressed middle-income countries and called on the Paris Club to extend debt-relief terms similar to those offered to Egypt and Poland to other countries in a similar situtation. They also noted the importance of new official export credits or guarantees, particulary given the modernization needs linked to privatization.)
The debt strategy for the severely indebted low-income countries advanced in 1991 with a call in July by the G-7 summit on the Paris Club for additional debt relief. The Paris Club was asked to consider concessions in debt reschedulings for low-income countries that went well
beyond the relief granted under Toronto terms. This proposal echoed the so-called Trinidad terms that had been advanced a year earlier, which advocated a substantial reduction in the entire stock of debt rather than of maturities falling due within a near-term consolidation period. In December 1991, the Paris Club agreed to implement a new menu of enhanced concessions for the low-income rescheduling countries. The new menu, which was introduced in the rescheduling agreements with Nicaragua and Benin, and which was subsequently applied in the agreements with Bolivia and Tanzania, increased the degree of concession-ality in comparison with Toronto terms. The menu effectively reduces by 50 percent the burden of debt service on the amounts rescheduled—the debt service due during the period covered by the rescheduling. Creditors also indicated that they would be willing to consider the stocks of pre-cutoff-date debt after a period of three to four years.
Following the modification of the debt strategy to allow for official support of debt-reduction operations, a significant number of heavily indebted developing countries, including Costa Rica, Mexico, Morocco, the Philippines, Uruguay, and Venezuela, reached agreement with commercial creditors in 1989 and 1990. In
1991, however, only Niger, Mozambique, and Nigeria reached agreement with their commercial creditors on a debt-reduction program. The Niger and Mozambique agreements, completed in March and December 1991, respectively, involved buybacks of the bulk of their commercial-bank debt at a deep discount, while the Nigeria package, signed in December 1991, involved a menu of options, including a buyback and a par exchange for reduced-interest bonds. The Niger and Mozambique agreements were supported by grants from the Debt
Reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries and were cofinanced by bilateral donors. Nigeria financed its debt-reduction operation with its own resources, but the IBRD agreed to a negative-pledge waiver in connection with the operation.
In addition, in February 1992, the Philippines reached agreement with bank creditors on a term sheet for a financing package that would provide for a comprehensive restructuring of its foreign commercial debt that remained after the 1990 buyback. The new agree-
ment provides for a menu of options: additional cash buybacks, new money combined with debt-conversion bonds, and different types of debt exchanges at par for bonds with either permanent or temporarily reduced interest rates. Two months later, Argentina reached an agreement in principle on a debt and debt-service reduction package with its creditor banks. The agreement covers $31 billion of commercial-bank debt, including $8 billion in arrears, and allows banks to choose between floating-rate discount bonds and fixed-rate par bonds. At the end of the fiscal year, negotiations were in progress on the details of the agreement. A number of countries, including Brazil, are at various stages of negotiations on debt-restructuring agreements—which would include debt and debt-service reduction options, most of which would have the potential for official multilateral and bilateral support— with their commercial-bank creditors.
Preliminary data indicate that the nominal value of the external debt of developing countries reached $1.28 trillion in 1991, virtually unchanged from its level of a year earlier. Of this total, outstanding long-term debt amounted to $1.06 trillion (see Table 2-4). Stability in the level of debt resulted from the fact that new lending flows (including flows of short-term debt) of $38 billion were fully offset by the effects of debt conversion, debt relief, and clearance of arrears, as well as by exchange-rate valuation changes. In addition to the negotiated debt reductions for Egypt and Poland, cash payment of interest arrears, in particular by Brazil and Nigeria, contributed to debt reduction. Debt-equity swaps also extinguished substantial amounts of external debt, most notably in Argentina, where debt-conversion programs eliminated $7 billion in the face value of debt (including arrears) through the privatization of telephone and airline companies (ENTel and Aerolineas Argentinas, respectively). Debt-equity swaps and other conversion programs, however, have played only a limited role in reducing external debt because of debtor-country concerns over their fiscal impact.
Overall debt indicators for developing countries in 1991 were mixed: The estimated debt-to-exports ratio was unchanged at 176 percent in 1991; the debt-to-gross national product ratio dropped to 38 percent (as compared with 42 percent in 1990); and the debt service-to-exports ratio inched up to 21 percent (as compared with 20 percent in 1990).
The aggregate figures hide significant regional differences. In East Asia, an estimated rise in debt stocks, reflecting good market access, was balanced by strong export performance: As a result, both debt-to-exports and
debt service-to-exports indicators declined slightly. In sub-Saharan Africa, however, the estimated rise in debt stocks, reflecting interest rescheduling and new official loans, as well as weak export performance, increased already heavy debt burdens. It is estimated, for instance, that sub-Saharan Africa's debt-service payments increased to 21 percent of exports in 1991, compared with 19 percent a year earlier, but these payments still represented only about half of the scheduled payments. In Latin America, estimated debt stocks fell slightly in 1991, while debt-service payments rose. As a result, debt-service indicators were mixed. The debt-to-gross national product ratio, at 37 percent, was lower than the 41 percent of the previous year, whereas debt-service payments actually paid rose significantly to 30 percent of exports, up from 25 percent in the preceding year.
Net Financial Flows and Access to Capital Markets
Aggregate net resource flows in 1991 to developing countries are estimated to have risen by almost 7 percent in nominal terms to $87.0 billion, compared with $81.5 billion in the previous year (see Table 2-5). In real terms, however, the 1991 total amounts to a decrease of 1 percent. Recent trends in financial flows continued: A large share was accounted for by official flows, and a major part of private flows was represented by foreign direct investment (FDI) and portfolio flows (including external stock offerings, domestic stock-market investment, and money-market flows). The official share of total net flows, defined as the share of official development finance (comprising official loans and grants), stood at 60 percent in 1991, the same as in 1990 and higher than 1989's 57 percent. Aggregate net FDI (net of profit remittances) fell to $24.1 billion (from $25.2 billion in 1990); nonetheless, that amount was still higher than 1989's $23.6 billion.
By region, the main features of the estimated net flows were large increases to the Middle East and North Africa, as well as to the Asia region, and a continuance of the trend towards nondebt flows to Latin America. Net flows to the Middle East and North Africa are estimated to have risen by $5.3 billion, to $13 billion, reflecting in part increased financial flows related to the Gulf crisis and its aftermath. In East Asia and South Asia, borrowing by creditworthy countries accounted largely for the $4.6 billion increase in flows, to $37.4 billion. In Central and Eastern Europe, a fall in net resource flows of $1.4 billion, to $3.5 billion, reflected the difficulties of countries in that subregion in attracting commercial fi-
nance. The fall was offset, to some extent, by disbursements from official sources, divided about equally between multilateral financial institutions and official bilateral creditors. In sub-Saharan Africa, a small decline of $485 million, to $16.4 billion, was accounted for by a drop in grants and private-source flows (including suppliers' credits). In Latin America, a decline in net flows of $1.7 billion, to $17.1 billion, following a substantial rise in 1990, was less significant than was the shift in its composition to nondebt flows, principally FDI and portfolio inflows. Official flows to Latin America declined in 1991. In particular, multilateral flows fell after the completion of debt-reduction operations.
Aggregate net transfers are a measure of the cash flow supplied to a country by external creditors and are the sum of net resource flows less the cost of servicing external liabilities— that is, less interest on debt and profit remittances on FDI. Aggregate net transfers are estimated to have declined to $13.2 billion in 1991 from $16.0 billion in 1990. The decrease, compared with an increase in net resource flows, is, in part, explained by an increase of $3.7 billion in actual interest payments made by some Latin American countries in 1991.
The regional pattern of net transfers became more differentiated in 1991. Net transfers to Latin America became more negative and reached -$8.6 billion in 1991, compared with -$6.3 billion in 1990. In the Middle East and
North Africa, net transfers increased from $1.9 billion in 1990 to $2.5 billion in 1991, reflecting external financing of restructuring after the Gulf crisis, particularly through loans. Net transfers in 1991 continued to be strongly positive to East Asia and South Asia ($7.3 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively) and to sub-Saharan Africa ($11.2 billion), the latter reflecting strong official flows on both concessional and grant terms.
Since 1990, a few middle-income countries in Latin America—Chile, Mexico, and Venezuela—have been able to emerge from commercial bank debt-reduction operations with renewed access to the international capital markets, through both debt and nondebt flows. That pace accelerated in 1991. Borrowers from Mexico and Venezuela, both public corporations and private-sector exporters, were able to tap the bond markets for substantial amounts on increasingly improved terms. These issues, sold primarily in the Euromarkets or placed privately in the United States, totaled $2.7 billion equivalent. Argentina and Brazil regained access to the international bond markets for the first time since 1982, with new bond issues totaling $0.8 billion and $1.5 billion in 1991, respectively. This renewed access appears to be related to improved prospects for comprehensive debt and debt-service reduction operations in these two countries.
In addition, a number of corporations in developing countries, most notably in Mexico,
issued equity shares abroad. The changing pattern of international capital flows toward alternative forms of financing (such as bond or equity issues), as distinct from traditional syndicated credits, is attributed to several factors: generally tight credit conditions and capital constraints facing international banks; the greater role of institutional investors as a source of cross-border funds; an increased supply of new bond instruments created in conjunction with debt and debt-service reduction operations; market perception of improved creditworthiness in some indebted developing countries that have successfully implemented reform programs; and the fact that bond debt has been fully serviced by all major developing countries, including those (such as Argentina, Brazil, and Bulgaria) that had incurred arrears on interest payments on bank loans. The improved investment climate in some Latin American countries resulted in a 20 percent increase—to an estimated $9.8 billion—in FDI flows to the region in 1991, compared with the previous year. About one third of the FDI flow was facilitated by debt-equity conversion programs.
Primary-commodity Market Conditions
The worldwide slowdown in economic activity was the dominating factor behind primary-commodity price movements in 1991. The World Bank's index of nonoil primary-commodity prices in nominal dollars declined by 4.8 percent, marking the third consecutive year of such price declines (see Table 2-6). Measured in constant dollars (using as the deflator the unit value index of exports of manufac-
tured goods from the G-5 countries to the developing countries), the index fell to an all-time low. The importance of economic recession in shaping market trends in 1991 was evident by the fact that the price indexes for all three major nonoil commodity groups (food and beverages, nonfood agriculture, and metals and minerals) declined. Economic difficulties in the Soviet Union and in Central and Eastern Europe generally tended to lower commodity prices—except for basic foodstuffs.
The price indexes for cereals and fats and oils were 2.0 percent and 3.0 percent higher, respectively, in 1991 than in the year before. However, a decline in beverage prices, by 5.9 percent, and a 28.5 percent fall in sugar prices more than offset these increases, causing the overall food and beverage index to decline. Coffee, cocoa, and tea prices hit all-time lows in real terms. Substantially reduced imports of tea by the Soviet Union and Iraq were a significant factor in the decline in tea prices. Although expectations of a diminished 1991/92 cocoa crop temporarily lifted cocoa prices near the end of 1991, cocoa prices (and coffee prices, as well) continued to reflect the increased production capacity built up over the past decade. World grain production in the 1991/92 crop year was expected to decline by more than 4 percent compared with the previous season. Grain stocks, especially of wheat, remained at relatively low levels, making the markets vulnerable to production shortfalls. Large export commitments to the Soviet Union led to substantial increases in wheat prices for most of 1991; nevertheless, the 1991
average price represented a slight decline from the previous year. Rice prices increased, in part the result of strong demand from the Middle East and Latin America. After declining somewhat during the first half of 1991, the fats-and-oils price index more than regained earlier losses in the second half of the year, as weather-related production shortfalls pushed up prices for palm oil and coconut oil. Production and stocks of sugar increased, substantially weakening prices, particularly during the second quarter of 1991.
Large production increases in the Northern Hemisphere, particularly in China, put downward pressure on cotton prices during the second half of 1991. Increased exports from the Soviet Union, partly from the previous year's crop, added to the pressure. Further downward pressure was exerted on cotton prices by payments made by the U.S. government to domestic mills and exporters to maintain the competitiveness of U.S. cotton during the period of plentiful supply. Natural rubber prices declined mildly, mainly because of further cutbacks in automobile production.
The large decline in the metals and minerals price index was led by aluminum, lead, and zinc. A combination of weak industrial demand and relatively trouble-free production resulted in a large stock build-up, particularly at the London Metal Exchange. The Soviet Union's release of stockpiled and surplus metals to world markets considerably dampened prices of aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, and zinc. Copper prices, however, have declined only moderately since 1989 and have been maintained at a relatively high level compared with other metals. The main reason appears to have been continued supply problems, particularly in Zaire and Zambia, and fear of a major disruption to supplies from Chile.
After the conclusion of the Gulf crisis, crude oil prices headed downward. Price movements reflected the way in which the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) adjusted its production to changing market conditions. Production in OPEC countries was cut back in the second quarter of 1991, largely in an attempt to absorb excess stocks held in fear of war-related disruptions and the seasonal downturn in demand. In the second half of the year, however, OPEC production increased by about 1.2 million barrels per day, partly to accommodate the seasonal upturn in demand and to compensate for declines in non-OPEC supplies, particularly from the Soviet Union. Because this production increase took place during an economic recession and during a mild winter in the Northern Hemisphere, stocks increased and prices declined.
Trends in World Trade
The growth in the volume of world trade slackened to 3 percent during 1991 (see Table 2-7), in marked contrast to the robust 7 per-cent-to-9 percent growth experienced during the late 1980s. In nominal-dollar terms, exports in 1991 increased by a mere 1.5 percent—down from 13.5 percent growth in 1990. The flattening out of export prices in dollars reflected the switch from dollar depreciation in 1990 tc appreciation in 1991, the rise and fall of oil prices, and the continued decline of nonoil commodity prices. Trade in commercial services was also affected by the economic slowdown, increasing by only 5 percent, as compared with 17 percent in 1990.
The lackluster growth in world trade was attributable, in large measure, to the slowdown in import demand in the industrial countries; it was compounded, however, by the virtual collapse of trade among the former members of the CMEA. Among the industrial countries, softening trends in investment spending, particularly in North America and Japan, served to dampen exports of capital goods. Some of these negative factors appeared to be on the wane by early 1992, and growth of world trade may have begun to rise again in the second half of 1991, according to preliminary figures.
Several developments in 1991 helped to sustain the momentum in world trade:
• Trade among European countries was supported by the process of unification in Germany, which not only resulted in a strong 11 percent advance in the volume of German imports but also sustained production and exports in neighboring trading partners.
• The tone of East Asian import demand, underpinned by rapid growth in domestic demand among the countries of Southeast Asia and by a pronounced 18 percent rebound in Chinese imports, remained firm. Trade among East Asian countries advanced by 17 percent (in dollar value) during 1991 after having increased by 15 percent in the previous year.
• The economic recovery under way in a number of Latin American countries provided a substantial 10.5 percent boost to that region's import volumes.
In value terms, however, only exports from North America and Asia expanded—by 5.5 and 11.5 percent, respectively. The value of exports from all other regions declined —mainly the result of declining prices for petroleum and nonoil primary products.
In the developing countries, regional merchandise-trade performance varied widely. Asia's export and import volumes, driven mainly by the dynamic performance of the
leading exporters of manufactures and by robust intraregional trade, continued to grow, by 10.5 and 10.0 percent, respectively. Latin American imports increased by more than 10 percent, and exports climbed by 4 percent. Exports from sub-Saharan Africa turned upwards, increasing by 2.5 percent, representing a significant improvement over the 4.1 percent decline in the previous year; slumbering imports also wakened, increasing by 2 percent. Exports from the Middle East and North Africa declined sharply (by 15 percent), as a result of the Gulf crisis and falling oil prices; imports declined dramatically (by 12 percent). The trade volume of Central and Eastern European countries continued its steep decline.
Growth in industrial-country trade was meager: Japan's exports grew at an average rate of 3 percent, while exports from member countries of the European Community (EC) grew at
the below-average rate of 2.5 percent. Only in North America was growth of export volume brisk (6.5 percent). Imports fared only a little better; Japan's imports grew at 3 percent, North America's stagnated, and only EC imports increased above average—4.5 percent.
In the Uruguay Round of the multilateral trade negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), agreement continued to elude negotiators, and the outcome remains in doubt. Not all aspects of the Draft Final Act satisfy all the objectives of the participants or the ambitions for a liberalization of trade that marked the Punta del Este Declaration. However, in mid May, agreement on a new European farm policy, involving substantial cuts in grain-price supports and lower production ceilings, was reached by the European Community, providing a more positive atmosphere for negotiations. Even if
agreement were reached, much would remain to be done to secure open markets that offer countries the full benefits of specialization through trade.
However, commitments are in prospect to reduce tariffs on goods by at least 30 percent, lower export subsidies and domestic-support levels in agriculture, eliminate quantitative restrictions on textiles and clothing, eliminate voluntary export restraints, and open up market access for services. The beneficial economic effect of trade liberalization on developing countries is difficult to quantify precisely, although a number of studies have attempted to do so. Even the most modest estimates of the gains that developing countries would enjoy from industrial-country trade liberalization point to an amount at least equivalent to the approximately $50 billion that industrial countries transfer to developing countries annually as official development assistance.
Not all developing countries would benefit to the same degree from multilateral trade liberalization. Some food-importing countries are concerned that trade liberalization in agriculture would increase prices and lead to a deterioration in their terms of trade. To the extent that this may occur, net food-importing countries may require financial or other support while they adjust to new relative prices. Some countries, especially in sub-Saharan Africa and the Caribbean, fear that multilateral trade liberalization would narrow or eliminate their preferential trade margins, leading to a reduction in their exports. Again, some countries may require transitional support for adjustment.
In general, however, the economic benefits from a successful conclusion to the Uruguay Round would be considerable for both industrial and developing countries. Failure would make it politically difficult for those developing countries that have undertaken trade reforms, or those considering such actions, to continue down the road of liberalization.
Since the mid 1980s, interest in regional trading arrangements has quickened. Existing schemes are being revived and extended (in membership and coverage), and new groupings are being formed and proposed. The belief that regional arrangements can strengthen multilateral negotiations—by building momentum for more open markets—underlies some of these efforts. Some initiatives, particularly in Latin America, have arisen from the failure of inward-looking protective policies to produce higher economic growth;3 many countries believe that linkages to a strong trading partner in a more open trading arrangement, by introducing and fostering greater competition, would
act as a spur to domestic production and a more efficient allocation of resources.
Whatever their justification, regional trade arrangements are a significant part of the international trading environment. With the important exception of Japan, most GATT members belong to some form of preferential trading scheme. Countries included in the two largest proposed free-trade areas—the European Economic Area and the North American Free Trade Area—would collectively account for 65 percent of global imports and 47 percent of developing-country exports.
Although multilateralism need not be threatened by regional groupings, there is heightened awareness of the risks of the new initiatives. By definition, regional arrangements, which provide particular advantages to member countries, can be discriminatory; only nondiscriminatory trade, however, fully ensures that maximum benefits from trade accrue to all parties. In addition to diverting normal patterns of trade, inward-looking regional arrangements threaten to divert investment and technology transfers that might otherwise have gone to nonmembers. Another fear is that an expansion of membership in arrangements with protective features may intensify, rather than attenuate, restrictions. Experience has shown that there are clear limits to the progress that regional arrangements can make in liberalizing the most difficult and most heavily protected areas. Concern has been expressed, too, that the diversion of effort from multilateral trade negotiations could weaken prospects for their success—even if the political will to reach an agreement exists.
The risks associated with regional trading arrangements can be avoided if the arrangements maintain an outward orientation. Ideally, they should lower trade barriers against non-members and eliminate all internal trade barriers as quickly as possible. Where members of regional arrangements have erected high barriers to trade vis-a-vis nonmembers, these barriers should be reduced in order to minimize the potential for diversion of trade and a misalloca-tion of resources. In this connection, a successful conclusion to the Uruguay Round would help to reduce the potential adverse effects of preferential trade arrangements.
The Environment
Preparations for, and the convening in June 1992 of, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) dominated the environmental agenda during
3 For details, see Box 6-3 on page 148.
fiscal 1992. The conference, charged with mapping out an environmentally sustainable development strategy for the coming decades, was attended by delegations from 178 countries.
Two conventions were signed at the conference—on climate change and on biodiversity. The climate-change convention has a nonbind-ing requirement that industrial nations try to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases to 1990 levels by the year 2000. Both developed and developing countries are required to develop plans to control their emissions, which, in the latter, are expected to grow substantially. The convention also commits the industrial nations to give developing countries financial help to do this. The treaty will go into effect when fifty nations ratify it. The convention on biodiversity requires signatories to establish policies aimed at slowing the loss of plant and animal species. It also requires signers to share research, profits, and technology with nations whose genetic resources they use. The treaty takes effect when thirty nations ratify it.
The Global Environment Facility, the three-year pilot project implemented jointly by the Bank, the United Nations Development Programme, and the United Nations Environment Programme, was designated as the interim financial mechanism for the two conventions.
"Agenda 21," an 800-page blueprint for environmentally friendly development, dealing with such issues as ocean pollution, hazardous
waste, human health, poverty, and the advancement of women, was adopted by UNCED delegates. Also adopted was the "Rio Declaration," a nonbinding statement of principles for guiding environmental policy that emphasizes protecting the environment as part of economic development, safeguarding the ecological systems of other nations, and giving priority to the needs of developing countries, the "most environmentally vulnerable." And it was agreed that a new institution, the Sustainable Development Commission, would be set up to monitor compliance with the conference's environmental goals and to review the financial resources available for the implementation of those goals. The commission is to be ratified by the United Nations General Assembly in September 1992.
A nonbinding statement of forest principles, which recommends that countries assess the impact of economic development on their forests and take steps, both individually and collectively, to minimize the damage, was also adopted.
Maurice Strong, the conference's executive secretary, called the conference "a launch pad, not a quick fix," and President Fernando Collor de Mello of host country Brazil told delegates that UNCED had consecrated the concept that human development and protection of the environment were inexorably linked.
Section Three
The World Bank—Fiscal Year 1992
Implementing the Bank's Poverty-reduction Strategy
In fiscal 1990, a major study of poverty, World Development Report 1990, was published by the Bank. It recommended that developing countries adopt a two-part strategy for maximum effectiveness in reducing poverty. The first part requires the encouragement of broadly based economic growth that generates demand for labor; the second part requires the provision of services in the social sectors— especially primary education, basic health care, family planning, and nutrition—to improve living conditions and increase the capacity of the poor to respond to whatever income-earning opportunities may arise from economic growth. An additional but essential component of the strategy is the establishment of a system of targeted transfers and safety nets to assist those who are not able to respond to the new opportunities.
Building on the findings in World Development Report 1990, policies were adopted in fiscal 1991 for fully integrating into Bank operations the two-part approach for reducing poverty. The urgency of the task is compelling: According to World Development Report 1992, the number of poor increased at almost the rate of population growth during the second half of the 1980s. World Development Report 1990 had identified a path of poverty reduction that could reduce the number of poor in the world by 300 million between 1985 and 2000. The 1992 report concludes, however, that such a target appears no longer feasible, partly as a result of the severity of the current recession and the disappointing progress in the 1985-90 period, and that, in fact, the number of absolute poor in the world at the turn of the century will probably be higher than in 1985.
The Bank's poverty-reduction efforts have two key elements. The first element consists of the formulation of country-specific poverty assessments that (a) establish whether specific government policies, public expenditures, and institutions are consistent with the goal of reducing poverty and (b) recommend necessary changes. The second element consists of the
design of country-specific strategies that ensure that the Bank's programs support and complement countries' own efforts to reduce poverty.
Poverty assessments. A poverty assessment provides the basis for a collaborative approach to poverty reduction by country officials and the Bank. It also helps to establish the agenda of issues for the policy dialogue between the government and the Bank and between the government and other donor agencies. The scope of a poverty assessment necessarily varies from country to country, depending on the country situation, the government's commitment to poverty reduction, and the nature of the available data.
The assessment makes recommendations for government action, including a phased program of policy reforms, reallocation of public expenditures, and institutional development to reduce poverty. The prescription is based on an assessment of (a) the government's financial and institutional capacity to implement poverty-reducing programs and policies and (b) political-economic considerations.
By the end of fiscal 1992, poverty assessments had been completed for twenty countries (see Table 3-1). By the end of fiscal 1995, it is anticipated that eighty-five assessments will have been completed.
The number of completed poverty assessments varies among the Bank's six operational regions.
Country coverage in East Asia and South Asia, where over two thirds of the poor in developing countries live, is nearly complete (except for countries that have recently become active borrowers), and work on the three assessments scheduled to be completed in fiscal 1993 has begun. Most assessments are fairly comprehensive and include an analysis of the broad policy framework, the social sectors, and the effectiveness of specific targeted interventions. Most rely on a fairly good information base, and, in some cases, efforts are under way to improve both the quality of, and access to, the data.
Almost one third of the countries in the Latin America and the Caribbean region have completed an assessment, mostly focusing on
the social sectors. In the remaining countries in the region, for the most part, an adequate information base exists, economic work on selected topics has been completed, and comprehensive assessments are planned over the next two years.
In the other three regions (Africa, Middle East and North Africa, and Europe and Central Asia), country coverage is less extensive. Only three assessments have been completed. For the most part, progress has been constrained by the lack of data and weak institutions.
In many cases, assessments in these three regions will have to be completed using inadequate data and qualitative judgments. Basing assessments on national household survey data may not be feasible in many countries until the second half of the decade. It is important.
however, that data-gathering exercises begin as soon as possible in countries where data are currently lacking. Collecting data, however preliminary, requires considerable resources, and country policymakers will need technical assistance not only to collect but also, in many cases, to analyze the data and to design strategies. This poses a major challenge, as poverty seems to be growing fastest in those countries where knowledge of the problems and their solutions are limited, as is the institutional ability to implement the necessary solutions.
Country-specific strategies. Although many factors—political, institutional, and economic—influence the design of country-specific assistance strategies, a few general principles do exist. The Bank's volume of lending will be linked to, among other things, a country's efforts to reduce poverty, and the sectoral and
intrasectoral composition of Bank lending will support efforts to reduce poverty.
Reducing poverty is a key objective of all Bank-supported assistance strategies. Nevertheless, where poverty assessments have been completed, they have helped to strengthen the policy dialogue and to develop lending programs that support governments' efforts to reduce poverty. The degree to which the findings of poverty assessments have been reflected in country-assistance strategies varies from region to region and is influenced partly by the scale and nature of poverty in a given country and partly by the country's own capacity to carry out assessments.
Where assessments have not been completed, the Bank's traditional economic and sector reports are often used to influence the design of assistance strategies. In some cases, the conclusions reached in an assessment, once completed, will necessitate changing the strategy; in other cases, they will simply strengthen the approach that the Bank is already taking.
Government policies and Bank operations in the East Asia and South Asia regions have a strong poverty-reduction focus. Most poverty assessments have been completed, and, where they have not, substantial background work is proceeding. On the whole, the Bank's lending program is supporting economic restructuring and the reallocation of government spending toward the social services and specific targeted investments.
Indonesia's poverty assessment, for example, recommended investing in labor-intensive export industries, stimulating nonrice crops and smallholder treecrops to diversify agricultural production, and expanding support services. It also recommended expanding access to social services for people living in outlying provinces. These recommendations are the basis of the Bank's assistance strategy, which aims to reduce trade and domestic distortions and to promote growth in the rural outer islands. In fiscal 1992, for example, the IBRD committed $87.6 million to help improve the incomes of some 161,000 farm families living on five outer islands through the provision of inputs, access tracks, extension, and training in support of the establishment or maintenance of smallholder rubber and coconut plots.
In Latin America, as in the case of East Asia and South Asia, the design of country-assistance strategies has been influenced by completed poverty assessments. Most poverty assessments—in some two thirds of the countries in the region—remain to be done, however. In these countries, the Bank's general approach has been to design adjustment pro-
grams to lay the basis for sustained output and employment growth while introducing targeted programs in the social sectors to protect the most vulnerable groups. This has meant that countries' own resources—in El Salvador, Mexico, Panama, and Venezuela, for example—have had to be reallocated to support these interventions by eliminating general food subsidies and replacing them with targeted nutrition and health programs. Targeted assistance to the poor has also been delivered to those most at risk through the establishment of social funds that finance interventions and mobilize donor support in areas such as water supply, sanitation, basic health, nutrition, and employment.
In sub-Saharan Africa, the Bank's poverty-reducing country-assistance strategies have had to be designed in the absence of full data and analysis. The Bank has supported adjustment programs that reduce explicit and implicit taxation of agriculture and shift the terms of trade in favor of the rural sector, that eliminate regulations restricting growth of employment and private investment, and that redirect public expenditures towards the social sectors and rural areas. Most investment lending consists of projects in primary education, health, family planning, and rural development. In this region, poverty assessments are necessary to confirm that these efforts are on the right track or to modify them if they are not.
Relatively few country-assistance strategies in the countries of the Middle East and North Africa region have benefited from completed poverty assessments. Their preparation has been delayed so that poverty-oriented sector work under way in fiscal 1992 and scheduled for fiscal 1993 can be completed. Poverty assessments, which will be completed for all countries in the region by the end of fiscal 1994, will therefore be more like summaries or compilations of completed work than standalone documents. In Egypt, the region's only country in which a poverty assessment has been completed, assessment findings have influenced the Bank's assistance strategy in several ways: Interventions have been designed to change the structure of growth; a medium-term program of interventions, principally in the social sectors and designed to increase the productivity of the rural poor, is being prepared; a social fund has been set up to provide a short-term safety net for those adversely affected by current economic reforms and by the Gulf crisis; and analytical work is being done on improving social security.
Even in the absence of formal poverty assessments, the region's operational program has paid considerable attention to poverty-
reduction activities. An example is the second structural-adjustment loan for Morocco that was approved during the past year. The operation dealt with poverty not solely in the context of the short-run costs of adjustment, but more important, in the context of a long-run strategy for poverty reduction. This strategy will be incorporated into the government's forthcoming national economic and social-development plan.
In Europe and Central Asia, much has been done quickly despite the absence of reliable data on, and analysis of, poverty issues. Since chronic poverty does not yet seem to be a serious problem, the priority has been to establish safety nets to mitigate the short-term poverty that is expected to result from the restructuring process. The Bank's strategy has been to encourage governments to improve the targeting of existing income-support systems. The Bank is also helping countries, including Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, and Romania, develop employment-promotion programs and create sustainable programs of unemployment compensation. Countries are also being encouraged to improve their data bases to enhance future assistance.
The Bank has been monitoring its targeted poverty lending using an information system that classifies all projects according to their primary objective. There are nine primary objectives, of which poverty is one. Projects that have as their primary objective the reduction of poverty include those designed to improve the productivity of small-scale farmers; to provide basic education, basic health care, nutrition services, and water supply and sanitation, especially to women and children; and to provide basic infrastructure in regions of concentrated poverty. They also include social funds and social-action programs, originally set up to protect those affected by economic adjustment but which today increasingly are targeted to benefit the chronically poor.
This information system provides a rough but low estimate of direct poverty lending. Poverty-related lending is underestimated because projects can have only one primary objective; thus, projects with important poverty-reducing effects—in human resources or rural infrastructure—may be excluded.
A new system for monitoring the projects in the "Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI)" is currently being established. Under this system, projects are classified as "poverty reducing" if they meet one of two criteria: inclusion of a specific mechanism for identifying and reaching the poor or, where no such mechanism is used, a level of participation of the poor that significantly exceeds the countrywide percent-
age of poverty. Preliminary estimates of the PTI indicate that during fiscal 1992, about 12 percent to 15 percent of Bank lending fell within this category.
The Bank is also working to ensure that its targeted projects are effective by encouraging local participation and involving nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in their design and implementation. Experience shows that where there has been participation by people at the local level, more progress has been made in reducing poverty. As part of this effort, the Bank is supporting a growing number of beneficiary assessments, which are conducted by local personnel, with orientation provided by the Bank. These assessments evaluate the sociocultural conditions of the beneficiary population to ensure that benefits are reaching the intended groups and that the projects provide the right kind of infrastructure and services for their needs. Twenty beneficiary assessments are scheduled to be completed by the end of fiscal 1993.
Progress in improving data bases. Helping countries improve the quality and reliability of their data on poverty is an important ingredient of country-assistance strategies. The Bank has provided financial support and technical assistance to improve household data through the Living Standards Measurement Study and, in the Africa region, through the Social Dimensions of Adjustment program.
Much more needs to be done, however, to improve the capacity for data gathering and analysis in developing countries. Weak institutions and sometimes adverse political conditions are the main constraints, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. Because solving institutional weakness is a long-term endeavor, the Bank continues to encourage household surveys while collecting other data with sufficient value to serve as a basis for poverty assessments.
Guiding Bank staff. To guide Bank staff in implementing the two-part strategy, an operational directive (OD) on poverty reduction and the Poverty Reduction Handbook were prepared and distributed to Bank staff during the year. The OD provides practical guidelines, while the handbook provides further details and highlights examples of good practice. In a preface to the published version of the handbook and operational directive, the president of the Bank stated that sustainable poverty reduction was the "overarching objective" of the Bank and that it was the benchmark by which the Bank's performance as a development institution would be measured.
In preparing the handbook, the Bank sought comments from U.N. agencies, aid agencies,
and NGOs. A draft of the handbook was discussed at a meeting of the NGO-Bank Committee, held in Suraj Kund in October 1991, as well as at a seminar held one month later in Washington, D.C., with U.N. agencies and multilateral development banks. The handbook has been distributed widely around the world.
The executive directors discussed the drafts of the handbook and the OD at a seminar in December 1991, where they stressed the importance of making the completed poverty assessments available to them, as well as to donors and to U.N. agencies. They noted that implementing the strategy would have budgetary costs and skill-mix implications for the Bank, and they stressed the importance of improving the Bank's implementation capacity, including its ability to promote institutional development.
Responsibility for implementing the Bank's strategy rests in the operational regions, while responsibility for monitoring poverty work and providing technical assistance to the regions is assigned to Sector and Operations Policy staff.
Improving aid coordination. The Bank is attempting to improve donor coordination of poverty-reduction efforts. In September 1991, the Bank discussed strategies to reduce poverty with high-level officials from developing countries, from the U.N. and bilateral agencies, and from academia at a roundtable seminar in Berlin sponsored by the German Foundation for Development. The poverty-reduction OD instructs country departments to share poverty assessments and other reports analyzing specific poverty issues in depth with donors through consultative groups, roundtables, and other aid-coordination groups.
Human-resource Development
The Bank's support for human-resource development (HRD) has evolved substantially over the past quarter century. From a relatively narrow focus on the development of human capital for productive purposes, human-resource development has become, in recent years, one of the central pillars of the Bank's development-assistance strategy, seen as critical to spurring economic growth, alleviating poverty, and effecting technological progress. Concerns about education, health, nutrition, population, training and employment, and the socioeconomic role of women in development increasingly permeate all aspects of development and the Bank's institutional priorities.
The growth in volume and the change in the nature of Bank support for HRD have made the Bank a major partner in HRD efforts. The Bank has also become increasingly active in
the analysis and advocacy of HRD. These factors, in conjunction with the Bank's ability to tailor its country-lending programs to its public policy pronouncements on HRD, have given the Bank an important influence on the international HRD agenda.
Wholesale changes in Bank support for HRD have occurred since the 1987 reorganization of the Bank, which fundamentally transformed a relatively small and fragmented sector. Lending for HRD increased from less than 8 percent of total Bank lending in fiscal 1986 to more than 13 percent in fiscal 1992. These levels of lending are expected to increase further.
The expansion of HRD lending has meant, foremost, a rise in the Bank's support for basic education and health services, including family planning and nutrition (see Box 3-1).
Education. Lending for education and training averaged $700 million during the 1980s. In fiscal 1990, it more than doubled to nearly $1.5 billion; in fiscal 1991, it reached a record high $2.25 billion; and in fiscal 1992, lending for all types of education projects totaled $1,884 million. A total of twenty-six projects in twenty countries were approved.
The rapid growth in the volume of lending for education has been accompanied by changes in both the content and mode of delivery of Bank assistance. Lending is increasingly shaped to support broad-based education reforms and development strategies. The major thrusts of this policy-based lending have been directed towards expanding educational opportunities, especially at the primary level and for disadvantaged children; improving quality at all levels; and enhancing the effectiveness of resource use in the sector.
While these have been the thrusts of Bank education lending for some time, recent operations have promoted, in a more vigorous and well-targeted manner, policies to improve quality, build national capacities to assess and monitor learning outcomes, reduce poverty and gender inequalities, improve linkages between training and labor-market demands, and develop national science and technology capacity.
The three most recent education-policy papers issued by the Bank, Education in sub-Saharan Africa (issued in fiscal 1988), Primary Education (fiscal 1990), and Vocational and Technical Education and Training (fiscal 1991) all recommended increased priority to improving the quality and relevance of education. The recommendations are being reflected in both the Bank's sector work and lending. A $170 million loan to Chile to improve primary education is a case in point.
Chile's education sector is at a crucial juncture. Having expanded the primary education
Box 3-1. Commitments to Social-sector and Environmental Lending
The World Bank's Annual Report for fiscal year 1991 made note of explicit and quantifiable commitments that Barber Conable, the Bank's seventh president, made that could be related to specific operational programs.
In March 1990, for instance, Mr. Conable said that the Bank would double its lending for education over the subsequent three years to an annual figure of more than $1.5 billion. In the period fiscal years 1990-92, education lending totaled $1.5 billion, S2.3 billion, and $1.9 billion, respectively, for an average $1.9 billion.
In correspondence with Javier Perez de Cuel-lar, then secretary general of the United Nations, and Brian Mulroney, prime minister of Canada, Mr. Conable wrote (January 1991 and September 1990, respectively) that the Bank intended to triple Bank lending for primary education, which amounted to $450 million in fiscal 1990. during i the period fiscal 1991-93. Such lending, he wrote, would account for around 30 percent to 40 percent of total education lending. Bank commitments to primary education in fiscal years 1991 and 1992 totaled $1,114 million (34 percent of the total) and $792 million (42 percent), respectively.
In these letters, Mr. Conable also projected that Bank lending for primary health care might rise from about 3 percent to about 5 percent of total lending within a three-to-four-year period. In fiscal 1991, 51,220 million in Bank funds supported primary health care, accounting for 5.4 percent of total Bank lending. In fiscal 1992, $788 million was committed for primary health care,
an amount equivalent to 3.6 percent of total Bank lending. The decline reflected the general decline of commitments made in fiscal 1992 to the PHN sector. Lending in support of PHN activities is expected to resume its upward trend in fiscal 1993 and fiscal 1994, however. The only PHN projects approved during the year that made no provision for primary health care financed either poverty-reduction or hospital-rehabilitation activities.
In a speech to the International Planned Parenthood federation in Ottawa I November 1989), Mr. Conable Mild lliiit Bank lending to the population, health, and nutrition sector would increase to an aveiugc SX00 million during the subsequent three years, as compared wilh $500 million during the period fiscal 1987-89. I'oinl Hank lending for population, health, and nutrition amounted to $933 million. SI.6 billion, and $962 million in fiscal year>. 1990. 1991. ami 1992. respectively, far exceeding the tioal set in laic 1989.
1'inalK. in a speech given at the Tokyo Con-feience on the Global Environment and Human Response toward Sustainable Development (September 19S9I. Mr. ( onahlc said that Bank support for freeNtandiiii: environmental projects was expected to amount to nearly SI.3 billion within a three-year period. Thai expectation was met in fiscal 1991. when fourteen ptojects with primarily environmental objectives were approved, representing lending of about $1.5 billion. In fiscal 1992. nineteen such projects, representing SI.2 billion in lending, were approved.
system to attain virtual universal coverage, the challenge ahead is to ensure equity in access to primary education of high quality while concurrently enhancing the internal efficiency of the system. This will necessitate major changes in existing educational policies and approaches, financing mechanisms, and administration and management. Expansion of preschool opportunities for disadvantaged children is an essential corollary to improvements in primary education performance.
The project comprises an integral part of the Bank's overall country-assistance strategy to reduce poverty. Specifically, it will institute cost-effective measures to increase educational opportunities for low-income urban and rural children, a problem that has been identified as a central concern in the Bank's recent social-sector work. The Bank's involvement is also facilitating a strong private-sector role and is reinforcing the decentralization of social services.
Population, health, and nutrition. Bank lending for population, health, and nutrition
(PHN) has increased rapidly, as well, since the five-year period fiscal 1983-87, when annual lending averaged $205 million. In fiscal 1992, lending to the sector totaled $961.7 million, a decrease over the fiscal 1991 total of $1.6 billion. Sixteen projects in fourteen countries were approved.
The nature of projects in the PHN sector is also changing. As PHN has increasingly been integrated more fully into the Bank's overall country-assistance strategies, more projects are addressing PHN and other components together, and sector work is preparing the ground for dialogue and operations in integrated human-resource and social-sector activities.
Many projects now involve multiple line ministries and require significant coordination among different parts of the government. While these projects may be more complex and risky, they promise long-term payoffs as previously excluded ministries, particularly central ministries (such as planning and finance), are drawn toward a stronger commitment to social programs.
The involvement of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in PHN projects is also on the increase. In nearly all the PHN projects approved during the year, NGOs will assume important roles in project implementation. To a lesser, but still significant, extent, NGOs are participating in the design of projects—especially those involving social funds, where their role results in project design and implementation that is directly responsive to the local populations.
The widening context within which population activities have been carried out since they began in 1970—their integration with health and nutrition in 1980, and since 1987, with other social-sector operations, as well—has been associated at each stage with considerable expansion in both the number of projects and the volume of lending. In the fiscal 1980-87 period, yearly commitments for population projects averaged $50 million. In the five following years, annual commitments averaged $166 million.
Especially noteworthy has been the rapid expansion of population lending in Africa, following the efforts of the Bank and other donors to support countries through an "Agenda for Action to Improve the Implementation of Population Programs." Recent operations emphasize the need to (a) increase access to family-planning services (especially for people who are hard to reach) and to mobilize private-sector resources to help in the provision of services; (b) raise the quality of and increase demand for family planning; (c) integrate family planning into a broader array of health-care services, particularly maternal and child health; (d) strengthen program management and technical capacity; and (e) coordinate more fully with other donor agencies and local institutions in order to leverage the Bank's support with grant assistance and to build country commitment and infrastructure.
In Mauritania, for example, a $15.7 million IDA credit, approved in fiscal 1992, is facilitating the integration of family planning into the standard package of services offered in public-health facilities. By the end of the project, family-planning services will be extended to all the health centers in the country, with a major positive effect on the welfare of mothers and children. By helping the government to establish a clear policy on population issues, the project will also help to establish the legitimacy of family-planning activities and reinforce their effectiveness.
While Bank lending for health has maintained a central focus on primary health care, lending operations in recent years have increasingly emphasized strengthening capacity
for health-policy formulation, program planning, and management. Greater attention is also being paid to women's health and its effect on the health and welfare of families, to the eradication of selected diseases, and to the economic management of the health sector, including investments in district-level hospitals.
Fiscal 1992 saw Bank lending targeted at the prevention or eradication of specific diseases in four countries: schistosomiasis and tuberculosis in China, schistosomiasis in Egypt, AIDS in India, and malaria in Sao Tome and Principe. The $84 million AIDS project in India was the Bank's second freestanding project designed to prevent the spread of that disease (see Box 3-2).
Lending for Bank-supported nutrition activities has also increased, rising from $82.1 million in the period fiscal 1984-87 to $778.9 million during fiscal 1988-91. The current generation of nutrition projects and components emphasizes integrated interventions targeted at improving the nutrition status of the most vulnerable groups: the food insecure, with particular emphasis on pregnant/Iactating women and children three years and younger. Monitoring a child's growth and related nutrition education and food supplementation for those whose growth is faltering form the core of many Bank nutrition components. Delivery of vitamin and mineral supplements and a growing interest in food fortification represent areas of new development and expansion of the Bank's nutrition work. Experiments with self-targeting of consumer food subsidies through packaging designed for rejection by the higher-income groups and with improved means tests for income-transfer programs are characteristic of increased attention to enhanced cost-effectiveness of nutrition interventions.
Attention to nutrition concerns continues to be a focus of Bank adjustment lending. In Zimbabwe, which received $175 million in Bank finance in support of structural adjustment during the year, the accessibility and affordability of maize (the most essential diet staple) to poor and vulnerable groups are critical from a social point of view. Even before the recent drought, it was likely that the price of maize would increase, for as part of its adjustment program, the government had pledged to cut its subsidy to the Grain Marketing Board. To minimize upward pressure on the price of maize and to increase the efficiency of its distribution system, the government announced its intention to liberalize grain marketing and provide a commodity-specific subsidy, to be financed from a social-development fund. In addition, to ensure that the
Box 3-2. World Bank Activities on AIDS
The first World Bank lending in support of AIDS control was to the Africa region and was provided as a component in the Zimbabwe Family Health Project, approved in fiscal 1987. Because grant financing for national AIDS programs was plentiful from the World Health Organization's Global Programme on AIDS and bilateral donors. Bank loans and credits were at first useful primarily in shoring up the foundations of health systems on which AIDS programs were constructed, and in filling gaps. However, as the number and the absorptive capacity of AIDS programs increased, countries began to request the Bank to play a larger role. The first Bank freestanding AIDS project was an $8.1 million credit to Zaire in fiscal 1989. In addition, Bank health projects in Burundi, Lesotho, and Malawi have included funding for substantial parts of those countries' AlDS-control programs.
In Latin America and the Caribbean region, the severe epidemic in Brazil led to the inclusion of two AIDS components in a Bank project approved in fiscal 1988. One component financed research on the prevalence and economic effect of AIDS; the other was designed to help control the disease in the northeast region of the country. A Bank project in Haiti also funds AIDS control, and a second more comprehensive project is under discussion in Brazil.
Less is known about the current prevalence and rate of spread of AIDS in the Asia region than in Africa or Latin America. However, it is now apparent that an extremely rapid epidemic has begun in Thailand and that a serious epidemic is under way in India. The Bank's second freestanding AIDS-control project, in India, was approved by the executive directors in fiscal 1992. In addition to funding a major improvement in the safety of India's blood supply, this project emphasizes the control of sexually transmitted diseases. The Bank is in the early stages of a policy dialogue on AIDS in the Philippines and Indonesia, where rigorous AIDS surveillance is just beginning.
In Central and Eastern Europe, as well as in the Middle East and North Africa, the Bank's involvement in AIDS control has been limited because borrowing countries have had adequate alternative funding sources. However, contacts have been initiated between the Bank and the republics of the former Soviet Union on possible research and project-preparation activities in AIDS prevention.
Policy, research, and sector work on AIDS. In 1986, the Bank's central Population, Health, and Nutrition Department recognized the seriousness of the AIDS epidemic and recommended that Bank assistance be offered to borrower countries, wherever possible and appropriate. Subsequently, in response to a request from the Global Programme on AIDS, the Bank agreed to assist in estimating the economic effect of a case of HIV infection. This work was concluded in 1988. More recently, in response to the perceived need to prioritize interventions in national AIDS-control programs, work has focused on the costs and effects of alternative interventions. This work contributed to the collaboration between the Bank's Southern Africa Department and the programme in a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the epidemic and the cost-effectiveness of alternative interventions in Tanzania.
In addition to the Bank's analytical work, the Bank's Special Grants Program has contributed $1 million in each of the past four years to the Global Programme. The programme is using these funds to strengthen its collaborative work on the links between AIDS and tuberculosis, tropical diseases, and human reproduction and to begin operational research on the cost-effectiveness of alternative AIDS interventions.
The Bank's policy, research, and sector work emphasizes the need to recognize HIV infection as a sexually transmitted disease and to target interventions to the sexually most active groups of the population in order to use most effectively governments* scarce human and financial resources.
social effects of adjustment are closely monitored, a major health and nutrition survey is scheduled to be carried out, and the nutritional-surveillance system of the Ministry of Health is being strengthened so that the data collected can be used on a monthly basis to monitor the effects of adjustment.
Women in development. The progress made in previous fiscal years in integrating gender issues into Bank activities was sustained in fiscal 1992. More than 40 percent of projects approved during the year had gender-specific actions. These projects continue to be concentrated in the human-resource and social sec-
tors. Most education projects included gender-specific activity, while all projects in the population, health, and nutrition sector included such activity. Gender issues are increasingly being addressed in infrastructure projects (one out of every three as compared with one in five in fiscal 1991), in particular, those that focus on rural water supply (China and Lesotho) and feeder roads (Ghana).
Increased attention was devoted to implementation in fiscal 1992. Staff from the Bank's regional women-in-development (WID) units provided direct support for the supervision of projects with WID activities or components.
To help mitigate problems in project implementation in the Middle East and North Africa region, the Bank launched special WID supervision missions for all WID-related projects in a particular sector. The experience to date from these supervision missions with respect to agricultural projects in Yemen and Morocco has been positive. Remarkable progress has been made in the implementation of Morocco's National Agricultural Credit Project: The number of women borrowers has increased by 250 percent in the past four years, the volume of lending to women has increased fourfold, and the repayment rate is close to 100 percent.
In addition, comprehensive reviews of implementation were carried out in the Europe and Central Asia, Middle East and North Africa, and Latin America and the Caribbean regions; selected sectoral reviews (agriculture in the East Asia and Pacific and South Asia regions, and environment in the Africa region) were undertaken; and a Bankwide review of experience in providing enterprise-development and financial services to women was conducted. These reviews reinforced earlier findings—that the most effective way for the Bank to address gender issues is through a combination of measures to increase women's access to assets and productive resources and to labor markets: adult education and training programs, support to nongovernmental organizations for training and mobilizing women, recruitment of female project staff, gender sensitization of borrower and Bank staff, and systematic assessments of project effects on women's productivity. This approach has been adopted in India for training groups of women cultivators in the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Services Project. In Africa, comparable lessons are being drawn from projects centered on the delivery of rural services.
In the social sectors, experience from the Pakistan Family Welfare Project and other health projects in all regions confirms that availability of primary health-care services is a prerequisite for achieving progress in family planning, as well as in maternal and child care. In the education sector, improvements in girls' school enrollment and attendance are being achieved through various innovative approaches. For example, scholarships to be provided under an education project in Bangladesh will help girls offset the income they would forgo while going to secondary school.
The importance of drawing lessons from previous operations for the design of new ones has been especially highlighted in the case of Bolivia. The supervision of phase one and phase two of that country's Emergency Social Fund  indicated  that few social-assistance
projects had a high WID impact. In light of this experience, the follow-up project, the Social Investment Fund, has targeted investments and services to reach low-income women through, for example, provision of day-care centers for children and literacy and training programs that specifically encourage the participation of women.
The significant expansion in Bank lending for all types of HRD operations demonstrates that countries are no longer reluctant to seek Bank assistance for human development or to borrow for it on IBRD terms. Both IDA and IBRD borrowers are now requesting expanded assistance in every facet of HRD programs, including some (family planning, for instance) where grant assistance used to be readily available.
Three features of the Bank's current HRD lending program stand out:
• Education no longer dominates the sector. Lending for PHN is continuing to grow, while lending for education is stabilizing. By fiscal 1994, the volume of education and PHN lending is expected to be roughly equal.
• Social-sector projects are emerging, mainly designed to protect the poor during periods of economic adjustment. These projects are typically designed to provide education and training services and to support targeted health and nutrition interventions. Institutionally, they aim to bolster the capacity of governments to channel services to the poor and to monitor the impact of these policies at the household level.
• The Bank's human-resource development investment portfolio is a recent one: More than half of all Bank lending, by (constant) dollar volume, for HRD has taken place since fiscal 1987; about two thirds of all lending for PHN has taken place in that period. This means that information on project outcomes is limited and that much of what is known relates to a portfolio that was designed and implemented under conditions substantially different from those that have prevailed in the past five years.
In tandem with the expanded volume of lending for HRD, an evolution in lending objectives has also taken place—from an emphasis on the provision of physical infrastructure to sectorwide and policy-based strategies. This evolution has been driven by the accumulating evidence that an effective and coherent framework for social policy is essential for sustained economic progress.
The result, at one level, has been a strengthened focus on poverty reduction through intensified support for primary-level services and, at another level, the emergence of lending priorities that aim to increase the productivity
of the labor force through better health, basic education, advanced training, and access to new technology.
The Environment
World Development Report 1992, which explores the links between economic development and the environment, has concluded that continued, and even accelerated, economic and human development is sustainable and can be consistent with improving environmental conditions—(/"major policy, program, and institutional shifts take place. The report cautions, "Without adequate environmental protection, development will be undermined; without development, environmental protection will fail."
Two types of policies are required to ensure sustainable economic and human development that is consistent with improving environmental conditions, the study says: those that build on the positive links between development and the environment, and those that break the negative links.
Many policies justified on conventional economic grounds alone can deliver substantial environmental gains, the study notes. Eliminating subsidies for energy use and water, giving poor farmers property rights to the land they tend, and investing in better sanitation and water supplies are measures that can raise incomes and improve the environment. Policies for efficient growth can complement those for environmental protection, the report observes. Improving education for girls may be the most important long-term environmental policy in the developing world, since, for example, educated women have smaller families and are able to make better use of natural resources.
These "win-win" policies—development policies that are good for the environment—will not be enough, however. Strong public institutions and environmental-protection policies are essential. There may be situations requiring tradeoffs between income growth and protection of the environment; these call for careful assessments of the benefits and costs of alternative policies as they affect both today's population and that of the future.
"The evidence indicates that the gains from protecting the environment are often high and that the costs in forgone income are modest if appropriate policies are adopted," the report declares.
Policy reforms must focus on changing agricultural and industrial practices so as to reduce drastically the amount of pollution, wastes, and other environmental damage per unit of
output. Environmental impacts need to be recognized; policies aimed at changing behavior should rely, among other things, on economic incentives. Early action to prevent degradation will usually be much cheaper than attempting to reverse it later.
Appropriate policy reforms and institutional changes face formidable obstacles, the study recognizes. Interest groups will complain, public opinion will focus on the most dramatic issues rather than the most important ones, and oftentimes, government itself is the agent of environmental damage.
Responsive and effective institutions must be developed. Information and analysis must be improved to assist in setting priorities and formulating policies. More work is needed to develop environmental-economic accounting tools to enable this to happen. Public participation, especially at the local level, is essential for policymaking, monitoring, and enforcement, and for project design, as well. In some cases, governments need to allocate the management of natural resources to individuals or communities, and whenever possible, they need to use price and tax incentives to encourage conservation. Often, simple but blunt policies—such as taxes on polluting inputs and area-based forestry charges—may be preferable because they are more easily administered and enforced. Furthermore, promotion of alternative modes of transport, like nonmotor-ized vehicles, can dramatically improve living conditions, especially in urban areas.
Many investments aimed at protecting the environment will begin to pay for themselves within a few years, the study maintains, either through increased productivity or improved health and welfare. The costs of enabling countries to develop in an environmentally sound manner are likely to be large in absolute terms but small in relation to resources generated by economic growth. The cost of investments suggested in the report may rise to about $75 billion annually, or about 1.4 percent of devel-oping-country gross domestic product over the current decade.
If governments can provide appropriate incentive and disincentive structures that adequately reflect external environmental costs, most required environmental investments and maintenance will be undertaken by enterprises, and the extra costs will be reflected in prices paid by consumers. The choices that result will make environmentally desirable practices more profitable and attractive.
Financing these environmental investments will require an expansion of private and official capital flows to developing countries, the report states. World Development Report 1992
advocates that this expanded funding should be additional to development aid that would otherwise be made available.
By defining the application of economic policies and methods to protection of natural resources to ensure that economic development programs are environmentally responsible and sustainable, World Development Report 1992 was a major contribution to the U.N. Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), held in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992.
As that conference touched on all aspects of environment and development, it was of unusual significance for the Bank, which, in turn, accorded great importance to preparations for, and participation in, the meeting itself. In addition to preparing and publishing World Development Report 1992, the Bank:
• established a high-level office of UNCED coordination, with an extensive network of lead advisers responsible for developing Bank policies and positions on every aspect of the conference agenda; and
• actively participated in, and contributed to, substantive working parties, preparatory meetings, and related conferences.
The Bank also recognized the special importance of UNCED by sending a delegation, led by its president, whose address to the conference gave new direction and priority to the Bank's efforts to promote sustainable development.
The Bank's active participation in all aspects of UNCED contributed to the strengthening of its environmental activities. Developments and agreements in UNCED working groups on topics ranging from biodiversity, climate, freshwater and marine resources, and sustainable agriculture have been integrated into Bank policies on forestry, energy, urban development, and other sectors (see Box 3-3 for a report on the Bank's forest-sector policy).
Continued progress was made during fiscal 1992 in integrating environmental concerns into the Bank's operations. Of the 222 projects approved during the year, nineteen had primarily environmental objectives (projects are deemed to be "primarily environmental" if either environmental costs or benefits exceed 50 percent of total costs or benefits). The nineteen projects represented total lending of about $1.2 billion. In addition, many projects were approved during the year which, while not primarily environmental, addressed one or more environmental issues. Of the 222 projects approved, forty-three had environmental components (eleven in Africa, sixteen in Asia, ten in Latin America and the Caribbean, and six in the Europe and Central Asia and Middle East and North Africa regions).
The framework for the Bank's assistance on environmental issues in the Africa region is the national environmental-action plan (NEAP). A NEAP, which provides a framework for integrating environmental issues in a country's economic and social development, is prepared by each country in coordination with the donor community. To aid in the process, a NEAP Secretariat has been established in the African Development Bank in Abidjan with World Bank and other donor support. The secretariat will draw on the skills of Africans experienced in the NEAP process to provide training and technical assistance to countries that are just starting the NEAP process. To date, about twenty countries are involved in implementing or preparing NEAPs.
Of the seventy-seven projects approved by the Bank for the region in fiscal 1992, six (in Angola, Benin, Kenya, Mali, Nigeria, and Tanzania) focused primarily oh improved environmental management, compared with three in the previous year. In addition, environmental components were included in a large number of operations.
As elsewhere in the Bank, the environmental strategy of the East Asia and Pacific and South Asia regions consists of combining more stringent environmental assessment of projects with a range of nonproject activities designed to improve the ability of governments to manage their resources. The nonproject activities include support to national environmental-action plans and prioritization of future environmental investments; strengthening of local institutions that create and implement environmental policies and regulations; and funding of analytical work in key technical areas. During fiscal 1992, eighteen projects had environmental components. Most of the eighteen projects were in either the energy sector or the agriculture sector. In addition, environmental-assessment work is under way for nearly sixty projects.
As diverse as they are, all the developing countries in the Europe and Central Asia region share some common ground: They face serious environmental problems. The most serious are linked to energy use (particularly high energy intensity per unit of production). Throughout the region, brown coal is burned in power plants, home furnaces, and in industrial boilers. Poor-quality fuels, outdated conversion technology, and gross inefficiencies in energy use all contribute to some of the highest air-pollution levels ever recorded. A $246 million project in Czechoslovakia, approved during fiscal 1992, has earmarked $140 million for flue gas-desulfurization equipment and $70 million for reducing particulate emissions at a
Box 3-3. Forestry Policy
According to a World Bank policy paper, The Forest Sector, a critical feature of the forestry sector that distinguishes it from most other primary activities is that private costs and benefits usually diverge markedly from national and global costs and benefits. The existence of these externalities implies that the free interplay of market forces may not bring about socially desired outcomes.
Some of these externalities are national costs, while others are costs that affect the international community. Because the people who cut or plant trees typically have little incentive to consider the consequences of their actions, externalities inexorably lead to excessive deforestation and insufficient planting of new trees.
Of the various challenges that arise from this divergence between private and social interests, two stand out as deserving special attention, the policy study says. The first is to prevent excessive rates of deforestation, especially in the tropical moist forests. The second is to ensure adequate planting of new trees to meet the rapidly growing demand for fuel wood.
The policy paper sets forth a fourfold strategy to check deforestation. First, general economic development—including increased diversification of the national economy, reductions in inequality and poverty, and slower population growth—is necessary for a long-term solution to the problem of deforestation. In the interim, priority should be given to increasing agricultural productivity in poor, densely populated areas, especially those adjacent to forested areas or those from where most forest encroachers originate, and to expanding nonfarm employment opportunities in these target areas.
Second, forest protection will need to be ensured through specific legislation and regulatory measures, especially in the tropical moist forests. Third, private incentives (for agricultural settlers and loggers alike) need to be changed, for enforcement of zoning and other regulations is likely to be ineffective unless they are. Fourth, public investments need to be preceded by much more careful environmental assessments.
The second challenge, to meet the growing need for fuelwood, must be addressed through policies that reduce demand, increase supply, and encourage alternative sources of energy.
"Demand can be reduced through direct interventions to encourage conservation and use of more efficient technologies.
Supply can be increased by satisfying the demand by rural dwellers for wood through efficient use of the underutilized labor and lands. This implies that wood-production issues need to be dealt with at the farmer level. Forest departments need to be reoriented in light of this recognition, and the special activities of NGOs concerned with poverty reduction and environmental conservation should be mobilized to help users organize themselves for tree planting.
These two principal challenges in the forestry sector can be met only through commitment at the highest levels of government to reform.
The World Bank stands ready to assist governments in introducing reforms. Bank involvement in the sector is designed as a component of a multiseetoral approach. To relieve the fundamental pressures on forests over the longer term, the Bank, through its normal mechanisms, is continuing to support population policies, agricultural intensification, poverty reduction, and creation of employment opportunities in other sectors. It is heightening, however, the attention it pays to, and minimizing the potentially negative effects of. infrastructure and other land-using projects.
In its efforts directly related to the forestry sector—aid coordination, country dialogue, sector work, and lending—4he Bank is focusing on international cooperation (through support for the adoption of international legal instruments conducive to sustainable forest development and conservation), policy reform and institutional strengthening of borrowing member governments, expansion of its efforts to finance the creation of additional forest resources, and support for initiatives to expand forest areas as parks and reserves and to institute effective management and enforcement in new and existing areas.
In tropical moist forests, the Bank has adopted, and will encourage governments to adopt, a precautionary policy towards their utilization. This policy is motivated by the uncertainties regarding full valuation of environmental services, the inadequacy of knowledge regarding sustainable management systems, and the irreversibilities associated with the loss of tropical moist forests. Specifically, the Bank does not— under any circumstances—finance commercial logging in primary tropical moist forests.
In all countries and for all types of forests, operations by the Bank in the forestry sector will distinguish between projects that are clearly environmentally protective, or that are small-farmer oriented, and other forestry operations. The first two are to be considered on the basis of their own social, economic, and environmental merits. Other forestry operations^ however, are subject to government commitment to sustainable and conservation-oriented forestry.
*        * *
During their discussion on the Bank's forestry-policy paper, the executive directors reaffirmed their overall support for the paper, which was enriched by the views of borrowing governments, academics, researchers, concerned individuals, and representatives of NGOs. They endorsed the principles set forth in the paper for future Bank involvement in the forestry sector, in particular a multiseetoral approach to relieving pressure on forests. They also endorsed the Bank's stance of not financing commercial logging in primary tropical moist forests.
large power plant burning high-sulfur brown coal in a heavily polluted region of Bohemia.
The Bank continues to stress the need for environmental-strategy papers and action plans for each country—exercises considered crucial for gaining a broad overview of the main environmental issues so that priorities can be set and hot spots of pollution, where human health and the environment are at risk, can be identified. The generation of environmental-strategy papers for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe is now complete. Preparation of environmental-strategy papers is under way for Belarus and Ukraine—an exercise that will be repeated for all the remaining republics of the former Soviet Union.
The Bank's operational environmental strategy in the Latin America and the Caribbean region emphasizes three major themes— strengthening of environmental institutions, helping borrowers set clear environmental priorities, and encouragement of efficient approaches. Given the region's urbanizing trend, the highest payoffs in much of Latin America and the Caribbean are likely to be associated with measures to improve urban water and sanitation and reduce ambient atmospheric concentrations of pollutants associated with respiratory diseases.
Lending to strengthen basic environmental institutions was the main feature of the Mexico Environment Project, which supports the strengthening of that country's national environmental agency and the development of decentralized agencies. Four other institution-building and reinforcing projects—in Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, and Ecuador—were under development during the year.
In December 1991, at a meeting in Geneva, a number of donor countries pledged to support a Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rainforest by contributing to a trust fund, to be administered by the Bank, and to associated bilateral cofinancing arrangements. Following the Geneva meeting, Bank staff finalized a document laying out the institutional framework and financing conditions based on the views of the donors and the government of Brazil. Program participants ratified the document, and in March 1992, the executive directors of the Bank approved a resolution establishing a Rainforest Trust Fund to provide financing for projects under the pilot phase. To date, donors have pledged about $55 million to the trust fund and more than $200 million in associated bilateral aid.
In the Middle East and North Africa region, the primary environmental concern is water scarcity and the mounting pollution of available water resources. The Land and Water
Conservation Project in Yemen, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of $32.8 million, is supporting improved water distribution for controlled irrigation, pilot measures for small-scale irrigation works, expansion of sand-dune stabilization and soil protection, conservation of key forest areas, and the preservation of biodiversity and tree planting.
Progress was made during the year in all regions in developing national environmental-action plans, which form the basis for the Bank's dialogue with governments on critical environmental issues.1 Each plan describes a country's environmental problems, summarizes the development strategy followed, and analyzes how developmental objectives have affected the quality of the environment and resource utilization—information useful in developing the Bank's country-assistance strategies and in helping set lending priorities. The plans are expected to become a continuing governmental process for the planning and implementation of environmental-management programs and projects, not a one-time exercise. For the Bank, the plans provide a strategic framework for investment planning and country assistance based on environmental priorities.
The Bank's role in preparing and implementing an environmental-action plan is primarily that of providing guidance and technical assistance to the government. The degree to which the Bank helps depends on the capacity of the government to design and manage the process; support may be substantial in some countries and minimal in others.
The Bank's environmental work is guided by specific policies embodied in three sets of documents: Operational Manual Statements, Operational Policy Notes, and Operational Directives. (The Statements and Notes series were discontinued in 1989 and are gradually being reissued as Operational Directives.)
Central to integrating environmental concerns into the Bank's activities is the "Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment," which was approved in October 1989. The directive mandates an environmental assessment for all projects that may have a
' During the negotiations on the IDA-9 replenishment, agreement was reached that all IDA-recipient countries should complete NEAPs by the end of the IDA-9 period (June 1993). It was decided subsequently that NEAPs should also be initiated for IBRD countries. If an IDA country cannot complete a report by the June 1993 target date, the Bank should satisfy itself that (a) preparation of a suitable country environmental strategy is well advanced and (b) preliminary findings from the preparatory work have been incorporated into the Bank's country-assistance strategies.
significant negative impact on the environment. During the past year, the directive was revised to require that people affected by Bank-supported projects have access to the information contained in the assessment. The revised directive also streamlines the process by which all projects in the pipeline are screened for their potential environmental effects and are rated according to their probability of adversely affecting the environment.
Transparency and accountability issues in environmental activities were raised during the fiscal year with relation to a loan to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand to support a project designed to increase the generation of power in the country and to increase the capacity of governmental institutions to monitor environmental conditions in the power and mining sectors.
The resettlement provisions of the project— some 250 families would be affected—as well as the project's impact on health and fisheries—sparked controversy within the local and international environmental community. The entire process of environmental assessment and the environmental-impact mitigation plans were reviewed in great detail and over a long period before the project was approved by the executive directors in December 1991. Emphasis is being placed now on the monitoring of the implementation of the project's environmental-impact mitigation measures.
In its experience with this project, the Bank learned that, in the future, it should follow a more transparent and proactive process of handling environmental issues. The revised operational directive, which defines more clearly what is meant by participation and consultation of affected people in the design of projects and their environmental-assessment and mitigation plans, should help lessen the chances for future controversy. Review by the Bank's management and the executive board of another project involving resettlement issues—the Sardar Sarovar (Narmada) Projects in India—is scheduled for early fiscal 1993.
In 1984 and 1988, the Bank issued environmental-pollution guidelines for the development of measures aimed at curbing industrial pollution. These guidelines omitted a number of key sectors, however—such as thermal power stations and sewage-treatment plants— and did not address the management, treatment, and disposal of hazardous wastes. Moreover, most remedial measures were based on "end of the pipe" treatment technologies and disposal concepts. Little attention was paid to waste reduction.
In fiscal 1992, the Bank revised or updated approximately eighty-five industrial-pollution
guidelines. The revised guidelines are sector oriented, address individual pollutants, and emphasize pollution prevention and waste-minimization techniques, including cleaner processes and resource conservation. The four "Rs"—reduction, reuse, recycle, and recovery—will receive considerable attention in the Bank's new lending programs. Hazardous-waste management will focus on "cradle-to-grave" monitoring and safer disposal techniques.
A new operational directive on indigenous peoples was also issued during the year. Drawing on a decade's experience in designing projects that mitigate the effects of development projects on the natural and cultural resources of indigenous people, the directive provides a set of more specific guidelines for future work in this area. It mandates that native people affected by Bank projects must be involved in the preparation and implementation of Bank projects. By identifying local preferences through direct consultation, the Bank will be better able to incorporate indigenous knowledge into project approaches. The new operational directive also aims to ensure that indigenous people do not suffer adverse effects during, or as a result of, the development process, and that they receive culturally acceptable social and economic benefits. Special attention will also be paid to the role of gender in resettlement and environmental-impact studies.
Fiscal 1992 marked the first full year of activity for the Global Environment Facility (GEF). The GEF is a three-year pilot project that provides grants for investment projects, technical assistance, and—to a lesser extent— research for the incremental costs of activities with global environmental benefits in four programmatic areas: climate change, ozone depletion, pollution of international waters, and biodiversity. All countries with per capita incomes below $4,000 a year qualify for GEF grants. The facility helps finance innovative projects and programs affecting the global environment such as climate change and the loss of biodiversity. As of June 30, 1992, more than thirty countries were participants in the GEF, nearly half from the developing world.
Responsibility for implementing the GEF is shared among the United Nations Development Programme (technical assistance, capacity building, project preparation), the United Nations Environment Programme (secretariat for the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel, environmental expertise, advice on specific projects), and the World Bank (administrator, repository of the $1 billion trust fund, investment projects).
As of June 30, 1992, the GEF was considering more than seventy projects worth $580 million. Six investment projects had been approved: conserving the environment in Bhutan, preserving biodiversity in Poland, displacing fossil fuels with bagasse for energy production in Mauritius, conserving biodiversity in Mexico, handling and disposing of, in an environmentally sound manner, ships' waste in six Chinese ports, and afforestation in Ecuador. The projects in Bhutan and Poland were freestanding projects, financed entirely by the GEF; the other four were Bank Group projects in which the GEF funded a component.
The future of the GEF, beyond its initial three-year pilot phase, has been the subject of a continuing dialogue among governments participating in the facility.
In late April 1992, governments participating in the GEF agreed to the restructuring of the facility. While it will continue to address agreed global environmental issues within the four programmatic areas of its original mandate, the future facility will be able to fund projects aimed at reversing land degradation, primarily desertification and deforestation, as they relate to the four focal areas. It was also agreed that the GEF would be available as the funding mechanism for the global-environmental conventions signed at UNCED, should the parties to those conventions so decide. In all its activities, the facility would finance programs and projects that are country driven and consistent with national priorities designed to support sustainable development.
Building on the institutional framework provided by the three implementing agencies, the governance of the GEF would also be restructured. Universal membership is seen as key to the facility's success. The participating governments would form a "Participants' Assembly" that would normally decide matters on the basis of consensus. When this does not prove possible, a voting system would be developed that guarantees a balanced and equitable representation of the interests of developing countries, while giving due weight to the financing efforts of donors.
It was agreed that a single, unitary funding mechanism, to be replenished periodically, has advantages in terms of efficiency in mobilizing funds and providing an integrated approach to programming.
In addition to the three implementing agencies, other specialized United Nations agencies, the regional development banks, nongovernmental organizations, community groups, and the private sector are expected to contribute significantly to the success of the facility.
The agreement on the restructuring of the GEF was important in forging a consensus in the international negotiating committees on the designation of the facility as the financial mechanism for the climate-change and biodiversity conventions. Both these conventions were subsequently signed by more than 150 countries during UNCED in June 1992. The conference also endorsed the agreement on the restructuring of the GEF and agreed that it was the appropriate financial mechanism to cover the agreed incremental costs of measures designed to achieve global environmental benefits. Several countries supported a twofold-to-threefold increase in resources for the GEF once the pilot phase ends in late 1993.
Private-sector Development
Developing countries are increasingly relying on market signals and the actions of private entrepreneurs to help promote more efficient resource allocation and greater dynamism. The Bank Group—the Bank, the IFC, and MIGA— considers private-sector development (PSD) to be an important contributor to the institution's overarching objective—raising living standards and reducing poverty.
Both Bank adjustment operations and a rapidly growing proportion of investment operations emphasize private-sector development as a means towards attainment of this main objective. Typically, two of every three Bank operations include components that explicitly support private-sector development, up from about 40 percent four years ago. This trend holds true for all regions. In addition, many Bank operations that do not explicitly involve the private sector nonetheless finance public investment complementary to, and often critical for, private-sector development—transport infrastructure and agricultural research, for example.
The overall scope and level of PSD activities in the Africa region expanded significantly during fiscal 1992. Adjustment lending emphasized regulatory and domestic-competition policy reforms, alongside a deepening of trade-policy reforms (in Cote d'lvoire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe); Bank-supported public-enterprise reform and privatization programs have been adopted or expanded (in Burundi, Cote dTvoire, Guinea, and Zambia, for example); support for private delivery of public services has grown to include vocational training (Cote dTvoire) and agricultural-marketing services (Guinea and Zambia); while hybrid PSD operations have combined policy reforms, strengthening of market-based support services, and financing to reestablish and deepen term credit markets (in Burundi and Uganda, for instance).
Private-sector development was an essential part of the fiscal 1992 work programs in the East Asia and Pacific and South Asia regions, as well. India's significant progress toward liberalization and deregulation was facilitated by Bank studies on trade and financial reform, for example, and was supported by the Bank's first structural-adjustment loan to that country. To identify paths for reform and eventual privatization of some activities in China, the Bank has assisted with sector analyses of housing, land, and industry. The Bank also fostered direct privatization in the development of sectors previously reserved for the government through projects in Indonesia's telecommunications sector and Pakistan's hydrocarbon subsector. It also supported the preparation of broader privatization programs in Bangladesh, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Nepal.
PSD initiatives in the Middle East and North Africa region and in the Europe and Central Asia region were guided by the EMENA (Europe, Middle East, and North Africa) Program on Enhanced Private Sector Emphasis in Operations, developed at the beginning of the fiscal year. Economic and sector work included PSD components focusing on the identification and elimination of constraints to PSD. Separate studies were done in some countries on related topics such as the legal and regulatory environment, incentive structures, and securities markets. PSD-focused loans—for the Enterprise Reform Project in Hungary and the Private Enterprise Development Project in Poland—were approved, and several other operations are at various stages of preparation.
In Latin America and the Caribbean, the Bank's PSD focus involves creating an enabling environment, restructuring public and private-sector roles, and increasing financial-system efficiency. Thus, in Brazil, the Study on the Regulatory and Legal Environment for Business, which examined impediments to efficient enterprise, was completed. In support of public-sector restructuring, the Bank, through two lending operations in Argentina, assisted the government's efforts to reduce the federal work force, increase tax-system efficiency, control federal expenditures, and strengthen financial-system supervision. In Chile, a health-sector reform operation, which encourages greater private-sector provision of health-care services, was approved. Private-sector access to finance requires market-oriented financial systems that mobilize and allocate resources efficiently. In Colombia, the Bank supported efforts to make the financial sector more market based through a financial-
intermediary restructuring and divestiture operation that seeks to privatize public banks and dismantle directed credit.
The Bank's private-sector development action program, adopted in 1989 and strengthened in 1991, provided the starting point for stimulating and disaggregating Bank Group efforts at private-sector development. It distinguished among three key tasks to help promote private-sector development: creation of an affirmative business environment, restructuring of the public sector, and development of the financial sector and support for entrepreneurial activities. Key to the Bank Group's work in this area is strengthened cooperation among the responsible units in the Bank, the IFC, and MIGA. Considerable progress has been made in each area.
For the Bank Group, creating a supportive business environment means not just more private activity but also expanded competition. Thus, the Bank Group helps governments support business and encourages them to phase out controls over prices and investment decisions, as well as to reduce subsidies, special tax incentives and import protection, preferred access to government procurement and finance, and similar privileges that prevent competition from spurring efficiency and innovation.
A $17 million IDA credit to Burundi, for example, is helping finance a project that focuses on removing institutional, legal, and regulatory impediments to private-enterprise development. Mechanisms are being strengthened for the enforcement of contractual arrangements through improving the performance of legal institutions and creating auxiliary paralegal professions in the private sector. Operations in fiscal 1992 that focused primarily on improving the business environment were also approved for Cote dTvoire, Poland, and Uganda.
Public-sector restructuring components have become increasingly important in Bank adjustment operations, as countries move from basic ("stroke of the pen") policy reforms to lengthier, institutional reforms. Public-sector restructuring involves both improving efficiency in critical functions of the state, such as the provision of social and physical infrastructure, and creating space for private initiative through a shift in the boundary between the public and private sectors.
In Argentina, a $325 million Bank loan, approved in fiscal 1992, supports fundamental reforms of the federal government. Among other things, expenditures are being rationalized through a reduction of about 20 percent in federal employment, the elimination of some functions and the refocusing on core activities
through ministerial reorganization, a reversal of wage compressions from 3:1 to over 10:1, and improvements in the budget and control process. Other operations that had public-sector restructuring as a primary objective were approved during the year for Madagascar, Mauritania, and Pakistan. Structural-adjustment operations in Bolivia, Bulgaria, Burundi, India, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Peru, and Romania—all approved in fiscal 1992—had public-sector restructuring components.
Privatization is a process that helps shift the boundary between the public and private sectors so as to increase cost-effectiveness and better use of resources in both government and business. Privatization can open new opportunities for private investors and free government resources and administrative skills for high-priority activities. The Bank Group has actively supported privatization in more than 180 Bank operations, 50 IFC advisory-support and investment operations in privatized firms, and 3 MIGA projects that insure investments associated with privatization.
A S200 million loan to Hungary, approved in fiscal 1992, is supporting the government's privatization efforts. It is the government's goal to reduce the share of state-owned property to less than 50 percent of the competitive sector by the end of 1994. To that end, its privatization strategy is being carried out through the orderly sale of state-owned enterprises. Projects devoted primarily to privatization were also approved for Argentina, Cote dTvoire, Egypt, and Zambia.
An efficient and dynamic financial sector is crucial to a growing market-oriented economy. In the context of Bank operations, financial-sector restructuring and policy reform are often necessary to raise the efficiency and effectiveness of resource mobilization from, and allocation to, the private sector. Bank adjustment operations have addressed these needs in a growing number of countries.
Thus, in Cote dTvoire, a $200 million operation is supporting a multifaceted program of financial reforms, of which a restructuring of the banking sector is the centerpiece. Commercial-bank operations will be restructured, commercial banks will be recapitalized, the National Agricultural Development Bank will be liquidated (as will other specialized lenders), and the country's Debt Amortization Agency will be restructured. Financial-sector adjustment operations in Ghana, Peru, and Tanzania were also approved by the Bank during fiscal 1992.
In growing recognition of the central importance of financial-sector development, the
Bank established a Task Force on Financial Sector Operations to assess its assistance activities in the sector. The task force's report was issued in 1989. Subsequently, all financial-sector operations in preparation were reviewed to ensure that the report's recommendations were being followed and to identify issues and areas where additional clarification was needed pursuant to the preparation of detailed guidelines to staff. This process culminated in a policy paper approved by the executive directors in July 1991 (see Box 3-4).
Based on the recommendations of the task force, various forms of financial-sector reforms have been promoted—improvements in financial institutions, interest-rate liberalization, and support for resource mobilization for private investment and/or competition in financial intermediation, for example.
While continuing to play a major role in private-sector development, financial-intermediary loans were affected by the reorientation of the financial-sector activities of the Bank: Lending through financial intermediaries to large industrial enterprises declined, while market-oriented financing and technical assistance for private small and medium-sized enterprises increased.
In Poland, the Bank committed $60 million in fiscal 1992 for a project that is providing financing for efficient investment in private (particularly small and medium-sized) enterprises. Financial-intermediary loans were also approved for Bangladesh, Colombia, and Trinidad and Tobago.
The lessons of experience in the reform of public-sector management and in privatization were the subject of two separate executive board discussions during the year.
The report to the board on the lessons of reform of public-sector management concluded that, although the impact of public-sector reform has been less than had been hoped for, Bank work in this area has yielded positive results, often in very difficult circumstances. The report noted, however, that there was a great variation both with regard to where a country is located on the spectrum of administrative capacity and in the country's receptivity to externally supplied advice and resources. In countries where the alignment of skills, commitment, and incentives is conducive, it is apparent that rapid change is occurring; in other situations, the development of the essential ingredients for strong institutions will take years to effect. In many countries, the Bank will have to be involved in this supporting process for a long time.
The instruments used by the Bank to promote public-sector management reforms have
Box 3-4. Policies Guiding Financial-sector Operations
The Bank's member countries are placing increased importance on the development of sound financial markets and institutions. In support of this shift, the Bank is also giving greater attention to the reform and modernization of the financial sectors of its borrowing members.
Following a review of the Bank's approach to financial-sector operations, it was decided that more rigorous attention needed to be paid to (a) the strengthening of financial markets and market-based financial institutions, (b) the reform of financial-sector policies, and (c) the importance of the macroeconomic, incentive, legal, and regulatory environments for financial-sector development.
Before detailed guidelines on financial-sector operations were issued to Bank staff, the underlying policies of financial-sector support were the subject of discussion by the executive board. The paragraphs that follow summarize those policies as generally endorsed by the board.
Financial-sector reform. All Bank operations and policy advice affecting the financial sector must be consistent with a coherent, explicit strategy for the borrowing country's financial-sector development. Financial-sector strategies, to be operational, must be firmly based on policy dialogue with borrowing governments. Early consultation and coordination with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the International Monetary Fund in the formulation of financial* sector strategies are essential.
Greater efficiency in resource mobilization and allocation is generally effected by reducing market distortions, expanding the scope for market-based decisionmaking, and promoting competitive, market-oriented institutions, Where interest-rate distortions are significant, Bank financial-sector operations must be conditioned by an agreed program for moving interest rates toward market level and structure and by the introduction of a satisfactory mechanism for the adjustment of interest rates to meet changing economic conditions.
According to Bank policy, the importance and justifications of existing directed credit programs will be analyzed as part of the formulation and evaluation of financial-sector strategies. The objective of directed credit programs should be to stimulate normal credit flows to targeted groups previously excluded from credit markets, ultimately permitting the phasing out of these programs. In general, directed credit programs not undertaken in the context of a program to promote market access should be eliminated. At the minimum, the beneficiaries of directed credit should pay positive interest rates.
Attention to the adequacy of accounting and disclosure standards and to the legal framework is an indispensable element of financial-sector development strategies and Bank support to sector reform. The elimination of barriers to competition.
where they exist, should precede or accompany measures to liberalize the financial sector.
In many countries, the restructuring or liquidation of distressed financial institutions is a necessary early step toward successful sector reform. To have lasting benefits, however, it should be preceded and accompanied by correction of the macroeconomic imbalances and the policies and institutional inadequacies that caused or permitted distress to become widespread.
Financial-intermediary lending. In countries and operations where the support of the Bank Group can appropriately be provided without significant government involvement or guarantee of repayment, the IFC will normally be expected to play the lead role in financial-intermediary lending. In countries or operations where there are important sector-reform or policy-reform objectives, the Bank will normally take the lead. A central objective for both institutions is for intermediaries and final borrowers to be able eventually to raise funds from market sources.
Sound, well^performing financial intermediaries are essential to financial-sector efficiency and to the successful introduction of policy reforms. Where an intermediary does not currently meet acceptable standards of performance and financial soundness, its participation in a Bank-financed financial-intermediary loan will require an agreed institutional-development plan that demonstrates the institution's ability to survive in an increasingly competitive, market-based system. Where an intermediary's weaknesses are attributable to external policies and conditions. Bank support will be conditioned on appropriate measures to correct them.
Managers of financial intermediaries should be independent from government interference in their lending decisions; managerial autonomy of state-owned intermediaries is of particular importance.
World Bank lending through intermediaries will be conditioned on the existence of a satisfactory level and structure of interest rates, or on an understanding with the authorities regarding progress toward that end.
In their discussion, the Bank's executive directors reaffirmed their support for the overall conclusions of the 1989 task-force report on financial-sector operations—conclusions that strengthened the Bank's focus on the development of sound, market-based financial sectors free of distortions and inefficiencies.
While there were differences of view in terms of emphasis—on the subject of directed credit, on the need to take fully into account a particular borrower's stage of development and circumstances in the formulation of Bank assistance strategy and operations, for example—there was full support for the Bank's new focus.
been technical assistance, training, studies, and policy dialogue. The report concludes that the Bank's effectiveness in this area can be improved by, among other things, giving greater weight to public-sector management issues in the country dialogue, reviewing more thoroughly a country's sociopolitical context, and giving more systematic attention to public-sector management-related investment and technical-assistance operations.
According to the Bank study on privatization, two main lessons of experience can be drawn.
• Private ownership itself makes a difference. Some state-owned enterprises have been efficient and well managed for some periods, but government ownership seldom permits sustained good performance over more than a few years.
• The process of privatization, though not simple, can and has worked; this is true for a variety of enterprises in a variety of settings, including poor countries.
Most privatization success stories come from high-income or middle-income countries, however. It is harder to privatize in least-developed settings, and the process there is more difficult to launch. But even in low-income countries, the results of some privatizations have been highly positive. It is the task of government and the agencies assisting them, including the World Bank Group, to structure the enabling environment and the transactions in such a way that the potential of privatization is fulfilled (see Box 3-5).
The management of the Bank Group is committed to reinforce the implementation of its private-sector development action plan. A number of measures were adopted late in fiscal 1991 to strengthen the Bank Group's efforts in developing the private sector.2 They included the undertaking of country-specific private-sector assessments, enhanced cooperation among the Bank, the IFC, and MIGA, and an expansion of research on private-sector development issues.
Work began during fiscal 1992 on private-sector assessments. These assessments are designed to contribute to the formulation of Bank Group country-assistance strategies addressing private-sector development priorities (alongside similar work on other priority areas such as environment and poverty reduction) and will provide a basis for the Bank's country-policy dialogue. Private-sector assessments will identify priority policy reforms and actions critical for private-sector development.
The Bank Group, in consultation with the respective governments, has identified the countries where the first twenty assessments
will be completed by the end of fiscal 1993.3 The countries were selected jointly by Bank and IFC staff on the basis of the urgency of addressing private-sector development issues and the potential of their private sectors, taking into account, as well, the role of the Bank and the IFC in the country and the government's commitment to pursue private-sector development-oriented reforms.
The assessment for Kenya, now being completed, is typical of the genre. It analyzes the main characteristics of the private sector and its importance in the economy, the main constraints it faces, and future World Bank Group strategy for assisting the development of the sector.
The assessment was based on Bank-IFC field missions, which included extensive enterprise surveys, as well as prior Bank Group knowledge of the private sector gained from previous operational and sector work. The most important constraints identified in the assessment were the pervasive system of regulations and controls, uncertainties resulting from the country's overall macroeconomic situation and the uneven application of laws and regulations, and the size of the public sector and its potential crowding-out of private activities. Enterprises in the survey ranked the cost of credit and collateral requirements as their biggest obstacles in the area of financing.
The Bank's research program on private-sector development issues ranges from studies on the informal sector, sectoral regulatory environments, and land tenure, to competition, the effect of divestiture on efficiency, and the determinants of private investment. Resources devoted to private-sector development increased substantially in fiscal 1992, with redeployment from debt and adjustment activities. A major research study begun during the past year, "East Asian Miracle," is examining how government action (or inaction) has affected growth in Japan and in the developing countries of East Asia, and a progress report on private-sector development is scheduled to be reviewed by the Development Committee in April 1993.
Debt and Adjustment
In fiscal 1989, the executive directors approved the use of World Bank resources to support debt-reduction and debt-service reduc-
2 For details, see page 67-70 of the World Bank's Annual Report for fiscal year 1991.
3 The countries are Brazil, Cameroon, Colombia, C6te d' Ivoire, Ghana, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Madagascar, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines, Poland, Senegal, Sri Lanka, and Zimbabwe.
Box 3-5. Checklist of Recommendations for Privatizing Governments
V The more market-friendly a country's policy framework—and appropriate policy is correlated with capacity to regulate—trie less difficulty it will have in privatizing a state-owned enterprise and the higher the likelihood that the sale will turn out positively.
J State-owned enterprises functioning in competitive markets, or in markets easily made competitive, are prime candidates for privatization. Their sale is simple, compared to public monopolies, and they require little or no regulation.
j An appropriate regulatory framework must be in place before privatizing monopolies. Failure to regulate properly can hurt consumers and reduce public support for privatization.
,/ The primary objective of privatization should be to increase efficiency—not to maximize revenue (for example, by selling into protected markets) or even to distribute ownership widely at the expense of managerial efficiency.
j Countries can benefit from privatizing management through management contracts, leases, contracting out, or concessions.
/ Rather than restrict the market by excluding foreign investors and favoring certain ethnic groups, experiment with golden shares and partial-share offerings to win acceptance for foreign and other buyers.
J Avoid large investments in privatization candidates: The risks usually outweigh the rewards. Instead, prepare for sale with legal, managerial, and organizational changes, financial workouts, and labor shedding.
J Experience shows that labor does not, and need not, lose in privatization if governments pay attention to easing the social cost of unemployment through adequate severance pay, unemployment benefits, retraining, and job-search assistance.
y Ideally, let the market set the price and sell for cash. Realistically, negotiated settlements and financing arrangements or debt-equity swaps may be unavoidable.
/ In all privatizations, in all countries, the transactions must be transparent.
tion operations in heavily indebted, middle-income countries. The program was instituted as a three-year program, with regular reviews and evaluations." Following discussion of a third annual review of the program, the executive directors agreed in fiscal 1992 that the Bank should maintain its ability to finance debt-reduction and debt-service reduction operations when such operations are found to be justified in the special circumstances of member countries. The directors also generally endorsed and approved proposals that the initial ceiling, set for the three years fiscal 1990-92, of $6 billion for "additional lending" related to the program, be maintained and that, on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration the criteria of justifiable need and cost effectiveness, the additional funds could be used to purchase principal collateral for par bonds carrying below-market interest rates.
The program has enabled the Bank, when it judges circumstances appropriate, to extend financing and/or negative-pledge waivers for operations that lead to a reduction in member countries' debt or debt-service obligations to their commercial-bank creditors.
The Bank's support is made available on a case-by-case basis under a set of conditions specified by the executive directors in fiscal 1989. The most important conditions are that the country have a sound financing plan, which includes debt reduction; that a sustainable
macroeconomic program, usually supported by an International Monetary Fund (IMF) arrangement, be in place; that the operation be agreed to voluntarily; and that it contribute materially to a country's development prospects.
The World Bank does not play a direct role in the negotiations between a debtor country and its commercial-bank creditors. It provides information to each party about its program and modalities, as requested, and about the financial parameters that would justify the Bank's support. The Bank also offers technical assistance on external-debt management to member countries that request it.
Since the start of the program, the Bank has supported six such operations. In four cases (Mexico, the Philippines, Uruguay, and Venezuela), the Bank provided financial support for the operation and, where needed, granted a waiver of its negative-pledge clause to permit the creation of collateral with respect to exchange bonds. In two cases (Costa Rica and Nigeria), the Bank did not participate in the financing of the operation, but provided waivers of its negative-pledge clause. The waiver of its negative-pledge clause to Nigeria was the
4 For details of these reviews, see pages 50-52 in the World Bank's Annual Report for fiscal 1990 and pages 64-65 in the World Bank's Annual Report for fiscal 1991.
only debt-service reduction activity conducted by the Bank in fiscal 1992.5
Progress under the program has been slower than originally anticipated. The reasons are varied. Some debtors have experienced difficulties in implementing appropriate adjustment programs. In other countries, perceived political uncertainties have contributed to the prolongation of negotiations.
For their part, commercial banks no longer feel as threatened as in the recent past by the level of their claims on developing countries. In general, commercial banks have significantly improved their financial positions over the past few years. More recent difficulties, such as the need by most banks to meet strengthened capital requirements, the recession in the United States, as well as developments in the real-estate market in the United States, issues related to Eastern Europe (for European banks), and the fall in the stock market and real-estate market declines in Japan, are now the focus of most attention by the commercial banks. The presence of these issues on the banks' agendas, in combination with increasingly strong provisions against de-veloping-country risks, has diverted attention from the task of reaching agreement with debtor countries.
As a result of these factors, the amount of resources allocated by the Bank to debt and debt-service reduction operations has been less than what was estimated in fiscal 1989. Three years ago it was thought that additional lending by the Bank under the three-year program might amount to as much as $6 billion. In fact, only $1.44 billion in additional lending has been committed, and available Bank support in the form of "set asides" has totaled $1.23 billion, compared with a potential maximum of $4 billion anticipated in fiscal 1989.6
Despite the slower-than-anticipated pace of the program, it appears that the program has contributed significantly to the debt-work-out process and, in several cases, has been a necessary element in the adjustment process of the affected countries.
The channels through which debt and debt-service reduction operations affect the development process vary in importance, depending on the unique situation of each debtor country. Countries benefit most when debt and debt-service reduction has a significant developmental impact. In turn, a significant developmental impact requires a strong policy framework in order for the beneficiary country to exploit the development opportunities available under the new debt arrangements. While it is still too early to observe the program's effects fully, evidence suggests that debt and
debt-service reduction operations have had a measurable developmental impact, and, on this account, the program has been successful.
The effect is most visibly seen in the case of Mexico. The ratio of total gross fixed capital formation to gross domestic product (GDPl rose by 1.4 percentage points in Mexico in 1991 (relative to 1990); private fixed investmeni: increased by almost five percentage points it both 1990 and 1991; nominal interest rates fell by twenty percentage points in Mexico during the negotiation period, and real interest rates fell by almost 60 percent in a six-month period as negotiations evolved; stockmarket prices rose in the negotiation period; credit ratings by private-market participants rose significantly; and the net transfer of external capital inflows, mostly in the form of direct and portfolio investment, totaled more than 5 percent of GDP in 1991—an increase of more than $13 billion compared with 1990.
The data for Venezuela show an improvement in development prospects: In 1991, GDP grew by 9.1 percent, a figure that is among the highest in the developing world. Data for Costa Rica and, to some extent, Uruguay, suggest measurable improvements, particularly on the external front, which were dampened by the occurrence of adverse terms-of-trade shocks. The Philippines operation, in relative terms, was the smallest of the first five Bank operations, and the effect was less significant than was expected.
5 On August 30, 1991, the government of the Philippines announced its intention to conclude a debt and debt-service operation with its commercial-bank creditors. Broad agreement was reached on the terms on which debt would be restructured, and an official term sheet was issued on February 29, 1992. Signing of the agreement was planned for April, but in view of the impending election, the government and the banks concurred in postponing signing until after the election and the new government could confirm its support for the agreement. The government has requested assistance from the Bank and other donors. The Bank is studying the request, including the possible modalities of support, and is discussing the overall resource requirements with the IMF and with major bilateral donors. In April 1992, the government of Argentina reached an agreement in principle with its commercial creditors on a debt and debt-service reduction package. Negotiations are under way on the details of the agreement.
6 In fiscal 1989, it was agreed that although the level of Bank support would be determined on a case-by-case basis, it would involve a figure of around 25 percent of a country's adjustment-lending program over a three-year period, or around 10 percent of its overall lending program. The executive directors also agreed that, where justified, additional resources—up to 15 percent—of the overall three-year lending program could also be made available and that that limit could be exceeded if the excess amounts were deducted, or "set aside," from the lending program so that the excess would not result in a further increase in the net commitment of the Bank.
There seems to be a clear parallel between the success of the operations (in terms of their developmental impact) and good policies. In the case of Mexico and, to a somewhat lesser degree, Venezuela, improved and strong adjustment policies, sustained over several years, have generated the largest development benefits from debt reduction. The gains have been smaller in the other countries, where the policy frameworks have not been as supportive. This reinforces the presumption that a strong policy framework is required to achieve a significant developmental impact from debt and debt-service reduction.
The directors of the Bank also agreed during the year to extend the operations of the Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries.
That facility was established in fiscal 1990 in recognition of the absence of adequate mechanisms for easing the burden of external commercial debt owed by IDA-only countries. The facility was financed by the transfer to it of $100 million of the IBRD's net income for fiscal 1989.
Facility resources are made available on a grant basis—normally up to a limit of $10 million to any one country—to allow for the maximum possible impact in reducing a country's external commercial debt.
All IDA-only countries with heavy debt burdens are eligible for facility support. Support, however, is decided on a case-by-case basis and is contingent on the existence of:
• a medium-term adjustment program that is acceptable to IDA, as demonstrated, for example, by the existence of an operational policy-framework paper (PFP), a structural-adjustment program, or a country's inclusion in the IMF's enhanced structural-adjustment facility (ESAF); and
• a strategy for debt management that is satisfactory to IDA and that (a) includes a program for resolving the commercial-debt problem through funds provided by the facility and other sources; (b) provides for substantial debt relief from official bilateral creditors through an agreement with the Paris Club, preferably on terms that offer the most favorable treatment accorded by that body; and (c) materially enhances the country's prospects for growth and development.
To date, seventeen countries have expressed an interest in gaining access to the facility's resources.7 Two debt-reduction operations have been completed (in Mozambique and Niger);8 and it is expected that three operations (for Bolivia, Guyana, and Uganda) will be brought to the executive board for its consideration during the first half of fiscal year 1993. In the cases of Mozambique and Niger, about
$230.8 million of principal commercial indebtedness has been retired, along with interest arrears totaling some $90 million.
Approximately $13.8 million of facility resources has been used to date, in addition to significant support from bilateral donors. Switzerland and France granted $7.5 million and $12 million, respectively, for the operations in Mozambique and Niger, while the Netherlands and Sweden provided grant funds of $2 million and $4.5 million, respectively, for the Mozambique operation. All funds, except for the French grant to Niger, were provided by way of contributions to the facility. Late in calendar year 1991, Switzerland agreed to make available a further contribution of SwF20 million to the general resources of the facility for use in such future operations as are mutually agreed upon by Switzerland and IDA. In addition, Canada, France, Japan, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom have provided financial support for preparatory activities directly connected to facility-supported operations.
Although interest on the part of indebted countries in participating in facility operations has been strong, progress in carrying out those operations has been slower than expected. Several factors have contributed to this situation: difficulties in carrying out adjustment programs, debtor-country constraints, commercial-creditor reluctance, legal complexities, and funding considerations.
Debtor-country constraints refer to the difficulties that some potential facility beneficiaries have in acquiring complete and accurate information on how much they owe and to whom. Facility operations have also been delayed by human-resource constraints in debtor countries that result in the understandable relegation of relatively small commercial-creditor claims, as opposed to far larger official-creditor claims, to the backburner.
The extent of commercial-creditor reluctance has been unexpected. And the scenario that had banks responding favorably to cash offers to extinguish claims on very poor countries with histories of severe debt-servicing problems has proved to be, for a variety of reasons, somewhat optimistic.
Finding methods of pursuing debt-reduction operations that are consistent with the underlying contracts the debtor has with its commer-
7 Benin, Bolivia, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Madagascar, Mali, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, and Zaire.
8 For details, see page 67 in the World Bank's Annual Report for fiscal year 1991.
cial creditors has proved to be complex. In addition, significant delays in structuring individual deals have often been caused by the difficulty in obtaining relevant documentation (the underlying contracts, for instance) that is required to ensure that the proposed debt-reduction operations will actually achieve their objectives—the legal extinguishing of claims.
Finally, delays in obtaining bilateral funding to permit the timely hiring of external financial and legal advisors have led, in some cases, to delays in the detailed preparation of facility operations.
Despite its slow progress, the facility has shown that it can contribute substantially to the reduction of commercial debt in the very poorest countries. The facility remains the only financing mechanism that offers heavily indebted, low-income countries the prospect of obtaining the financing required for substantial debt reduction of commercial-debt obligations.
The creation of the facility has also had positive secondary effects. Its existence has encouraged several countries to address more systematically and comprehensively the management of their external liabilities—both current and future. Its existence has also encouraged greater efforts at coordination in donor assistance in the field of debt management.
In agreeing to extend the life of the facility untilJuly 31, 1994, the executive directors also decided that the standard by which an operation is judged—that it resolve a country's commercial-debt problem in a comprehensive manner—should be interpreted in a way that permits facility resources to fund partial debt-reduction operations in appropriate cases.
The executive directors also agreed that:
• facility resources could be employed to hire financial and legal advisors to help countries prepare debt-reduction operations;9
• facility resources could be provided to a third-party entity for a debt-reduction operation for the benefit of a member country in those cases where it was not feasible to make a grant to the member country because of legal constraints; and that
• facility resources could also be employed in the reduction of all external commercial debt that is not otherwise guaranteed or collateralized—that is, short-term as well as medium-term and long-term debt. Short-term debt would only be eligible, however, if such debt had been in arrears for some time and if IDA's management were satisfied, on a country-by-country basis, that such inclusion was unlikely to impair a country's access to short-term credit on reasonable terms.
Adjustment lending. Adjustment lending by the Bank totaled $5,847 million during fiscal
1992, an increase of $176 million over the previous year's total. Lending for adjustment represented 27 percent of total Bank lending. The increase resulted primarily from initial adjustment operations in India and Peru ($650 million and $1 billion, respectively) and continued high levels of adjustment lending in Central and Eastern Europe ($850 million).
Adjustment lending has been a part of the landscape of the developing world for over a decade. It has been central to policy debate in Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa and important in other regions. A few countries— Chile and Thailand, for instance—have clearly graduated from adjustment lending; barring major new shocks, they will no longer need adjustment loans to support policy reform. Others—Morocco and Tunisia, for example—are on the road to graduation. Adjustment lending is going to remain important in the 1990s: It already has become a major vehicle of assistance to formerly command-driven countries, it is being used for the first time in India, and there are old and new clients in most other parts of the world.
A third review of adjustment lending, completed by the Bank in fiscal 1992, concludes that, overall, adjustment lending is associated with a recovery in growth rates and improved policies. Middle-income adjusting countries did better than low-income adjusting countries, however: If initial conditions, external shocks, and official flows are controlled for, the former group of countries enjoyed growth four percentage points higher than would otherwise have occurred; the low-income group barely grew in per capita terms.
The review noted that the adjustment process generally takes years, and that there can be significant costs in the transition. Again, a distinction was found between middle-income adjusting countries and low-income ones. The more difficult path toward recovery followed by the poorer group can be explained by the fact that most low-income countries have a relatively weak base in infrastructure and human capital, small private involvement in the formal sector, and weak public institutions. They also started off with more distorted economies than did the middle-income countries.
The evidence to date, the review suggests, is that structural adjustment in low-income countries is a necessary—but not usually sufficient—
9 Late in fiscal 1991, a grant of up to $340,000 from the facility was provided to Guyana to finance the costs of financial and legal advisors to assist in the preparation of a proposed commercial bank debt-reduction operation. The funds for the grant were contributed to the facility for this purpose by Canada.
condition for transition to sustainable growth. It concludes that while most of this group will continue to need adjustment-related support during the 1990s, this support will pay off only if long-run development problems are tackled simultaneously. These problems will continue to require substantial support, through project and sectoral investment lending, from the international community.
Although the review found that adjustment policies help most poor people—at least in the medium term— it acknowledged that economic-reform programs often cause temporary welfare declines for some. A well-designed adjustment policy, however, can moderate losses and bring swifter gains to the poor. Well-targeted public-transfer programs, such as public-employment schemes, or food and nutrition programs, have a role in cushioning declines in income for vulnerable groups.
In addition to updating the analysis on the effects of adjustment lending on growth in aggregate income and on the poor, the review devoted special attention to two problematic areas in the adjustment process—the recovery of private-sector investment and reform of public spending.
The review found that although private-sector investment eventually recovers where policy conditions are good, it remains a problem in low-income countries. The lagging response by private investors is normal, the Bank study concludes, and it need not be a problem—provided that policies are put in place to secure an eventual recovery. Most low-income countries usually have the addi-
tional difficulty that the formal private sector has always been less developed. In addition, most of the conditions for private-investment recovery are also worse than in middle-income countries: Market distortions are often worse, infrastructure is less developed, and the financial system is weaker.
Misallocation of public-sector resources, at least from a developmental perspective, remains a problem, according to the review. It found that general spending cuts have often been at the expense of critically important operations and maintenance spending (and sometimes at the expense of necessary public investment); that spending is misallocated within the social sectors (not enough spending on complementary inputs, such as medicine and textbooks, relative to staff, for instance); and that there has been relatively little progress in reducing public-sector employment.
Looking to the future, the review recommended that the Bank (a) stay the course on adjustment lending to committed governments and complement such assistance with investment lending to develop economic and social infrastructure and institutions; (b) increase the attention it gives in the design of adjustment programs to policy reforms that support the business environment; (c) increase the attention it gives to the allocation of public-sector spending; and (d) reinforce efforts to design adjustment programs that promote poverty-reducing growth.
The third review of adjustment lending was discussed by the Bank's executive directors, who endorsed its overall findings.
Section Four
World Bank Finances
IBRD Finances
In fiscal year 1992, the IBRD achieved a strong level of financial performance, highlights of which include:
• loan disbursements of $11.7 billion;
• borrowing the equivalent of $11.8 billion in the world's capital markets;
• average borrowing costs, after swaps, of 6.69 percent;
• financial return on the investment portfolio of 8.07 percent; and
• net income of $1.6 billion, which enabled the IBRD to continue to meet its financial objectives.
Allocations of fiscal 1991 net income included:
• an allocation to the general reserve of $450 million, which brought the IBRD's reserves-to-loan ratio to 11.5 percent (excluding prefund-ing of interest waivers) at the end of fiscal 1992; and
• an allocation of $370 million to the IBRD's surplus.
Financial Policies
At the beginning of fiscal 1992, the IBRD's new approach to encourage borrowers to make timely loan payments became effective. The approach stipulates that if a payment becomes thirty days overdue, no new loans to the borrower will be presented to the executive board for approval or will be signed, and the borrower will become ineligible for any applicable waivers of the interest spread. If a loan payment from a nonsovereign borrower becomes forty-five days overdue (and the country is not itself the delinquent borrower), no new loans to, or to be guaranteed by, that country will be presented to the board for approval, and no previously approved loans to, or guaranteed by, that country will be signed.
During the fiscal year, the IBRD waived twenty-five basis points of the fifty basis-point spread included in the semester interest rate on loans, provided that the borrowers had made all loan-service payments within thirty days of their due date. This waiver was in addition to the continuation during the year of the reduc-
tion of the IBRD's commitment fee on undisbursed balances from seventy-five to twenty-five basis points.
Based on the first year of operation, this new policy has proved highly successful. Excluding the countries in nonaccrual status, late payments over thirty days declined sharply in the first twelve months following implementation of the policy. Because of the improvement in the timeliness of payments, over 70 percent of all the IBRD's borrowers are currently eligible for the interest-spread waiver.
Loans
Disbursements. Gross disbursements by the IBRD to countries were $11.7 billion, up from fiscal 1991's total of $11.4 billion. Net disbursements were $1.8 billion, compared with $2.1 billion during the previous year.
Lending rate. Under the IBRD's current semiannual variable lending-rate system, the interest rate was 7.73 percent for the first and second semesters of fiscal 1992. By comparison, the other variable-lending rate—applicable to loans for which invitations to negotiate were sent before May 18, 1989, and not converted by borrowers to the new system—was 7.71 percent and 7.72 percent, respectively, for the first and second semesters of fiscal 1992. The difference between the rates is due to differences in allocations of borrowings to lending and/or to investments and to the weights applied to currency-specific costs.
Loans in nonaccrual status. Six countries were in nonaccrual status at the end of fiscal 1992—Congo, Guatemala, Iraq, Liberia, Peru, and Syria. With the exception of Congo, five were holdovers from fiscal year 1991. Guatemala, Peru, and Syria, however, are making debt-service payments to the Bank.
Nicaragua, Panama, and Sierra Leone came out of nonaccrual status during the year. Nicaragua cleared its arrears on September 13,
1991 with a payment of $218.9 million. Panama cleared its arrears to the IBRD on February 5,
1992 with a payment of $220 million. Sierra Leone, which had been in nonaccrual status since August 1987, cleared its arrears on April 15, 1992 with a payment of $9.65 million.
While Zambia reentered nonaccrual status on January 15, 1992, it cleared its arrears later in the same month with a payment of $50.51 million.
Provisioning. The IBRD increased its accumulated provision for loan losses to $2.5 billion, maintaining the provision equal to 2.5 percent of the sum of total loans outstanding and the present value of guarantees. The level of loan-loss provision is based on an assessment of the collectibility of loans in nonaccrual status, together with an evaluation of general risk in the remainder of the portfolio.
Liquid-assets Management
At the end of fiscal 1992, the IBRD's liquidity totaled $20.86 billion, equivalent to about 48 percent of anticipated net cash requirements over the next three fiscal years. At the end of fiscal 1991, liquidity amounted to $20.0 billion. The IBRD's primary objective in holding such liquidity is to ensure flexibility in its borrowing decisions should borrowing be adversely affected by temporary conditions in the capital markets.
The IBRD's liquid assets are invested exclusively in fixed-income instruments and are actively traded in various capital and money markets under stringent risk-management guidelines. The attendant portfolio-management activities are supported by a comprehensive risk-management and monitoring setup covering both credit risk and interest-rate risk. Trading performance is continuously measured against detailed market-by-market benchmark portfolios.
Enhancements were made in the management of the IBRD's liquid assets in the following areas: (a) the use of a greater variety of instruments and further exploitation of multiple trading approaches; (b) completion of the integration of the supporting computer systems across trading, accounting, and control functions; and (c) continued improvements in the performance-measurement system and in various risk-monitoring systems.
During fiscal 1992, the IBRD's financial return on its portfolio was 8.07 percent. The financial return on investments in fiscal year 1991 was 9.23 percent.
Borrowings and Liability Management
In framing its direct-market borrowing plans, the IBRD seeks to maintain, on the finest terms possible, a broadly diversified, multicurrency, multimarket borrowing program. The centerpieces of this approach are (a) global offerings, where appropriate, and (b) the most extensive use (consistent with prudence and practicability) of markets in which the IBRD enjoys comparative advantages in ac-
cess or fiscal treatment of its securities or that offer other prospects for cost savings. The IBRD seeks to borrow the volume of funding, consistent with its target fiscal year-end liquidity ratio, in an after-swap currency composition that allows it to maintain the targeted loan currency-pool ratios for dollars, yen, and the deutsche mark group. The IBRD continues to be an active participant in both the currency and interest-rate swap markets to obtain funding at lower costs than it could otherwise obtain through direct market borrowings in core currencies, to undertake intrayear interest-rate management in core currencies, and to maintain a diversified capital-market presence.
Medium-term and long-term (MLT) funding. During fiscal 1992, the IBRD raised $11.8 billion through MLT borrowings in eleven currencies and currency units. After $3.2 billion of currency swaps and a notional par volume of $3.7 billion of interest-rate swaps, all of the year's borrowings were fixed-rate liabilities denominated in United States dollars, Japanese yen, deutsche mark, and Swiss francs. The average maturity of this funding was 7.3 years, and the after-swap cost was 6.69 percent (see Tables 4-1 and 4-2).
Noteworthy transactions during the year included two global-bond offerings in United States dollars (aggregating $3.0 billion) and the IBRD's first global-bond issue denominated in Japanese yen. The ¥250 billion ($1.9 billion equivalent) ten-year offering incorporated many of the liquidity-enhancing features of the IBRD's earlier global offerings in United States dollars, such as simultaneous offering and trading in Europe, the United States, and Japan and multimarket clearing and settlement conventions. This approach provided the IBRD with lower yen funding costs relative to that of other borrowers of comparable credit and to its traditional yen offerings. The IBRD used anticipatory rate-setting arrangements for the first time in connection with one of its United States dollar global-bond issues and used deferred rate-setting arrangements for all three global-bond issues during the fiscal year to separate the timing of interest-rate fixings from that of issuance.
In addition, the IBRD established a multicurrency medium-term note (MTN) facility in August 1991 to take advantage of small placement opportunities arising at various times in different segments of the European markets. By the end of fiscal 1992, it had raised $0.6 billion through the facility in seventeen transactions involving Italian lire, European currency units, and United States dollars. The IBRD also undertook its first two borrowings denominated in Portuguese escudos during fis-
cal 1992, bringing the total number of currencies or currency units in which the IBRD has borrowed since July 1947 to twenty-eight.
During fiscal 1992, the IBRD called an aggregate volume of $4.6 billion of outstanding borrowings for prepayment, comprising $3.1 billion of Japanese yen borrowings, $1.3 billion of United States dollar borrowings, and $0.15 billion of ECU borrowings. In addition, it redeemed $0.2 billion of United States dollar borrowings through market repurchases.
At the end of the fiscal year, MLT funding
outstanding amounted to $91.7 billion, or 94 percent of total outstanding debt. This included $91.6 billion of fixed-rate funding and $0.1 billion of variable-rate funding. As of June 30, 1992, the average maturity of total MLT debt was 6.4 years, and its average cost, after swaps, was 7.10 percent.
Short-term funding. During the fiscal year, the IBRD refinanced the $5.4 billion of short-term borrowings that had been outstanding at the end of fiscal 1991. At June 30, 1992, short-term borrowings outstanding were $5.4 billion
equivalent, comprising $2.6 billion from official sources through the IBRD's central-bank facility, $2.8 billion from market borrowings in United States dollars, and $25 million equivalent in short-term Swiss franc borrowings. The cost of these borrowings at the end of the fiscal year was 3.75 percent, compared with 6.12 percent at the end of fiscal 1991.
The IBRD's policy is to limit the share of interest-sensitive liabilities in its portfolio to the extent that short-term borrowings constitute no more than 10 percent of total debt outstanding and that short-term and variable-rate funding do not exceed 15 percent of this volume. On June 30,1992, short-term and variable-rate funding aggregated $5.5 billion equivalent, representing about 6 percent of total outstanding debt.
Capital. On June 30, 1992, the total subscribed capital of the IBRD was $152.2 billion, or 83 percent of authorized capital of $184.05 billion. During fiscal 1992, subscriptions to the $74.8 billion general capital increase (GO), approved in April 1988, continued smoothly: Twenty-two countries subscribed an aggregate $8.1 billion. A total of 423,916 GCI shares ($51 billion, or 65 percent of total allocations, including additional GCI shares allocated to new members that joined the IBRD after April 1988) have now been subscribed by fifty-seven members; 231,360 shares ($27.9 billion) remain to be subscribed. At the end of fiscal 1992, the permissible increase of net disbursements, that is, "headroom," was $67.6 billion, or 40 percent of the IBRD's lending limit.
In April 1992, the board of governors approved the increase in authorized capital of 77,159 shares ($9.3 billion) to accommodate the membership of the fifteen republics of the former Soviet Union.
Reserves. On June 30, 1992, reserves amounted to $11.2 billion, and the reserves-to-loan ratio stood at 11.5 percent (excluding prefunding of interest waivers).
IDA Finances
Fiscal 1992 was the second year of the ninth replenishment of IDA (IDA-9). During the year, 110 IDA credits were approved in the amount of SDR4.8 billion. In December 1991, the executive board approved the recommitment of SDR477 million of cancellations of IDA credits to India. SDR184 million was recommitted in fiscal 1992; the balance is scheduled to be recommitted in fiscal 1993.
In September 1991, the executive directors discussed a report on IDA's policies, operations, and finances during the first year of IDA-9. The report described progress made in the key priority areas of poverty reduction,
macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment and good economic performance, and protection of the environment. Processes were instituted and programs and projects oriented to reflect better these priorities in IDA country strategies. The allocations at the sectoral, country, and regional levels also reflected the deputies' advice. The directors expressed satisfaction that progress was being made toward achieving the key objectives set for IDA-9.
IDA's commitment authority. IDA's commitment authority for fiscal 1992 amounted to SDR4.76 billion and was derived mainly from the receipt of the formal notifications to contribute and the release of the second tranche of donors' contributions to IDA-9. During the course of the year, the association received formal notifications to participate in IDA-9 from Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Italy, the Netherlands, and the Russian Federation, as well as an additional contribution of $25 million from Kuwait. These notifications and Kuwait's additional contribution increased IDA's commitment authority during the year by SDR397 million. Commitment authority also increased by SDR3.31 billion when the association received a substantial portion of the United States' second installment to IDA-9. With this installment, contributions from other donors, who have submitted their notifications to participate in IDA-9, were released on a pro-rata basis with the United States' payment.
Other sources of commitment authority for fiscal 1992 included the transfer from the IBRD's fiscal 1991 income of SDR260 million, as well as funds available from future reflows amounting to SDR795 million. Funds available from future reflows include: (a) advance commitments of SDR650 million for general IDA credits, (b) "annual allocations" of SDR118 million to finance supplemental adjustment credits to IDA-only countries with outstanding IBRD debt, and (c) a special allocation of SDR75 million to support IDA-only countries undertaking debt-reduction operations. Of the special allocation, SDR27 million was used to finance an economic-recovery project in Nicaragua; the balance will be carried forward in fiscal 1993.
IDA's commitment fee. IDA's commitment fee was set at 0 percent from fiscal 1989 through fiscal 1992. IDA's basic financial policy is to cover administrative expenses through income from credits. The latest financial projections for the fiscal 1993-to-fiscal 1995 period indicate that income from service charges will fall short of administrative expenses at an annual average amount of $29 million. IDA's financial position, however, continues to be strong, as its cumulative surplus increased
from $543 million at the end of fiscal 1991 to $1,259 million at the end of fiscal 1992. In view of the overall financial surplus of IDA, it was agreed that the commitment fee for fiscal 1993 be continued at 0 percent
Negotiations on a tenth replenishment. Negotiations on a tenth replenishment of IDA's resources (IDA-10) were launched with a meeting of IDA deputies in January 1992 in Paris and a subsequent meeting in April 1992 in Washington. Deputies from thirty-four countries took part in these meetings. Among the major issues covered during the two meetings were: IDA's role in supporting economic growth and poverty reduction during the past decade, an examination of IDA's allocation criteria, IDA's role in development aid, and measures to supplement IDA's donor resources. At the April 1992 meeting of the Development Committee, ministers, while recognizing the budgetary constraints of many donors, nonetheless recognized the need for IDA deputies to reach agreement by the end of 1992 on a tenth replenishment, preferably at a level substantially above that of IDA-9.
Additional meetings were scheduled to be held in July 1992 in Dublin and in September 1992 in Washington to discuss issues of size and burden sharing. Resources contributed under IDA-10 will provide the association with funds to cover credit commitments in the period fiscal 1994 through fiscal 1996. At those meetings, deputies will also consider a proposal, made by the Bank's president, Lewis T. Preston, to delegates attending the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, to establish an "Earth increment," entailing incremental resources to be used during the IDA-10 period to help the poorest countries meet their environmental objectives. If donors are prepared to support this initiative, Bank management would propose to the executive board that an annual allocation from the IBRD's net income be made available as the Bank's contribution to the "Earth increment" to help address national environmental issues.
Cofinancing
Since the creation of the Vice Presidency for Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services (CFS) in 1989, the Bank's role as a catalyst for promoting the flow of additional financial resources to developing countries has continued to grow. The CFS helps mobilize financial resources by providing general coordination of official and private-sector cofinancing of Bank projects. In early 1992, CFS put in place a new organizational structure to streamline the process of resource mobilization and to focus its
technical skills on the highest priority activities in the Bank's borrowing countries.
The volume of cofinancing anticipated in support of World Bank-assisted operations approved in fiscal 1992 was $13,266 million. Roughly 52 percent of all Bank-assisted projects and programs attracted some form of cofinancing (see Table 4-3). By region, 37 percent of the cofinancing volume was for operations in Africa, 25 percent in East Asia and Pacific, 22 percent in Latin America and the Caribbean, 9 percent in Middle East and North Africa, 5 percent in South Asia, and 2 percent in Europe and Central Asia. In terms of number of cofinanced operations, the distribution by region indicates that 42 percent was in Africa, 19 percent in Latin America and the Caribbean, 14 percent in East Asia and Pacific, 10 percent in South Asia, 9 percent in Middle East and North Africa, and 6 percent in Europe and Central Asia.
The sectors receiving the most cofinancing support were power, water supply, and non-sector specific. Sectors showing a large gain in cofinancing support, when compared with fiscal 1991, were power, water supply, and industrial development/finance. Investment loans received the biggest share of cofinancing support, followed by sector-adjustment and structural-adjustment loans.
The largest source of cofinancing in fiscal 1992 continued to be official bilateral and multilateral development institutions, which, together, accounted for $8,872 million, or 67 percent of total cofinancing. Official cofinancing from Japan, mainly through the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund and the Export-Import Bank of Japan, continued to account for the largest percentage of support of Bank-assisted operations. This cofinancing aggregated $1,379 million equivalent for thirty-one projects approved in fiscal 1992, or 37 percent of total bilateral cofinancing. A sizable cofinancing contribution also came from the United States ($675 million) and Germany ($379 million). South Africa moved to fourth position, as a result of its support to the Highlands Water Project in Lesotho ($241 million). Large amounts of bilateral cofinancing also came from France ($209 million) and the United Kingdom ($190 million). Cofinancing with multilateral institutions totaled $5,157 million. Cofinancing with the Inter-American Development Bank ($1,958 million) continued to be the largest in this category, accounting for 38 percent of the total. Other increased cofinancing support came from the African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.
There was also a notable increase in the volume of export-credit cofinancing planned for projects approved during the year—from $1,205 million in fiscal 1991 to $3,337 million in fiscal 1992. The main reason for the increase was an expansion of Bank lending for sectors that attract a substantial proportion of export credit (power and water supply and sewerage, for example). The volume of private cofinancing also increased, to $1,057 million.
The export-credit enhanced leverage (EXCEL) program completed its first year of operation. The program is intended to secure export credit to private-sector borrowers for investments evaluated and supported by a Bank-assisted financial intermediary. The first EXCEL facility, totaling $75 million, was final-
ized for the Philippines. Export-credit agencies from Germany, Japan, Korea, Switzerland, and the United States will participate in this facility. The Philippines' EXCEL facility complemented a $175 million IBRD loan for an Industrial Restructuring Project.
The focus of CFS's project-financing activities is to provide assistance on large infrastructure projects undertaken by the Bank. In structuring cofinancing for these projects, emphasis is placed on combining private-sector capital and finance with support from governments and the Bank. One vehicle for project financing is the Expanded Cofinancing Operations (ECO) program, which, by providing partial World Bank guarantees, is intended to support eligible Bank borrowers seeking to gain or
improve access to syndicated commercial-bank loans or international capital markets. In May 1992, the program was reviewed by the executive directors, who approved its continuation on the basis of the existing guidelines, except for two modifications:
• ECOs on a stand-alone basis may be appropriate, especially in private-sector projects. Such operations will be proposed after normal Bank appraisal of the project has been carried out and other Bank procedures have been fully satisfied.
• While the maximum cover for ECO guarantees on lending to the public sector by commercial banks would continue as before at 50 percent on a present-value basis, ECOs could cover on loans to private-sector projects up to
100 percent of sovereign risks, provided that there had been an appropriate division of risks between the public and private sectors. In any event, the Bank's cover should be the minimum necessary to mobilize the necessary financing for a productive purpose.
The Bank intends to catalyze private cofinancing in a broader range of developmental projects in more member countries through increased flexibility and a renewed commitment to consider ECO program applications more systematically in the process of formulating individual country strategies.
Two examples of project-financing operations that were processed in fiscal 1992 were the Hub Power Project in Pakistan and the Energy Sector Deregulation and Privatization
Project in Jamaica. The first of these operations involves the design, construction, and operation of a thermal power station by the private sector. A proposed ECO, along with the Export-Import Bank of Japan, will provide a guarantee of $360 million to an international syndicate of commercial banks against specific sovereign risks. Significant export-credit financing is also being mobilized. The Jamaican project will provide urgently needed power-generation capacity. A $90 million private-energy fund, to be financed by the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, with possible cofinancing from Japan and other sources, was created to attract investment in the sector.
Advice on external-debt management was also provided by the CFS vice presidency to a wide range of member countries. Bank assistance helps countries organize and analyze debt data in preparation for debt-restructuring negotiations and strengthens institutions with responsibility for debt management. During 1992, a debt and debt-service reduction (DDSR) agreement was reached between Nigeria and its respective bank committee; agreements in principle were also reached between the Philippines (phase two) and Argentina and their commercial creditors.
A two-year extension of the Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries was approved by the executive board in March 1992. The facility was established to ease the commercial-debt burden of IDA-only countries. Two buyback operations, for Niger and Mozambique, were completed under the auspices of facility in fiscal 1992.
Private-sector development and privatization activities connected with cofinancing strategies and programs are being carried out by the Bank's operational staff. In fiscal 1992, CSF provided technical assistance for privatization/divestiture programs, as well as structural-adjustment, sectoral-adjustment, public-sector reform, and privatization operations in Argentina, Bangladesh, Colombia, Cote dTvoire, Egypt, Ghana, Hungary, Indonesia, Kenya, Jamaica, Peru, Poland, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, and Uruguay.
Other major cofinancing activities carried out in fiscal 1992 included those under the Special Program of Assistance (SPA) for debt-distressed, low-income countries in sub-Saharan Africa, now in its second phase, covering the period 1991-93. Under the second phase of the program, some seventeen bilateral and multilateral donors have pledged $7.3 billion in quick-disbursing assistance in support of adjustment programs in twenty-six low-income,  debt-distressed  countries  in sub-
Saharan Africa. As of December 31, 1991, SPA donors had allocated some $4.5 billion, or over 60 percent of $7.3 billion pledged for cofinancing and coordinated financing. Donors to the SPA are projected to disburse approximately 80 percent, or $5.8 billion, of the amount pledged to help meet the balance-of-payments requirements of the SPA-eligible countries in 1991-93.
In addition to mobilizing resources, a key objective of the SPA is to improve the quality of adjustment assistance. At the April 1992 biannual meeting of SPA donors, a set of guidelines was approved that calls for recipient countries and donors to eliminate their administrative controls and to place greater reliance on market mechanisms and commercial-procurement and commercial-payment practices in implementing import-support programs financed with SPA resources.
In addition to cofinancing, the donor community provided substantial support for the Bank during the year through trust funds and other arrangements that, directly or indirectly, benefit recipient countries. To date, consultant trust funds have been established with twenty-five donors. Under the consultant trust-fund program, $29 million in grant funds have been allocated in support of the Bank's operational work. This includes funding under special arrangements established in support of environment-related activities, women-in-develop-ment, and the Bank's work in Central and Eastern Europe. Furthermore, discussions are under way with several donors to initiate funding arrangements for Bank-executed technical-assistance activities.
On July 30, 1990, with resources provided by Japan, a special fund for policy and human-resource development (the PHRD Fund) was established within the Bank. This fund serves as the umbrella organization for five previously existing funds that the Bank had administered on behalf of Japan. In fiscal year 1992, Bank commitments under the PHRD Fund totaled $105.8 million. The government of Japan has appropriated $127.5 million for PHRD-related activities during the Bank's 1993 fiscal year. The increase of more than 20 percent in the budget allocation to the fund reflects the government of Japan's continued awareness of the importance of preparing project-feasibility studies, promoting private-sector development and privatization, ensuring global environmental safeguards, and furthering the role of women in development.
Disbursements, by Source of Supply
Projects financed by the World Bank require procurement from foreign and local sources to
achieve project goals. Disbursements are made primarily to cover specific costs for foreign procurement and some local expenditures.
The procurement rules and procedures to be followed in the execution of each project depend on individual circumstances. Three con-
siderations generally guide the Bank's requirements: the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the project; the Bank's interest, as a cooperative institution, in giving all eligible bidders from developing countries and developed countries an opportunity to com-
pete in providing goods and works financed by the Bank; and the Bank's interest, as a development institution, in encouraging the development of local contractors and manufacturers in borrowing countries.
In most cases, international competitive bidding is the most effective method of procurement. The Bank prescribes conditions under which preferences may be given to domestic or regional manufacturers and, where appropriate, to domestic contractors. Through the end of fiscal 1992, 58 percent of IBRD and IDA disbursements covered goods and services provided directly by foreign suppliers located outside the borrowing country. While most foreign procurement comes from suppliers in developed member countries, suppliers from developing countries have increasingly been effective in winning contract awards. Through the end of fiscal 1987, 12 percent of foreign procurement was awarded to developing-coun-try suppliers. During fiscal 1992, developing-country suppliers' share was 26 percent of total foreign disbursements.
Table 4-4 shows consolidated foreign and local disbursements for the IBRD and IDA, through the end of fiscal 1987 and for each of the next five fiscal years to the end of fiscal 1992. Advance disbursements consist of payments made into special accounts of borrowers, from which funds are paid to specific suppliers as expenditures are incurred. Because balances in these accounts cannot be attributed to any specific supplying country until expenditures have been reported to the Bank, these are shown as a separate category in the table.
Table 4-5 provides details of foreign disbursements by countries that are members of
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and those that are not for the IBRD and IDA separately.
Table 4-6 shows disbursements made in fiscal 1992 by the IBRD and IDA for local and foreign procurement from all active borrowing countries and disbursements made for goods, works, and services procured from them by other Bank borrowers for projects funded by the Bank.
Table 4-7 shows the amounts disbursed from the IBRD and IDA separately for foreign procurement of goods and services from member countries in fiscal 1992 and cumulatively through fiscal 1992.
Table 4-8 shows the proportion of foreign disbursements from the IBRD and IDA for specific categories of goods and services provided by member countries in fiscal 1992.
Table 4-9 provides a summary listing of the amounts paid to OECD and non-OECD country suppliers in each fiscal year from 1990 to 1992. Amounts disbursed towards adjustment and investment projects are compared with respect to significant categories of goods procured from foreign suppliers. The extent to which OECD and non-OECD countries participated in supplying these major categories of goods in each of the past three fiscal years is also compared.
In all these tables, IBRD figures exclude disbursements on loans to the IFC and "B" loans. IDA figures include Special Fund and Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa credits. Disbursements of Project Preparation Facility advances are excluded for the IBRD and IDA.
Section Five
World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA and ICSID
Operations Evaluation
Operations evaluation in the World Bank provides a systematic, comprehensive, and independent assessment of Bank operations and activities. Its principal goals are to account for the outcome of Bank-supported projects and programs and to use the lessons from that experience to improve the design and conduct of future operations.
The director general, operations evaluation (DGO), has overall responsibility for evaluation. He reports directly to the Bank's executive board, with an administrative link to the president, and is supported by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The constitutional independence and high institutional ranking of the OED encourage evaluation staff to report candidly and allow them to have access to all relevant information, as well as to select any topic for analysis.
The Joint Audit Committee (JAC) of the executive board oversees the work of the OED. In fiscal 1992, as in the past, the findings and recommendations of the JAC were reviewed by the full board, as were the fiscal 1991 annual report of the DGO and the department's annual review of evaluation results for 1990.
The Bank's evaluation work program includes completion reports by operations staff; selective performance audit reports and impact evaluation reports on individual operations by the OED; and evaluation studies by the OED, including country and sector-lending studies and reviews of Bank policies and processes. The OED also works to bring borrowers more closely into the evaluation process and to help them strengthen their evaluation capacity.
Completion reports. Completion reports are prepared by the Bank's operational staff on all lending operations at the time the Bank completes its disbursements. The OED reviews all completion reports to ensure their quality and facilitate the transfer of experience to new operations, and then forwards these reports to the board.
Audits. The OED audits all adjustment operations and at least 40 percent of the Bank's investment operations. The operational staff
delivered 276 completion reports in fiscal 1992; the OED reviewed and sent to the executive board 303 completion reports (including some received in fiscal 1991), and audited 135 operations, of which 107 were investment projects and 28 were adjustment operations. The cumulative total of Bank operations subjected to ex post evaluation reached 3,056 at the end of the fiscal year.
The OED structures its audit work program (with regard to choice of projects, topics to be analyzed, and analytical approaches to be used) so as to provide inputs for comparative studies. It continues to audit operations in clusters—for example, on a series of rural-development projects within one country, or on comparable energy-development projects across countries. Clustering allows more broadly based conclusions to be drawn, with wider applicability for future operations.
Studies. To carry out its mandate, the OED must evaluate the Bank's policies and their appropriateness, procedures and their integrity, processes and their adherence to established rules, and effectiveness in promoting lasting development in the Bank's borrower countries.
In designing its studies program, the OED focuses on those topics for which its independence, institutional memory, or time perspective give it a comparative advantage. Its most basic criterion is that of relevance to the concerns of the Bank's board, management, and staff.
In fiscal 1992, the OED sent twelve studies to the board. Topics were the environmental effect of Bank-supported projects in Brazil; natural-resource issues in Nepal; experience with macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment, including a review of public-enterprise reforms under Bank-supported adjustment operations; lending for urban water supply and sanitation; lending for natural-gas development; development in Pacific island economies; agricultural higher education; maintenance of rural roads; the management of rural development in Northeast Brazil; the Bank's supervision of its loans in progress; support of industrialization in newly industrializing countries; and Bank lending for population programs.
Subjects of ongoing studies included the environmental, economic, and social effect of resettlement resulting from Bank energy and agriculture projects, and the Bank's contributions to development in Mexico. Other topics of special concern, particularly poverty reduction, women in development, and issues in privatization, continued to be addressed in various studies across sectors and regions.
Studies published in fiscal 1992 were: Forestry: The World Bank's Experience (October
1991) ; World Bank Support for Industrialization in India, Indonesia, and Korea (March
1992) ; Population and the World Bank (May 1992); Evaluation Results for 1990 (May 1992); and World Bank Support for Trade Reform (June 1992).
Dissemination of findings. The Bank's operational guidelines require staff to seek out evaluation findings and apply them in new operations. In fiscal 1992, the OED continued to help operational staff to develop better procedures and information bases for this purpose and made its searchable textbase, containing summaries of evaluation reports, available desk-to-desk to all staff. Management responses continued to be prepared on major evaluation reports.
The OED presented the results of its audits and studies at seminars within and outside the Bank, including some organized by borrower countries. It organized a three-day seminar in Washington (December 1991), bringing together members of the OECD/DAC Expert Group on Aid Evaluation with evaluators from developing countries to discuss its recent evaluation findings and their implications for action.
The OED expanded its Precis series, summarizing the findings of major audits and studies, and began to make copies available outside the Bank on request. It began issuing a French edition of the series late in the fiscal year.
The Evaluation Capability Development Program. Helping member countries to establish evaluation systems of their own is part of the Bank's evaluation mandate. Through the Evaluation Capability Development Program (ECDP), now in its sixth year, the OED assists those developing member countries that are committed to strengthening their evaluation capacity. Activities are arranged in response to the interests of individual countries, as part of a general concern to strengthen public-sector management. During fiscal 1992, the program attended to initiatives under way in Bangladesh, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan, Thailand, and Zimbabwe. It also provided assistance to regional development banks. The Bank's re-
gional departments and resident offices provided support. Activities included: organizing seminars and training workshops for borrowers on methodology and evaluation experience; fostering borrowers' monitoring and evaluation systems; and joint work with borrowers on impact evaluations and evaluation studies.
Other activities. Evaluation staff also contributed to a joint review, with the Bank's management, of methods for the economic analysis of projects; recommendations were issued to help provide reliable and comparable statements of expectations and judgments of performance at different points in the project cycle.
The OED participated as an observer in meetings of the DAC Expert Group. Evaluation staff attended workshops and seminars with evaluators from other international organizations and donor countries to compare work programs and discuss possibilities for cooperation. They continued to participate as "resource persons" in EDI seminars.
Internal Auditing
The Internal Auditing Department (IAD) acts as an independent appraiser that reviews and evaluates Bank operations and activities. It is headed by an auditor general, who reports functionally to the president of the Bank and, since December 1991, administratively to the vice president and controller.
In response to requests from Bank management during the year, the IAD conducted a number of special reviews of Bank activities, including reimbursable technical assistance, the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program, the Africa Capacity Building Foundation, and individual field offices. These reviews were in addition to the regular work program, which, while covering all aspects of the Bank's administration, continued to emphasize the Bank's operations and focused on traditional topics such as procurement of goods and services and consultants, the disbursement process, and evaluation of procedures used to ensure proper accountability of borrowers during project implementation. A review of the Global Environment Facility was also carried out. The department's work program was closely coordinated with reviews undertaken by the Bank's external auditors to avoid a duplication of effort and maximize the audit coverage.
Reviews of Bank facilities were also undertaken, including the main complex rehabilitation project and the procedures for managing the provision of office accommodation and services.
The Bank relies on information technology (IT) to support its business functions. In recognition of this reliance, the department conducted a series of technical audits addressing management, security, and control issues pertaining to the three principal computing environments within the Bank. The IAD also undertook computer-application reviews and system-development audits, focusing on the efficiency, effectiveness, and control of critical applications.
Economic Development Institute
Fiscal 1992 was the third year of the Economic Development Institute's (EDI's) five-year (1990-94) strategic plan. In terms of both sectoral and regional distribution of activities and emphasis on policy, EDI met the plan's target for the year.
The institute also dealt with several new demands on its services. Foremost among them was the vast need for training in the former Soviet Union. In addition, (a) a number of other countries either joined the Bank during the year or sought to reactivate their borrowing activities; (b) a demand for EDI to provide training in project analysis reemerged; (c) EDI successfully introduced training programs in areas such as women in development, the role of nongovernmental organizations, poverty reduction, the environment, and civil-service reform; and (d) the growing number of countries engaged in structural reforms increased the demand for training of government officials involved in formulating and managing these programs.
Training activities. During the year, EDI organized 117 courses and seminars, serving nearly 3,000 participants (excluding the roughly 4,500 indirectly served participants
who received EDI-assisted training from partner institutions). All but seven of the activities were held outside Washington; ninety-seven were held in developing countries, usually in collaboration with a local partner institution.
Table 5-1 shows the regional distribution of EDI's training by sector and number of participants. In accordance with its strategic objectives, about one third of EDI's training programs during the year were targeted toward sub-Saharan Africa. This number understates the share of EDI resources devoted to the region, as a large concentration of EDI's institution-strengthening efforts were also targeted to sub-Saharan Africa. In Asia, EDI's China program declined as a consequence of reduced United Nations Development Programme funding. For Asia as a whole, however, there were compensatory increases in activities, notably in Viet Nam and in the Pacific island countries. The number of activities carried out in and for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe rose sharply in response to the demand accompanying their transition from command to market economies. In addition, EDI implemented eight activities in the former Soviet Union that were financed by the Bank's Technical Cooperation Agreement. Endeavors to build a larger, more sustained training program for the countries in the Middle East and in Latin America, however, continued to suffer from the relative lack of support on the part of most cofinancing partners.
During the year EDI continued to meet its substantive objectives. The shift in the strategic direction of the program to policy-related training continued, particularly in the core areas of macroeconomic management and greater public-sector efficiency. Such training accounted for more than 70 percent of all
directly delivered activities during the year, compared with an average of 58 percent during the five-year period, fiscal 1985-89. In the area of macroeconomic management, EDI's initial focus on structural adjustment, foreign debt, and trade widened to include sectoral-adjustment and policy issues such as the role of public-sector institutions, private provision of public services, the enabling environment for private initiative, and the targeting of services to the poor.
The content of EDI's training program also broadened to reflect the recent trend in development economics toward a cross-sectoral perspective on the development process. EDI is systematically integrating four cross-sectoral themes into its activities: poverty reduction, the role of women in development, environmental sustainability, and the facilitation of private-sector initiative. These themes were addressed in freestanding activities, as well as in modules incorporated into activities on other topics.
Institution building. Another EDI objective is that of strengthening local training institutions. One aspect of this focus is an increased emphasis on promoting the growth of national and subregional networks of training institutions. Such networks have important multiplier effects and benefit from economies of scale. Thirteen such networks are now in operation, with others under development, notably in Central and Eastern Europe.
During fiscal 1992, EDI initiated a systematic evaluation of its institution-building efforts that focuses on targeting, selectivity, longer-term sustainability of assistance, and building an adequate internal information system in partner institutions. As a result, EDI is placing substantially more emphasis on the restructuring of institutions, that is, strengthening internal management and improving the policy framework, while continuing its faculty-development efforts.
EDI is also investigating ways to improve the links between its institution-building activities and project-related training carried out under Bank-assisted projects. To this end, EDI initiated a review that examined all projects approved by the executive board in fiscal 1985 and fiscal 1991 in the agriculture and infrastructure sectors in Africa and Asia. The review investigated the nature and degree of involvement of local training institutions in project-related training, the possibilities for enhancing this involvement, and the possibility of increasing EDI's role in the design of project-related training and implementation.
In a decision based on the report's findings, EDI is providing support to the Bank's Africa
and Asia regions on an experimental basis to help the regions (a) design more effective project-related training components and (b) work with EDI partner institutions to help them deliver training for these components.
Training materials. Building on the success of its publishing efforts, EDI has made a number of modifications in its approach to the publication and dissemination of training materials: First, EDI is producing a greater number of shorter, more easily digestible materials in response to requests from participants; second, EDI is paying more attention to cost-effectiveness by designing training materials with a view to their repeated use, both over time and across seminars in different regions, with appropriate modifications. During the year, EDI published sixteen formal ("EDI series") and forty informal (working papers and collections) titles. A new series, EDI Development Studies, was introduced, and three titles were published.
Scholarship programs. EDI continued its management of two scholarship programs: the World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program (WBGSP), now in its fifth year and funded by the government of Japan, and the McNamara Fellowships Program.
In an extension of the WBGSP, following a process of competitive bidding, EDI invited Columbia University to design a new one-year master's degree program in economic management. The program is aimed at staff of ministries of finance and planning, as well as of central banks, in developing countries. After completing their studies at Columbia, the students will serve a six-month internship at the Bank or at another international institution, such as the International Monetary Fund or the Asian Development Bank. The first class of twenty-five students began their studies in June 1992.
Cofinancing. The EDI has consistently been encouraged to expand its efforts to mobilize support from cofinancing partners. Indeed, cofinancing has permitted most of the expansion in EDI activities since fiscal 1984; it has been particularly important in the financing of newer areas of work. During the year, the sources of cofinancing, which totaled about $11.5 million, continued to diversify. In fiscal 1984, multilateral agencies accounted for more than 80 percent of the funding raised. By fiscal 1992, their contribution, while expanding in absolute terms, dropped to just over 25 percent of the total.
While cofinancing has a number of advantages (it helps to finance, as well as broaden the range of, EDI programs), dependence on external financing has raised a number of con-
cerns: Uncertainties about the availability of cofinancing lead to difficulties in fixing a firm training program; cofinancing partners' preferences can lead to the relative neglect of certain regions or subregions; the managerial and administrative cost to EDI can be significant, especially with regard to smaller contributions; and despite generous increases in fiscal 1992, EDI expects that few cofinancers will be able to increase their funding in the near future, and some may even have to reduce their participation. In this regard, concern was expressed by a number of the Bank's executive directors that excessive reliance on external financing of EDI's activities could lead to an erosion of the integrity of the institute's core program, especially in those regions where funding from donor agencies could be interrupted because of budgetary constraints.
During the past two years, EDI has initiated multiyear agreements with donors to support some of the institute's more important programs. In an attempt to expand the advantages of these multiyear agreements, EDI convened a first consultative group meeting in Paris in February 1992. The meeting's objectives were to (a) permit donors to make a thorough review of EDI's training program; (b) coordinate the institute's activities more closely with the activities of other donors; (c) increase awareness of EDI's program in the international development community; (d) obtain better regional coverage by directing donors' attention to relatively neglected areas; (e) involve other multilateral agencies more systematically in the attainment of EDI's goals; and (f) raise additional resources.
Except for the failure to mobilize additional resources and funding for programs in the Middle East and in Latin America and the Caribbean and to overcome donors' reluctance to pool their contributions into a single EDI fund, the meeting's objectives were largely achieved.
Research at the World Bank
The World Bank carries out research to support its operational work and to respond to the most critical development issues facing its members. The objectives of its research program are to generate knowledge on the economic, technical, program, and implementation issues that are embodied in its lending, diagnostic, training, and technical-assistance activities; to increase knowledge about development; and to enhance the policy dialogue with, and the research capabilities of, its member countries.
To respond to this broad mandate, the research program investigates a diverse range of
issues, globally, regionally, and nationally. Research is undertaken throughout the Bank but is most concentrated in the Development Economics and the Sector and Operations Policy vice presidencies, which manage 90 percent of the Bank's research. During fiscal year 1992, the Bank devoted $24 million, including about 150 staff years, to research.
Research projects are developed and reviewed by departments, centrally, and with external donors. Departmental research is designed into departmental work programs and supported by departmental funds (54 percent of the total). Centrally funded research projects (41 percent of the total) must pass peer review by Bank staff and external experts and consideration by the World Bank Research Committee. Funds for the remaining projects are provided by outside agencies and must be approved by department directors and external-funding coordinators.
Research priorities are derived from the program objectives determined by the Bank's senior management. During fiscal 1992, the areas of emphasis were poverty reduction; human-resource development; the environment, forestry, and natural resources; macroeconomic issues and management (adjustment, debt, trade, finance, reform of the public sector, and private-sector development); and infrastructure and urban development.
Poverty reduction. In response to the instability in the global economy and the need for structural adjustment during the 1980s, public goods, services, and employment were cut in many developing countries, and people most vulnerable to such reductions suffered. Much of the Bank's research effort is devoted to investigating how to protect the poorest and most vulnerable groups during periods of economic stagnation and instability.
A research project on adjustment, income distribution, and poverty is considering alternative adjustment programs for six countries relative to those actually adopted. The sustainability and equity of the adjustment programs depend on the interaction among specific elements of the programs and of the domestic political and economic environment. These interactions are particularly pressing in the formerly socialist countries during their transition to a market economy and were addressed in another study on poverty and income distribution in Eastern Europe. To improve the design of poverty programs, an exploratory conference examined cost-effective means of targeting public expenditures to the poor, incentive effects, and political constraints on programs intended solely or primarily to benefit the poor.
Most poor people in developing countries live in rural areas; work on research devoted to estimating the tradeoffs among agricultural efficiency, poverty alleviation, and the environment was undertaken in fiscal 1992. Meanwhile, research on urban poverty is investigating the effects of deteriorating urban infrastructure and changes in social-sector programs on the poor; it identifies constraints on the productivity of the urban poor in the informal sector and proposes ways to relieve those constraints.
Human-resource development. Labor income is the primary determinant of the economic status of the poor, and research on education, employment, and health seeks to improve that status. One research project is exploring the relative efficacy of private and public education systems, the mobilization and use of educational resources, and the diversification of educational channels with a view to increasing private spending on education and training to augment public resources. Another project is evaluating ways to improve the competitive operation of labor markets so that movements in wages and employment can guide public and private investment in education and training expenditures.
The use of public and private funds is a central issue in public-health policy, which will be investigated in a broad review, begun in fiscal 1992, of the economics of the health sector. Studies are also examining methods for setting priorities in public health, the effects of adjustment on public-health expenditures, the economic effects of adult deaths (including from AIDS) in sub-Saharan Africa, and determinants of nutrition and health. The determinants of fertility, and consistency between fertility intentions and family-planning services, were also studied. Research on the intra-household effects of poverty-reduction policies and on productive services directed to women found large efficiency losses from failure to account for gender in policy formulation.
The environment. World Development Report 1992 focuses on the links between economic development and the environment. It explores policies that have negative economic and environmental results and provides evidence on the positive economic and environmental returns to land titling for poor farmers, to improved water and sanitation systems, and to research and extension services. It also analyzes those areas in which there are tradeoffs between growth and environmental preservation and demonstrates the need for careful and objective assessments of the relative costs and benefits of such policies.
In addition to the broad range of environmental research being conducted throughout
the Bank, research carried out in the Environment Department is focusing on adjustment and the environment, integrated land management, global environmental issues, and protection of biodiversity. One research project is investigating how integrated land-resource management, reflecting the need for biological conservation, can balance competing demands from population growth, agricultural use, and timber use. Other biodiversity-related research focuses on the financing and management of biodiversity efforts, the potential for buffer zones in conservation and development projects, and rainforest conservation in Africa.
Natural resources. Environmental conservation and ways to alleviate pollution were the subject of several energy and agriculture-sector studies that were undertaken during the year. Research on energy-efficiency improvements, fuel substitution, and atmospheric pollution was carried out, and studies are under way on oil-price instability and environmental degradation. Research on oil refineries is examining the supply implications of development and the adoption of sustainable technologies. Policies being examined in the electric-power subsector include those related to regulation, rural energy, and coal use. Agricultural research included a study of water and soil quality, which focused on ways to control waterlogging and salinization. Environmental issues were also addressed in a policy brief on water-resource management and development; work on the links between different water-use activities and the environment is ongoing. An assessment of behavioral and technological constraints to the generation and adoption of agricultural technologies is also being undertaken, as is related work on agricultural biotechnology. Research, based on analysis of the links between farm and nonfarm (but rural) sectors, on ways to increase the effect of agricultural and rural investment on growth was also initiated. Institutional issues play a significant role in the growth and development of agriculture, and studies on agricultural reform in countries that once had centrally planned economies address issues such as the privatization of property, development of rural financial institutions, agricultural-price reforms, and provision of safety nets for vulnerable groups.
Macroeconomic issues and management. The Bank's experience with adjustment programs, debt-reduction strategies, and trade-liberalization policies is being reviewed and adapted for use in countries in transition from centrally planned economies. Research is exploring the microeconomics and macroeconomics of enterprise reform in Central and Eastern Europe; the microeconomic aspects of
ownership reform and foreign trade in Eastern Europe; industrial reform and productivity in China; legal reform in Central and Eastern Europe; labor-market adjustment in Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia; and reform in African countries that once were socialist.
While many countries are reducing the role of the state in their economies, the experience of several East Asian countries has demonstrated that governments can play a supportive role in economic growth and development. A major research program on this experience, begun in fiscal 1992, will review the growth process, describe the strategic approaches used by the governments, evaluate the extent to which the rates and patterns of growth are attributable to public policy, and assess the implications for replication in other developing countries. The study will evaluate three areas in which market failures may require government intervention: in generating desired levels of savings, in sharing risk, and in using and investing in information.
Another research project, undertaken in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, is reviewing how the most severely indebted countries have been affected by the implementation of the debt strategy (the Brady initiative). Domestic financial issues are being addressed in studies of the effects of financial reforms and in a book on international experience in the restructuring of financial institutions. The role of foreign direct investment in technology transfer and the related issue of protection of intellectual property rights are also being analyzed.
Further research was undertaken on the lessons of experience with alternative trade strategies. Regional trade arrangements have emerged as potential alternatives to international agreements, and research studies are focusing on the North American Free Trade Agreement, specifically, as well as assessing, more generally, the prospects and problems of regional strategies. The effects of trade restrictions adopted in reaction to environmental issues have been analyzed; evidence from the study shows clearly that such action produces high economic costs and relatively limited environmental benefits.
Infrastructure and urban development. Regulatory reforms have been widely adopted in order to increase efficiency and industrial productivity. Research during fiscal 1992 analyzed industrial regulatory reform and infrastructure bottlenecks and their effects on industrial productivity. Land-use regulation and residential development are also being reviewed, and a survey and analysis of housing indicators for development policy were initiated.
The wide range of issues addressed in the research program of the Bank is reflected in the agenda of the Annual Conference on Development Economics. The series seeks to encourage fresh thinking and research on critical gaps in the understanding of the development process and to identify new areas that merit attention. This year's conference focused on four themes—theories of growth and development, labor markets and development, technology, and international capital flows. In addition to the eleven papers presented, public responsibility for health care was the subject of a roundtable discussion. The full set of papers, with comments by the discussants, the keynote speech, and a summary of the roundtable discussion on public health, will be published soon in the Proceedings of the World Bank Annual Conference on Development Economics, 1992.
Technical Assistance
In fiscal 1992, the Bank's technical-assistance operations were reviewed and analyzed with a view to drawing lessons so as to make future work more effective. The review was prompted by two recent developments—the significant increase in the volume of technical assistance involving the Bank as financer, provider, and administrator and the increasingly active role that the Bank has played—in response to economic-reform programs in borrowing countries—in providing technical assistance in areas such as policy reform, institutional development, and capacity building.
In responding to these developments, the president of the Bank appointed a task force to take stock of the Bank's changing technical-assistance role and suggest ways to improve its developmental impact. In particular, the task force was asked to consider: (a) how best to organize and fund the Bank's technical-assistance activities and (b) how best to coordinate the Bank's technical-assistance efforts with those of other agencies and donors.
The task force recommended that the Bank's management of technical-assistance activities be improved, that aid coordination of technical assistance (particularly with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)) be strengthened, and that a technical-assistance grant facility—the Institutional Development Fund (IDF)—be created.
An institutional action plan, based on the report's recommendations, has been designed to address these three concerns. It provides measures to (a) inject systematic consideration of technical-assistance requirements into country strategies; (b) strengthen institutional-development expertise in Bank skills; and (c) give
increased attention to the rigorous management of technical assistance.
A technical-assistance handbook is being prepared. Along with training programs, it will help ensure beneficiary involvement in the design of technical assistance and will improve the effectiveness of technical-assistance implementation and monitoring. The research program is also being adjusted to deal with issues such as capacity building and institutional development.
To help improve aid coordination, the Bank and the UNDP agreed that the principles of cooperation between the two organizations would be revisited under the aegis of the UNDP/Bank High Level Task Force; that cooperation would be strengthened in the area of aid coordination for technical assistance; and that the Bank would join forces with the UNDP in building local capacity for technical-assistance management, using the UNDP-sponsored National Technical Cooperation Assessment and Programmes approach, and adapting it to individual country requirements.
In June 1992, the Bank's board of executive directors approved the establishment of the IDF and provided it with an initial fund of $25 million, to be used during its first year of operation. The fund was scheduled to become operational at the beginning of fiscal year 1993. The IDF will provide a quick-response instrument for funding small, action-oriented schemes identified during (and closely linked to) the Bank's economic and sector work and policy dialogue in low-income and middle-income countries.
The Bank's technical-assistance activities fall into three primary categories:
• technical assistance financed as components of Bank loans and credits, freestanding technical-assistance loans and credits, and technical assistance financed through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF);
• technical assistance administered but not financed by the Bank (such as UNDP projects for which the Bank serves as executing agency or Bank-administered projects that are financed through other trust funds). Other technical assistance in this category includes the reimbursable technical-assistance program to high-income, oil-exporting developing countries of the Middle East and to the International Fund for Agricultural Development; and
• technical assistance provided through the administrative budget, which includes the work of the Economic Development Institute, and technical assistance provided as part of the cooperative program with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the U.N. and other programs.
A substantial amount of the technical assistance provided through the administrative budget is embedded in the Bank's regular lending and nonlending services, the magnitude of which is difficult to quantify. These services are inextricably linked to the Bank's economic and sector work, to loan preparation and supervision, to aid coordination, and to the informal advice the Bank gives to borrowers on policy or technical matters.
The volume of technical assistance in these three categories has grown considerably in recent years, and, in calendar year 1991, it reached about $2.3 billion. Technical-assistance components in Bank loans and credits accounted for the lion's share of the total, some $1.8 billion. Technical assistance provided through the administrative budget totaled about $45 million in calendar 1991. (This amount, however, does not include embedded technical assistance provided by the Bank as part of its regular lending and nonlending services.) Disbursements for technical assistance from trust funds administered by the Bank, together with reimbursable programs, totaled $228 million.
In calendar 1991, project-financed technical assistance totaled $2.0 billion ($1.8 billion for components in Bank loans and credits, and $0.2 billion for freestanding projects). This amount represented an increase of 25 percent over the previous year; as a proportion of Bank lending, however, technical assistance grew only by one percentage point to 8 percent. PPF advances, which are refinanced by subsequent Bank loans and credits, totaled $72 million, compared with $66 million the year before.
Technical-assistance components financed by the Bank are increasingly becoming more concentrated on training and advisory services for institutional-development objectives, and are less focused on engineering-related tasks. An example of one such project approved in calendar 1991 was the National Agriculture Research Project in Nigeria. The $13.6 million Bank-financed training component will provide short-term training, as well as long-term degree programs for management, scientific staff, and technicians. Another such project is the Indonesia Second Higher Education Development Project, which is financing an overseas-training program for the development of university staff. The Bank-financed $68 million training program includes fellowships for master's and doctoral degrees in basic science, science education, and engineering. Examples of projects with managerial or financial-advisory services components include the Financial Institutions Development Project (Poland) and the Decentralization and Regional Development Project
(Mexico). The project for Poland provides more than $23 million in consulting services through "twinning" arrangements between foreign and Polish banks to develop and carry out programs for strengthening the institutional capacity of the Polish banks concerned. The institutional-development component of the Decentralization and Regional Development Project provides technical assistance in management-related areas that is aimed at strengthening project-executing agencies mainly in the agricultural and roads sectors, as well as state and municipal entities.
In calendar 1991, sixteen freestanding technical-assistance projects were approved for a total of $241 million. Among these were the first technical-assistance operations in Bulgaria, Angola, and Mongolia. The $17 million technical-assistance loan to Bulgaria will finance multiseetoral activities in support of the government's economic-reform program. These activities include private-sector development, bank restructuring and reform, human-resource development, energy-sector strategy reforms, and institutional development in the areas of trade, debt strategy, and statistics. In Angola, the $23 million Economic Management Capacity Building Project seeks to strengthen the government's ability to formulate and implement sound economic policies and investment projects by providing technical assistance and training for human-resource development, economic statistics, legal assistance, public-resource management, and liberalization policies. In Mongolia, a $5 million technical-assistance project will help the country develop institutional capacity for macroeconomic management in a market economy and define strategies for sectors and subsectors key to the country's economic development.
As of December 31, 1991, a total of 183 UNDP projects, valued at $356 million, were being executed by the Bank. Among the newly approved projects were the African Capacity Building Initiative—Management Team Regional Project ($9.8 million) and two global agriculture projects: Development of Efficient Tsetse and Tick Control Strategy for the Tropical World and Development of Sustainable Rice Production Systems ($6.2 million and $8.3 million, respectively).
In August 1991, the executive directors of the Bank approved the transfer of $30 million from fiscal 1991 surplus to finance technical assistance, on a grant basis, in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and its constituent republics. Four republics—Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrghyzstan, and Russia—eventually signed the agreement. The $30 million fund was used to finance the cost of technical assis-
tance by the Bank to the four republics during the transitional period before Bank membership took effect. The work program included four main elements: support for systemic reforms, designed to facilitate the transition of individual republics to market-based economies and their integration into the world economy; support for specific reforms in agriculture, energy, transport, and other sectors; the design of social safety-net arrangements to protect vulnerable groups in the transition to market-based economies and support for improved basic services; and training programs and institutional reforms.
At the end of fiscal 1992, new commitments against the trust fund were terminated, and about $1.7 million in uncommitted funds were returned to the Bank's surplus account.
Interagency Cooperation
At its forty-fifth session, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a (fourth) International Development Strategy (IDS), to be carried out in the remaining years of the current decade. The main ingredients of the IDS are poverty reduction, development of human resources, and environmentally sustainable growth. The IDS serves to prioritize the expanding assistance activities of the United Nations system and strengthen its supportive role in international development cooperation. World Bank programs and policy directions are closely in line with the broad development themes of the IDS.
The IDS also underscores the growing international commitment to sustainable development. Given their resource and poverty constraints, however, developing countries face difficult tradeoffs in implementing environmental policies. The Bank continues to play an important role in the international effort to help developing countries integrate such policies in national development strategies, thus strengthening the link between environment and development. Increasingly, the Bank is expanding its cooperation with other concerned multilateral institutions, in particular, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), on international initiatives such as the implementation of the funding mechanism of the Montreal Protocol and the Global Environment Facility.
The Bank's recent operational directive (OD) on poverty reduction provides guidance on many aspects of collaborative work in this area. The OD encourages the involvement of development-assistance agencies in preparing poverty assessments and urges Bank staff to work closely with other U.N. agencies in pre-
paring proposals to improve the quality of poverty-related data. At the country level, the Bank is broadening its efforts to coordinate work with the UNDP, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) in specific countries on the preparation or follow-up to poverty assessments and forthcoming human-development assessments.
Coordination between the Bank and the U.N. system on poverty at the project level is extensive, particularly in the design of social funds and social-action programs. For example, the Bank, the UNDP, UNICEF, the World Health Organization (WHO), the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the U.N. (FAO), and the World Food Programme (WFP) worked together to design and cofi-nance Madagascar's Economic Management and Social Action Program.
To strengthen its knowledge and information base on poverty reduction, the Bank coordinates policy-analysis work with other agencies of the U.N. system. For example, the UNDP and the Bank are collaborating on the Water and Sanitation Program, which aims at developing strategies for reaching the poor through community-based institutional models and low-cost technologies. In the area of social-science research, the UNDP is financing a Bank study on "Urban Poverty and Social Policy in the Context of Adjustment." The Bank serves as the executive secretariat for the Safe Motherhood Inter-Agency Group (WHO, the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), the UNDP, UNICEF, the Population Council, and the International Planned Parenthood Federation), which supports analytical work on safe-motherhood issues. In the energy sector, the Bank-UNDP Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) includes a household-energy component for the poor.
The Bank continued to be an active partner in ongoing interagency efforts in education; population, health, and nutrition; and women in development. Activities include the follow-up to the World Conference on Education for All and the World Summit for Children; the Safe Motherhood Inter-Agency Group; the Onchocerciasis (riverblindness) Control Programme; the Global Programme for AIDS; and the Task Force for Child Survival.
The Bank continued to support the activities of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat). Habitat's Global Strategy for Shelter aims at providing opportunities to the poor through the creation of employment
and the generation of improved incomes and training in employable skills in construction and related fields. Existing analytical and institutional frameworks in most developing countries need to be strengthened to monitor the performance of the housing sector. To remedy this situation, Habitat, in collaboration with the Bank and other donors, is implementing a Housing Indicators Programme to provide governments with an analytical tool for measuring the performance of the housing sector. The joint Habitat/UNDP/World Bank Urban Management Programme (UMP) aims at improving the performance of local governments. The UMP is a concerted global effort to address urban-management issues in developing countries, to build human-resource capacity, and to strengthen developing-country institutions.
Relations with nongovernmental organizations. The Bank continues to foster cooperation with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) worldwide. The Bank believes that NGOs have an important role in helping borrowers reduce poverty and achieve environmentally sustainable economic growth. Nongovernmental organizations can help improve the standard of living of the poor through the projects they support and through representation to governments on behalf of citizens' interests. They can also help to enhance the social and environmental aspects of government-sponsored projects and to promote the participation of affected groups in development planning.
Since fiscal 1988, when the Bank began a systematic effort to expand NGO involvement in the operations it helps finance, the number of Bank-supported projects with NGO association has increased threefold. Sixty-six of the 222 projects approved by the Bank's executive directors in fiscal 1992 involved NGOs. As in the past, the Africa region had the largest number, and greatest share, of NGO-associ-ated projects (see Table 5-2). Nongovernmental organizations were involved most heavily in the agriculture and rural development; environmental; and population, health, and nutrition sectors (see Table 5-3).
The past few years have seen increased collaboration by the Bank with local NGOs—indigenous intermediary NGOs such as church groups, professional societies, and national NGO consortia, as well as grassroots groups, such as water-users' associations, women's groups, village committees, and cooperatives. Of the sixty-six NGO-associated projects approved in fiscal 1992, 48 percent involved indigenous intermediary NGOs, 28 percent grassroots groups, and 24 percent international NGOs. International NGOs have
strongly endorsed this trend, as they regard devolution of responsibility to local groups as being an effective way to help build local people's capacity to manage and improve their own lives.
The Bank-supported Rural Development Project in Ecuador—approved in fiscal 1992— illustrates the Bank's stepped-up efforts to involve local NGOs in its projects. The project
has been conceived as the first phase of a longer-term effort to reduce poverty and promote socioeconomic development in selected rural areas of the country. The objectives of the project include: (a) increasing the living standards of small-scale farmers and the productivity of the rural sector, (b) improving rural infrastructure and reducing the risk of flooding, (c) promoting better use and conser-
vation of natural resources, and (d) enhancing institutional capacity for planning and implementing rural-development activities. Nongovernmental organizations are involved in nearly every component of the project.
To ensure the sustainability of benefits, the project also seeks to promote grassroots involvement of rural communities and groups of beneficiaries (giving special emphasis to rural women) and to strengthen beneficiary organizations and local NGOs. For example, training will be provided to numerous existing and new farmers' organizations (groups of between twelve and forty members), including producers' groups, marketing groups, special women's groups, water-users' associations, cooperatives, and others, both formal and informal. The project also provides for the legal establishment of farmers' organizations, water-users' associations, and other NGOs, so as to increase their level of participation in designing, implementing, and managing rural-development activities.
A $7.8 million community-development fund is being established by the project to support the involvement of communities and grassroots NGOs in the identification of investment needs, as well as in implementation and maintenance of small-scale rural enterprises. The direct beneficiaries of the fund will be small farmers' organizations, associations of farm workers, water-users' associations, and other types of grassroots groups that comprise twelve or more small-scale farmers. Some community-development projects are being designed exclusively for rural women, with the objectives of raising nutritional levels and increasing employment and incomes. These projects involve raising small livestock and growing fruits and vegetables, as well as artisan crafts, community infrastructure, and training in household/community agroindustry.
Bank staff are encouraged to work closely with NGOs in most aspects of Bank work, particularly in the planning and design of projects and policies. Early consultation with NGOs, especially groups of poor people that may be affected by a particular project or policy, can be as important to operational or policymaking success as the NGOs' implementation abilities. A list of prospective Bank-supported operations in which Bank staff see potential for NGO involvement is regularly updated to facilitate interaction with NGOs in the early stages of project preparation.
Policy discussions involving the Bank and NGOs have begun to intensify. Nongovernmental organizations can be effective advocates for policy change, and the Bank attaches great value to its ongoing dialogue with them on development-policy issues. By engaging in
constructive dialogue, the Bank and NGOs can learn from each other and, together, can work at helping the Bank's borrowers address the root causes of poverty and environmental degradation.
Because last year's NGO consultation on the Bank's draft forest-policy paper proved so successful, the Bank organized, in May 1992, two consultations to facilitate NGO input into ongoing reviews of Bank policy. These were in the areas of energy conservation and power and water-resource management. In recognition of their experience and expertise in working with the poor, over 100 NGOs worldwide were invited to comment on the draft Poverty Reduction Handbook, which the Bank issued in final form in May 1992. Nongovernmental organizations also contributed to the draft World Development Report 1992, published in May 1992.
The Bank, together with the other two implementing agencies of the Global Environment Facility (GEF)—the UNDP and UNEP— organized meetings with NGOs just prior to the semiannual GEF Participants' Meetings (held in December 1991 and April-May 1992). To ensure a continued high level of NGO participation in shaping the GEF, it was decided that these NGO meetings, organized in parallel with the Participants' Meetings, will become regularized. Nongovernmental organizations have a special role to play in GEF-financed projects: A $5 million grant "window" for NGOs, administered by the UNDP, has been set up under the GEF to support NGO initiatives in biodiversity.
The Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI) also recognizes the important role that NGOs play in development and has begun including NGO representatives more frequently in its courses for developing-country civil servants and policymakers. Moreover, EDI has initiated, largely with funding from the government of Japan, several new programs specifically targeted to the developing-country NGO community. Some of the programs aim at facilitating dialogue among NGOs, governments, and donor agencies to improve the planning and execution of development policies and programs and to foster an "enabling environment" for collaboration. Others aim at strengthening NGO staff in strategic planning and management through the development of enhanced in-country capacity for training NGOs. Both regional seminars and national workshops are being offered, and discussion topics have been selected based on consultation with NGOs in each region or subregion. Each meeting has been jointly organized with a local NGO or nongovernmental training institute.
The NGO-World Bank Committee is the principal forum for Bank-NGO consultation. Formed' in 1982, it provides an opportunity for the exploration of policy issues by NGO leaders from around the world and Bank managers. The committee's NGO members, collectively called the NGO Working Group on the World Bank, have adopted an election process that allows for annual rotation of a fifth of their membership and, thus, for a much broader representation of the NGO community worldwide. The committee held its eleventh annual meeting in Suraj Kund, India, in October 1991. The three themes currently under consideration by the committee are structural adjustment and poverty; participatory development; and funding mechanisms for NGOs.
The dialogue in the NGO-World Bank Committee over the past few years was a catalyst in the launching, in fiscal 1992, of a Bankwide, three-year program of learning on participatory development. With the help of a $1.3 million trust fund established by the Swedish International Development Authority, this exercise seeks to (a) develop and document participatory Bank operational activities (many of which involve NGOs), (b) accelerate Bank learning from various other efforts on participation that are taking place, and (c) investigate ways in which the Bank may need to change its operational practices to encourage wider participation. In February 1992, the Bank sponsored an international workshop on participatory development to open up the learning exercise to a broader spectrum of Bank staff and to those in academia, the NGO community, and other development agencies who have made important contributions to the participation debate. The recommendations of the workshop are helping to shape the future direction and priorities of the participatory development-learning program.
Cooperation with the European Community and with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). A new position in the Bank's European office was created in July 1991 to act as liaison with, and to monitor and analyze issues dealing with, the European Community (EC). A system of contact points has been established with the European Commission in Brussels. With the EC rapidly increasing the amount of aid it provides, effective cooperation with it has become increasingly important to the Bank.
The Bank actively pursues a dialogue on policies and practices of mutual concern to bilateral and multilateral aid donors with the OECD and its Development Assistance Committee (DAC). Data are regularly exchanged between the Bank and the DAC, especially
with regard to aid flows, as well as debt and financial transfers. Participatory development, tied aid, technical cooperation, and governance issues have featured prominently in the recent dialogue between the Bank and the DAC.
Cooperation with the regional development banks. The World Bank and the African Development Bank (AfDB) continue to increase and strengthen their collaborative efforts. The Bank has been involved in numerous joint initiatives with the AfDB, and the AfDB's cofinancing of Bank-assisted projects has more than tripled since the mid 1980s—from about $170 million in 1985 to more than $525 million in 1991. The two institutions have identified several key programs and sectors to which they will give particular attention, such as women in development, private-sector development, and regional economic integration. In addition to operational concerns, the Bank and the AfDB have also begun to coordinate their analytical and methodological approaches to these major development issues.
The Bank's relationship with the Asian Development Bank continues to be close. Contacts between the two new vice presidencies in the Bank, for South Asia and for East Asia and Pacific, and their counterparts in the AsDB were consolidated soon after the Bank's December 1991 organizational changes. A new area of cooperation between the two institutions concerns initial economic work and analyses on Cambodia. During fiscal 1992, the Bank provided the AsDB with information on the design and implementation of policy-based lending—a field entered into only recently by the AsDB. By mutual agreement, cofinancing by the AsDB for Bank projects usually consists of parallel financing of separate projects within a sector rather than cofinancing a single project. Exceptions are made for unusually large and complex projects and for projects in the Pacific islands, for which the AsDB takes the lead role in preparing, processing, and supervising projects. The AsDB provided cofinancing, totaling $368 million, for two projects—in Fiji and Indonesia—during fiscal year 1992.
The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) continued to be the largest multilateral cofinancer of Bank-assisted projects during fiscal 1992, Fourteen cofinancing operations were arranged with the IDB for a total of $2.0 billion, up $600 million from fiscal 1991 totals. The IDB provided 38 percent of all cofinancing funds from multilateral institutions during the year. The surge, during the past two fiscal years, of cofinancing from the IDB is attributable to the recent introduction of sector lending into its lending program. Cooperation between the IDB
and the Bank goes beyond cofinancing, however. Since 1990, staff of both institutions have together participated in several preparation, preappraisal, appraisal, and economic sector-review missions. Periodic consultations on operations, information sharing, and formulation of initiatives are integral parts of the cooperation. Senior staff of the IDB and the Bank's Latin America and the Caribbean region hold monthly meetings to follow up on major issues affecting both institutions.
The Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) coordinated their activities at various levels over the past year. For instance, the EBRD cofi-nanced Bank projects in telecommunications in Hungary and housing in Poland and jointly appraised with the Bank and the European Investment Bank a telecommunications project in Czechoslovakia. Cooperation between the Bank and the EBRD in the republics of the former Soviet Union included technical assistance for privatization and the preparation of the "Review of Food Policy Options and Agricultural Sector Reforms."
Cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. The Bank and the IMF collaborate closely, through their lending programs and policy advice, in helping member countries establish a policy and institutional environment conducive to economic stability and growth. A mid 1990 review of the experience of collaboration by the Bank and the IMF reaffirmed the efficacy of the principles and procedures currently in place. Over the past year, the two staffs worked particularly closely in the design of programs to assist Central and Eastern European countries in the transition from central planning to the market and in the development of debt-workout programs for countries in arrears to one or both institutions. The Bank and the IMF are currently moving to the operational stage of assisting new members from the former Soviet Union. Because the complexity and scale of the transition of these countries to market-oriented economies require the closest coordination between the two institutions, staff of the Bank and the IMF were provided with guidance during the year on four aspects of this work: (a) assessment of macroeconomic-adjustment needs, the priorities for structural reforms, and the complementarity of policy requirements in each of these areas for success in the other; (b) coordination in the development of individual adjustment and reform programs, and on the critical interrepublic issues that transcend country-specific programs; (c) coordination with other institutions; and (d) arrangements for mobilizing financial assistance.
Cooperation on agricultural research. The Bank, together with the FAO and the UNDP, is a cosponsor of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), an informal association of some forty public-sector and private-sector donors jointly supporting a network of sixteen international agricultural-research centers (IARCs). The Bank provides the CGIAR with its chairman and with an executive secretariat located in Washington
The CGIAR has been designed to ensure that international scientific capacity is brought to bear on the food, agriculture, forestry, and fisheries problems of the world's disadvantaged peoples.
Following the decision made in fiscal 1991 to establish a new center for forestry research as part of the CGIAR's orientation toward natural-resource management, the Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR) was selected to bring the new center into being. At its main 1991 meeting, CGIAR members endorsed a proposal from the ACIAR for drafting a constitution, selecting a board of management, outlining a research program, and providing for a collaborative relationship between the Nairobi-based International Council for Research in Agroforestry (ICRAF) and the new institution. Priority areas of research for the new center, which will be called the Center for International Forestry Research, include germplasm exploration, breeding and improvement of tree species, conservation and management of natural forests, ecosystems policy and marketing research, information management, and training. The center will be located in East Asia and will conduct outreach activities in other regions.
In 1991, the twentieth anniversary of the establishment of the CGIAR offered an opportunity for taking stock of what has been achieved in two decades of research work. The CGIAR has always been associated with the "green revolution," which introduced high-yielding cereal varieties in numerous developing countries, especially in Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East.
The progress achieved in increasing average rice and wheat yields during the turbulent 1980s, often considered a "lost decade for development," has been particularly noteworthy. As a result of the green revolution, many poor food-deficit countries, despite population growth, succeeded in cutting their food deficit or achieving surpluses and reducing poverty. Directly and indirectly, the CGIAR has contributed to reducing mass poverty by increasing foodcrop and livestock productivity. Higher productivity means better incomes for farmers and lower food prices for consumers.
Since the late 1960s, cereal prices have almost continuously decreased, thus improving the living standard of the very poor, who spend up to 80 percent of their income on food. The resulting improvements in nutrition, health, and purchasing power are perhaps among the most tangible benefits that development work has brought to the poorest.
In 1991, CGIAR centers agreed to implement an action program, funded by donor contributions, to address both gender analysis and gender staffing at the IARCs. Gender is a useful socioeconomic variable that can be used to analyze roles, responsibilities, constraints, opportunities, and incentives of the people involved in agriculture.
Studies have highlighted the fact that women are critical to agricultural production and that their access to necessary resources and effective technologies is often constrained by gender barriers, which must be removed if agricultural productivity and gender equity are to be enhanced.
At the CGIAR's annual meeting in October
1991, scientists from the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) conducted a briefing on ongoing work to develop a modified rice plant that could help to break the current rice-yield barrier by producing 20 percent to 30 percent more than the best semi-dwarf varieties now grown on irrigated land. The ultra-high-yielding variety, which should be ready in five to eight years, is intended to help achieve the 60 percent increase in world rice output—to 760 million tons a year—that will be necessary to feed the world's growing population.
The new plant architecture aims at reducing the number of tillers or stalks, almost all of which will bear panicles, thus producing more and heavier grains. A single-stalked rice is what is needed in the future, according to IRRI's rice breeders. The ideotype plant will have a vigorous root system to draw soil nutrients more effectively; its seeds will germinate better and produce more vigorous seedlings; and it will have greater pest resistance.
In 1991, thirty-eight donors contributed a total of $231.1 million to the centers' core programs. The Bank contributed $35.1 million. Seventy-seven percent of the contributions came from donor countries, while international or regional organizations contributed 22 percent. The balance was provided by two foundations. In addition to core funding, the centers also received $51.6 million in grants for complementary research and institution-building activities.
Personnel and Administration
The Bank's administrative budget for fiscal
1992, as approved by the executive directors
late in fiscal 1991, totaled $1,069 million, which was increased by a mid-year supplement of $4 million. In late fiscal 1992, the executive directors approved an administrative budget for fiscal 1993 of $1,250.9 million (see Table 5-4), a rise of 11.7 percent in real terms over the previous year's budget.
The budget embodies the Bank's program priorities as endorsed by the executive directors: a substantial increase in operational programs, driven by the extraordinary needs of new and activating countries; minimal growth for other nonoperational programs; significant efficiency gains and redeployment of resources from organizational streamlining and from research and policy work; and incorporation of the program for the former Soviet republics into the Bank's regular programs.
During the year, a revised budget system was approved, designed to reduce complexity, increase cost-consciousness, and provide transparency in planning and monitoring the use of resources, while providing managers and executive directors timely, relevant, and adequate information.
The new budget system provides for:
• the preparation of provisional budget guidelines, to be incorporated into a "Planning Directions Paper" for review by the Committee of the Whole (December-January);
• the preparation of detailed unit three-year business plans, including proposed budgets for the coming fiscal year, consistent with the budget guidelines (mid January-mid May);
• the Bankwide budget proposal for the following fiscal year, formulated within a three-year business-planning framework, to be distributed to the executive board for its consideration in June; and
• the further extension of dollar budgeting to enhance cost consciousness and improve transparency.
At the end of fiscal year 1992, World Bank regular and fixed-term staff on board numbered 6,046, of which 3,893 were higher-level staff of 117 nationalities. This represented an increase of 2.5 percent for all staff, and 3.2 percent for higher-level staff. Of the higher-level staff, 57.8 percent were from industrialized countries; the remaining 42.2 percent were from developing countries—a proportion almost identical to that which prevailed in the previous year.
Women formed 27.4 percent of the higher-level total, compared with 26.7 percent in fiscal year 1991. Of the 272 higher-level staff who joined the Bank during the year, 42.3 percent were from developing countries and 26.8 percent were women. Thirty-three of the new recruits were selected through the Young Pro-
.. Not applicable.
Note: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Excludes budget supplement of $149.8 million, approved by the board on May 31, 1990, to fund the Retired Staff Benefits Plan.
b. Includes contribution to the Institutional Development Fund.
c. Allocations from the president's contingency have been included under the respective work programs for fiscal 1990-92.
d. $820.4 million for the IBRD and $430.5 million for IDA
fessionals Program. Fourteen were from developing countries, and thirteen were women.
At the end of the year, a total of 766 higher-level, long-term consultants (those with contracts with a duration of six months or more) were working for the Bank, and 523 regular and fixed-term staff were in special positions.1
Fiscal year 1992 was marked by significant organizational changes. The structural changes included:
• elimination of the senior vice presidencies, to create a flatter management structure;
• strengthening of the presidency through the creation of three managing-director positions;
• splitting of the Asia region and the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa (EMENA) region into four separate regions;
1 Special positions are an extension of the Bank's regular position system under which positions are authorized for execution of specified work programs within the limits of specified budgets. In principle, special positions are authorized to enable the employment of persons in activities considered autonomous from regular Bank operations. Use of such positions is therefore confined to staffing of programs which, for a variety of reasons, are "on the margin" of the Bank's regular work program.
• creation of a new department to manage operations in the republics of the former Soviet Union;
• creation of the Vice Presidency for Sector and Operations Policy;
• partial restructuring of the Vice Presidency for Development Economics; and
• realignment of the Vice Presidency for Cofinancing and Financial Services.
The structural changes were accompanied by changes in business processes, resource use, and management style. All the changes reflected a shared preoccupation with simplification, flexibility, client responsiveness, and efficiency. These concerns reinforced the objectives of the 1987 reorganization by providing an organizational framework for strong leadership, enhanced managerial accountability, and closer cooperation between business units.
The major challenge for Personnel and Administration in fiscal year 1992 was to support the expansion of the newly created Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region and to implement the staffing changes prompted by the organizational restructuring, while continuing the reform of the overall personnel-management system and the rehabilitation of the Bank's main facilities complex. Steps were also taken to implement the Bank's information-technology strategy and to strengthen competitive bidding for general-services contracts.
In March 1992, the executive board approved an additional administrative-budget allocation in the amount of $4 million to enable the expansion of Bank assistance to the republics of the former Soviet Union. This included the addition of ninety-four higher-level and forty-six support-level positions to the staff of the ECA region.
Approximately half of the additional higher-level positions were filled from inside the Bank through reassignments. An intensive recruitment campaign was launched to fill the remaining new positions in the ECA region and the vacancies created through internal reassignments. As of June 30, 1992, fifty-two of the new higher-level positions and nineteen of the new support-level positions had been filled.
A special study of the personnel function and of key personnel-management processes was completed in November 1991 and resulted in a series of measures to strengthen the institutional focus of personnel management. These included a revised performance-management system, more focused attention to individual career planning, a centrally coordinated reassignment process, and tighter controls over training. The structure of the personnel function was changed to ensure greater synergy between its various functions. Policy
and systems changes are at various stages of implementation.
Two other personnel studies were completed during the year. In February 1992, the comprehensive review of staff benefits, which began in 1990, was completed and discussed by the executive directors. Changes in the staff-retirement and medical plans had been made in earlier fiscal years. In February 1992, the executive directors approved some changes in expatriate benefits.
A report by the Advisory Group on Higher Level Women's Issues, completed in April 1992, recommended a comprehensive strategy to improve the representation of women at senior organizational levels. Implementation of the strategy began during the second half of the fiscal year and will continue through 1997.
The project to rehabilitate the Bank's main complex buildings progressed well, and most major contracts have been awarded. First-phase occupancy is scheduled to begin at the end of fiscal 1993. Other facilities work focused on space management to accommodate the expansion of ECA regional staff.
In the area of information technology, the Bank is building an "enterprise network," which will provide all users with a standard interface to offered network services. The network will be centrally managed and supported and will be sufficiently robust to allow multimedia communication, including video, image, voice, and high-resolution graphics, as well as text and numeric data. It will allow staff to exchange information freely within the institution and with external entities, including governments of member countries.
In the area of general services, the travel-services contract was re-bid during the year. Effective August 1, 1992, the Bank will use two travel-service contractors instead of one. Similarly, the process of re-bidding the food-services contract has begun.
International Finance Corporation
The International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, promotes private enterprise in its developing member countries. It does this by financing sound private-sector projects, mobilizing debt and equity financing in the international markets for private companies, and providing technical assistance and advisory services to businesses and governments.
The IFC met several key objectives in its financing operations in fiscal 1992. Financing approved for IFC's own account was $1.8 billion for 167 projects, compared with $1.5 billion for 152 projects in fiscal 1991. Equity and quasi-equity investments, which repre-
sented 21 percent of total financing approved for IFC's own account, were increased in accordance with the corporation's goal of helping companies in developing countries to decrease their reliance on debt financing. And the IFC was successful in its role as a catalyst, mobilizing substantial amounts of private capital from other investors and lenders, with relatively small outlays of its own funds. It approved a record $1.4 billion in financing to be mobilized through loan syndications and the underwriting of securities issues and investment funds. Projects approved by the IFC had total investment costs of $12 billion; this means that other investors and lenders provided a total of six dollars for every dollar approved by the IFC.
The corporation approved projects in fifty-one countries, as well as several projects with a regional or international scope. Financing approved for projects in the Middle East and North Africa nearly tripled over fiscal 1991, to $173 million. In sub-Saharan Africa, the IFC approved financing of $284 million, including $14 million for small companies through its Africa Enterprise Fund; in Asia, $456 million; in Europe, $253 million; and in Latin America and the Caribbean, $607 million.
Projects spanned a range of sectors, including financial services, tourism, mining, petrochemicals, power, oil and gas exploration, telecommunications, agribusiness, and general manufacturing. A number of projects, particularly in Central and Eastern Europe, involved newly privatized companies and financial institutions, such as the first commercial bank to be privatized in Czechoslovakia.
The IFC offered clients a broad range of financial products and services, helping them to gain access to sophisticated risk-management techniques, such as currency and interest-rate swaps and commodities-hedging facilities, that would not normally be available to companies in developing countries. Of the nine projects involving the provision of hedging instruments, three were for companies in sub-Saharan Africa. The IFC acted as co-lead manager in nine international securities issues, with a total value of $1 billion, by companies in Asia, Europe, and Latin America, including the first international equity offering ever by a Venezuelan company, the first floating-rate note issued by a private Turkish bank, and two country funds.
The IFC also provided funding and financial products to small and medium-sized companies through financial intermediaries. It approved eight projects involving credit and guarantee lines and innovative facilities that will make a range of financial products and hedging instruments available to local compa-
nies, such as a risk-management line to a Mexican bank that can be used to provide the bank's clients with collars and currency and interest-rate swaps.
The IFC approved financing and mobilized substantial additional debt and equity financing from other sources for a number of private-sector infrastructure projects—for example, a toll road in Mexico, a power project in India, telecommunications companies in Costa Rica, Hungary, Jamaica, and Romania—promoting private-sector investment in industries that were once owned by the state.
New commitments during the year totaled $1.3 billion. With disbursements of $1.1 billion, IFC's disbursed portfolio grew by 16 percent during the year. At the end of the year, the disbursed loan and equity portfolio totaled $5 billion, compared with $4.3 billion at June 30, 1991.
Demand for the IFC's advisory services and technical assistance grew substantially. The IFC launched a program of technical assistance in the former Soviet Union, designing and implementing Russia's first privatization, an auction to sell off 2,000 small-scale enterprises in Nizhny Novgorod. It also advised companies and governments in Asia, Europe, and Latin America on corporate restructuring and privatization.
In the area of capital-market development, the IFC provided technical assistance to governments of twenty-one countries on such matters as the development of stock exchanges and securities-market regulations, the restructuring of commercial banks and establishment of other types of financial institutions, the use of vouchers and mutual funds for privatizing state enterprises, and the drafting of leasing legislation.
The IFC's Technical Advisory Service provided fee-based advice and assistance to companies and governments on such matters as technical restructuring, marketing and feasibility studies, and strategic planning. And, through its Technical Assistance Trust Funds, the IFC financed activities related to project preparation, such as project identification, prefeasibility studies, pilot operations, sector studies, training, and short-term management support.
The IFC supports four facilities that provide advice to small-scale entrepreneurs on developing project proposals and raising financing for them: the Africa Project Development Facility, the Business Advisory Service for the Caribbean and Central America, the Polish Business Advisory Service, and the South Pacific Project Facility.
The Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS), which is supervised by a committee
consisting of representatives of the IFC, MIGA, and the Bank, provides advice on matters related to foreign direct investment. In fiscal 1992, FIAS completed twenty-four advisory assignments in twenty-one countries and one assignment in Central Europe.
The IFC registered another strong financial performance in fiscal 1992. Net income was $180 million, representing a return of 7.5 percent on the corporation's net worth. Borrowings in the international markets came to $664 million, an increase of 11 percent over fiscal 1991.
In fiscal 1992, demand for the IFC's services continued to increase as countries throughout the developing world pursued free-market reforms. The IFC's membership grew to 146 countries. Albania, Bulgaria, Equatorial Guinea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Switzerland joined the IFC during the year, and fourteen of the fifteen former Soviet republics had applied for membership in the corporation by June 30. To help the IFC meet the challenge of serving its newest members in Central and Eastern Europe, as well as in Central Asia, while expanding and diversifying its operations elsewhere, the IFC's capital was increased and its structure reorganized.
On May 4, 1992, the IFC's board of governors voted to increase the IFC's capital from $1.3 billion to $2.3 billion, as recommended by the board of directors in fiscal 1991. The $1 billion increase was intended to enable the IFC to increase new investment approvals in all regions by 10 percent a year until 1998, bringing annual approvals to about $4 billion by the end of the decade. With the accession to membership of the former Soviet republics, this rate of growth may increase to 12 percent to 15 percent.
Under the IFC's new structure, most financing operations will be handled by five Regional Investment Departments and four new Specialist Departments. The reorganization will allow the IFC to develop stronger regional strategies while increasing its specialization in sectors of developmental and economic importance in its member countries—oil, gas, and mining; chemicals, petrochemicals, and fertilizers; infrastructure; and agribusiness.
Details of the IFC's fiscal year can be found in its annual report, published separately.
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
The mandate of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) is to encourage the flow of foreign direct investment (FDI) to, and among, developing member countries.
Established in 1988 as a member of the World Bank Group, MIGA offers investment
insurance to mitigate political risk through its guarantee program. It also provides promotional and advisory services to assist member countries to attract and retain FDI.
Guarantee program. MIGA's guarantee program protects investors against losses arising from the noncommercial risks of currency transfer, expropriation, and war and civil disturbance.
MIGA may only insure new investments, including the expansion of existing investments, privatizations, and financial restructurings. Projects must be registered with MIGA before the investments are made or irrevocably committed. MIGA can insure up to 90 percent of the investment amount, subject to a limit of $50 million of coverage per project. Eligible investments include equity, loans made or guaranteed by equity holders, and certain other forms of direct investment. MIGA may insure a loan made by a financial institution if the agency is also insuring a shareholder's investment in the project. MIGA's standard policy covers investments for fifteen years; in exceptional cases, coverage may be extended to twenty years. MIGA also cooperates with national investment-insurance agencies and private insurers to coinsure or reinsure eligible investments. In fiscal 1992, MIGA reinsured projects with two national agencies (the Export Development Corporation of Canada and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation of the United States) and with a private insurer, Nordia.
In fiscal 1992, MIGA doubled its volume of projects insured relative to fiscal 1991. MIGA issued twenty-one guarantees with a maximum contingent liability of $313 million, representing a total of $1.0 billion in direct investment. These projects are expected to generate an estimated 2,920 new jobs in host countries by the fifth year of operation. All of MIGA's projects are carefully reviewed to ensure they support the environmental and developmental objectives of the World Bank Group.
The assisted investors included: Citibank, N.A., of the United States for expansions of Citibank branch operations in Turkey and Pakistan; Societe Generate, a French financial institution, for new branch banks in Pakistan and Poland; Komatsu Ltd., a Japanese company, for an equity investment in an Indonesian joint venture; the Coca-Cola Export Corporation of the United States/Ringnes A.S. of Norway for a total of three equity investments in the soft-drink market in Poland; AVX Corporation, an American subsidiary of Kyocera Corporation of Japan, for expansion of a manufacturing facility and reinsurance of an existing facility in El Salvador; Philip Morris Companies, Inc. of the United States for a joint
venture in Turkey; Rio Algom Ltd. of Canada for an investment in Chile; Bank of Boston, a U.S. financial institution, for an expansion of its banking activities in Argentina; and Cam-bior Inc. of Canada for a gold-mining investment in Guyana.
Acceptance of MIGA's coverages and services has met with considerable success: At the end of fiscal 1992, preliminary applications for guarantee that were registered and eligible for coverage increased by 10 percent over fiscal 1991 figures to 302.
Promotional and advisory services. MIGA provides promotional and advisory services to its developing member countries to support their efforts to attract foreign direct investment. These services include the organization of investment-promotion conferences, executive-development programs, foreign-investment policy roundtables, research, and specialized advisory assistance to governments.
In fiscal 1992, MIGA organized an investment-promotion conference, attended by more than 400 foreign investors and business executives and 200 local entrepreneurs, in Pakistan. The Pakistan government estimates that, as a result of the conference, letters of intent for investments worth about $600 million were exchanged.
To complement its investment-promotion conferences, MIGA launched its executive-development program series during the year. The programs are designed to upgrade the skills of local managers in developing countries in negotiations and business-plan formulation. Programs were conducted for more than 200 business executives from a wide spectrum of industries and company sizes in Portugal (for a number of lusophone African countries), Angola, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary.
MIGA also organized the first of a series of foreign-investment policy roundtables in Botswana in June 1992. This roundtable provided top policymakers from several African countries with an opportunity to learn from each other and from other policymakers in successful non-African countries about the most effective policies for attracting foreign direct investment. Managers of multinational companies were also invited to explain what economic and political factors they consider in making foreign-investment decisions.
MIGA's advisory assistance included significant work on the legal framework for FDI in member states. MIGA has worked with a number of countries as they have liberalized the laws applying to foreign investments. Several developing countries have enacted new statutes that provide for international arbitration to settle investment disputes and many have
entered into bilateral treaties for the protection and promotion of foreign investments. MIGA also concluded legal-protection agreements with six member countries that will make it easier for MIGA to issue investment guarantees.
In addition, twenty-four advisory projects were completed by the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS). FIAS worked in thirty-two countries during the year, of which approximately one third were in Africa, one third were in Asia, and one third were in the rest of the world. FIAS provides member governments with advice on policy and institutional issues affecting FDI flow. FIAS research and advisory services became more diverse in fiscal 1992. For example, in three projects FIAS explored the policies and programs that would help facilitate and promote backward linkages between foreign investors and local suppliers. However, the bulk of the advisory work, as in earlier years, was focused on diagnostic studies and reviews of specific investment policies.
Some notable examples of advisory work included:
• In Malawi, FIAS helped the government to develop an investment-policy statement, investment guidelines, and the statutory basis for launching an investment-promotion agency;
• in Western Samoa, FIAS identified policy issues that may be retarding foreign-investment flows;
• in Honduras, FIAS assisted in drafting the new foreign-investment law;
• in Yemen, an advisory project reviewed the investment-policy framework and then suggested an institutional framework that would administer remaining investment regulations effectively, as well as develop and carry out an investment-promotion program; and
• FIAS completed a study of corporate income taxation in five Central and Eastern European countries (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Romania).
Member relations. During the year, fifteen additional countries signed the MIGA Convention, increasing the number of signatories to 115. Twenty-one countries completed all membership requirements, bringing the number of full members to eighty-five.
Details of MIGA's activities in fiscal 1992 appear in the MIGA Annual Report 1992, which is published separately.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) is a separate international organization established under the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of
Other States (the Convention), which was opened for signature in 1965 and entered into force the following year.
ICSID seeks to encourage greater flows of international investment by providing facilities for the conciliation and arbitration of disputes between governments and foreign investors. To further its investment-promotion objectives, ICSID also carries out a range of research and publications activities in the field of foreign-investment law.
During fiscal 1992, membership in ICSID continued to grow with the ratification of the Convention by Albania, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, and Tanzania. As of June 30, 1992, ICSID membership comprised ninety-nine countries; an additional thirteen countries
had signed but not yet ratified the Convention.
In fiscal 1992, a request for arbitration was registered in one case, and an annulment proceeding was instituted in another case. Altogether, five cases were pending before the centre as of June 30, 1992.
ICSID's foreign-investment law publications include a semiannual law journal, "ICSID Review—Foreign Investment Law Journal" and multivolume collections of Investment Laws of the World and Investment Treaties. Two issues of the law journal and three releases of the investment laws and treaties collections were published in fiscal 1992.
Details of ICSID's activities during fiscal 1992 appear in its annual report, which is published separately.
Section Six
1992 Regional Perspectives
Africa
Africa is a continent in transition. The past eighteen months have witnessed dramatic developments in this transition, particularly in the political arena, creating new challenges and new opportunities both for African governments and peoples and for the Bank's role in support of accelerated economic and social development in Africa. In the longer run, these developments should prove beneficial by improving the transparency and accountability of governments and broadening the ownership and the distribution of benefits of the reforms.
However, in the short run, the process of political change has had some disruptive effects on the process of economic reform, and it may continue, in the near term, to slow the pace of reform and thereby delay the supply response.
For some countries, the transition has been from civil war to relative peace, as for example in Angola and Ethiopia, where transitional governments face managing simultaneously large-scale demobilization and the reorientation of their economic systems away from
central planning and towards mixed economies in which the private sector will have a greater role. In South Africa, the transition is from a society governed by the rules of apartheid towards one that is more equitable and democratic. A few countries have already evolved peacefully from one-party regimes to multiparty systems. Others are currently engaging in national conferences and constitutional reform, moving to more open political institutions and planning elections in the near future. In some countries, however, the direction and pace of near-term political development remain highly uncertain.
In this volatile and uncertain environment, the Bank has moved to frame new approaches and appropriate responses and to engender greater ownership of reform programs. In some countries, political uncertainties have adversely affected governments' willingness or ability to adopt or maintain viable macroeconomic and sectoral-policy frameworks, and this, in turn, has led to a reduction or suspension in Bank operations in a few countries.
The central thrust of the Bank's strategy in at least twenty-five African countries during
the year under review was to assist governments with fundamental economic policy and institutional changes associated with adjustment programs and operations. In another eleven countries, the strategy was reflected in more traditional programs—principally investment lending supported by economic and sector work. In five "transition countries," where there is currently little or no lending (including South Africa), the Bank was positioning itself for greater involvement when conditions permit.
Mixed Economic Performance
Calendar year 1991 was one of mixed economic performance in Africa. The aggregate gross domestic product (GDP) for the sub-Saharan countries rose by an estimated 2.4 percent, a significant increase over the 1.3 percent growth registered in 1990. But this was not sufficient, in the context of Africa's high population growth rate, to prevent per capita income from falling by 0.6 percent. Excluding Nigeria, export and import volumes rose by 2.6 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively, while the investment ratio remained at about 17 percent of GDP. The prospects for growth in
Threshing barley in Ethiopia. A $150 million IDA credit was approved in fiscal 1992 to help that country embark quickly on a process of economic and social recovery following the end of the civil war.
1992 in about ten countries in Eastern and Southern Africa were dampened by a severe drought in the first half of 1992. This drought, the worst in decades, resulted in a fall of cereal production by nearly half and created an incremental need for 8 million to 10 million tons of cereals imports.
There were considerable variations in GDP growth among countries, and these indicate that adjustment measures, supported by donor assistance, continue to make a difference. For the low-income countries pursuing adjustment under the Special Program of Assistance (SPA), the average growth rate in 1991 was 3.3 percent, and the median rate was 3.9 percent— better than in 1990 and considerably better than the averages for both Africa as a whole and other low-income countries. Thus, per capita incomes rose marginally in the SPA countries notwithstanding the political turmoil in many of them. There were also small increases in 1991 in the per capita incomes of African oil exporters and other African low-income countries; declines occurred in some middle-income countries.
The West African subregion contains a diverse mix of countries, including Nigeria, the
largest country in Africa, all of Africa's oil producers (except Angola), all countries in the CFA zone (except Comoros), and all the Sahe-lian countries. In 1991 and into 1992, the process of political transition was as pronounced, and the impact as far-reaching, in West Africa as anywhere on the continent.
There were also widely varying economic outcomes. In the oil-exporting countries (including Angola), the Gulf crisis had a temporary beneficial effect, contributing to an 8 percent increase in exports (in real terms) and a 4.7 percent increase in GDP supported by a 12 percent increase in imports. Growth in Nigeria's GDP and agricultural sectors both rose by about 5 percent in 1991, with total nonoil production rising by just under 4 percent. However, the combined effect of the political transition and the short-lived effect of the Gulf crisis contributed to some weakening in fiscal and monetary discipline, while political uncertainties explain in large part the limited response of private investors, both Nigerian and foreign, to adjustment measures. Another factor contributing to Nigeria's constrained growth and investment performance was its external-debt burden. In 1991, debt-
service obligations totaled nearly $6 billion, compared with export earnings of $12 billion. In January 1992, however, Nigeria concluded a debt and debt-service reduction operation with commercial banks holding approximately 99.9 percent of the eligible debt ($5.3 billion). Some $3.3 billion was converted under a cash-buy-back option, while the remaining $2 billion was exchanged for collateralized par bonds. In the spring of 1992, the Nigerian government took measures to put its adjustment program back on track.
In Ghana, macroeconomic indicators improved in 1991. Growth of GDP was estimated at 5 percent (partly as the result of the effect of good weather on agricultural production), while the overall fiscal deficit and the inflation rate fell significantly as compared with 1990 levels. During the past eighteen months, the government has taken major steps toward a more open political system and reaffirmed its commitment to maintain the course of economic adjustment by introducing a set of initiatives designed to create a business environment more conducive for productive investment, especially from the private sector. These measures served to broaden the tax base and accelerate restructuring of the financial system and regulatory framework.
In the Sahelian countries, the beneficial effects of increased rainfall in 1991 were offset by the constraining effects of lower commodity prices, political transition, and internal adjustment policies in a number of countries. The overall GDP growth rate was only 2.0 percent— below the average of 2.7 percent for the past decade. Although modest, the export growth rate, estimated at 3.3 percent in 1991, exceeded again the average growth in import volume, resulting in a further decrease in the aggregate current-account deficit to an estimated 11.7 percent of GDP. In Senegal, satisfactory progress has been made in the implementation of its reform program. However, reform in some key areas, such as the civil service, labor-market regulations, and wagebill restraint, remains to be undertaken.
In Cote dTvoire, largest of the CFA countries, significant moves in the direction of democratization were accompanied by episodes of social unrest. Gross domestic product declined for the fifth year in a row; the decline in 1991 was about 2 percent. The protracted recession was mainly the result of a 40 percent decline in the terms of trade between 1986 and 1990, combined with a substantial appreciation of the real effective exchange rate, which has undermined the competitiveness of the Ivorian economy. In this difficult environment, however, there were some recent positive develop-
ments. These included elimination of the primary budget deficit and adoption of an ambitious program of economic reforms geared to restore competitiveness and to achieve a reversal of declining per capita income by 1995.
Notwithstanding the political uncertainties and adverse economic situation of the West Africa subregion, some noteworthy efforts were made during the past year, with assistance from the Bank, to advance regional integration. The six countries (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon) of the Central African Customs and Economic Union overhauled the treaty arrangements governing the customs union with a view to simplify, rationalize, and harmonize tariffs and indirect taxes.
Other discussions were also initiated on ways to advance regional integration. For example, the seven states of the West African Monetary Union (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) began a process that would transform their monetary union into an economic one. This proposal envisages the adoption of common key commercial regulations, the coordination of fiscal policies, and creation of a common market. If carried through successfully, these initiatives would strengthen the subregional institutional and policy framework of the CFA zone and could reinforce national adjustment efforts.
A review of economic developments in the subregions of Eastern, Central, and Southern Africa reveals notable contrasts between the economic performance of countries that have enjoyed relative political and economic stability and those that have not. Stability has prevailed in Mauritius and Botswana, by far the fastest-growing economies in Africa, with average annual GDP growth rates between 1980 and 1990 of 6 percent and 11 percent, respectively. This growth continued into 1991, as GDP rose by 8.7 percent and 5 percent, respectively, in Botswana and Mauritius, while per capita incomes rose by about 6 percent and 4 percent.
Kenya has benefited, since its independence, from relative economic stability and the openness of its economy, as well as from economic policies that fostered a small but steady growth in per capita income. Kenya has experienced difficulties during the past two years as a result of adverse external and domestic factors, including the Gulf crisis, low international coffee prices, adverse climatic conditions for agriculture, and the government's expansionary fiscal policies. Consequently, major macroeconomic imbalances have emerged that, combined with domestic
and donor concerns about public-sector management (especially in the areas of parastatal and civil-service reform, and public-expenditure rationalization) have constrained the private sector's supply response to the government's adjustment efforts.
In marked contrast, civil war and instability have undermined, over varying periods during the past decade, the possibilities for growth in countries such as Angola, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Somalia, Sudan, and Uganda. However, the past year witnessed the end of war in Ethiopia and Angola, while renewed negotiations between the government of Mozambique and the forces opposing it offer new hope of settlement there. Insecurity continues to inhibit development in Chad, Liberia, Somalia, and Sudan, however.
Zambia is another country in which extraordinary political and economic developments took place during the past year. After long negotiations, and with considerable help from donors, Zambia cleared its arrears with the Bank and reduced its arrears to the International Monetary Fund, with which it has adopted a "rights-accumulation" program. At the same time, one-party rule ended, and preparations for multiparty elections were begun. In large part because of political pressures related to these elections, the incumbent government was unable to adhere to its reform program. This development, in turn, resulted in a drop in donor assistance, new arrears in debt service, and a suspension in Bank disbursements. Opposition leaders were swept into power in the country's first multiparty elections since the establishment of a one-party system in the late 1960s. The new government, having campaigned on a platform of private-sector promotion, greater public-sector discipline and efficiency, and a greater reliance on markets, moved quickly to implement its goals. Maize subsidies were cut dramatically, and the 1992 budget was based on a greatly reduced deficit. Once again, with the help of donors, Zambia cleared its arrears to the Bank, an action that allowed Bank assistance to be resumed and that laid the groundwork for enhanced donor efforts to support the new government's strong commitment to reform.
The evolution of events in South Africa in the past eighteen months has been of extraordinary historical significance. South Africa has taken great strides toward the creation of a consensus interim government, and accordingly, many internationally applied sanctions against South Africa have been lifted. This process is taking place in an environment characterized by social unrest and economic stagnation, however.
South Africa is the most industrialized country in sub-Saharan Africa, with a GDP equivalent to about half that of the whole of sub-Saharan Africa. It is also a major trading partner for most of its neighboring countries. Growth performance, however, has deteriorated over the past fifteen years, and real per capita incomes have fallen by about 1.6 percent a year over the past decade. The economy is now in the throes of a deep recession, and over 40 percent of the labor force is without wage employment. The recession has been exacerbated by both a lack of confidence on the part of investors and the effect of financial sanctions. Domestic savings nevertheless remain at historical levels, and an external current-account surplus has been maintained since 1985. With a debt-to-GDP ratio of only 19 percent, South Africa is one of the least externally indebted developing countries. The challenge facing a new government will be to revive economic growth while facilitating a more equal income distribution and access to publicly provided services.
Special Program of Assistance
The Special Program of Assistance, now in its second phase (SPA II), continued to grow stronger in 1991. The second phase was launched in October 1990 when eighteen donors pledged $7.4 billion in cofinancing and coordinated financing to be committed over three calendar years, 1991-93. By the end of 1991, SPA donors had allocated some $4.5 billion, or nearly 60 percent of the projected residual financing gaps for 1991-93, for the twenty-four then-eligible countries.
Given Africa's multifaceted development problems, SPA donors have decided to broaden the scope of the SPA to include such key development issues as the linkages between adjustment and the planning, budgeting, and implementation of public-expenditure programs. At a meeting in October 1991, donors endorsed recommendations of a working group that called for enhanced SPA donor participation in public-expenditure reviews with a view to reaching agreement with recipient countries on public-expenditure priorities and strengthening donor support of these priorities. Recent SPA donor meetings have also focused attention on the effect of adjustment programs on poverty reduction and on how to ensure that structural adjustment and regional economic integration are mutually supportive.
At the April 1992 SPA meeting, donors were urged to increase their commitments and disbursements to offset the severe effects of the drought in Eastern and Southern Africa and to meet the needs of two newly approved SPA
countries, Equatorial Guinea and Sierra Leone (which raised to twenty-six the number of currently eligible countries). The SPA donors also approved guidelines for liberalizing import-support programs in all SPA countries; these call for greater reliance on market mechanisms and commercial procurement practices by recipient countries in implementing these programs and for the donors, in turn, to relax the tying of their assistance and other restrictions on the provision of import-support funds.
Reducing Poverty, Developing the Social Sectors
The Bank increasingly gives priority to addressing the closely related issues of poverty reduction and social-sector development in Africa. Some specific objectives of Bank activities are:
• to increase investment in, and the efficiency of, human-resource development in order to reduce poverty and assure the availability of human capital needed for sustained growth;
• to reduce the rate of population growth to levels that will facilitate sustainable economic development;
• to prepare African women for a larger role in development by improving their access to the means of production and to improved educational and health services: and
• to reduce food insecurity.
The increased priority of poverty and social-sector development is reflected not only in shifts in lending in favor of these areas but also in the composition of the Bank's economic and sector work and in its aid-mobilization and aid-coordination efforts.
Population and health. Africa's high rate of population growth continues to pose serious threats and challenges to policymakers concerned with achieving political stability and sound economic development. Sub-Saharan Africa's average annual population growth rate between 1980 and 1989 of 3.2 percent portends a demographic crisis that would exacerbate employment problems (especially among youth), hinder poverty reduction, and accelerate environmental degradation. Only in Botswana, Kenya, and Zimbabwe have family-planning programs led to declines in fertility.
The Bank's work on Africa's population problems consists primarily of building commitment and consensus among African policymakers on the need for public action on population; translating population policies into effective programs; fostering African capacities to formulate and implement appropriate policies and programs; and designing and installing workable monitoring and evaluation
systems. The Bank's economic and sector work is instrumental in providing a basis for initiating policy dialogue and formulating Bank strategies, as well as for developing population policies. This work has served to establish more clearly the nexus of population, environmental, and agricultural issues and should serve to improve policies and programs in all three of these areas.
The AIDS epidemic, the rising burden of malaria, and the economic downturn have increased the urgency of coming to grips with Africa's health problems. The Bank is helping African countries review and improve their health policies through its lending, sector studies, and policy analysis. A major study on "Better Health in Africa" aims at generating a new consensus on health strategies among African countries, donors, and international institutions. Carried out in cooperation with the World Health Organization and the United Nations Children's Fund, the study will assist African countries in reassessing their national health policies and strategies and will establish a new and common foundation on which donor support may be engaged at the country level.
To help stem the spread of AIDS and assist African countries to respond to its social and economic consequences, the Bank is designing country-specific multisectoral strategies. Work on the allocation of resources for AIDS includes methods to assess the prevalence of sexually transmitted disease—a key facilitator of AIDS transmission on which preventive action is feasible. Bank-financed household surveys in Tanzania have been designed to help assess the effect of adult mortality from AIDS and other causes and to improve the allocation of resources for prevention and care. Since 1987, the Bank has helped finance health projects with AIDS-control or sexually transmitted disease-prevention components in fifteen sub-Saharan countries.
Education. Between 1970 and 1989, the number of students enrolled in African educational institutions at all levels tripled to about 65 million. The strong growth in enrollments, however, hides severe disparities in enrollment levels among countries in the region, between males and females, and between urban and rural areas. The single most important challenge to education in Africa today comes from the sharp decline in its quality at all levels.
The erosion of quality is attributable, in part at least, to rapidly expanding enrollments and the need for fiscal austerity in the face of economic difficulties. While Africa's explosive population growth greatly increases the number of children seeking access to schools, public spending on education in the region as a
whole remained at just below 5 percent of GDP through the 1980s. The scarcity of resources for education has affected, in particular, supplies of textbooks and other nonsalary inputs, especially at the primary level.
The crisis in education is forcing African governments to shift the emphasis of educational investment from access to quality and to adjust to current demographic and fiscal realities. Partly through efforts of the Task Force of Donors to African Education, on which the Bank has taken a lead role, African nations are beginning to design, and seek donor support for, comprehensive, country-specific programs for the adjustment, revitalization, and selective expansion of their education and training systems. Adjustments are being made through cost containment, by requiring students to pay their fair share of educational costs, especially at the tertiary level, and by encouraging an increased role for nongovernmental educational suppliers and private educational institutions. Revitalization efforts are geared to renewing emphasis on basic cognitive skills and on taking maximum advantage of the current capacity of educational and training systems in the region. Expansion will be targeted on the long-term goal of universal primary education, technical and professional training, and expansion of science and engineering programs in higher education. Together, these measures are expected to halt and reverse the erosion in quality of education and training in the region.
Poverty reduction. Poverty is pervasive in Africa. Recent estimates put the number of poor at 228 million, compared with 191 million in 1985, or more than half the region's popula-
tion. The average per capita income of $340 in 1990 is exceeded by all the world's regions except for South Asia, and only five current Bank borrowers (Botswana. Cameroon, Congo, Gabon, and Mauritius) qualify for IBRD (only) lending. Recent estimates indicate that the intensity of poverty is increasing, with average incomes of the poor falling further below the poverty threshold. This deterioration is due to both external factors (mainly the continued decline in the region's terms of trade) and internal factors (drought, civil strife, and inappropriate policies).
Taking these factors into account, the Bank's efforts to reduce poverty are based on a five-pronged strategy:
Poverty-conscious structural-adjustment programs. Any sustainable effort to reduce poverty in Africa needs to be based on efforts to raise overall growth and incomes. Policy issues related to achieving both growth and poverty reduction are being addressed in adjustment programs (with a view toward shifting internal terms of trade toward the rural sector and reducing income differentials between rich and poor households within the urban sector, for example). Where feasible, analyses of the effect of public-expenditure programs on poor households across sectors are being carried out, and public-expenditure programs more beneficial to the poor are being encouraged.
Social-action programs aimed at the poor during adjustment. The Bank is intensifying its collaboration with governments to design and support social-action programs aimed at protecting the poor who would otherwise be adversely affected by structural-adjustment programs. These programs, which may include
Box 6-1. AGETIP—A Promising New Weapon in the Fight against Poverty
For many years, the Bank struggled to find an effective way of combating poverty in urban areas. Inspired by Bank President Robert McNa-mara's 1975 address to the Bank's Annual Meetings, the Bank financed sites-and-services projects, squatter-settlement upgrading, and a variety of other interventions aimed more or less directly at the urban poor. But these efforts frequently suffered from delays and difficulties in execution; they were never really replicable; and their ability to transmit benefits directly to the urban poor was often questionable.
In 1989. the Bank decided to experiment with a new approach that combined this focus on urban poverty with then-President Conable's initiative to develop the private sector.
What would happen if it were possible to apply private-sector management practices to the public-sector problem of rehabilitating deteriorating urban infrastructure? What would happen if the execution of subprojects could be transferred from inefficient public agencies to dynamic small firms in the private sector? What would happen if the managers of projects could be liberated from the cumbersome red tape of public institutions?
The Senegalese government accepted the challenge of working with the Bank to answer these questions. A specialized agency was established to undertake contract management on behalf of the government: AGETIP (Agence d'execution de projets d'interet publique, or Agency for the Execution of Works in the Public Interest). AGETIP is a private, not-for-profit company—a nongovernmental organization. Its mission is to undertake "general contracting" commissions from public entities such as municipalities or ministries. AGETIP undertakes all the tasks associated with getting the job done. And get the job done it does.
It hires consultants to prepare designs and bidding documents and to supervise works; it issues calls for bids, evaluates and adjudicates the bids, and signs the contracts. It evaluates progress, pays the contractors, and represents the owner at the final handover of works.
What has been achieved? In physical terms, the results have exceeded all expectations. In its first year of operation, AGETIP executed $8 million of works. This was achieved through 119 subprojects, using 78 small contractors and creating almost 2,000 manyears of employment. The result was a direct and substantial impact on poverty through the generation of income and the improvement of living conditions.
Why is AGETIP successful? First, its private-sector management team actively seeks efficiency. As an example, it takes pride in paying contractors in ten days compared with the months taken by public entities.
Second, since it contracts engineering consultants and contractors on an "as-needed" basis, its overhead is extremely low: AGETIP's cost of business is a low 4.8 percent of its turnover.
Third, its private legal status absolves it from the cumbersome bureaucratic procedures that the public sector must follow. Nonetheless, it has maintained a higher standard of rigor, discipline, and transparency than is typically achieved in public entities.
In addition to the direct benefits that stem from its urban-rehabilitation operations, the AGETIP approach has created a number of indirect benefits. The "contracting-out" approach creates demand for the services of local contracting and consulting industries, stimulating their development. AGETIP currently has 680 local contractors and 260 local consultants on its roster.
There are also important nonquantifiable effects. Since workers tend to spend their money close to home, there are multiplier effects on the local economy. And last, but far from least, the success of AGETIP acts as a spur to other agencies to improve their own performance.
Imitation, it is said, is the sincerest form of flattery. And AGETIP has many imitators. Similar agencies have been established in Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali, and Niger. One is under preparation in Mauritania, and others are under consideration in Malawi and as far away as Papua New Guinea.
labor-intensive public-works projects such as the AGETIP project in Senegal (see Box 6-1), are at various stages of design and implementation in twenty countries and will be expanded over time.
Assistance to governments to increase their capacity to assess and monitor poverty. The capacity of governments to monitor poverty through household surveys and analyses of the implications of policy reforms on the poor is being strengthened. These data and analyses, assembled in the form of poverty assessments and poverty profiles, provide a basis for the
design of effective country-specific poverty-reduction strategies. It is expected that poverty assessments will have been completed for most countries of the region by the end of fiscal 1994.
Work on food-security issues. Food security is a central part of the Bank's poverty-reduction strategy in the region. Persistent droughts and famines have contributed to severe problems of malnutrition in many areas. To address these and other issues of food security, Bank-supported work is under way in nineteen countries; in eleven of these, food-security projects
are either ongoing, in preparation, or being considered. Under the Bank's initiative, a number of technical and financial agencies are preparing a major nutrition program for Nigeria. That country's national food and nutrition committee has prepared a three-year work program for the design of a national program, development of a national policy, and preparation of a freestanding nutrition project for Bank financing. In addition, three food-security projects were approved in fiscal 1992—for Burkina Faso, Cameroon, and for Rwanda— and food security was a major component in projects approved for Malawi and Zimbabwe. A major study on food aid (Food Aid in Africa: an Agenda for the 1990s), carried out jointly with the World Food Programme, was published in 1992.
Gender-responsive development. It is increasingly recognized that development in Africa cannot succeed without the full participation of women. Improving women's living and working conditions, by improving their access to education and health services, as
well as to credit, inputs, extension, and training in the all-important agricultural sector— where women are estimated to produce 80 percent of the food grown in Africa—would have a major, positive impact on development. The Bank is pursuing country-specific and sector-specific gender-responsive development strategies and programs through studies on policy issues, through staff training to ensure that operational work has an increasingly positive effect on women, and through operational activities that focus on preparing country-specific gender-issues papers to lay the foundation for gender-responsive country-action plans.
Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992
The Bank's overall lending program for sub-Saharan Africa has been increasing steadily in recent years, from an average $2.0 billion over the fiscal 1983-87 period to $3.8 billion during the fiscal 1990-92 period. Total commitments in fiscal 1992 were $3,767 million; about 81 percent of this amount was in the form of concessional assistance from IDA.
East Asia and Pacific
For the East Asia and Pacific region, 1991 was another year of strong performance (see Figure 6-1). Aggregate growth in gross domestic product (GDP) was 6.8 percent, thus continuing the region's thirty-year performance of doubling GDP every decade, reducing poverty, and improving social indicators.
The economic picture was not, however, uniformly uplifting, and rapid growth cannot be expected to be sustained indefinitely without continuous improvements in development policy. Among the areas of concern are:
• generating growth momentum in those economies that have failed to share in the region's prosperity and in its ability to reduce the incidence of poverty;
• charting an effective path of transition from highly centrally planned to market-oriented economies;
• addressing issues of the sustainability of growth and welfare improvement in high-growth economies; and
• tackling the growing environmental problems that are affecting most countries in the region.
East Asia's Success: Private/Public Partnership
At the beginning of 1991, there were reasons to temper the optimism usually associated with the region. Growth of world trade, which is so crucial for the outward-oriented economies of East Asia, was slowing. Growing protectionism in some industrialized countries and slow progress in the GATT negotiations were matters of serious concern. China's austerity program was in full swing, and efforts continued to address the overheating of the economy witnessed in previous years. After three years of double-digit growth, the economies of Malaysia and Thailand were beginning to display signs of overheating and of supply-side bottlenecks, particularly in the area of transportation and in the availability of skilled labor. Both countries were affected by the uncertainties about energy prices that accompanied the Gulf crisis. Despite Indonesia's successful adjustment in the 1980s, concerns over macroeconomic stability, based largely on the rapid private-sector response to structural reforms that led to a surge in imports and investment, were beginning to reemerge. The Philippines had been severely affected by a string of natural disasters and by the Gulf crisis through a drop in workers' remittances from the Gulf area and an increase in oil prices; in the Republic of Korea, rapidly rising labor costs were eroding its export competitiveness; and in Papua New Guinea, recessionary pressures, which had begun in the wake of a sharp decline in output in 1989, had not yet eased.
All these concerns were stood on their head, so to speak, as the overall economic performance of the region turned out to be even more
impressive than in 1990. Malaysia and Korea led the way, with GDP growth rates of 8.8 percent and 8.7 percent, respectively. China, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and Thailand were close behind, with rates of growth ranging from 6.4 percent to 8.2 percent. Inflation was in single digits for all these countries. Even in a year that saw little growth in world trade, these six countries experienced double-digit growth in export volume.
Progress in reducing poverty is difficult to monitor on a year-to-year basis. However, the most recent analysis suggests that, for the region as a whole, the proportion of the population below the poverty line is about ll percent. Rapid growth and emphasis on social development in Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, and Thailand have combined to reduce the absolute number of people living in poverty. In these countries, however, problems of income disparity have not improved significantly. Poverty remains widespread in the Philippines and is becoming problematic in the three Indochi-nese states and Mongolia, which are in the process of opening up their economies to market forces. Progress in reducing poverty has also slowed in China.
Pragmatism and flexibility have been the hallmarks of policymaking in most East Asian economies. Thus, both Thailand and Malaysia responded quickly to oil-price rises: Thailand, an oil importer, by raising fuel prices, and Malaysia, an oil exporter, by increasing its oil production to meet regional demand. Malaysia also accelerated plans for recovering gas deposits located off the west coast of the peninsula. To guard against economic overheating, monetary authorities in both countries tightened credit and the money supply and improved tax-collection machinery. The agility of the Indonesian authorities was particularly impressive: When deregulation looked like it might lead to an excessive expansion of domestic and foreign borrowings, the authorities moved swiftly to curtail domestic monetary expansion and scale down public-investment programs and external borrowings. The Chinese authorities also succeeded in correcting overheating without causing a recession and resumed their policy reforms after the consolidation process.
The response of the East Asian countries to the sluggish growth of world trade was another example of their flexibility. Growth in world trade in 1991, of 3.0 percent, was down sharply from 5.0 percent in 1990. The United States, the biggest market for East Asian products, was in recession, and U.S. imports from the region in 1991 rose by only 7.3 percent, much lower than the historical average. Neverthe-
less, the region managed to achieve an impressive growth rate of exports (in excess of 10 percent) by increasing intraregional trade. Moreover, this restructuring of trade was done largely in a market-oriented manner without creating regional preferences or erecting institutional barriers to external trade. For longer-run sustainability of export-oriented growth, increasing attention is being given to special measures to promote trade and investment. At a recent summit of heads of government of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN),' an agreement was reached to form an ASEAN free-trade area (AFTA) and virtually eliminate tariff and nontariff barriers for goods (except for nonprocessed agricultural products) traded within ASEAN over a fifteen-year period.
The 1991 experience confirms the general preference of policymakers in the region for approaches based on partnership between the government and the private sector.
Prosperity Not Shared by All
The picture of the region's economic performance is not monochromal, however. The
small Pacific island countries present a special problem and were the subject of a regional study by the Bank (see Box 6-2). Although Papua New Guinea achieved a high rate of growth in 1991 (7.8 percent), it faces continuing difficulties in staying competitive as its mineral income puts upward pressure or wages beyond improvements in labor productivity, which is constrained by inadequate skills and infrastructure. The Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR), Myanmar, and Viet Nam had only moderate growth in per capita income. Mongolia's trade was disrupted by the dissolution of the Soviet Union, and, as a result, the economy experienced severe difficulties.
Among the larger economies, the Philippines faced the most difficult situation. Economic developments in both 1990 and 1991 were affected by severe, adverse shocks: the July
1 Members are Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines. Singapore, and Thailand.
liox 6-2. Piuilii- I-,1aiid MciiiIkt I lunilrus
The experience of the six Pacific island member countries of the Bank—Fiji. Kiribati. Solomon Islands, Tonga, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa— provides a good example of the kind of development challenges faced by small island countries of the Pacific.1 Although the six countries have relatively high standards of living—with per capita GNP ranging from $1,770 in Fiji to $580 in Solomon Islands in 1990—and social indicators that compare favorably with developing countries at the same or higher levels of per capita income, their growth performance during the 1980s was disappointing: As a group, these countries recorded an average growth rate in real GDP of only 2.4 percent. As a result, per capita incomes remained essentially unchanged during the past decade in sharp contrast to significant increases in per capita incomes of comparable countries in the Caribbean (around 4 percent) and in the Indian Ocean countries of Maldives and Mauritius (around 5 percent).
By the standards of the broader developing world, the external environment for the six Pacific island countries was relatively favorable in the 1980s, and the terms of trade, though volatile, remained roughly unchanged over the decade. : These countries benefited from high levels of external assistance, enabling them to cover their domestic-resource gaps, maintain high investment levels relative to GDP, and avoid heavy-external debts. Notwithstanding these favorable factors, a number of impediments slowed their economic growth: First, these countries suffered from frequent natural disasters, with consequent adverse impact on economic growth. Second, political developments in some countries disrupted economic performance. Third, most investments concentrated on building economic and social infrastructure, with limited output gains in the short term. Finally, private investment in the productive sectors was exceedingly weak, owing partly to the lack of a supportive policy environment and an absence of dynamic growth strategies.
In particular, the islands' inward-oriented development strategies have not been conducive to economic growth. Although macroeconomic management in most countries has been sound and ihe need for policy reforms aimed at encour- I aging efficient private-sector growth has been recognized, progress in this direction has nevertheless generally been slow. Because domestic producers have been protected from foreign competition, they have had little incentive to give consideration to efficiency, leaving them unable to compete in the world markets. At the same time, overregulation has also constrained the emergence of a dynamic private sector. As a I consequence, potential foreign investors have set up operations in other countries where the business environment is more attractive. i
The growth potential of the South Pacific countries is substantial. However, a major turnaround in economic policies will be necessary to achieve ¦i higher growth path during the remainder of the 1990s. Already, important changes are underway in some countries. In Fiji, for example, policy i adjustments to improve export competitiveness and promote private-sector development have helped boost the growth rate to about 6 percent a year over the past three years. If these policies j are sustained and complemented with policies for human-resource development, and if a favorable investment climate is maintained, Fiji should be able to secure a rapid rate of economic growth throughout the 1990s.
Similarly, with concerted efforts to promote competitiveness and private-sector development in a deregulated economic environment, together with supportive policies to develop human resources and cost-effective institutions, the other countries in the group can also achieve a faster pace of economic growth in the 1990s.
1 The Marshall Islands joined the Bank in May 1992.
1990 earthquake, which killed nearly 1,600 people and wiped out assets valued at 1 percent of GNP; the Gulf crisis, which added some $400 million to the country's bill for imported oil and which displaced Filipinos working in the Middle East; the June 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo; and the November 1991 typhoon in the Eastern Visayas that triggered massive mudflows, killing some 4,000 people. Although an effective stabilization program was implemented in 1991 (which had the intended effect of reducing the country's fiscal and current-account deficits), GDP growth was
only 0.7 per cent. Inflation temporarily accelerated to about 16 percent before declining to single-digit levels late in the year. The Philippines has many strengths: a highly educated labor force, well-established access to the U.S. market, and a sustained program of structural reforms. However, the country faces substantial constraints such as low levels of domestic-resource mobilization, a heavy burden of foreign debt, rising domestic debt, and, despite some reduction in absolute numbers since 1986, widespread poverty in urban and rural areas.
Harvesting rice in Indonesia. Economic growth in the East Asia and Pacific region was impressive in 1991, inflation was low. and growth in export volume was in double digits.
Socialist Economies in Transition
The region includes four socialist economies—China, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam—that are in the process of becoming more market-oriented. Each has followed a different path of change. Over the past twelve years, China has followed a gradual approach toward reform, while Viet Nam, faced with severe external shocks, has had to make sharp adjustments.
All four countries are implementing policies of liberalization in the agricultural sector; with
the exception of Mongolia, these policies stimulated a good supply response in 1991. Different policies have been adopted on price reform, however: China is following a two-track approach, keeping part (declining over time) of production at government-determined prices and allowing market forces to determine prices for the rest of production. Mongolia has declared its intention to liberalize the prices of most commodities and to deregulate its trade and distribution systems. Lao PDR and Viet Nam have implemented programs of radical price liberalization that have freed virtually all
prices, raised interest rates, and devalued the exchange rate.
Policy differences among the four countries are most significant with regard to state-owned enterprises (SOEs).
China has thus far followed a two-pronged approach of encouraging nonstate enterprises to emerge in fields not monopolized by the SOEs and of reforming the SOEs. Indeed, the source of vigorous growth in the coastal provinces of Guangdong, Fujian, Zhejiang, and Jiangsu has been the dynamic nonstate sector that is made up of collectives, joint ventures, foreign ventures, and individual enterprises. (The GDP of Guangdong, which borders Hong Kong, grew by an estimated 13 percent in 1991, while the national economy grew at a little more than half that rate.) Mongolia has announced its intention to privatize almost all small state enterprises and has completed preparations for the privatization of large ones. Lao PDR is also following a policy of fairly rapid privatization—the number of state enterprises is to be reduced from 640 to around 30 over a ten-year period. Viet Nam is now ready to speed up enterprise reform after having reduced direct subsidies to enterprises and restrained their access to bank credit.
These reforms are influenced as much by initial country conditions and associated external shocks as by the nature of the reforms themselves. China's reforms have been the longest lasting and the most successful in stimulating growth and productivity without sacrificing stability or equity. During 1987-88, when growth soared to double-digit levels, the Chinese economy began to experience inflationary pressures. However, by late 1989, macroeconomic stability was largely restored, and this stability was sustained through 1991.
In Mongolia, the government's reform program was launched in the face of several external shocks: a sharp decline in Soviet aid, collapse of trade among members of the socialist trading block, poor market conditions for Mongolia's main hard-currency exports— cashmere, wool, and leather products—and a poor harvest. These shocks contributed to a sharp deterioration in Mongolia's economic situation. In 1991, external trade fell drastically, and shortages of key imported inputs, along with frequent electricity outages, led to a sharp decline in GDP. Government efforts to pursue a tight monetary policy were hurt by an inability to reduce the budget deficit in 1991, and, in stark contrast to decades-long price stability prior to 1990, inflation rates soared into the 120 percent-to-150 percent range.
Viet Nam, after achieving satisfactory rates of growth in both 1988 and 1989, also faced
difficulties in 1990 and 1991 resulting from the cut-off of Soviet aid, which once totaled $1 billion a year. The industrial sector stagnated, and inflation accelerated to the 60 percent-to-70 percent range. Still, GDP, buoyed by expanding agricultural output, growth in the services sector, and a vigorously emerging private sector, grew about 3 percent in 1991. Lao PDR, benefiting from substantial externa) assistance, succeeded in maintaining GDP growth of about 5 percent in 1991, and inflation declined to 10 percent, down from 68 percent in 1989.
Reforming SOEs is the central challenge for China and Viet Nam. Despite continuing budgetary subsidies and bank credit, SOE output and employment growth in China remain relatively sluggish, unsold production is accumulating in warehouses, indebtedness is mounting, and at least three of every ten SOEs are losing money (the government estimates that its SOEs ran up losses totaling $5.7 billion in 1991). The Chinese authorities now recognize that, ultimately, state firms can only be fully exposed to hard budget constraints, with attendant bankruptcies and unemployment, to the extent that their 100 million-strong work force is freed from its dependence on the "work unit" for housing, pensions, and income security. This realization has led the government to pursue programs of housing reform and schemes for communitywide pension pooling and unemployment insurance. Plans have also been announced to create selected "enterprise groups" through the merger of SOEs that cut across geographical and administrative boundaries and permit labor redeployment to be internalized. Such measures will take time to bear fruit, and, in the short term, the authorities are resigned to the necessity of providing further financial injections to the SOE sector.
In Viet Nam, the SOEs receive indirect subsidies and are thus a cause of unacceptably high rates of inflation. In early 1992 the government indicated a new willingness to move rapidly with enterprise reform and requested foreign technical assistance to help accelerate the process. Factors that constrain the government from moving rapidly on this front include the country's mounting unemployment problem and a lack of resources to build a well-targeted safety-net mechanism for displaced workers. Key to addressing these problems effectively is Viet Nam's ability to link up with the global economy and receive external assistance.
Making Growth Sustainable
The region's rapidly growing economies share a major concern: how to make such
growth sustainable over the long run. Most recognize that the process of structural reform must be maintained. These countries also know that they must confront those public-policy issues—provision of infrastructural facilities and expansion of human skills, for instance—that are key to sustaining growth over the long term as countries move up the technology ladder. The fact that structural reforms have secured public support and that a consensus has been reached in favor of their continuation should make the process sustainable. Efforts are now increasingly being focused on longer-term issues in Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand.
In Indonesia, increasing attention was paid in 1991 to building efficiency in the transport, power, and telecommunications sectors and to developing human-resource skills, and the government's development-expenditure program has been increased in these areas. In recognition of the magnitude of the effort required, greater private provision of what, in the past, had been exclusively public services is being encouraged through regulatory reforms. Malaysia's sixth five-year plan (1991-95) details what major public investments in infrastructure, human resources, and other sectors are needed to permit the country to realize growth through technology-based industrial production rather than from exploitation of natural resources. Similarly, Thailand's seventh five-year plan, launched in 1991, emphasizes development of infrastructure and human resources; the plan also seeks to bring a better regional and social balance to the development process.
Partnership for Better Environment
East Asia's record in protecting and improving the environment has come a long way,
commensurate with the region's leadership role in economic adjustment. Serious concerns are mounting about urban pollution and congestion, waste disposal, depletion of resources, and poor forest-management policies. In many East Asian cities, levels of hazardous particulate matter and sulfur dioxide in the air exceed World Health Organization standards for as many as 100 days a year, the level of heavy metal and organic wastes in many rivers is well above accepted standards, and groundwater resources are overused and are being contaminated by pollutants seeping in from the surface.
Pressure on the region's natural resources, particularly forest resources, is intense and growing. In the past ten years, deforestation has been most extensive in Viet Nam, followed by Thailand and the Philippines. Although Fiji, Indonesia, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, and the Solomon Islands still have a large proportion of land area left in natural forests, certain quarters have expressed concern over threats to these areas, mainly from indiscriminate logging and agricultural encroachment. Indiscriminate felling of the rainforests is taking place in some parts of Southeast Asia as a result of a ban on logging in Thailand and the consequent expansion of logging in Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, and Viet Nam.
The past year witnessed a sharply growing concern about environmental issues in the region. In Thailand, new life was breathed into a costly program aimed at alleviating Bangkok's notorious urban congestion and pollution problems when the government acted to bring project costs in line with financing. Action plans— supported by a Bank-financed highway project—were introduced to deal with harmful atmospheric pollution caused by vehicle emis-
sions, and, as a first step, the government arranged for the successful introduction of lead-free gasoline in major urban areas. In Malaysia, major programs for environmental monitoring and environmental improvements, covering issues relating to pricing policies, institutional development, and investments for controlling urban and industrial pollution, were introduced. In Indonesia, policy focused on strengthening the regulatory institutions responsible for reducing urban and industrial pollution.
China, because of its size, as well as the depth of its environmental problems, presents the region's most serious environmental challenge. Levels of air and water pollution in some of its major cities are among the highest in the world. Depending inevitably on coal as a major energy source, China faces a tremendous challenge in finding effective ways to improve the environment through reducing emissions of "greenhouse" gases. The Chinese authorities are actively engaged in tackling these issues. Over the past decade, China has set up comprehensive environmental laws and regulations, as well as an impressive institutional network for policy enforcement and monitoring. In 1991, the government marked the tenth anniversary of the passage of its National Environment Protection Law by strengthening further the law's provisions for on-site enforcement and by introducing new measures to prohibit the use of heavily polluting industrial technology. China also ratified the Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer, opening the way for assistance from the Bank and other international agencies in developing strategies and investment programs for the phase-out of chlo-rofluorocarbons and other chlorine-based and bromine-based chemicals.
Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992
Through its lending and policy advice, the Bank continued to play an active role in promoting development through structural reforms and private-sector development; in addition, long-term constraints on development were addressed through operations designed to reduce poverty, develop infrastructure, and protect the environment.
During fiscal 1992, commitments by the Bank amounted to $5,457 million, an amount 19 percent higher than in the previous year.
Lending operations in China and Indonesia accounted for about 75 percent of the total. Commitments to the Philippines totaled $430.3 million. Lending operations have stabilized in recent years in mature borrowers such as Thailand and Malaysia; lending levels in those countries during the year were in the $200 million-to-$300 million range. In Korea, the government and the Bank have agreed to phase out Bank lending by fiscal 1995. During the phase-out period, lending will average between $300 million and $400 million annually, and loan amounts will progressively diminish. During this period, lending will concentrate on the social sectors, social infrastructure, small and medium industry, the environment, and other areas that have been neglected.
In the other economies of the region, which accounted for 2 percent of the year's lending, Bank resources devoted to policy work are on the rise. In Viet Nam, projects are being prepared in several key sectors such as agriculture, transport, and education. Bank staff have worked with the Vietnamese government in preparing sector studies on agriculture and food; transportation; energy; education; population, health, and nutrition; and the financial sector. In addition, in collaboration with the International Monetary Fund, the Bank is advising the government on monetary, fiscal, and trade reforms. In Lao PDR and Mongolia, the Bank's role is a broad one, encompassing resource transfers, economic and sector analysis, policy advice, technical assistance, and training.
Relatively few adjustment operations have been designed for countries in the region. The reasons are twofold: East Asian economies have been relatively free of balance-of-payments crises; in addition, the emphasis of the Bank on policy dialogue, through its economic and sector work, has enabled policy reforms to be supported through investment lending.
Only one adjustment loan was approved during the year—to Lao PDR in support of programs of privatization, public-investment reform, and social-sector improvements. In the first full year of Mongolia's membership, an economic report was prepared, and two operations, totaling $35 million, were approved— for economic rehabilitation and for technical assistance designed to strengthen new institutions of macroeconomic management.
South Asia
A fifth of the world's population lives in the countries of South Asia (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka). Economic growth during the 1980s in these countries was modest but respectable. Nonetheless, incomes remain low, and large numbers of South Asians—estimated at between 310 million and 560 million in 1990,2 or half the worldwide total of poor people—continue to live in poverty, with inadequate access to basic social services, and lack employment and other income-generating opportunities. Because of rapid population growth, averaging 2.4 percent a year, pressure on already overstretched public services is likely to mount, implying that governments will be under even more pressure in the 1990s to deliver rising standards of living.
Regional Issues in Perspective
During the past decade, South Asian countries encountered their share of the difficulties that faced most of the developing world. Nonetheless, real growth of gross domestic product (GDP) in the region averaged 4.8 percent a year over this period, compared with only 4.3 percent a year among low-income countries in general (excluding China). Growth was impressive in Pakistan, at 6.4 percent a year, and
India's record of 5.3 percent was also noteworthy. But performance was noticeably weaker in Bangladesh, Nepal, and Sri Lanka. Except in Sri Lanka, population growth rates remained high during the decade, slowing increases in per capita incomes.
At the start of the 1990s, South Asia's economies appeared poised to continue expanding at the steady, if unspectacular, rate of the past decade. The GDP in Bangladesh, India, and Sri Lanka, in fact, grew quite rapidly during 1990 partly as a result of bumper harvests. The region's economies suffered from the effects of the oil shock in late 1990 and the political upheavals in 1991 in the Soviet Union, which sharply diminished traditional export markets for some countries, notably India. The cumulative result is that GDP growth in 1991 was forecast to have averaged only 2.8 percent, and expectations are for continued slow growth in 1992. India was particularly hard hit, and GDP is projected to have grown onlv 2.5 percent in 1991.
The external shocks brought into sharp focus major weaknesses in the region's economies in terms of lack of outward orientation of trade policies, weak financial sectors, restrictive labor markets, inefficient parastatals, and constraints on the private sector. In most countries, the structural-reform process, until very recently, had been slow and tentative, and, to a large extent, the economic and social transformation required for dynamic and sustainable growth remained unrealized. At the same time, the sustainability of macroeco-
2 The higher estimate reflects the count based on an international poverty line set at S31 per person per month, in 1985 constant purchasing-power parity (PPP) prices. The lower count is based on a lower poverty line, at $23 per person per month in 1985 constant PPP prices. The worldwide total of poor people for the high and low poverty lines is 1.138 million and 644 million, respectively. To appreciate the meaning of PPP prices, note, for example, that India's per capita gross national product of $340 in 1990 translates into S1.150 in PPP prices. The $31 poverty line in PPP prices is thus roughly equal to $9 per person per month. The latter is the cost in India of maintaining a minimum caloric intake, at prices prevailing in India.
nomic imbalances increasingly became a major concern, as rapidly rising recurrent public spending tightened pressures on the banking system and the balance of payments. Managing the resource squeeze confronted governments with hard choices and tradeoffs. Cutbacks on subsidies and unproductive spending were typically constrained by political considerations and the difficulty involved in reducing private consumption.
These trying circumstances made it all the more necessary for governments to reconsider their macroeconomic and sectoral policies. Experience elsewhere suggests that growth is essential for poverty reduction, that macro-economic stabilization and structural reforms are essential for growth, and that private-sector development is a key component of reforms. The private sector can contribute to development, however, only when there is an adequate enabling environment within which it can expand. Essential to this environment are such ingredients as maintaining macroeconomic stability, avoiding major price distortions, creating sound financial systems, and providing adequate physical infrastructure and a legal environment that respects property rights and enforces contracts. Of particular importance in recent years have been programs for divesting public-sector enterprises and reducing restrictions on entry of the private sector, both domestic and foreign. Experience elsewhere also provides valuable lessons on ways to reduce poverty, notably that sharper targeting of public antipoverty programs can increase their effectiveness while minimizing their fiscal burden and that long-term and sustained investments in basic education and health services are necessary for genuine progress toward poverty reduction.
In light of these lessons, it is encouraging to note the recent pragmatic responses of South Asian governments. The effort to encourage growth through open markets and private-sector development has gathered speed. At the same time, there is a recognition of government's role in providing social safety nets to protect the poor during macroeconomic adjustment, as well as of government responsibility for investments in social and physical infrastructure. The press of short-term problems notwithstanding, most governments in the region recognize the dangers of postponing or overlooking longer-term goals of social development and poverty reduction and are making efforts to expand investment in basic education and health services. Investments in physical infrastructure, in turn, are being recognized as a focal point for public activity to support an expanded private-sector role in the economy.
Overall, there were hopeful signs in fiscal 1992 that South Asia's economies will emerge from the current wrenching changes better poised to deliver faster, sustained, and poverty-reducing growth in the 1990s. The fragility and sparseness of economic and social institutions continue to pose serious obstacles, however. In the weaker economies of Bangladesh and Nepal, limited implementation capacity exacerbates an already demanding situation. In all countries, the success of reform ultimately depends on governments' capacity to stay the course of economic stabilization and restructuring and to manage the inevitable difficulties in distributing the burden of adjustment among major socioeconomic groups. A more favorable external environment, in terms of favorable movements in terms of trade, continued access to capital flows, and further liberalization of trade, is also needed.
Selected Country Highlights
Recent developments in India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh are particularly noteworthy. Although different in the details of their policy context, these countries, together with Nepal and Sri Lanka, share a continuing agenda of achieving macroeconomic stabilization, initiating and deepening structural reforms, encouraging private-sector development, and reducing poverty.
The government of India that took office in June 1991 inherited an economy in crisis. For three consecutive years, previous governments had been unable to reduce the fiscal deficit to below 9 percent of GDP, and foreign-exchange reserves had declined to around $1 billion (equivalent to the value of two weeks' imports). India's access to commercial credit had been severely curtailed as its credit rating was downgraded, and foreign commercial banks sought to reduce their exposure to India.
The new government swiftly implemented decisive macroeconomic stabilization and structural-reform measures. Within the first month in office, it devalued the rupee by 22 percent (in terms of rupees per United States dollar) and introduced a trade-liberalization package. A revised budget, which set as a target a reduction of the fiscal deficit to 6.5 percent of GDP, followed quickly.
Significant measures were taken to deepen reforms in trade and finance. Partial convertibility of the rupee was achieved. Virtually all capital transactions and most current-account transactions at free-market exchange rates have been permitted. Progress in trade liberalization is being realized through a major reduction in quantitative restrictions and some reductions in tariffs. In the financial sector, the
government has announced a reduction in the statutory liquidity ratio from 38.5 percent to an incremental rate of 30 percent, which is expected to ease credit availability. It has also taken action to strengthen capital markets, including a relaxation of controls over corporate capital issues and the pricing of equity shares.
As India's fiscal and balance-of-payments crisis unfolded in 1990 and 1991, the government recognized that much greater reliance on private-sector development was needed to achieve sustainable growth over the longer term after the short-term goal of stabilizing the economy had been realized. Accordingly, the "new industrial policy," introduced in July 1991, explicitly reduced the areas reserved for public-sector investment, lowered investment-licensing requirements, eased foreign-investment restrictions, and reduced controls over large firms. The production, refining, and marketing of oil and gas were opened to private investors, both domestic and foreign; price and distribution controls in the steel industry were deregulated; and a first step toward the divestiture of public-sector enterprises was taken through the sale of shares in selected enter-
prises to state-owned financial institutions, with further divestiture being planned. The budget for India's 1993 fiscal year (April 1, 1992 to March 31, 1993) provides for an initial allocation to the National Renewal Fund to help cover the cost of retraining and redeploying employees affected by public-enterprise retrenchment and reform.
During the short time that the current government has been in office, it has altered India's policy framework perhaps more fundamentally than during the whole previous decade of gradual reform. Further, it has made clear that the measures taken so far are part of a much broader program to change the development strategy that India has followed since the 1950s. Despite the commendable progress to date, the government continues to face difficult issues in the design of its reform program, especially regarding the pace of public-enterprise reform and the risk of a temporarily higher rate of inflation as structural measures are implemented.
India's longer-term goal of poverty-reduction depends crucially on the success of reforms because of their implications for sustained growth. In the 1980s, the incidence of
Women working in a rice paddy in Sri Lanka. The Bank has lent more than $3 billion in support of agriculture and rural-development projects in the South Asia region.
poverty declined markedly, especially in rural areas, mainly because of overall buoyant economic growth. Still, the country had between 226 million and 448 million poor people in 1990, depending on which poverty lines, cited in footnote 2, one accepts—roughly 35 percent to 40 percent of the world's poor under either definition.
There is, however, concern that some of these gains in poverty reduction may be eroded in the short run in the context of India's current adjustment program. Available evidence suggests that the poor remain highly vulnerable and may be adversely affected by a number of components essential to the reform package, including probable increases in basic food prices (which would follow in the wake of exchange-rate depreciation), reductions in subsidies for fertilizers and power, and short-term unemployment in the urban-manufacturing and service sectors (as firms adjust to increased competition following industrial and trade liberalization). While the government has taken steps to mitigate the effect of the adjustment program on the living standards of the poor, much more will need to be done in the near future, as a complement to the broader
poverty-reduction programs that increased growth will foster.
Despite the effects of external shocks, Pakistan's economy has continued to experience quite rapid growth in recent years. In 1991, GDP grew by about 5.5 percent, with exports growing by about 20 percent in United States dollar terms. Despite good growth performance, Pakistan has found it difficult to keep its fiscal and balance-of-payments deficits within stable ranges.
To address these concerns, the government has moved forward with a program of structural reforms—initiated in the late 1980s— aimed both at strengthening fiscal and balance-of-payments performance, as well as restructuring the respective roles of the public and private sectors. The government's overall vision is to develop an outward-oriented economy that is increasingly free of public controls, has a policy and regulatory environment conducive to private-sector investment, and in which the public sector concentrates primarily on overall policy environment, as well as on those development tasks that cannot be handled by the private sector. As part of this effort, structural reforms in finance, public-
enterprise pricing, and industry and trade policy have been accelerated since late 1990. Financial-sector reforms have included improvements to prudential regulations, introduction of a market-based system for funding the government's domestic debt, the elimination of credit ceilings, and steps to reduce concessional and directed credit. Reforms in industry and trade have concentrated on a reduction in the maximum tariff and nontariff barriers to imports.
The government also launched an ambitious plan in early 1991 aimed at the almost total privatization of state-owned enterprises. Nearly all of the 115 publicly owned industrial enterprises, except in the steel industry, are to be privatized. Bids for some forty firms have been accepted, and, by June 30, 1992, twenty-five industrial units had been sold to the private sector.
The government is also beginning to strengthen reform initiatives in two critical areas where policy changes and action programs have moved quite slowly. The first involves public-expenditure and resource-mobilization issues. The second area concerns social and human-resource development and poverty reduction, where Pakistan's efforts to translate economic progress into social gains have achieved only limited success.
Pakistan's social indicators underscore the urgency of accelerating efforts to improve basic services and tackle poverty concerns. The country's adult literacy rate is 26 percent, its primary-school enrollment ratio stands at 50 percent, life expectancy is about 55 years, and infant-mortality levels are about 107 per 1,000 births. These indicators compare poorly with the averages of other low-income countries. Malnutrition is widespread among children,
and women's living conditions are far poorer than for comparable countries. Pakistan's population growth, currently averaging 3.1 percent a year, remains the highest in Asia.
Because some 29 percent of all households in Pakistan are estimated to be poor, poverty reduction remains one of the government's most challenging tasks. It is also a task that requires continued strong political commitment for its realization, an accelerated effort to expand the provision of basic services by both the public and private sectors (including family planning and female education), sharp increases in public funding in the social sectors, and widened access by the poor to opportunities for increased incomes and productive employment. To assist in this effort, the government, with donor support, is preparing a social-action plan that is intended to establish realistic development targets in the social sectors, while clearly specifying the policy and implementation reforms needed to achieve the country's human-resource development and poverty-reduction goals. At a meeting in April 1992 of the Pakistan consortium, members welcomed the government's presentation of its social-action plan and noted with approval the active participation of the provinces in the plan's preparation, as well as its strong emphasis on family planning and education of girls.
Shortly after the establishment of a broad-based government in May 1991, the new government of Bangladesh was faced with a slowdown of economic activity caused, in part, by the Gulf crisis and by the cyclone that struck in April 1991. The slowdown was exacerbated by severe flooding in August and September of 1991, which ravaged agriculture and impoverished the northern part of the country. Industrial production remained depressed during the
second half of 1991, and the execution of the public-investment program was sluggish in the face of administrative problems associated with the political transition. To stimulate private-sector activity, the government lowered interest rates and reduced margin requirements for opening letters of credit for imports. Beginning December 1991, it also began intensive monitoring of the public-investment program to speed up implementation. Preliminary evidence indicates that economic activity began to accelerate at the beginning of 1992. Agricultural output (mainly foodgrain) is expected to further expand, while industry is showing signs of recovery.
Since mid 1990, a program of fairly wide-ranging structural reforms and private-sector development has been initiated in Bangladesh. In agriculture, all restrictions on the import, distribution, and siting of irrigation equipment and power tillers has been eliminated, and the role of the private sector has been progressively expanded in fertilizer distribution and marketing. The industrial sector is also being liberalized. Under an industrial policy adopted in 1991, only airlines, railways, the production and distribution of electricity, and the ownership of telecommunications facilities are being reserved for the public sector. In all other sectors, the intention is to gradually privatize public enterprises. To date, forty-two enterprises have been targeted for privatization. All shares in government-owned industries are to be sold, wherever appropriate. Foreigners are now permitted to invest in shares through the stock exchange, and full foreign ownership of enterprises is allowed in any part of the country. Comprehensive adjustment programs are also being pursued in the financial sector to improve the efficiency and viability of financial institutions.
To improve efficiency and mobilize resources, reform of the tax system, the centerpiece of which was the introduction of a value-added tax in July 1991, has also taken place. A recent evaluation indicates that tax revenues have increased as a result. Efforts are also under way to strengthen reforms in income taxation and tax administration. In the area of public expenditures, the government has introduced a rolling, three-year public-investment-program that, although limiting the growth of current expenditures, emphasizes high-priority projects in agriculture, rural development, education, family planning, and health and protects targeted programs benefiting the poor.
Poverty in Bangladesh retreated modestly in the early 1980s, but this salutary trend appears to have been halted during 1987-91 by the economic   slowdown   and   the devastation
caused by the floods of 1988, 1989, and 1991. Recent efforts aimed at reducing poverty have focused on reorienting the pattern of public spending that goes to help the poor. In the past, traditional programs targeted to benefit the poor, such as food-for-work and vulnerable group-development programs, were expanded when resources permitted; efforts to enhance the developmental effect of these programs proved to be only marginally successful, however. More recently, an independent foundation has been established to provide credit for income-generating programs directed at the very poor. If growth in the economy takes place, as envisaged, poverty is likely to decline in the next few years.
Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992
The Bank's operational activities in South Asia support the major development challenges faced by the region. Its economic and sector work has already had the effect of redirecting the Bank's policy dialogue with, and lending operations in, the countries of the region: Of the forty-six studies completed since the beginning of 1991, thirteen have concerned poverty and related social-sector issues, eleven explored matters related to structural reform, and three were on private-sector development; the remaining nineteen dealt with a variety of topics.
Poverty assessments have been completed in all countries except for Sri Lanka (for which a study is planned in fiscal 1993). The assessments, a key ingredient in the Bank's poverty-reduction program, form the basis for sharpened policy dialogue on poverty issues. In Pakistan, where issues relating to social development are especially urgent, the design of that country's social-action plan and a follow-up poverty assessment were noteworthy efforts aimed at focusing on a priority item of policy dialogue with the government.
Bank and IDA lending to countries of the region totaled $2,988.8 million, a decrease of $616 million over fiscal 1991 amounts. Twenty-three operations were approved. Given the pervasiveness of poverty in South Asia, the Bank's lending program stresses both short-term and longer-term measures to address the needs of the poor. Two lending operations, totaling $200 million, whose primary objective is to reduce poverty, were approved.
Adjustment operations increased from relatively modest levels: Five adjustment operations were approved in the amount of $808 million, accounting for 22 percent of all projects, or 27 percent of lending volume. In India, the government's recent policy shift toward a major opening of the economy to
domestic and international competition provided the basis for a structural-adjustment operation, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of $500 million to support reforms in trade, industry, finance, and public-sector enterprises. In addition, about $650 million in undis-
bursed loans and IDA credits was canceled and set aside for recommitment to India as new quick-disbursing credits. Adjustment support was also provided to Bangladesh in the form of a public resource-mobilization adjustment credit.
Europe and Central Asia
Developments in the Europe and Central Asia region during fiscal 1992 were dominated by the historic events leading to the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the subsequent establishment of the Commonwealth of Independent States by a majority of the republics of the former Soviet Union, and the initiation of the long and difficult task of transforming the command-driven economies of the newly independent countries into ones that are market based. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which had begun the transformation earlier, continued to experience severe declines in output, suggesting that the task will be arduous and will require the Bank's continuous assistance. The transition process has proven to be more difficult than initially envisaged. In particular, more attention must be paid to the social and political impact of economic policies.
To respond to these historic developments, the Bank established on December 1, 1991, a new regional vice presidency that encom-
passes the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union's successor states, as well as Cyprus, Portugal, and Turkey. In August 1991, the Bank's executive board had approved a $30 million Technical Cooperation Program (TCP) through which systematic Bank work on economic issues in the Soviet Union could be funded during fiscal 1992. Resident missions were established in Bucharest, Moscow, and Sofia. Albania became a member of the IBRD and IDA in October 1991; membership in the Bank was approved by the board of governors in April for thirteen of the fifteen former Soviet republics; and membership was approved in early May for the remaining two republics. The Russian Federation and Estonia officially became members of the Bank on June 16 and June 23, respectively. Membership applications from Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, and Slovenia are also being processed.
Transition to a Market Economy
The countries of Central and Eastern Europe continued during the year to demonstrate their commitment to a thorough transformation of their economic systems within the context of parliamentary democracy and in the face of severe economic adversity. The transformation process is proceeding against the backdrop of massive terms-of-trade shocks resulting from the collapse of the previously dominant Soviet export market, and, for some countries, a heavy burden of external debt and external-financing shortfalls. The process of dismantling one economic system in favor of another involves macroeconomic stabilization and a reorientation of the role of the state; reform of incentives and price systems; enterprise reform and privatization; reform and development of the financial sector and banking system; the abolition of state monopolies on foreign trade, foreign exchange, and production; the installation of legal frameworks for the development of market economies; and the construction of social safety nets.
The transition process in Central and Eastern Europe reveals a diversity of experience, notwithstanding the common features of most
reform programs. Differences in the historical and institutional heritage are affecting the outcome and speed of the adjustment process. On the one hand, Hungary and Poland have benefited from previous experience with enterprise autonomy, and the private sector already employs more than 25 percent of the urban labor force in those countries. For Albania, on the other hand, the transition process is just beginning. The emphasis on stabilization in Czechoslovakia, coupled with the tight financial policies of the previous regime, will allow the country to emerge from the initial period of adjustment with a relatively low debt burden and a low rate of inflation. In Romania, by contrast, the draconian cuts in consumption implemented in the late 1980s to facilitate foreign-debt repayments resulted in an initial upsurge in consumption and hard-currency imports, complicating the ensuing stabilization effort.
While each country in Central and Eastern Europe clearly faces different challenges, reflecting, among other things, the conditions that existed prior to the initiation of reform, the duration of the reform effort, and political
priorities, several common characteristics emerging from the reform process can be distinguished: Price liberalization has generally resulted in some easing of shortages, for example, while the establishment of legal frameworks for the emergence of private-sector activity has resulted, in some countries, in the beginnings of development.
The external-trade shock, coupled with massive cuts in investment that reflected a hardening of constraints on the budgets of state-owned enterprises and the realignment of relative prices, led to large declines in real gross domestic product (GDP) in 1991 for the second consecutive year. Output declines ranged from about 8 percent in Hungary and Poland (notwithstanding the continued rapid growth of exports to the industrialized countries) to about 23 percent in Bulgaria, the country most dependent on the Soviet market and therefore the country most adversely affected by the demise of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA). Output declines in 1991 in Yugoslavia and Albania can only be estimated; surely, however, they were larger than Bulgaria's. In Yugoslavia, the out-
Moscow's central pedestrian shopping area, the Arbat, where entrepreneurship has quickly taken hold.
break of hostilities among some republics caused further disruption to economic activity, while in Albania, the initial transition phase proved particularly traumatic given the rigidity and degree of isolation of the prior regime and the relatively higher incidence of poverty. Starting from negligible levels in 1989, unemployment rose throughout the subregion, reaching about 12 percent of the labor force in Poland and even more in some other countries.
Despite substantial progress in reducing fiscal expenditures (as shares of GDP), fiscal deficits rose in several countries, reflecting even steeper contractions of revenue. The latter phenomenon, perhaps most apparent in Poland, resulted from that country's prior heavy reliance on enterprise profits, which fell with the economic downturn. As a result, Poland, which managed to reduce inflation to about 60 percent in 1991 from hyperinflation-ary levels in 1989, must renew its emphasis on fiscal austerity to prevent a deteriorating public-finance outlook from undermining its stabilization effort. Bulgaria managed to reduce its fiscal deficit significantly in 1991, and inflation is expected to decline in 1992. Bulgaria also needs to tighten fiscal policies further, however, to prevent deficits from widening. Romania had a very tight fiscal policy in 1991 (the
deficit of the consolidated general government budget was 0.8 percent of GDP).
Notwithstanding the external shocks, balance-of-payments performance in 1991 was more favorable than anticipated in some cases. Czechoslovakia and Hungary recorded current-account surpluses, attracted substantial foreign direct investment (about $1.5 billion in the case of Hungary and $600 million in the case of Czechoslovakia), and accumulated significant foreign-exchange reserves. By contrast, Bulgaria and Romania faced foreign-exchange shortages due to the lack of external financing; in the case of Bulgaria, the shortage was exacerbated by the unavailability of commercial credit lines pending an agreement with commercial banks on debt reduction. World Bank structural-adjustment loans to Bulgaria and Romania and an IDA critical-imports credit to Albania, coupled with International Monetary Fund standby programs, aim at alleviating foreign-exchange shortages while supporting the policy framework for systemic reform and stabilization.
While the external shocks and investment cuts directly affected output, the inherently slower and more difficult process of adjustment at the enterprise level also constrained the supply response to rapidly enacted price
and trade liberalizations. Hence, acceleration of enterprise reform will be critical in generating a response to the reformed incentive structure.
In this respect, the progress already achieved in establishing a legal framework for private-sector development and privatization holds promise. Growth in the number of registered private enterprises throughout the subre-gion (supported in the case of Poland by the Bank's Private Enterprise Development Project) has been explosive; privatization in the agricultural sector and of small-scale enterprises, shops, and restaurants has also progressed rapidly.
Although privatization of enterprises has proceeded more slowly than had been expected, improved understanding has been reached on the complexity and time required to enact ownership changes, whether through mass privatization schemes or on a case-by-case basis, or whether through "giveaways," sales, or "pilot" privatization. The preparation for large-scale privatization was most advanced in Hungary, Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Romania; in the latter three countries, top priority was given to the design of mass privatization schemes that were finalized during the past year.3 The number of completed privatizations is expected to increase throughout the subregion in fiscal 1993. Completed privatizations through fiscal year 1992 progressed furthest in Hungary, which, despite relying on more traditional methods, benefited from a more developed legal framework and capital markets, larger inflows of foreign capital, and a longer history of experimenting with market-based reforms. In Romania, the first privatization of shops and restaurants occurred in December 1991; asset-selling accelerated in 1992. In May 1992, the free distribution of 30 percent of stock to the whole population through a set of mutual funds was begun. In addition, most enterprises have been commercialized (transformed into joint stock companies or limited liability companies) with a view to their future privatization.
Given the complexity and time required to carry out privatization, increased attention to issues of governance and to the restructuring of state enterprises is required in parallel with the privatization process. Governance concerns have been given serious attention in Hungary, where, with support from the Bank in the form of a $200 million loan for enterprise reform, a comprehensive program to reform the state enterprise sector has been developed. Bulgaria is expected to get similar Bank support for private-sector development and industrial development.
Protecting the Vulnerable during Transition
The magnitude and duration of the declines in output and the resulting fiscal constraints have brought into focus the importance of implementing policies that can protect vulnerable groups during the transition to a market-based economy. Pre-reform labor markets were characterized by job security, hoarding of labor, and a blurring of the distinction between wages and income transfers. A central part of current reforms is the move towards market-determined prices, wages, and employment. An inevitable result is a widening distribution of earnings and income, including rising unemployment and increased poverty.
Policies to protect vulnerable groups fall into three categories. Policies that aim at poverty relief cover the development of systems of unemployment benefits and proactive labor-market policies—that is, employment services that provide information to job seekers and employers, training and retraining, and mi-croenterprise development; the development of systems of social assistance to which means tests are applied; and the provision of a minimum level of unemployment benefits, sick pay, and pensions at or above the level of subsistence. A second category, made up of cost-containment measures, seeks to improve the targeting of benefits that go to the most vulnerable by (a) reducing old-age pensions to individuals who continue to work full time, (b) providing only partial indexation of benefits above the minimum benefit, and (c) improving the incentive structure of benefits. The third category involves policies designed to improve administration; they might involve ways to streamline the structure of benefits, increase institutional capacity, and strengthen proactive labor-market policies.
Policies to protect vulnerable groups are being implemented with World Bank support. Technical assistance is being provided, for example, to Bulgaria, Russia, and Ukraine. In Russia, the Bank has advised on ways to safeguard minimum consumption levels as price subsidies are removed, on how to protect and redeploy those who become unemployed as the economy is restructured, and on the
3 The coupon-privatization process was begun in Czechoslovakia in May 1992. About 8.6 million holders of privatization coupons—more than half of the country's population— may opt to pool them in any of the 437 privatization-investment funds, or they may invest their coupons directly in any of some 1,500 companies slated for privatization during the first year. The process involves industrial assets with an estimated book value of almost $9 billion.
introduction or adoption of institutional arrangements to protect minimum living standards in a market-oriented economy. Support is also being provided through sector work in Hungary, Poland, and Romania. In Romania, for example, the social sectors, labeled "nonproductive sectors" under the regime of Nico-lae Ceausescu, were politicized and severely underfunded. Under the post-revolutionary government, social-sector spending has increased to 17 percent of GDP. Work on developing a strategy for social-sector reform has begun. With World Bank support, problems in different sectors are being identified, and reform priorities are being set and implemented (in the health and education sectors, for example). In some cases—in Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia—implementation of social policies is an integral part of Bank-supported structural-adjustment programs. In still other cases—in Hungary and Poland—Bank assistance is being provided through traditional project lending. Thus, in Poland, a $100 million Bank loan is supporting a program designed to minimize the adverse effects of mass layoffs. Specifically, the program focuses on early intervention at the plant or enterprise prior to layoff. In addition, integrated materials and techniques for occupational counselling are being developed, and staff from local labor offices are being trained to use them.
Addressing Environmental Concerns
Environmental degradation has become a stark symbol of the old system's profligate and, inevitably destructive, command-driven economic regime. Low resource prices, widespread subsidies, lack of accountability and enforcement, and perverse incentives all contributed to a situation in which environmental pollution was implicitly encouraged as an inevitable side-effect of the achievement of economic and political objectives.
In Central and Eastern Europe, however, most of the ground rules have changed during the past twelve to eighteen months, and the same thing is likely to occur in the Soviet Union's successor republics. Economic transformation, the rapid adjustment of prices to international levels, and the consequences of initial industrial restructuring have resulted in a dramatic drop in production and, thus, lower pollution-emission levels. Urgent problems remain, however. The widespread use of coal for home heating in many areas, for example, as well as the continued operation of some heavily polluting large enterprises, continues to have a substantial adverse effect on health. Similarly, pervasive water pollution will require major investments to provide clean wa-
ter. The fate of "mothballed" industries and nuclear power plants will involve important environmental considerations.
A lack of funds to pay for cleanup activities, coupled with weak implementation capacity, implies an urgent need to establish priorities. Specific environmental investments will need to be targeted at those problems that will not be ameliorated by changes in resource prices and industrial restructuring. Initial evidence suggests that, because some of the most severe environmental problems have a limited number of causes, a few crucial policy and investment measures are likely to have a far-reaching effect. Moreover, major environmental improvements may be achievable at lower cost than frequently mentioned—provided that realistic intermediate targets are set over the next ten to twelve years. Nonetheless, important environmental-policy issues—such as the strictness of environmental standards, liability for past environmental damage, responsibility for transboundary pollution—remain unresolved and are creating uncertainty for enterprises and potential investors who want to be reassured that unambiguous rules will be spelled out and be uniformly enforced.
Environmental-strategy studies have been completed by the Bank, in collaboration with the respective governments, for most Central and Eastern European countries, and a policy dialogue on environmental issues has been established with the Soviet Union's successor states. The Bank is playing a major role as a participant in the environmental programs for the Baltic sea and for the Danube river basin, and is serving as the secretariat of a task force preparing an environmental-action program for Central and Eastern Europe. It has also prepared, in concert with the United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Environment Programme, a draft work plan for the Global Environment Facility-supported Black sea project, designed to initiate the development of a long-term program to reverse the environmental degradation and to rationalize management of the natural resources of the Black sea. Environmental issues have also been dealt with in a number of sector reports and operations, such as the Power and Environmental Improvement Project in Czechoslovakia, the major portion of which is dedicated to environmental improvements.
Reform Begins in the Former Soviet Union
The newly independent states that were once constituent parts of the Soviet Union face the daunting task of introducing systemic economic reforms while creating the institutions
needed for the governance of independent nations. Several factors make the task of transition more difficult than in Central and Eastern Europe. For all the countries (save for Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania), the longer duration of the communist legacy implies that a greater effort will be required to build the skills and institutions needed to make a market economy function. In most states, the question of whether and when to adopt a national currency has not yet been resolved: The difficulties associated with coordination of financial policies in what is still the ruble zone must be weighed against the lack of resources and institutional capacity needed to adopt separate currencies. Finally, for the smaller, natural resource-poor states (Belarus and Kyrghyz-stan, for example), the terms-of-trade shocks that are resulting from the move to world prices, together with the disruption of domestic production caused by collapsing interrepub-lic trade, are likely to be greater than those experienced in Central and Eastern Europe, given the republics' greater dependence on such trade in the past. Even an agriculturally rich and outward-looking republic like Georgia has been adversely affected by these economic uncertainties.
Against the background in 1991 of a decline in output by about 10 percent, inflation estimated at 140 percent (notwithstanding pervasive price controls), a budget deficit in excess of 20 percent of GDP, and growing shortages of food, medicine, and fuel, the Russian Federation embarked on a decisive liberalization of prices, the exchange rate, and trade in January 1992. All but 5 percent of consumer prices were freed in a two-stage process that was completed in April 1992. Prices on energy products, however, are expected to reach world levels more gradually. Imports were almost completely liberalized, and an interbank foreign-exchange auction began to function, with foreign exchange available for imports and profits remittances.
The Russian government also took forceful action in the first quarter of 1992 to reduce the budget deficit. Military expenditures, investments, and subsidies were reduced, while the introduction of a value-added tax and new petroleum taxes allowed the budget to capture much of the benefits from higher energy prices. For stabilization to succeed, these fiscal adjustments will need to be continued and strengthened and be complemented by tight monetary policy.
Progress has been slower in establishing the institutions and legal and regulatory framework needed for a market economy. Government initiatives to privatize rapidly small-scale
enterprises and shops, to commercialize larger enterprises, and to prepare for mass privatization must be accompanied by concomitant actions to clarify property rights and enact commercially oriented laws. In this regard, special attention should also be given to the consistency of the legal framework.
Policies that spur competition are also necessary; such policies would ensure that demo-nopolization is carried out in conjunction with privatization and that the formation of new private enterprises is encouraged. In addition, efforts to restructure the commercial banking system and to improve prudential regulations and surveillance must be accelerated. Overlying all these issues are serious questions that relate to the issues of governance. As the public sector adapts to a market economy, the responsibilities of various levels and branches of government require urgent clarification, especially on fiscal issues.
While Russia is the largest of the republics of the former Soviet Union and has moved more rapidly than most with a program of economic reform, other republics are also engaged in the difficult process of reforming their economies. In its dialogue with the Bank and the International Monetary Fund, Ukraine is drawing up a reform plan that will be discussed in parliament. At the same time, the Bank is helping Ukraine improve its institutional capacity through the provision of technical assistance. The republics of the former Soviet Union, in varying degrees, are aware that the outcome of the Russian stabilization and reform effort will influence greatly their parallel efforts, particularly with respect to inflation. Most followed the Russian example by liberalizing prices in January 1992, in part to avoid the outflow of goods to markets where prices were freed. Despite such price liberalizations, nearly all the states erected export barriers to interre-public trade to prevent the outflow of scarce commodities. This action, coupled with the declining use of the ruble (and the increasing use of barter), is expected to result in sharply lower levels of such trade in 1992. The resulting disruption to production and the almost total lack of foreign exchange in several states tended to exacerbate the shortages of food, medicine, and critical spare parts and contributed to a substantial decline in output.
Central and indispensable components of the reform effort involve the large-scale transformation of existing state-owned enterprises into efficient and profitable private companies that respond to market signals in a competitive environment and the establishment of a wide range of new private enterprises. The Soviet Union's successor states are currently saddled
with (a) the remnants of a centrally directed economic system in which both production and trade tended to be more advantageous to the center than to that of the successor states of the Soviet Union; (b) a large state-owned sector characterized by widespread inefficiency, technological obsolescence, and excessive backward integration; (c) a distorted industrial structure that favors heavy industry and military production over consumer and civilian goods and services; and (d) the virtual absence of private enterprises and a competitive environment. A number of states have made enterprise transformation a basic objective of reform and are attempting to establish the legal and institutional framework needed to achieve this goal. Their immediate need is for substantial amounts of technical assistance to help design the basic framework and policies and, subsequently, to initiate implementation.
Institutional capacity building is more needed in the republics other than Russia, since their economic development and external relations were controlled through Moscow. There exists little experience in dealing with the design of policy frameworks or with communication with the outside world.
During fiscal 1992, the Bank provided technical assistance for the design of the framework for privatization, foreign investment, and new enterprise development in the four republics that signed technical-cooperation agreements following the collapse of the Soviet Union—Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrghyzstan, and Russia. Follow-up loans, which would provide comprehensive packages of technical assistance and equipment to help implement privatization and enterprise reform, are currently under consideration.
In addition, action plans are being developed under proposed rehabilitation loans to establish clear understandings with all states on the direction, pace, and content of their reform programs as a basis for further support. The action plans also seek to establish policy understandings on issues such as price, trade, financial-sector, and legal reforms; sector-specific reforms in areas such as agriculture, energy, and housing; improved social safety-net arrangements during the transitional period; and training programs and institutional reforms. In all cases, the Bank is working closely with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other major donors to coordinate the assistance that is being offered.
Reform in Turkey
The new government in Turkey, installed in November 1991, inherited a public-sector deficit that had grown to about 13 percent of gross national product (GNP) and an inflation rate that had reached 70 percent. The external current account, however, shifted into surplus for the year, reflecting not only the sharp slowdown in economic activity and the receipt of Gulf crisis-related grants but also the export sector's success in finding new markets for its goods and services to replace those that had been lost in the Middle East.
The government has stated its intention to accelerate the privatization process and reform of public enterprises. Given the size of the state-enterprise sector and its contribution to the fiscal deficit, it is unlikely that any stabilization effort in Turkey would succeed without forceful action—in particular, action to limit the drain on the budget of the largest loss-makers—on this front.
Graduation in Cyprus
Cyprus is in the process of a transition to meet the challenge of the impending unification of the European Community and is focusing its efforts on competing within this market. The Bank's assistance strategy has been to support the government's efforts to diversify the country's economic base and foster exports, as well as to protect the environment, particularly its coastal waters. This strategy was supported in fiscal 1992 by a $32 million Bank loan designed to address the drainage and wastewater problems in three towns on the island's southeast coast. With this project, Cyprus graduated from the status of Bank borrower.
Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992
Commitments by the Bank to the countries of the region in fiscal 1992 totaled $2,143.3 million for fourteen operations in eight countries, including a first operation in Albania. In comparison, commitments in fiscal 1991 totaled $3,867 million for nineteen projects in eight countries. Of the operations approved in fiscal 1991, five projects, totaling over $1 billion, were advanced to the last month of the fiscal year, thus temporarily depleting the project pipeline in fiscal 1992.
Latin America and the Caribbean
By the end of fiscal 1992, almost all countries in the Latin America and the Caribbean region had adopted programs of structural adjustment. During the year, new adjustment programs were adopted in a few countries, and
many existing programs were strengthened and deepened.
These programs invariably emphasize greater macroeconomic stability through reductions in public-sector deficits; reforms of public-sector institutions so as to make progress in public finances sustainable; a realignment of prices, exchange rates, and interest rates to reflect market conditions; reductions in import restrictions and tariffs; the privatization of public-sector enterprises; and the encouragement of private-sector involvement in the operation of infrastructure, public utilities, and financial-sector institutions.
Many countries have also introduced social safety-net programs and have retargeted social expenditures to better reach the most vulnerable groups in society. The qualitative changes introduced in all these programs have been designed to make growth sustainable.
These reforms are beginning to bear fruit. In 1991, total output in Latin America grew by about 3.0 percent, marking the first time in four years that per capita income grew in real terms. Excluding Brazil, which is in the midst of a recession, the region's growth was about 4.3 percent, indicating substantial progress in most countries. Nevertheless, per capita income still remains below the level attained in 1979. Inflation rates have fallen in most countries (although they still could be lower); the average rate for the region in 1991 was about 75 percent.4 In Argentina, for example, inflation was about 139 percent, compared with over 1,900 percent and 3,000 percent in the two preceding years. In Peru, the 1991 inflation rate of 379 percent, while still high, is a considerable improvement over the 6,800 percent of the year before.
The private sector is clearly responding to greater economic stability and to the new set of incentives being put in place. Overall, domestic investment in the region rose by about 4 percent in 1991. Several countries—such as Guyana, for example—have had a significant
4 Unweighted average, excluding Nicaragua (2,770 percent in 1991). Data refer to changes in estimated GDP deflators.
supply response in the agricultural sector, as farmers respond to market-determined prices and greater accessibility of inputs.
An additional positive sign has been the renewed access of many countries to international capital markets. Led by Mexico, capital inflows to Latin America were the highest since the early 1980s. In Mexico, a jump in inflows of nearly $10 billion was about evenly accounted for by the proceeds of privatization, a rise in foreign direct investment, and increased purchases of outstanding securities. Chile continued to attract significant capital inflows that were reflective of foreign investors' interest in the country.
Broad advances were registered elsewhere in Latin America, as flight capital returned and direct investment rose. Latin American countries raised $18 billion in 1991 in international capital markets, about twice the amount raised during the previous year. Major participants included Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, and Venezuela. Another positive sign was the upward movement in secondary-market prices for Latin American debt, which moved from an
average of 27 cents at the end of 1989 to 49 cents in March 1992.
While much has been accomplished in improving macroeconomic balances and the environment for private activity and investment, much remains to be done. Serious social and institutional problems remain in many countries. Priority areas for future attention include the need to eradicate the worst aspects of poverty, to accelerate human-resource development and the quality of social services, and to improve public administration.
Policy Adjustments during 1991-92
Several countries in the region added to ongoing reform programs by taking major policy steps during the past year. These reforms included changes in trade regimes, tax reforms, and improved programs in the social sectors.
In Argentina, the maximum external tariff was reduced to 22 percent, ad valorem import duties were eliminated, and export taxes were reduced. In Brazil, most nontariff barriers were eliminated, and a program of tariff reduction is being implemented that will decrease
Children in a classroom in Medellin, Colombia. Average annual Bank lending for primary education during the period fiscal 1991-93 is expected to be triple the amount realized in fiscal 1990.
the average import tariff from 32.2 percent in 1990 to 14.3 percent as of July 1993. Colombia's program of tariff reduction—in which average tariffs have been reduced to 15 percent from 44 percent in 1989—was completed three years ahead of schedule. Trade reform in that country was also extended to the agricultural sector, where quantitative restrictions on imports were virtually eliminated and a system of variable tariffs was introduced for key agricultural products. Most import tariffs in Honduras were adjusted to the 5 percent-to-30 percent range, while import permits and foreign-exchange allocations have been eliminated. Venezuela's program of tariff reform was also completed three years ahead of schedule. Prior to 1989, maximum tariffs in Venezuela were 135 percent; in 1991, the maximum stood at 40 percent, and the government is committed to reduce tariffs on nonagricultural imports to the 10 percent-to-20 percent range by the end of 1992. In Jamaica, foreign-exchange controls affecting capital transfers were removed.
Many countries have taken steps to reform their tax systems and improve tax administration. In El Salvador, tax reforms (carried out in both 1991 and 1992) have reduced distortions and improved incentives. The reforms have
also included a reduction in the implicit tax rate on coffee exports and a lowering of the maximum tax rates for personal and business income. In Guyana, tax reforms have simplified the structure of income taxes and reduced rates at the upper end, taxes on imports have been decreased, and the structure of consumption taxes has been simplified. In Paraguay, a large number of taxes was replaced by a few ad valorem levies, and a new value-added tax was introduced. In the Dominican Republic, tax reform has eliminated many exemptions and deductions, lowered the level of rates, and exempted incomes of the poorest from taxation; however, important problems of tax administration remain.
Expansion of programs to cushion the effect of adjustment on the poor took place in El Salvador, where the minimum taxable-income limit was raised and several short-term safety-net programs were introduced, and in Venezuela, where nutritional and maternal-child health-care reforms were introduced, including improvements in the targeting of maternal-child health programs and expanded coverage of community day-care programs for needy children. In Honduras, a pilot food-coupon program has been broadened and targeted to
the poor by using primary health-care centers and primary schools in poor areas as distribution points. The use of redeemable coupons has eliminated the logistical problems of food distribution. In Bolivia, the government is increasing budget allocations for primary health care and primary education, but these need to be supported by improved implementation.
New Programs of Adjustment
Countries that have recently adopted adjustment programs with the assistance of the Bank and that are now beginning to deal with fundamental structural problems include Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, and Guatemala.
When the present government of Nicaragua came to power in April 1990, it was faced with a country in economic ruin from a ten-year civil war and a bureaucratic apparatus that controlled almost every facet of economic activity. A major reform program, launched in March 1991, included a 400 percent devaluation of the cordoba and a package of policies aimed at fiscal and monetary austerity. The public-sector deficit was brought under control by reducing current expenditures, particularly those for defense and internal security. Public-sector monopolies in trade and marketing were abolished, and full access to foreign exchange by the private sector was established. Public employment was reduced, the tax system was overhauled, and privatization of about one third of 350 public enterprises was completed. The implementation of this reform program has received support from the Bank and other official donors through the mechanism of a consultative group chaired by the Bank. In September 1991, Nicaragua cleared $223 million in arrears owed to the Bank; shortly thereafter, a $110 million economic-recovery credit was approved—the first commitment by the Bank to the country since 1982.
Panama adopted a comprehensive adjustment program in 1992. The program seeks to lower tariffs and remove quantitative restrictions on imports, reform the social-security and tax systems, reduce public-sector employment, and privatize public enterprises. This strategy is being supported by a $120 million economic-recovery loan from the Bank. Panama eliminated its arrears to multilateral organizations in February 1992 and is initiating discussions with its private-bank creditors on a rescheduling of its private-sector debts.
In Peru, the government of President Alberto Fujimori continued to make progress in correcting the major distortions and fiscal imbalances that had been introduced into the economy during the previous five years. During 1991, quantitative restrictions on imports
were eliminated, and tariff levels were simplified and reduced. In addition, the monopoly rights of twelve public enterprises were abolished, the insurance business was deregulated, customs procedures and port services were liberalized, and the country's rigid labor legislation was significantly relaxed. The government also announced that it would seek to privatize twenty-three public enterprises, and it repealed the 1987 law nationalizing the banking system and introduced a new banking law, which will open Peru's commercial banking to foreign investment. Prodded by the need to raise public revenue, the government has embarked on a tax-reform program and is restructuring tax administration. Despite significant achievements in the short term, the country's stabilization prospects depend on a still precarious fiscal balance. Much of Peru's external debt of $21 billion is in arrears, and rights to future lending by the International Monetary Fund and the Bank are being accumulated on a contingent basis pending the eventual clearance of arrears.
Guatemala is another country in the process of adopting a significant adjustment program. The government has reduced the fiscal deficit and the rate of inflation, reduced import tariffs to a 5 percent-to-30 percent band, begun to eliminate quantitative import restrictions, and lifted all remaining price controls. A major tax-reform package was passed in April-May 1992, which eliminated exemptions to the value-added tax, simplified and reduced rates for the personal income tax, and reduced the corporate income tax to 25 percent. The government is also moving ahead with reforms that will reduce the presence of the public sector in banking and increase expenditures and services in the social sectors.
Privatization and Entry
The broad objective of every adjustment program is the creation of a more efficient economy. Privatization of public enterprises, along with deregulation of government controls on the private sector and the elimination of barriers to entry, has been an integral part of this strategy in most Latin American countries. In the past, public enterprises often suffered from excessive administrative controls, over-staffing, poor management, and poor investment decisionmaking. Loss-making enterprises were often unable to increase efficiency by replacing obsolete capital equipment. Privatization and increased access by the private sector to new areas can restore efficiency by increasing competition, while reducing the fiscal drain caused by loss-making public enterprises. In the case of natural monopolies, how-
ever, the public sector must continue to maintain its regulatory responsibilities. Freed from the fiscal and administrative drain caused by public-enterprise problems, government officials can concentrate on those activities that are best suited to the public sector: the provision of essential public goods and infrastructure in support of development and the funding of programs in the social sectors that both assist the poor and help develop human-capital resources.
Since 1973, Chile has sold—or in some cases, closed—about 500 state-owned enterprises, including banks, as part of an environment of sustained macroeconomic and regulatory reforms. The private sector has full freedom of entry into the public-utilities and infrastructure sectors. Since 1982, Mexico has merged, liquidated, transferred, or sold more than 900 out of a total of 1,155 state-owned enterprises. This program was started with smaller enterprises in mind and its focus was essentially on mergers and liquidation. After a period of success, privatization of large enterprises, such as the airlines (1988), the telephone company (1990), and commercial banks (1990), has been emphasized. All eighteen public-sector commercial banks have been sold, and the fertilizer and steel industries are in the process of being privatized.
Accelerated privatization is at the center of Argentina's present stabilization and reform efforts. Privatization of major state-owned enterprises, including the national airline, some electricity-generating plants, and telecommunications companies, has been completed. The government plans to privatize virtually all other enterprises before the end of 1992, including gas, water, and power companies; the merchant fleet; the post office; and enterprises under the defense ministry, particularly steel and petrochemical plants. The state petroleum company has been stripped of its monopoly powers and is being turned into a commercial entity, while most of its oil fields have been sold. Finally, the government intends to downsize the overdimensioned public banking system and promote the development of capital markets.
Venezuela's strong program of public-sector reform has resulted in the privatization of three banks, the country's international airline, the telecommunications company (sold for $1.9 billion), a shipbuilding company, and a cellular phone company. It has targeted an additional 70 enterprises for privatization, with priority given to ports, sugar refineries, hotels, the domestic airline, and water and electric-power enterprises. Jamaica has divested close to 20 percent of its total public-enterprise assets,
including the telephone company and hotels, and is committed to privatizing an additional sixty-seven entities, representing 50 percent of total assets. During calendar years 1991-92, Brazil auctioned off nine enterprises, including the large steel complex, USIMINAS. Another group of eighteen state-owned enterprises is slated to be privatized. This group includes enterprises in the steel, petrochemical, mining, energy, transportation, fertilizer, and capital-goods industries. Privatization programs are also under way in Bolivia, Guyana, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay.
Activities of the Bank, Fiscal 1992
The Bank continues to play an important role in the adjustment process in Latin America. This role ranges from the advice it gives through its economic and sector work to direct lending in support of adjustment and debt-service reduction programs, as well as its more traditional project lending. The Bank continues to place a high priority on projects that provide targeted interventions that reach the poor and vulnerable groups, develop human resources, and help protect the environment.
In fiscal 1992, new commitments totaled $5,662 million, involving forty-five operations. This amount represented a slight increase over the $5,237 million level of the previous year. The largest commitments were to Mexico ($1.5 billion), Peru ($1.0 billion), and Brazil ($798 million). About $1.7 billion, or 30 percent, of total commitments was in the form of adjustment lending; of this amount, however, over half ($1.0 billion) went to Peru in the form of three adjustment operations. Commitments to Peru are being made under the Bank's program for countries with protracted arrears. Under this arrangement, Peru accumulates "contingent disbursements" from approved adjustment loans. Actual disbursements will not take place, however, until arrears have been cleared, an event that is expected to take place in fiscal 1993. At that time, and assuming that all of the loan conditions have been met, the Bank will disburse the three loans approved in fiscal 1992.
About 60 percent of total World Bank lending in the region represented projects in such traditional areas as agriculture, water supply, and transport. Projects aimed at poverty reduction constituted about 20 percent of total lending. They included projects in support of primary-education development in Costa Rica, Ecuador, and Mexico; a low-income, barrios-improvement project in Venezuela; a social-investment fund in Honduras; a small-farmer services project in Chile; and a rural-development project in Ecuador.
Box 6-3. New Dimensions in Regional Integration
The past year has seen further development of regional trading agreements in the Americas. Attempts at regional integration in Latin America are not new. There is, however, a significant qualitative difference between past experiences and the current initiatives. In the past, most regional trading arrangements were based on the erection of high tariff barriers against imports from nonmember countries and were basically oriented toward the promotion of regional import substitution. This inward orientation clearly limited potential gains, and most of these arrangements eventually collapsed. Today, tariffs are being lowered, and quantitative restrictions are being lifted as part of countries' individual structural-adjustment programs. Thus, the potential for lasting agreement on free-trade accords is much better. The slow progress and uncertain outcome of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have also increased interest in organizing regional arrangements.
Mexico is currently negotiating a free-trade arrangement with the United States and Canada, which would be known as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The major issues to be resolved include the pace of adjustment necessary in Mexico's agricultural sector, which, on the one hand, would benefit from greater access to U.S. markets for fruits and vegetables, but, on the other, would face more competition from imported foodgrains. Other important issues include local-content rules for automobiles, environmental protection, safeguards against dumping, subsidies, and rules restricting access to Mexico's financial-services market and oil/petrochemical resources. The NAFTA is the first of what could possibly be a series of free-trade arrangements with the countries of the hemisphere and the United States under the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative. As of June 1992, thirty-one of thirty-four countries had signed framework agreements with the United States that establish bilateral commissions on trade and investment, designed to guide the consultation process leading to free-trade agreements.
In June 1991, the governments of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay ratified the Treaty of Asuncion, under which a common market (MERCOSUR) will be established. Under this treaty, all customs duties and nontariff barriers between member countries are scheduled to be phased out and eliminated by the end of 1994,1 and a common external tariff and common trade policy will be established. The treaty also pro-
vides for the free movement of goods, services, capital, and labor within the common market and a mechanism for the coordination of macroeconomic policies.
Discussions have also been initiated toward the possible renewal of the Central American Economic Community, which might include Panama and Belize, as well as the five Central American states of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Such an arrangement has been facilitated by the prior agreement of the Central American countries to establish a maximum tariff of 20 percent by the end of 1992 and to join the GATT.
In addition, the five countries of the Andean Pact (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela) have agreed to move toward a regional free-trade arrangement during the period 1992^-95. The goal of the Andean Group is one of economic integration, including regional free trade, a common external tariff, and a coordinated regional approach in other areas. However, recent negotiations have proven difficult, and progress toward these goals is now stalled.
Bilateral and trilateral discussions are also taking place: Mexico is negotiating limited trade-liberalization arrangements with Venezuela and Colombia; Chile and Mexico have signed a bilateral free-trade agreement; and Chile is negotiating arrangements with Venezuela and Colombia.
The region's only operating trade arrangement is the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM), which has been in existence since 1973. During 1991, the CARICOM. countries reached agreement on a new common external tariff, which has generally been accepted by most members. However, the new tariff has a range of ©percent to 45 percent, with high duties reserved for goods that compete with domestic producers within the CARICOM. thereby encouraging a rather costly regional import-substitution regime. In addition, many members have added temporary surcharges and stamp duties to the basic common external tariff, further raising protection for certain industries. The high maximum rate of the tariff is out of line with maximum tariffs elsewhere in the region, and discourages extra-regional exports. CARICOM members are now considering the possibility of reducing theircom-mon external tariffs in order to improve resource allocation and accelerate export diversification.
1 For Paraguay and Uruguay, full integration is to occur by end 1995.
Environment and natural-resource management remains a high priority. In Brazil, the Rondonia Natural Resource Management Project and the Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management Project, aided by Bank loans in
the amount of $167 million and $205 million, respectively, are assisting the government to institute changes in key policies, regulations, and public-investment programs by providing incentives for sustainable development and by
addressing the sources of natural-resource degradation. In Mexico, the Environmental Project, supported by a $50 million Bank loan, will enhance the government's capacity to carry out key environmental-protection and natural-resource management functions in the short term and, at the same time, strengthen the policy and institutional framework that will enable the government to carry out its functions in a more efficient and decentralized manner.
Cooperation and cofinancing. The Bank continued to act as chairman for consultative groups organized for countries in the region. The group for Bolivia met in November 1991 to review the country's progress in implementing its structural-adjustment program. The group noted with satisfaction that Bolivia's reform program had produced a growth rate of 4 percent in 1991, with inflation of only 15 percent, and there were encouraging signs that the private sector was responding to new investment, hydrocarbon, and mining laws that provide clearer rules for private-sector participation and incentives. In March 1992, a series of consultative-group meetings were held for Central American countries: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The group reviewed the reform programs and medium-term financing requirements of the five countries, as well as the progress in implement-
ing particular projects (see Box 6-3 for a discussion of developments in regional integration).
The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED) continues to be the dominant forum to discuss the economic policies and development needs of the Caribbean countries with the donor community. The eleventh meeting of the CGCED, held in June 1992, reviewed priority country and regional economic issues that are likely to confront the recipient member countries of the Caribbean Group over the next two to three years. Major issues facing the group include the potential impact from a loss in preferential trading arrangements, declining aid flows, and the need for further reform in reciprocal trade arrangements and to foster efficiency in resource use.
World Bank operations in the region attracted $3.0 billion in cofinancing from other lenders during the past year; that amount represented a substantial increase from fiscal 1991's level of $1.7 billion. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has provided the largest cofinancing resources to the countries of the region for the past two fiscal years. Fourteen cofinancing operations were arranged with the IDB for a total of $2.0 billion in fiscal 1992. Japan remained the largest source of official bilateral cofinancing, providing $775 million through seven operations.
Middle East and North Africa
In December 1991, the Bank established a new operational vice presidency for the Middle East and North Africa, a region that spans an area from Iran in the east westward to Morocco. Although the region is homogeneous in many respects, it is also heterogeneous in dimensions such as income levels (with income per capita ranging from a high of about $20,000 in the United Arab Emirates to a low of $600 in Egypt), the availability of natural resources, and economic systems and policies.
The oil-exporting countries of the Gulf have been major contributors to the economic development of the region through national, regional, and multilateral development institutions. These institutions have been extensively involved in the economic development of not only the Middle East but of other regions as well. Additionally, in the wake of the Gulf crisis, members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates) decided to set up a special fund, with up to $7 billion in capital, to help finance the development pro-
cess of the region. However, the resource requirements of the region are far in excess of the financing that is available from the region itself.
Political problems and conflicts, both within and between countries, have adversely affected economic and social development and have influenced domestic and regional priorities. Although these problems have accumulated over decades, some hope for their resolution has recently emerged.
Recent Economic Developments
In 1991, economic developments in the countries of the region were largely shaped by the Gulf crisis. Beyond the physical destruction inflicted upon the countries directly involved, other countries were hurt by trade disruptions, a fall in tourism receipts, reduced aid flows (for some), and by a return home of migrant workers from the Gulf.
Morocco's balance-of-payments position was affected by the Gulf crisis, as well as by developments in Eastern Europe: Tourism receipts dropped by 25 percent, and Eastern European countries' demand for Morocco's phosphate-based exports weakened considerably. The overall effect of these developments was considerably attenuated, however, by a record cereals harvest, considerable external financial assistance, and buoyant exports of agroindustrial products and manufactures. Interest payments on external debt were reduced considerably following the cancellation of $2.7 billion in debt owed to another Arab country.
The net effect of these developments was a slight deterioration of the current account, an improvement in the net foreign-assets position of the central bank, and an increase of 4.2 percent in real growth of gross domestic product (GDP). The budget deficit decreased from 4.6 percent to 3.3 percent of GDP, but inflation (as measured by the GDP deflator) rose to 8 percent in 1991, up from 5.8 percent during the previous year. The Finance Law for 1992, passed at the end of 1991, seeks to sharply reduce the fiscal deficit in 1992. To this end, important structural measures have been introduced on the revenue side that would result in
A health worker in the Nile delta checks an irrigation canal for the presence of schistosomiasis-transmitting freshwater snails. A $26.9 million IDA credit is helping finance that country's National Schistosomiasis Control Project.
a revenue increase of 14 percent in 1992. However, a severe drought (between half to three quarters of the cereals crop appears to have been lost) in 1992 may, in the end, depress growth and fiscal revenues, and, ultimately, raise the budget deficit above its original target.
Tunisia was also adversely affected by the Gulf crisis. Foreign-exchange earnings from tourism fell by some 33 percent, and other exports dropped as a result of the disruption of trade between Tunisia and the Gulf countries during the first quarter of 1991. While exports
of goods have recovered strongly since then, the foreign-reserves position remains tight, amounting to the equivalent of about six weeks of imports.
For the year as a whole, however, real GDP grew by about 3.5 percent. Substantial success was realized in the implementation of the government's reform program, especially in the areas of private-sector development and tax reform. Producer prices have been liberalized, and the share of manufactured goods free of price controls has been raised from 55 percent
at the beginning of 1988 to 70 percent in 1991. The tax system has been made more efficient and equitable through the introduction of a value-added tax and a complete overhaul of the income-tax system for individuals and corporations. Further reforms, such as the liberalization of trade and the financial system, are actively being pursued. Indirect instruments in the form of central-bank interventions in the money market have been substituted for direct controls, and the range of financial instruments has been widened considerably. Preferential lending and rediscount rates have been raised and will shortly be eliminated altogether.
Real GDP growth in Algeria was positive, though low, in 1991 (compared with a decline of 2.3 percent in the previous year). Revenues from petroleum exports increased from around $9 billion in 1989 to about $12 billion in both 1990 and 1991. As a result, the current account registered surpluses of 2.3 percent and about 6 percent of GDP in 1990 and 1991, respectively. This improvement also resulted from a contraction in imports following an exchange-rate devaluation and severe foreign-exchange shortages. The exchange-rate devaluation and sev-
eral price-liberalization measures—undertaken as part of the country's overall reform process—kept inflation high at about 25 percent.
The 1992 Finance Law sets out further measures to reform the economy. These include substantial simplification of the tariff structure and an overhaul of the tax system. Fiscal reforms, which include the establishment of a value-added tax, went into effect in January 1992. At the same time, an important restructuring of public enterprises and the banking system was initiated. If structural reforms are pursued, and if petroleum prices remain at (or above) current levels, Algeria should be able to increase real growth and employment in the medium term.
Since 1990, the Egyptian government has been implementing a comprehensive adjustment program to tackle macroeconomic and structural disequilibria and lay the foundations for sustainable growth. Overall implementation of the reforms has proceeded on track. Performance, in terms of growth and prices, has been more favorable than initially anticipated, as GDP grew in real terms by 2.3 percent in 1991. The current account has
moved into a surplus of $2.3 billion (including grants), principally because of bilateral debt reduction, exceptional grants received during 1991, increased tourism receipts, and a marked movement of private capital reflows and workers' remittances. This has led to a real appreciation of the Egyptian pound, and gross reserves stood at an all-time high of $8 billion at the end of the year.
However, a number of less-favorable developments also took place. Government finances in fiscal year 1991 remained weak, registering an overall deficit of 20 percent of GDP, and private investment has not yet responded to the new environment. Given the high rate of unemployment, the challenge for policymakers is to accelerate the pace of reforms, establish firmly the credibility of the reform program, and elicit a strong supply response as soon as possible.
The Islamic Republic of Iran continued its steady recovery in 1991 in the context of policies aiming to revitalize market mechanisms, cut public deficits, and rebuild basic infrastructure. Iran's external accounts have improved in recent years, especially in 1990, when oil prices surged briefly. Gross domestic product grew by 5 percent in 1991. Despite lower oil revenues in 1991, the government contained the budget deficit to about 3 percent of GDP. In spite of its recovery, Iran's economy is faced with the problems of open unemployment (around 15 percent) and sizable expenditure needs.
The Jordanian economy showed resilience in the face of the Gulf crisis, with GDP declining by 0.6 percent in 1990 and increasing slightly in 1991. But, as a result of the massive return of migrant workers from the Gulf, unemployment increased to more than 25 percent, and per capita consumption fell by 14 percent in 1991. On the positive side, a new standby arrangement was approved by the International Monetary Fund in February 1992; this was followed by a new debt-rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club and the release of the second tranche of the World Bank's Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment loan. In support of Jordan's adjustment effort, the Bank organized a financing tour of the donor community by Jordanian officials in April 1992. The donor response was generally positive, but it was clear that Jordan's medium-term financing requirements have not yet been met.
Yemen was also adversely affected by the Gulf crisis, as the recently unified government was faced with the return of about 750,000 migrant workers and their dependents, as well as by falling levels of foreign aid and tourism revenues. While some measures were taken to
stabilize the government deficit, it nevertheless exceeded 13 percent of GDP in 1991, resulting in an acceleration of inflation. Overall, real per capita GDP decreased by 8 percent during 1991, and unemployment now stands at over 25 percent of the labor force.
The past year witnessed a slow return to normal in the member countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). By June 1992, oil output in Kuwait exceeded 1 million barrels a day (in contrast with 1.8 million barrels a day in 1989), and oil-export revenues and government investment income reached $1 billion and $4 billion, respectively. With the exception of Saudi Arabia, overall GDP growth in the other GCC countries declined slightly as a result of their limited spare oil-extraction capacity. Saudi Arabia's oil output increased to 8.2 million barrels a day in 1991, pushing GDP growth to about 9.4 percent.
Long-term Development Challenges
All the countries of the region, confronted by long-term development challenges, are striving to improve the use of their human and natural resources.
Table 6-18 compares some indicators of human well-being and social development. The region lags behind the comparator group of middle-income countries on all the basic indicators of educational attainment and health status. However, impressive progress was made during the 1980s. A key measure of general well-being—life expectancy at birth— increased by a remarkable 6.7 years during the past fifteen years. Other measures showed equally impressive advances: The rate of infant mortality per thousand live births fell from 113 in 1975 to 70 in 1990, primary enrollment increased from 80 percent to 96 percent of the age group during the same period, and secondary enrollment increased from 34 percent to 59 percent.
The one exception to this relatively favorable performance lies in the area of population growth. Some countries have made significant advances, such as Tunisia, where annual population growth has recently fallen to 1.9 percent. For most countries, however, population growth remains significantly higher than in other middle-income countries, with several countries experiencing rates of 3 percent or more a year. The very young age structure of the region's population (43 percent are under the age of fourteen, compared with 36 percent for other middle-income countries) also poses serious challenges to the provision of education, health, housing, and employment.
Unemployment is a serious economic, social, and political phenomenon throughout the
region. More than 15 percent of the labor force is unemployed in the Maghreb countries, Egypt, and Iran, while Jordan and Yemen are experiencing unemployment rates in excess of 25 percent. The consequences of past population growth will continue to be felt in the form of extraordinary increases in the labor force for the next twenty years. If the region is to achieve social stability through productive employment of both the currently unemployed and future labor-market entrants, the rate and character of economic growth must change significantly from that of the recent past. It would be unrealistic to suppose that developments in the world economy will be anywhere near sufficient to provide the momentum for Middle Eastern countries to realize the required rates of growth without domestic policy reform.
Natural-resource management is another pressing regional issue—especially in the case of water. Already, the majority of the countries in the region suffer from water scarcity. This
scarcity is expected to increase significantly by the year 2000, as illustrated in Table 6-19. Scarce water resources will need to be managed more efficiently by all countries of the region. The challenge is to ensure a rational and efficient use and management of water resources among the countries of the region. This calls for the adoption by countries concerned of appropriate water policies.
Cooperative action is already being undertaken on the Environmental Program for the Mediterranean. This program, jointly sponsored by the World Bank and the European Investment Bank (EIB), was launched in 1988 to assess the environmental-policy, institutional, and investment needs of the eighteen countries bordering the Mediterranean sea. The program's second phase began in January 1990 and focuses on the identification and preparation of investment projects, institutional-development activities, and definition of policy measures for four priority areas—integrated water-resource management, manage-
100-500 = Water-management problems 500-1,000 = Water stress 1,000-above = Water scarcity Source: World Bank.
merit of solid and hazardous waste, control of marine pollution, and coastal-zone management. The Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program (METAP) is the major component of phase two. Launched as an instrument for environmental action, METAP is a three-year program funded with about $5 million a year by the Commission of the European Communities, the EIB, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the Bank. Now in its third year of implementation, METAP has already committed its full $15 million budget and is financing a total of sixty activities that concern twelve countries, as well as regional activities affecting all the countries of the region.
Phase three, also begun in 1990, supports implementation of regional and country-specific investment projects and policy measures. Two investment projects, prepared under METAP, have been selected for financing by the Global Environment Facility—the Management of Marine Pollution at the Ports of the Maghreb Countries ($10 million) and implementation of the Management Plan of El Kala Natural Protectorate in Algeria ($10 million).
World Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992
During fiscal 1992, lending to the region amounted to $1,482 million, an amount slightly lower than the year before, but considerably higher than the average for the four-year period 1988-91. In addition, more attention was given to project and program implementation during the year, as staff resources devoted to supervision grew by 13 percent.
Country reviews were an important part of the Bank's economic and sector work, as country economic memoranda were drafted and discussed for Iran and Lebanon (where Bank activities were being renewed) and in
Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (through the Bank's program of reimbursable technical assistance). These reviews constituted about 28 percent of the Bank's staff resources devoted to economic and sector work in the region.
The Bank became increasingly associated with reconstruction efforts during the year. In July
1991, the Bank participated in the first United Nations Inter-Agency Needs Assessment mission to Lebanon. Three months later, Bank and UNDP missions assisted the Lebanese authorities in assessing the country's economic situation and identifying the most pressing rehabilitation and technical-assistance needs. Four sectors were identified as requiring immediate assistance: electricity, telecommunications, water supply and sewerage, and housing.
In Lebanon, the economic situation initially improved in 1991 as a result of improved security. Bank and UNDP missions laid the groundwork for the World Bank-sponsored aid-coordination meeting on Lebanon, which convened in Paris on December 12, 1991. Eleven aid-donor nations and fifteen international agencies were represented at the meeting to coordinate their assistance. Strong support was expressed for effective aid-coordination mechanisms, and several donors indicated that they would provide support totaling $700 million. That amount does not include assistance that may be provided by the Bank and some other aid-donor nations. It has been estimated by the United Nations, however, that reconstruction requirements in Lebanon for the period 1992-94 could amount to as much as $1.5 billion annually.
A renewed relationship was begun with Iran in fiscal 1991, when, after a sixteen-year suspension of operations, a World Bank loan was approved—$250 million in support of that country's earthquake-recovery program. The loan, which became effective early in fiscal
1992, is financing emergency reconstruction of key infrastructure and housing. Although still marginal, World Bank involvement in the rebuilding of Iran's economy continued during the past year: Two projects were approved—the Sistan River Flood Works Rehabilitation Project, which finances the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing flood-control infrastructure in the delta area of the Hirmand and Sistan rivers, and the Tehran Drainage Project, which will provide for construction of a stormwater-collection and disposal system to protect central Tehran and the low-lying areas south of the city from frequent floods.
In Morocco, adjustment lending is drawing to a close. A second structural-adjustment loan, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of
$275 million, supports the completion of trade reforms started in 1983. The loan could mark the end of World Bank adjustment operations in that country, as it is anticipated that balance-of-payments viability will soon be achieved. A similar outcome is in prospect for Tunisia. An Economic and Financial Reforms Support loan, approved during the year in the amount of $250 million, provides continued support to Tunisia's medium-term program of economic reforms and its maintenance of macroeconomic stability. In both these countries, future Bank lending will take the form of more traditional project and sector lending.
The Bank's analytical work is focusing increasingly on the human-resources sectors. Ongoing projects include studies on health
priorities in Algeria, schooling and literacy in Morocco, Iran's human-resources sector, and on the role of women in the Maghreb. Special emphasis is being placed on analytical work aimed at assisting countries design programs that remove obstacles to employment and promote the efficient use of labor. The Bank is also assisting in the training of public-sector employees. The Bank's Economic Development Institute, in cooperation with the American University of Beirut, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, and the Kuwait Fund, has initiated such an endeavor in Lebanon. Finally, links are being intensified between the Bank and regional academic institutions, and work involved in organizing a regional research symposium has begun.
Section Seven
Summaries of Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1992
Agriculture and Rural Development
ALGERIA: IBRD—$57 million. Some 45,000 people will see their net farm incomes raised and 200,000 mandays of employment generated as a result of a project designed to raise the development of agricultural potential in the Sahara region through increased water supply, improved drainage, and better extension advice. Institutional development is included. Total cost: $94.4 million.
ALGERIA: IBRD—$25 million. A long-term, environmentally sound action program, designed to better protect and manage the country's natural resources—specifically its forests, watersheds, and nature-conservation areas—will be developed. Total cost: S37.4 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$49.6 million. A forest-management system, fully responsive to the
country's economic, environmental, and social goals, will be established and maintained, and the productivity of government-owned forests will be improved to help meet the country's wood and energy needs. Total cost: $58.7 million. BENIN: IDA—$14.1 million. This project, national in scope, aims at developing the capacity of local communities and private entities to design natural-resource management policies, participate in and coordinate the implementation of sustainable methods of land use, monitor the deterioration of natural resources, plan remedial actions, and evaluate their impact. Cofinancing is expected from Germany ($5.1 million), the
Data used in this section have been compiled from documentation provided at the time of project approval.
CCCE (S2.3 million), and the UNDP ($600,000). Total cost: S24.4 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA—S22.5 million. Funds will be provided to help finance an agricultural-export development program, to be implemented by an autonomous, private, self-financing foundation, that would enter into joint ventures via equity financing and establish subsidiaries to help small and medium-scale farmers and entrepreneurs expand production and agroindustrial exports. Cofinancing ($9 million) is expected from the Netherlands. Total cost: $39.7 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$205 million. An improved strategy for natural-resource management, conservation, and development in the state of Mato Grosso will be implemented, thus reducing deforestation and pollution from wildcat gold mining, conserving biodiversity, and protecting the environment and indigenous communities' rights. Total cost: S285.7 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$167 million. An improved approach to natural-resource management, conservation, and development—involving environmental conservation, management, and protection; sustainable agroforestry development; and essential socioeconomic infrastructure and services—will be implemented in Rondonia state, which is located in the environmentally fragile Amazon basin. Total cost: S228.9 million.
BURKINA FASO: IDA—S28 million.
Agricultural-sector refonns, supported at the macroeconomic level by an IDA-supported structural-adjustment credit (June 1991). will be deepened and extended. Cofinancing is expected from France ($21 million), the EC ($20 million), and the AfDB ($13 million).
CAMEROON: IBRD—S23 million. A food-security project has been designed to improve access to, and availability of, food by creating opportunities for increasing employment and incomes of the poor (especially of women's groups), improving market facilities in secondary cities and rural areas, averting crop loss caused by pest attacks, and improving feeding and dietary practices of children and women. Cofinancing is being provided by Japan (S3.8 million) and the WFP (in kind). Total cost: $35.3 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: IDA—$25.8 million. The government's new agricultural strategy, which relies on producer groups as channels for the delivery of input and services to farmers, will be assisted through a project that aims at the institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Rural Development, the National Agricultural Research Service, and the National Agricultural Development Agency. Provision of a line of credit for financial assistance to fanners, traders, and communities is included, as is a program of rural infrastructure, consisting mainly of rural roads. Cofinancing is anticipated from
the CCCE (S4.5 million), the UNDP (S3.6 million), the MCD (S2.2 million), Switzerland ($1.4 million), and Germany (Si .2 million). Tola cost: $46.9 million.
CHILE: IBRD—$95 million. A program of
technology transfer (involving both farm-oriented extension and home-centered assistance) and provision of credit for working capital (seeds and fertilizers, for instance) and for on-farm investments may benefit as many as 84,000 and 100,000 small farm families, respectively. In addition, a land-titling component is expected to benefit 43,500 farm families by providing them with security of landholding and access to a range of public services and agricultural credit. Institutional-strengthening assistance is included. Total cost: $236 million.
CHINA: IDA—S162 million. Some 72.000
households in Guangdong province will directly benefit from a project designed to increase fish production from the South China sea, develop aquaculture facilities, and boost production of fruits and sugarcane. A poverty-reduction package, focused on the limestone mountainous areas of the province, will also be formulated and implemented. Total cost: $303.8 million.
CHINA: IDA—SI25 million. Average per capita incomes of almost 140,000 poor farm families in the oases of the Tarim basin (Xingjiang Uygur Autonomous Region) will more than double, and some 136,000 jobs will be generated as a result of a project that seeks to address major constraints to agricultural productivity through the efficient use of land and water resources and new production technologies. Total cost: S2I2.1 million.
COSTA RICA: IBRD—$41 million. Costa Rica's sustainable agricultural growth will be supported by improving the efficiency and effectiveness of public-sector institutions and their expenditures. In addition, the emergence of private technical-assistance services for small and medium-sized producers will be fostered or consolidated, and resources will be provided for land titling and the consolidation of smallholder settlements. Total cost: $70 million.
ECUADOR: IBRD—$84 million. About 33,000 smallholder families may benefit from a rural-development project that seeks to increase and diversify agricultural production, complete and rehabilitate irrigation and flood-control schemes, improve feeder roads, expand and rehabilitate marketing facilities, improve research and extension services, promote community development, and strengthen and consolidate the institutional framework for rural development. Total cost: $112.7 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$45 million: IDA—S75 million. Almost a quarter million farm families may benefit from a project designed to increase agricultural productivity
through the installation of subsurface drainage systems on 302,000 hectares throughout the Nile valley and delta. Cofinancing is expected from Germany ($30 million) and the Netherlands ($10 million). Total cost: $290 million.
GHANA: IDA—$80 million. The government's reforms in the agricultural sector—involving the liberalization of agricultural pricing, marketing, and input supply, as well as the strengthening of agricultural-sector coordination and management—will be supported. Cofinancing ($18 million) is anticipated from Germany.
GHANA: IDA—$30.4 million. A national ' agricultural-extension project is expected to generate substantial increases in food production and improve the nutrition, income, and standard of living of a large number of rural families through the diffusion of improved technologies and by facilitating, through farmers' associations, access to off-farm inputs, credit, and markets. Total cost: $41.1 million.
HAITI: IDA—$26.1 million. The pace of degradation of the country's natural resources will be slowed through a project designed to protect forests and safeguard vital ecosystems from further destruction, increase wood production through the promotion of agroforestry on farms and improved management of state forest lands, and conserve wood by promoting the use of more efficient charcoal stoves. Total cost: S29 million.
INDIA: IDA—$124 million. Some 800,000 households, comprising forest dwellers, tribal persons, and smallholder farmers, are expected to benefit from a forestry project in Maharashtra state, which, after addressing fundamental institutional, technical, and environmental reforms in the management of the forestry sector, will finance forestry and environmentally beneficial investments, mainly on degraded lands. Total cost: $142 million.
INDIA: IDA—$85 million. About 14,000
households—mainly from the poorest sections of the coastal and rural population in the states of West Bengal, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh—are expected to benefit from a project that will develop brackish-water shrimp aquaculture and provide the necessary infrastructure and institutional development to enhance production from inland fisheries. Total cost: $95 million.
INDIA: IDA—$34 million. Some 400,000 households in West Bengal state are expected to benefit directly from a project that seeks to prevent continuing degradation of forest lands by installing a sustainable grassroots protection system in all the regions of the state and enhancing forest productivity and conserving biodiversity. In-service training is included. Total cost: $39 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$225 million. The efficiency and sustainability of existing irrigation infrastructure will be better ensured through support for operations and maintenance (O&M), cost recovery, and strengthening of O&M-related institutions, as well as for improved management and allocation of water. Cofinancing is anticipated from the OECF ($45 million), the Netherlands ($7 million), and the Ford Foundation ($325,000). Total cost: $463.3 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$106.1 million. Long-term credit at market rates will be made available to private, small and medium-scale agricultural, fishery, and agribusiness enterprises and cooperatives. Institution-building assistance to the six participating intermediary banks is included. Total cost: $189.9 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$87.6 million. The incomes of 161,000 farm families in the outer islands will be improved to about four times the absolute poverty level through the provision of inputs, access tracks, extension, and training in support of the establishment or maintenance of smallholder rubber and coconut plots. Cofinancing ($4.1 million) has been obtained from Japan. Total cost: $154.5 million.
KENYA: IDA—$60.5 million. The first phase of the Kenya Wildlife Service's ten-year wildlife-sector development program—its main objectives are to halt the precipitous decline of the country's wildlife and its system of national parks and reserves and to develop a sound foundation for environmentally sustainable wildlife-based tourism—will be supported. Cofinancing is expected from the ODA ($20 million), the EC (S8 million), USA1D ($7 million), Japan (S6.8 million), Germany ($6.3 million), and the Netherlands (S3.4 million). Total cost: $143 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$5.2 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the agricultural-sector adjustment program, approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of $70 million.
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$94 million. The incomes of some 24,000 smallholders will increase through the rehabilitation of idle agricultural land with treecrops, the maintenance during immaturity of treecrops planted before and during the project, and the introduction of reduced-frequency rubber-tapping technology. In addition, technical assistance will be provided to the Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority. Total cost: $361.6 million.
MALDIVES: IDA—$10 million. A third project in support of small-scale fisheries will help increase fish production, government revenues, and foreign-exchange earnings; increase incomes of fishing households; reduce migration to the capital (Male); and create the environment for
increased private-sector participation in the fisheries sector. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing will be provided by Norway ($6.5 million), the NDF ($5.6 million), the OPEC Fund for International Development ($2.6 million), Sweden ($2.4 million), and the UNDP ($300,000). Total cost: $30.5 million.
MALI: IDA—$20.4 million. The first phase of a long-term program aimed at providing support to village communities to enable them to establish, implement, and monitor community natural resource-management plans will be financed. Cofinancing is anticipated from Norway ($5 million), the UNDP (SI.5 million), and Germany ($1.2 million). Total cost: $32.1 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$400 million. Some 450,000 farmers, more than half of whom earn less than the minimum wage, are to benefit from a project that provides funding for the government's irrigation and drainage-investment program for the period fiscal 1991 through 1994. Cofinancing ($200 million) is expected from the IDB. Total cost: $1,245 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$150 million. Investments in infrastructure, farm, laboratory, and office equipment; training; and institutional development for the country's chief national research and extension agencies will be financed in support of the government's strategy to reverse the falling rate of gains in agricultural productivity. Total cost: $300 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$50 million. The government's ability to carry out key environmental-protection and natural-resource management functions in the short term will be supported, and the institutional and policy framework to enable it to carry out these functions in a more efficient and decentralized manner in the future will be strengthened. Cofinancing (S30 million) is being provided by the GEF. Total cost: SI 26.6 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$50 million. The 1991-92 investment program of the Ministry of Agriculture will be supported, as will policy reforms in the irrigation and livestock subsectors and institutional reforms within the ministry. Total cost: $640 million.
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA—$35 million. Some
140,000 small-scale farm families in the northern provinces of Cabo Delgado and Nampula are to benefit from a project that seeks to strengthen agricultural services, provide production and marketing credit, and develop and implement long-term farm-gate and factory-gate pricing mechanisms for cotton. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $40.6 million.
NIGER: IDA—$18 million. About 300,000 farm families will benefit from a project that constitutes a five-year time slice of a long-term national program aimed at strengthening the country's extension services, as well as the
linkages between extension and national and regional agricultural research. Total cost: $19.8 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$67.5 million. Agricultural production will be expanded and poverty reduced through a project designed to improve the supply response in activities in which Nigeria has a comparative advantage and increase the supply of dry-season crops through the development of small-scale, farmer-managed irrigation. Total cost: $105.9 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$42.5 million. The adaptation and dissemination of location-specific agricultural technology will be strengthened in five states, thus increasing farm productivity and production, and smallholder incomes. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $60 million.
NIGERIA: IDA—$25 million. A "core program" of environmental activities—institutional strengthening, the establishment of a data-collection system and information network necessary for monitoring environmental trends throughout the country, and feasibility studies in key sectors to identify specific investments— that are critical for making the country's environmental program operational will be financed. Cofinancing is anticipated from the ODA ($3 million), the UNDP ($3 million), the EC (SI million), and the Montreal Protocol Interim Fund (S200,000). Total cost: $37.9 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$29.2 million. The country's environmental-protection institutions will be strengthened, and a series of operations, studies, and pilot activities, designed to modify or develop site-specific responses to damaged natural resources such as watersheds, rangelands, and natural habitats, will be initiated. Cofinancing ($13.5 million) is expected from the EC. Total cost: $57.2 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD—$27 million. About 3,250 poor smallholder families will benefit directly from a project that seeks to increase oil-palm production, strengthen agricultural services, and build and maintain roads and social infrastructure. In addition, an endangered butterfly species and its associated ecosystem will be protected. Institutional-strengthening measures, technical assistance, and studies in the treecrop subsector are included. Total cost: $36.8 million.
PARAGUAY: IBRD—$29 million. A rural cadastre and a geographic information system will be developed as a first, crucial step in the establishment of a land-information system that can provide the basic data necessary to the formulation and implementation of a long-term agricultural strategy and the improvement of property rights. Total cost: $41.1 million.
ROMANIA: IBRD—S100 million. Private-sector development in agricultural areas will be supported through a project that will finance credit to private businesses to improve input supply and food-processing, marketing, and distribution services. Onfarm investments will also be financed. Total cost: $164.7 million.
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE: IDA—$9.8 million. Annual treecrop and foodcrop production is expected to increase by 60 percent as a result of a project that focuses on the privatization of the publicly owned agricultural-estate sector and the promotion of smallholder production. Cofinancing ($2.1 million) is expected from the WFP. Total cost: $17.2 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$14.3 million. A second agricultural-extension project seeks to increase farmers' income and agricultural production by strengthening agricultural-extension services and developing a seed policy. In addition, a private-sector pilot extension program is included to help the government explore the possibilities of gradually divesting itself from extension activities. Total cost: $18.3 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$16 million. Part of the overall donor effort to provide assistance to those affected by drought, this project also seeks early recovery of agricultural production in western Sudan through provision of inputs. Policies directed at mitigating the recurrence of food insecurity will also be established, as will institutional arrangements to facilitate those policies' implementation. Total cost: $26 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$18.3 million. The
management of forests and woodlands will be improved by strengthening the capacity of the institutions in charge of developing and implementing forest and land policies and by increasing the participation of the private sector and local population in the management of the country's natural resources. Cofinancing ($700,000) is anticipated from NORAD and others. Total cost: $20.9 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$11.3 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement an agricultural-adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of $200 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$55 million. Government efforts to strengthen agricultural- and forestry-research services' capacity for developing technology suitable for the less-developed regions of eastern and southeastern Turkey will be supported, thereby helping Turkish agriculture become more efficient, both in the modern and traditional smallholder subsectors. Total cost: $77.6 million.
VENEZUELA: IBRD—$300 million. The
government's objectives of increasing efficiency in the agricultural sector and achieving sustainable growth and exports—to be accomplished through a restructuring of the
incentive system, expanding public investments in agricultural infrastructure and services, increasing the availability of credit, and strengthening the sector's institutional framework—will be supported. Cofinancing ($200 million) is anticipated from the IDB. Total cost: S900 million.
YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$32.8 million. The depletion of national groundwater reserves (through tubewell proliferation) and tree cover (through increased demand for fuelwood) will be slowed as a result of a project that seeks to strengthen regulation of irrigation-water use, raise efficiency of irrigation management, conserve existing forest areas and accelerate tree planting, and develop a program for sustainable watershed and natural-woodland management. Technical assistance and training are included. Cofinancing ($3.2 million) is expected from the UN CDF. Total cost: $47.6 million.
YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$14.4 million. Planning and administrative capabilities in the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources will be upgraded through technical assistance and training. In addition, past developments in agricultural research will be consolidated, and unified approaches to extension services for both male and female farmers will be created. Cofinancing (S3 million) is expected from the Netherlands. Total cost: $22 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$16.7 million. Cost-effective agricultural-research capacity, responsive to farmers' needs, will be reestablished through the implementation of priority research programs and the rehabilitation of research infrastructure, execution of a program of institutional strengthening and staff training, and the development of communications and information systems. Cofinancing, totaling $29 million, is anticipated from US A ID and the UNDP. Total cost: $65.2 million.
ZIMBABWE: IDA—$150 million. The government's drought-relief and recovery program will be supported by providing agricultural inputs, rehabilitating the water-supply system, providing for critical inputs for the transport of goods needed for relief and recovery, and upgrading the public-works program through which drought relief is distributed. Cofinancing pledges, in the amount of $ 127 million, have been made by bilateral agencies. Total cost: $1,044 million.
Development Finance Companies
BANGLADESH: IDA—$25.5 million. A line of credit will be provided to selected financial intermediaries for term lending to privately controlled industrial firms, thus furthering efforts to liberalize the financial system. Total cost: $50.7 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$2.9 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the financial-sector adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of $175 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$50 million. Credit will be provided to help finance industrial pollution-control projects, thereby improving the quality of the environment and the health of the population living near industrialized areas in Brazil, most of whom are poor. Technical assistance and institutional-strengthening assistance are included. Cofinancing ($500,000) is being provided by Japan. Total cost: $100.5 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$17 million. A sector-policy package of institutional, legal, regulatory, and financial reforms, designed to remove impediments to private-sector growth, will be financed, as will sites and services and economically viable and financially profitable projects promoted by private investors. Total cost: $30.3 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$100 million. The financial situation and operational efficiency of the Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI), the country's largest public development bank and holding company, will be improved, and the withdrawal of the public sector from productive-sector activities will be supported. Credit will also be made available to the IFI, which will onlend to private productive enterprises to finance investment in fixed assets and working capital. Total cost: $415.3 million.
COTE DTVOIRE: IBRD—SI50 million; IDA— $50 million. The country's multifaceted financial-sector reform program will be supported through an operation whose objectives are to stabilize the financial system and restore to health the country's system of financial intermediation.
COTE DTVOIRE: IBRD—$75 million: IDA—$25 million. A multifaceted reform program, aimed at promoting the competitiveness of the industrial sector by enhancing the ability of producers to respond flexibly and quickly to changing market conditions, will be supported.
GHANA: IDA—$100 million. The second phase of the country's financial-sector adjustment —expected to result in a broader-based, deeper, and more diversified financial sector, with a stronger, more efficient, and responsive banking system at its core—will be supported.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA—$2.9 million.
Supplemental funds will be provided to help finance the Social and Infrastructure Relief Project, approved in fiscal 1989 in the amount of $5 million.
PERU: IBRD—$400 million. The country's medium-term program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms, in particular reforms within the financial sector, will be supported.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: IBRD—$27 million. Credit will be made available to help finance investment and working-capital requirements of private manufacturing and service firms engaged in a broad range of productive activities in all liberalized subsectors—except primary production of oil and gas. Technical assistance, designed to enhance the ability of these firms to compete in foreign markets, is included. Total cost: $49.5 million.
Education
ANGOLA: IDA—$27.1 million. This first Bank-supported project in the country's education sector will set up a demonstration model for education through improvement of the quality of inputs and adaptation of the education structure; strengthen the Ministry of Education's management capacity; improve university-level teaching of economics and management; and provide finance for studies and preparation of future investments. Total cost: $31.2 million.
BELIZE: IBRD—$7.1 million. The government's medium-term education policies and development plans for primary education —the principal goal is to improve the quality of instructional inputs and increase educational achievement levels—will be supported. Total cost: $12.6 million.
CHILE: IBRD—$170 million. The efficiency, quality, and equity of primary education will be enhanced in selected schools in urban and rural areas, and the coverage and quality of preschool education will be expanded and upgraded to increase primary-school preparedness, thereby reducing late entry, repetition, and dropout rates. Institution-building assistance to the Ministry of Education's central, regional, and provincial offices is included. Total cost: $243 million.
CHINA: IDA—$130 million. Governments of six poor interior provinces will be helped in initiating institutional and policy reforms needed to improve the management of education and its quality and efficiency within a newly decentralized framework through the financing of needed educational investments in small towns and rural areas, technical assistance, training, and support for pilot projects that are furthering the restructuring process in higher education. Total cost: $204.9 million.
COSTA RICA: IBRD—$23 million. The quality and efficiency of basic education, especially in disadvantaged rural and urban areas, will be improved by providing the inputs and support services needed to increase student achievement and reduce repetition and dropout rates. Institution-building assistance to the Ministry of Education is included. Cofinancing ($28 million) is anticipated from the IDB. Total cost: $61.5 million.
COTE DTVOIRE: IBRD—$125 million; IDA—-$25 million. The government will be assisted in implementing its human-resources development program, whose primary focus is on improving administrative capacity to manage human-resources development and removing key obstacles to better performance.
ECUADOR: IBRD—$89 million. The quality and delivery of basic education in urban areas, as well as adult education and training services, will be enhanced. In addition, those public institutions that deliver basic education and training programs will be strengthened. Total cost: $118.7 million.
GHANA: IDA—$17.4 million. All aspects of the government's functional literacy program, which involves providing basic action-oriented functional literacy and numeracy classes in the learners' own language, will be supported during the first phase of the program's large-scale implementation. Cofinancing is being provided by Norway ($2.9 million) and is expected from UNICEF ($600,000). Total cost: $30.9 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$69.5 million. About 1.5 million illiterates and primary-school dropouts are to benefit directly from basic literacy training, and the income-earning opportunities of about 400,000 disadvantaged beneficiaries from impoverished locales will be improved through provision of vocational and income-generating skills. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $99.3 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$37 million. Through provision of technical assistance, training, equipment, and operational support, some 30,000 teachers and their students should benefit from a project that will introduce policies and mechanisms to improve the quality of primary education. Total cost: $53.9 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—S36.6 million. The quality of primary education will be upgraded through the development of master's-level primary school teacher-education programs and the initiation of domestic undergraduate courses in primary teacher education. Total cost: $54.1 million.
KENYA: IDA—$100 million. The government's education-reform program—which seeks to limit the demands of the education sector on the public budget while improving its quality, efficiency, and effectiveness through a strengthening of planning, budgeting, and information systems— will be supported.
KENYA: IDA—$55 million. The government's reforms in the education sector will be furthered by a project designed to rationalize and strengthen the institutional framework for higher education, in both public and private universities; limit the growth of budgetary resources devoted to public universities; and improve the quality of teaching and research delivered at the public universities. Total cost: $61.1 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$50 million. The quality of basic science education will be improved, and an interlibrary network linking thirty-seven institutions will be established, thus enhancing access to information by students, faculty, and researchers. Total cost: $81.7 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$30 million. The skill training provided in selected vocational high schools will be upgraded, and the vocational high school system will be strengthened though the introduction of improvements in the link between schools and employers, more effective planning, and improved staffing arrangements in the schools. Total cost: $48.4 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$25.2 million. Investments aimed at increasing the quality, efficiency, and relevance of education at all levels (but primary education, in particular) will be supported. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected from USAID ($24.9 million) and the EC ($4.2 million). Total cost: $74.6 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$22.8 million. The government's new program of technical and vocational education and training, designed to upgrade training quality and responsiveness to labor-market needs, will be supported. Cofinancing is anticipated from France ($2.2 million) and the UNDP ($1.6 million). Total cost: $31.5 million.
MAURITIUS: IBRD—$5.4 million. Assistance will be provided to the government to strengthen the skills of the work force and open up opportunities for new industries to take advantage of the country's favorable investment climate. Resources will be provided to the Industrial and Vocational Training Board to take a lead role in the process. Total cost: $7.7 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$250 million. A primary-education project, to be implemented in four states with the highest incidence of poverty and the lowest education indicators, seeks to reduce high repetition and dropout rates, raise the level of cognitive achievement, and strengthen the management of the primary-education system. Total cost: $352 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$189 million. The first four years of the National Council for Science and Technology's new science programs (which primarily fund individual research projects and equipment-infrastructure projects in universities and research institutions) will be supported, and technology infrastructure in the areas of metrology, standardization, and intellectual property will be financed. Institutional-strengthening assistance is also included. Total cost: $885.8 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$30.6 million. Quality and access issues in the education sector will be addressed through a project designed to increase the quality
of primary education, improve access to educational resources (by strengthening nonformal primary education and literacy programs), and improve the institutional development of the subsector. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AsDB ($20.2 million), Japan ($15 million), UNICEF ($10.8 million), Denmark ($10 million), and the UNDP ($7 million). Total cost: $136.5 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$ 115 million. Access and participation, especially for girls, in middle schools in Punjab province's rural and urban slum areas will be improved (rural female enrollment is expected to increase by more than 100 percent). Improvements in educational quality will also be made. In addition, the policymaking, planning, management, monitoring, and evaluation capacity of the provincial Department of Education will be strengthened. Total cost: $164.1 million.
THE PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$85 million. Some 5,000 engineers and 2,000 scientists will receive better training each year through implementation of a project that seeks to improve quality and efficiency in engineering and science education in participating state and private institutions. In addition, access to improved high school science and math instruction will be further expanded. Total cost: $130.7 million.
THE PHILIPPINES: IDA—$36 million. Government efforts in the medium term to improve employment and training policies, strengthen employment services, improve nonformal rural basic training, and increase private-sector involvement in training and cost recovery will be supported. In addition, strategies for improving the efficiency of the vocational-training subsector will be developed. Total cost: $41.8 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$75 million. The government's strategy of modernizing and diversifying higher education with a view to making it more cost effective and responsive to the needs of the country will be supported by creating a new generation of higher institutes of technology, providing incentives to universities to introduce new courses or enhance the quality of existing courses, and improving facilities, such as libraries, that benefit several programs. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $126.3 million.
VENEZUELA: IBRD—$58 million.
Comprehensive reform of the student-loan program of the Fundacion Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho (the country's largest education-financing institution) will be supported through the introduction of lending instruments that will combine affordability and improved recovery. Institutional-strengthening measures are included. Total cost: $85.6 million.
Energy
ALGERIA: IBRD—$100 million. A first petroleum project will provide technical and legal/ contractual assistance to help foster investment by foreign oil companies and will strengthen the technical capabilities of the national oil company in the areas of enhanced oil recovery and drilling. Cofinancing is expected from the Export-Import Bank of Japan (S76.8 million) and France (S7.7 million). Total cost: $240.2 million.
ANGOLA: IDA—S33.5 million. A power sector-rehabilitation project seeks to lay the institutional foundation for sustainable operations in the sector and to reestablish the integrity of the transmission grid in the northern and central electrical systems, heavily damaged during the civil war. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AfDB ($18.6 million) and the EIB (S9 million). Total cost: $66.5 million.
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$28 million. Through refinancing of studies for preinvestment and institutional strengthening, the restructuring and eventual privatization of the Yacimientos Petroh'feros Fiscales Sociedad Anonima—the successor entity to the former state oil company—will be supported. Total cost: S40.1 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$380 million. The construction of a 240-meter-high dam and an underground power house, as well as the provision of six generating units and associated equipment, will help eliminate power shortages in Sichuan province's power system. Cofinancing is anticipated from the Export-Import Bank of the United States ($30 million) and Norway ($5 million). Total cost: $2,487.1 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$310 million. The acute power shortage in Shandong province will be alleviated by the addition of two 600-mW generating units to the existing Zouxian thermal power plant and construction of associated transmission lines and substations. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing ($900,000) is being provided by Japan. Total cost: $957.4 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$ 180 million. Power-system generating capacity in Henan province will be augmented through the extension of the existing Yanshi power station, thereby enhancing industrial and agricultural production in nearby areas. Total cost: $459.6 million.
CHINA: IBRD—530 million; IDA—$37 million. Economic development will be promoted and the incidence of poverty reduced in Hainan, one of the country's poorest provinces, through investments in the energy and agriculture sectors that seek to develop renewable hydropower resources and increase agricultural production. Cofinancing ($100,000) has been secured from the UNDP. Total cost: $217.7 million.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: IBRD—$246 million. Power-plant efficiency at the Prunerov II power station in northern Bohemia will be improved through the installation of equipment and operational improvements that will result in reduced lignite consumption and reduced emissions of sulphur dioxide and dust, thereby improving the environment and health of the local population. In addition, the transmission system of Czech Power Enterprise (CEZ) will be modernized, and the interconnection of the CEZ and German power grids will be facilitated. Total cost: $557.5 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$220 million. The efficiency and reliability of electricity generation in the country will be improved through the supply and installation of a dual, fuel-fired thermal power station at Kureimat, together with an associated natural gas pipeline, transmission lines, and line-loss reduction equipment. Cofinancing is to be provided by the AfDB ($350 million), USAID ($193.8 million), the AFESD ($125 million), and Saudi Arabia ($50 million). Total cost: $1,386.2 million.
HONDURAS: IDA—$50.6 million. The government's energy-sector reform program, which includes measures to make the national power company a financially viable entity and to promote the development of the country's oil and gas potential by the private sector, will be supported. Cofinancing ($105 million) is expected from the IDB.
HONDURAS: IDA—$31.5 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to help supplement the energy-sector adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of $50.6 million (see above).
INDIA: IBRD—$350 million. Power supply in Maharashtra will be increased, and provision of capacity-building assistance will help the state electricity board improve its operational efficiency and strengthen its finances and managerial autonomy. Cofinancing ($200 million) is expected from export-credit agencies. Total cost: $1,224 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$265 million. By providing financing through the Power Finance Corporation, the operations of beneficiary state electricity boards will be strengthened, better use of existing power facilities will be fostered, and the adverse environmental impact of thermal plants will be mitigated. Cofinancing ($14 million) is anticipated from USAID. Total cost: $712 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$150 million. Governmental measures, designed to attract private-sector companies to participate in the accelerated development of the country's oil and gas reserves through joint ventures, will be supported.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$423.6 million. Through the construction of three coal-fired units of 600 mW each, including associated works and a 500-kv transmission line, and consulting services and training, the generating capacity of the state electricity corporation (PLN) in Java will be expanded. In addition, the PLN's capacity to operate and maintain thermal power plants will be developed, and the corporation's financial position will be strengthened. Cofinancing is expected from the AsDB ($350 million), Germany ($69.7 million), and export-credit agencies ($693.4 million). Total cost: $2,360.5 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$100 million. In this first Bank-supported liquified natural-gas (LNG) project, the infrastructure needed to facilitate the importation and utilization of 5 million tons a year of LNG will be provided. Institution-building assistance to the Korea Gas Corporation is included. Total cost: $732 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$55 million. The growing demand for power will be met through the construction of a 50-mW hydroelectric scheme and the rehabilitation of existing power stations. In addition, the quality and efficiency of power supply will be improved through reinforcing the transmission and distribution systems to minimize outages and reduce losses. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AfDB ($27.7 million), the CDC ($25 million), and the EIB ($18 million), while $41.6 million in cofinancing is still being sought. Total cost: $271.8 million.
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$200 million. Important components of the fiscal 1992-93 investment program of Tenaga Nasional Berhad (most of which promote indigenous resources such as natural gas and hydropower) will be financed, thus helping to sustain the country's economic growth. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $429.3 million.
MAURITIUS: IBRD—$15 million. Funds will be provided to help launch the government's sugar-energy development program, which aims to expand the private sector's electricity generation from sugar biomass, thereby lessening the country's dependence on imported fossil fuel and reducing emissions of greenhouse gases. Cofinancing (S3.3 million) is being provided by the GEF. Total cost: $55.1 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$65 million. The supply capacity of the Nepal Electricity Authority will be increased by improving technical and operational efficiency and by upgrading existing generational capacity. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected from the NDF ($5.4 million), France ($5.1 million), and Germany ($4.2 million). Total cost: $100.1 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$180 million. The development of indigenous hydrocarbons, utilizing private-sector resources to the maximum extent possible, will be accelerated, and the commercial orientation and operational autonomy of the public-sector entities in the subsector will be enhanced to pave the way for a larger private-sector role. Institutional-strengthening provisions are included. Cofinancing is expected from the lsDB ($17.7 million), USAID ($1.7 million), and export-credit agencies ($6.7 million). Total cost: $551.8 million.
THE PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$91.3 million. The reliability of electric service in rural areas will be improved through the financing of part of the 1992-95 investment program of the National Electrification Administration. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing ($9 million) is anticipated from USAID. Total cost: $118.5 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$21 million. The National Power Authority will be assisted in carrying out long-delayed maintenance and rehabilitation of its power-generation and distribution facilities in order to restore an adequate and reliable supply of electricity to the capital city of Freetown. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing ($36.2 million) is being sought. Total cost: $74.5 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$50 million. The remaining fifty-three power-distribution systems that are still operated by local authorities—they will be taken over by the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) during the next few years—will be rehabilitated and expanded, and a slice of CEB's least-cost transmission investments will be financed. Institution-building assistance to the CEB is included. Total cost: $79 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$54 million. Subprojects from the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand's investment plan for its fiscal years 1991 and 1992 will be financed. In addition, the four environmental regulatory agencies in the power and mining sectors will be strengthened through provision of technical assistance, training, and the procurement of environmental-monitoring equipment. Cofinancing, totaling more than $2 billion, is being sought from official and private lenders, as well as from export-credit agencies. Total cost: $2,933 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$40 million. Growth in power demand in a U-shaped geographical area around Bangkok will be met through the construction of additional transmission lines and substations. Institution-building assistance to the Provincial Electricity Authority is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the OECF ($52 million) and Japan ($900,000). Total cost: $200 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$60million. With associated gas production from the El Borma oil field rapidly declining, energy supplies to southern Tunisia's main industrial center, the Gabes region, will be ensured through the construction of a pipeline that will connect the southern gas network to the northern grid. In addition, the completion of an existing pipeline loop around Tunis will be financed. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $98.6 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$270 million. Through the construction of a 201-meter-high dam, the installation of hydroelectric generating capacity, and the construction of associated transmission lines, the development of hydropower potential will be accelerated and the role of the private sector in power infrastructure expanded. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected from the IFC ($50 million) and commercial banks/suppliers' credits ($50.2 million). Total cost: $623.7 million.
Industry
CHINA: IBRD—$82.7 million. The Chinese cement industry will be supported through implementation of a regional cement-production and distribution scheme that would include modern large-scale cement-production facilities and the country's first integrated cross-provincial bulk shipping and distribution network, model rehabilitation of a medium-sized plant, and strengthening of the capabilities of four major cement-industry institutes for plant design and related research. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $265.1 million.
MALI: IDA—$6 million. The capacity of the government to attract more investment in the mining sector will be strengthened, and a vibrant industry, consisting of large, as well as small and medium-scale mines financed with both foreign and local capital, will be developed. Total cost: $6.5 million.
PERU: IBRD—S300 million. The government's medium-term program of trade-policy reform —it includes a reduction in tariff protection, the elimination of most nontariff barriers and export subsidies, and the initiation of customs reforms— will be supported.
TANZANIA: IDA—S200 million. The
government's financial-sector reform program, whose objective is the creation of a system that operates on the basis of market-oriented principles, is efficient in mobilizing and allocating resources, and is effective in fostering long-term economic growth, will be supported. Cofinancing is expected from the United Kingdom ($16.8 million) and Switzerland ($6.6 million).
ZAMBIA: IDA—$200 million. The next stages of the country's structural-adjustment program,
which focuses on market liberalization and civil-service reform, together with new initiatives in private-sector development, privatization, and parastatal reform, will be supported.
Nonproject
ALBANIA: IDA—$41.1 million. By importing and distributing to end-users critical imports —defined as those considered necessary to reverse the downward spiral of production and to generate a quick supply response in key productive sectors—capacity utilization and production can be maintained or even increased during the next twelve to eighteen months. Cofinancing ($2.6 million) is expected from Switzerland. Total cost: $55.3 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$150 million. The implementation of a program of fiscal reforms, designed to increase public investment and savings, will be supported.
BOLIVIA: IDA—$40 million. Structural-adjustment assistance will be provided to enable Bolivia to increase the efficiency and level of investment and thus permit an acceleration of growth after the disastrous decline in output in the early 1980s and four years of stagnation in per capita income. Cofinancing is anticipated from the IDB ($140 million), Switzerland ($7 million), the Netherlands ($10 million), and USAID ($700,000). Total cost: $167.7 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA—$10.4 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the structural-adjustment credit approved in fiscal 1992 (see above).
BULGARIA: IBRD—$250 million. The
government's economic-reform program, which aims to reduce macroeconomic imbalances and lay the foundations for sustained growth and the restoration of creditworthiness, will be supported.
BURUNDI: IDA—$30 million. A third structural-adjustment credit has been designed to help strengthen the economy's supply response to the adjustment process by further reducing the role of the state in the economy and by alleviating policy constraints to private-sector development. Parallel financing is expected from Belgium, France, Germany, Japan, and the EDF.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$150 million. A multiseetoral operation, including improvements in public health and education, as well as increases in employment opportunities generated through reconstruction works, has been designed to assist Ethiopia to embark quickly on a process of economic and social recovery and to lay the basis for a future adjustment program. Cofinancing is expected from the AfDB ($126 million), the EC ($116.4 million), USAID ($87 million), Germany ($15.6 million), Sweden ($10.7 million), the EIB ($7 million), the Netherlands ($5.6 million), Japan ($5.5 million), and the UNDP ($1 million).
GHANA: IDA—$6.1 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to help supplement the program to promote private investment and sustained development, approved in fiscal 1991 in the amount of $120 million.
GUYANA: IDA—$3.1 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the second structural-adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of $74.6 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$250 million; IDA—$250 million. The initial phase of the government's program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform will be supported.
KENYA: IDA—$49.2 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to help supplement an export-development project, approved in fiscal 1991 in the amount of $100 million.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: IDA—$40 million. A second structural-adjustment credit seeks to support the consolidation of the comprehensive reforms already undertaken in the critical areas of enterprise reform, resource mobilization, and public-resource management upgrading.
MALAWI: IDA—$120 million. Policy reforms, designed to remove constraints inhibiting private-sector entrepreneurship and initiative, will be supported. In addition, because the worst drought in decades has cut maize production by 60 percent, balance-of-payments support will be provided for the purchase of imported maize. Cofinancing ($13.4 million) is expected from the AfDB.
MONGOLIA: IDA—$30 million. Economic performance and output will be sustained through the provision of finance for equipment, materials, spare parts, vehicles, and other inputs needed for the key agricultural, energy, and transport sectors. Total cost: $38 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$275 million. The last phase of the government's stabilization and adjustment program, designed to achieve a sustainable increase in the rate of economic growth in order to ensure employment opportunities and acceptable living standards while enhancing externa] creditworthiness, will be supported.
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA—S180 million. Support for the country's economic and social-rehabilitation program will help enhance private-sector-based growth, redeploy budgetary expenditures towards key social sectors and smallholder agriculture, and provide support for drought relief. Cofinancing ($6 million) is expected from Switzerland.
NICARAGUA: IDA—$110 million. The country's structural-adjustment program—designed to downsize and restructure the public sector, improve resource allocation and mobilization, and reform the incentives systems—will be supported.
NICARAGUA: IDA—$10.3 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the structural-adjustment credit approved in fiscal 1992.
PANAMA: IBRD—$120 million. The
government's economic-recovery program, which aims to achieve economic stabilization and renew sustainable economic growth, will be supported. Cofinancing is expected from the IDB ($120 million) and the OECF ($100 million).
PERU: IBRD—$300 million. The government's medium-term program of macroeconomic stabilization and broad-based structural reforms will be supported.
ROMANIA: IBRD—$400 million. The
government's program of structural reforms, designed to transform the economy from one that was command driven to one that is market oriented, will be supported.
SENEGAL: IDA—$4.7 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the fourth structural-adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of $80 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$43.1 million. The government's structural-adjustment program will be supported by a credit that focuses on improved fiscal management (particularly revenue enhancement and expenditure control), reform of the public-enterprise sector, and streamlining of the civil service.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$300,000. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the reconstruction-import credit, approved in fiscal 1992 (see above).
SRI LANKA: IDA—S5.2 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the economic-restructuring credit, approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of $90 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$250 million. Completion, in all major respects, of the liberalization of external trade, prices, and the financial sector will be supported, as will institutional reforms to assist the correct functioning of markets.
UGANDA: IDA—$125 million. The country's economic-recovery program will be further supported by a structural-adjustment project designed to remove constraints on the private sector, create an enabling environment conducive to private-sector activity, and increase governmental effectiveness through improvements in efficiency of operations.
UGANDA: IDA—SI.6 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the second economic-recovery credit, approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of $125 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$10 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to help supplement the economic-recovery credit approved in fiscal 1991 in the amount of $210 million.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD—$125 million; IDA—S50 million. The first phase of the government's
structural-adjustment program, which has as its central elements budget-deficit reduction, external-trade liberalization, and domestic regulation, will be supported. Cofinancing is expected from the AfDB ($171 million), the United Kingdom (SI8 million), the EC (S10 million), Germany (S8.5 million), USAID ($5 million), and SIDA ($3 million).
Population, Health, and Nutrition
CHILE: IBRD—$27 million. The development and testing of critical policy reforms in the health sector will be supported, as will the government's efforts to rehabilitate hospitals in the metropolitan Santiago area. Cofinancing (5700,000) is anticipated from Japan. Total cost: $45.3 million.
CHINA: IDA—$129.6 million. National programs to control tuberculosis and schistosomiasis will be supported in selected provinces, thereby saving an estimated 1 million lives from premature death caused by tuberculosis and reducing the number of people infected with schistosomiasis by about 40 percent. Total cost: $271 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$26.8 million. The prevalence and intensity of infection with schistosomiasis among the 17 million people living in the eastern and western delta regions of the country will be reduced. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $43.3 million.
EQUATORIAL GUINEA: IDA—$5.5 million. The quality of the Ministry of Health's field services in critical areas such as primary health care, mother and child health, family planning, the supply of essential drags, and control of major diseases will be improved, and the ministry's capacity to plan, coordinate, and monitor health-sector activities will be strengthened. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $6 million.
GUYANA: IDA—$10.3 million. The social costs of adjustment will be cushioned by improving the health and nutritional status of pregnant and lactating women and children under the age of five through the financing of food-supplement programs, by rehabilitating and equipping health and day-care centers, and by rehabilitating water-supply, sanitation, and stormwater-drainage structures. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the IDB ($300,000). Total cost: $11.7 million.
HONDURAS: IDA—$10.2 million. Resources will be transferred to poor urban and rural communities through implementation of a range of labor-intensive, small-scale subprojects sponsored by municipalities, community organizations, and nongovernmental organizations. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected from the IDB ($31.5 million), Germany ($6 million), the EC
($4 million), USAID ($2.7 million), the WFP ($1.6 million), the Netherlands ($1 million), Spain ($300,000), the UNDP ($200,000), France ($100,000), and UNICEF ($100,000). Total cost: $67.5 million.
INDIA: IDA—$214.5 million. Rapid but targeted assistance will be extended to poor women and children—at risk of falling through the social safety net during a period of severe budgetary constraints on publicly financed social programs—by helping the government finance the incremental costs associated with expanding and enhancing its national maternal-health and child-health program and introducing a safe motherhood initiative. Cofinancing ($67.8 million) is expected from UNICEF. Total cost: $329.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$84 million. Through a public-awareness and community-support campaign, and by improving blood safety, building surveillance, and clinical-management capacity, and controlling sexually transmitted diseases, the spread of the human immunodeficiency virus should be slowed, thus reducing the future morbidity, mortality, and impact of AIDS. Cofinancing ($1.5 million) is anticipated from WHO. Total cost: $99.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$79 million. About 2.4 million women and children will benefit from a project that seeks to reduce fertility and maternal and infant-mortality rates among slum populations in Bangalore, Calcutta, Delhi, and Hyderabad. Total cost: $96.6 million.
KENYA: IDA—S31 million. The Kenyatta National Hospital, the national referral hospital that also serves the Nairobi area, will be rehabilitated and its clinical and administrative efficiency improved, thus setting an important example to the rest of the country's curative health-care system. A strategic health plan for the Nairobi area will also be developed, and modest funding provided for its initial implementation. Total cost: $34.5 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$15.7 million. As many as 750,000 people, mostly women and children, may benefit from the health component of a project that seeks to improve the quality and accessibility of basic health and family-planning services. In addition, the project will assist the government to articulate a national population policy and define a corresponding program of actions, and to enhance women's ability to participate in and contribute to the country's social and economic development. Cofinancing is anticipated from UNFPA ($3 million), UNICEF ($2.4 million), and Germany ($2.3 million). Total cost: $24.4 million.
NIGER: IDA—$17.6 million. The government will be assisted in implementing an effective national population program, which aims at increasing
contraceptive prevalence, reducing maternal mortality, and promoting attitudes favoring a reduction in family size. Cofinancing is expected from Belgium ($2.5 million) and UNICEF ($1 million). Total cost: $24.1 million.
POLAND: IBRD—$ 130 million. The government's health-sector reform plan will be assisted by a project designed to strengthen health-promotion programs, support the first steps in sectoral restructuring by shifting the focus from institutional to primary care, strengthen sectoral institutional capacity, and ensure sustainability of services by controlling costs. Cofinancing ($25 million) is anticipated from the EC. Total cost: $227 million.
ROMANIA: IBRD—$150 million. The primary health-care delivery system, which has deteriorated sharply during the past decade through lack of equipment, spare parts, drugs, and medical supplies, will be rehabilitated and upgraded, and the planning and first-phase implementation of a restructuring of health-sector financing and management will be supported. Total cost: $207.5 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$19.1 million. Food insecurity and malnutrition will be reduced through a series of actions including (a) labor-intensive works that would be implemented through local communities in partnership with nongovernmental organizations and small enterprises; (b) development of productive microenterprises; and (c) direct provision of locally purchased food aid to vulnerable families. Emergency food aid to regions threatened by acute food insecurity is also included, as is a scheme for monitoring living standards through a series of detailed surveys. Cofinancing is expected from the WFP ($15.9 million) and the UNDP ($3.1 million). Total cost: $46.1 million.
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE: IDA—$11.4 million. Attempts will be made to reverse recent declines in the health and education of the country's citizenry through the control of malaria, supply of essential drugs, and provision of textbooks and educational materials. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $12 million.
Public-sector Management
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$325 million. The government's public-sector reform program, designed to reduce the chronic macroeconomic instability that has slowed economic growth, stifled the private sector, impeded job creation, and worsened absolute poverty during the past decade, will be supported. Cofinancing ($300 million) is anticipated from the IDB.
GUINEA: IDA—$7.3 million. The government will be helped to formulate and implement the next stage of its Public Enterprise Rationalization and Privatization Program, which emphasizes public-
enterprise privatization and strengthening of key institutions involved in program implementation. Total cost: S8.1 million. HUNGARY: IBRD—$200 million. The government's enterprise-reform program, aimed at accelerating sharply the privatization and restructuring of the state-enterprise sector, as well as improving state-enterprise governance, will be supported.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$1.3 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the public-sector adjustment credit approved in fiscal 1988 in the amount of $125 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$2.5 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to help supplement the public-enterprise sector adjustment program, approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of $40 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$65.6 million. The role of private enterprises will be enhanced by reducing the size of the public-enterprise sector through privatization and by facilitating access to term finance. The viable public enterprises that remain will be restructured to improve their performance. Access by public and private enterprises to improved management and technology will also be facilitated. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $91.2 million.
Small-scale Enterprises
POLAND: IBRD—$60 million. The creation of new, private businesses will be supported by the provision of financing for efficient investment in private enterprises, particularly in small and medium-sized firms. In addition, technical assistance will be provided to help set up a program aimed at overcoming deficiencies of business practices and building support services for private-enterprise development. Total cost: $187.2 million.
Technical Assistance
AFRICA REGION: IDA—$5.5 million. This regional project, involving Benin and Togo, will help finance engineering and other studies, as well as technical assistance and training, for the Communaute Electrique du Benin, a binational joint power-generation and power-transmission company. Total cost: $6.1 million.
ARGENTINA: IBRD—S20 million. A second Bank project designed to strengthen the country's tax administration will finance consulting services, training, office refurbishing, equipment, and software required by the newly established General Tax Directorate. Total cost: $30 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—S25 million. A sixth technical-assistance project will provide the government with funding for the preparation of investment projects, in general, and, more particularly, for investments related to IDA's
lending program. Institutional-strengthening measures are included. Cofinancing ($5 million) is expected from the UNDP. Total cost: $35 million.
BURKINA FASO: IDA—$15 million. The government's program to bring about sustained and equitable economic growth will be supported through a project that seeks to reinforce major public institutions charged with economic and sector management. Cofinancing ($300,000) is expected from Norway. Total cost: $17 million.
CAPE VERDE: IDA—$4.2 million. The
government's capacity to design and implement a wide-ranging public-enterprise rationalization program and to begin implementation of its policy of promoting the private sector as the main vehicle for economic development will be strengthened. Total cost: $4.7 million.
CHILE: IBRD—SI7.2 million. Key government institutions responsible for national policymaking (especially economic management) will be strengthened, and the effectiveness of financial-management institutions will be increased through the provision of consultant services, equipment, and training. Total cost: S24 million.
COTE DTVOIRE: IDA—$15 million. General institutional support will be provided to government entities in charge of the country's privatization program. In addition, consulting services for the preparation and implementation of privatization plans will be financed, as will programs for restructuring/reducing the country's foreign debt and for strengthening Abidjan's stock exchange. Total cost: $17.7 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$9 million. The capacity of the Public Enterprise Office and the Central Bank of Egypt to design, implement, and monitor reform programs for which they are responsible will be developed, and professional project support will be provided for the preparation of about sixty-five privatization and enterprise-restructuring transactions. Cofinancing is expected from the EC ($10 million), USAID ($4.2 million), CIDA ($3 million), the ODA (S3 million), the UNDP ($3 million), and Germany (S2.8 million). Total cost: $43.9 million.
EL SALVADOR: IBRD—$11 million. The government will be helped in developing its energy policy and improving the efficiency of the energy sector through reform of the institutional and legal framework. Capacity-building assistance and engineering studies for future generation projects are included. Cofinancing is anticipated from USAID (S1.5 million), Japan ($700,000), and the UNDP/IDB ($300,000). Total cost: $14.1 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA—$7.2 million. Economic-management capacity will be enhanced through provision of technical assistance and training designed to strengthen the government's
analytical ability to manage and monitor economic policy, enhance domestic technical capacity and skills in economic policymaking and management, and increase the effectiveness of public administration. Total cost: $8 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$12 million. Technical assistance will be provided to assist the government implement the five-year development program of the newly established Environmental Impact Management Agency. Cofinancing ($400,000) has been provided by Japan. Total cost: $15 million.
MONGOLIA: IDA—$5 million. This first-ever project in the country will help the government develop its institutional capacity for macroeconomic management in a market economy. In addition, strategic studies in selected sectors and subsectors key to the country's long-term development will be financed. Cofinancing is being provided by Japan ($1.2 million) and the UNDP ($250,000). Total cost: $6.8 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$11.2 million. An urban-sector engineering project has been designed to strengthen the institutional and financial capacities of the country's urban councils and to prepare the groundwork for subsequent investment projects in urban infrastructure. Cofinancing (S5 million) is anticipated from NORAD. Total cost: $17 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—S10 million. The design work for the Lower Kihansi Hydroelectric Scheme will be completed, and new billing and accounting procedures will be installed at the Tanzania Electric Supply Company. Total cost: $ 11.6 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$9.2 million. The government will be assisted in its efforts to improve information, systems, and processes related to macroeconomic management through a project that will help finance investments by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade in a data-management system and in institution-building initiatives. Total cost: $28.1 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$9.9 million. Key power-sector assets will be rehabilitated, preserved, and protected, and institutional-strengthening assistance will be provided to the Societe Nationale d'Electricite, the country's electric-power utility. Total cost: $11.4 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$10 million. Technical assistance and equipment will be provided for the development and implementation of a program of privatization, for the introduction of measures to develop the private sector, for the development and implementation of reforms in six utilities that will remain in the public sector, and for the formulation and implementation of a social-action plan to provide a safety net for those affected by the government's reform program. Total cost: $11 million.
Telecommunications
INDONESIA: IBRD—$375 million. Sector performance will be enhanced by promoting a regulatory regime conducive to competition in the provision of telecom services, and growing demand for services will be met through the rehabilitation of existing facilities, the installation of switching equipment for the local cable network, and the installation and upgrading of fiber optic-transmission and microwave-transmission facilities to improve long-distance service. Cofinancing is expected from Japan (the Sumitomo Corporation and the OECF), the Netherlands (ABN-Amro Bank), the Export-Import Bank of the United States ($75 million), Germany (S71 million), France (the government and Credit Lyonnais), and Spain ($50 million). Total cost: $ 1,353 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$55 million. A fifth
telecommunications project includes provision of equipment (a telephone-switching exchange, outside plant, and ancillary equipment to connect about 60,000 new telephone lines; digital transmission links; equipment to extend data and text services; switching and transmission equipment to extend nationwide and international subscriber trunk dialing); and technical assistance for institution building. Cofinancing is expected from Denmark ($18 million), Finland ($11 million), and Japan ($8.5 million). Total cost: $124 million.
Transportation
ANGOLA: IDA—S37.7 million. Economic and financial-feasibility studies, as well as basic engineering studies and environment assessments, for the rehabilitation and maintenance of key transport and urban systems will be financed. Capacity-building assistance and training are included. Total cost: $42.5 million.
BARBADOS: IBRD—$21.2 million. About 30 percent of the country's primary and secondary-road systems will be upgraded, thus significantly reducing transport costs, traffic congestion, and accidents. In addition, all capital works and most periodic-maintenance work will be transferred to the private sector, and the relative merits of private-sector participation in carrying out routine road-maintenance activities will be explored. The privatization of passenger transport services will also be supported, thus reducing government subsidies to the sector. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $33.2 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA—S80 million. A second road-maintenance project will contribute to a substantial upgrading of about one third of the country's maintainable road network, thereby
reducing the large backlog of maintenance and reducing vehicle-operating costs. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: S240 million. BURKINA FASO: IDA—$66 million. The government will be assisted in rehabilitating and maintaining essential transport infrastructure and in improving sectoral efficiency. Cofinancing is anticipated from the EDF ($99 million), the AfDB (S60.6 million), CIDA ($29.8 million), Germany ($28.6 million), the West African Development Fund ($10.2 million), BADEA ($8.5 million), the CCCE and FAC ($7.8 million), the IsDB ($5.5 million), BOAD ($3.1 million), and the UNDP ($600,000). Total cost: $463.4 million.
CHILE: IBRD—$71 million. Investments will be made in port facilities in San Vincente, San Antonio, and Valparaiso so that forecast traffic up to the year 2000 can be handled efficiently. In addition, technical assistance and other port-related investments, including complementary investments designed to facilitate private-sector involvement, will be financed. Total cost: $160.1 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$330 million. A fifth railways project will introduce, on a systemwide basis, advanced technology, equipment, and materials for two key areas of railway operations—track rehabilitation and maintenance. In addition, the double-tracking of the 944-kilometer Zhegan line will be completed, and capacity will be expanded at the Xuzhou marshalling yards. Total cost: $1,005.6 million.
CHINA: IBRD—S220 million. Traffic congestion, which is constraining economic growth in the Hangzhou-Ningbo corridor of Zhejiang province, will be relieved through construction of a 138-kilometer highway. In addition, thirty-three sections of the provincial and county road network will be constructed or improved. Training and technical assistance are included. Total cost: $558.8 million.
CHINA: IDA—S15 million. The ports of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Guangzhou, and Xiamen will be assisted in refurbishing existing and/or establishing new facilities for handling and disposing of, in an environmentally sound manner, ships' waste that would otherwise be dumped in international or Chinese coastal waters to the detriment of the marine environment. Cofinancing ($30 million) has been approved by the GEF. Total cost: $64.8 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$266 million. By financing a share of the five-year (1991-95) highway-investment plan, about 10 percent of the national road network will be upgraded, vehicle-operating costs will be significantly reduced, and access to markets improved. River navigation will also be improved, allowing year-round movement of
exports and imports along the Magdalena river. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $414 million.
FIJI: IBRD—$15 million. Some 147 kilometers of roads will be upgraded, and road-traffic safety and traffic management will be improved in this second Bank-supported road-upgrading project. Institutional-strengthening measures are included. Cofinancing is expected from the AsDB ($18 million) and the Export-Import Bank of Japan ($6.5 million). Total cost: $78 million.
GHANA: IDA—$55 million. A portion of the government's 1992-99 feeder-roads program, designed to improve and expand the country's feeder-road network and improve maintenance management, will be financed. Cofinancing is anticipated from USAID ($21 million), DANIDA ($15 million), the OPEC Fund for International Development ($5 million), and Japan ($1.6 million). Total cost: $106 million.
INDIA: IBRD—S153 million; IDA—SI53 million. Key sections of the national highway network, totaling about 290 heavily trafficked and congested kilometers in six states, will be modernized, and the use of improved road-engineering and construction standards, network management, and contract management will be promoted. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $385.3 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$215 million. Through a road-maintenance-and-rehabilitation program, staff training, and institution-building assistance, the quality of the road network in seventy-three districts in nine provinces will be improved, and the capability of government agencies in charge of district roads will be enhanced. Total cost: S499.2 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$9.8 million. An infrastructure-engineering project will extend IDA's capacity-enhancement efforts in the country to four key sector agencies responsible for the bulk of Lesotho's infrastructure. The project also seeks to ensure that public-works programs and related policy changes are in line with the country's economic-development strategy and that further improvements in strategy, policy formulation, and capacity building are pursued. Total cost: $12.3 million.
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA—S74.3 million. The institutional capacity in the Ministry of Construction and Water and in the Ministry of Transport and Communications necessary to plan and supervise effectively the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and improve small coastal ports serving priority districts will be developed. In addition, policy reforms in the trucking and coastal-shipping subsectors will be implemented. Cofinancing is expected from SIDA ($10.9 million), the UNDP ($7.9 million), BADEA ($6.1 million), the EC ($2.7 million), France ($2.6
million), the UNCDF ($2.5 million), NORAD ($1.7 million), and from others ($13.3 million)— the AfDB, DANIDA, Germany, South Africa, Spain, and USAID. Total cost: $144.7 million.
THE PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$150 million. Some 1,400 kilometers of deteriorated or damaged arterial highways will be upgraded, rehabilitated, strengthened, or resurfaced, thereby reducing transport costs and increasing the country's economic competitiveness. Institution-building assistance to the Department of Public Works and Highways is included. Total cost: $198.7 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$177.5 million. Investments to improve the capacity and condition of the national and provincial highway networks will be financed, thus helping to meet the country's surging demand for road transport, relieve transport bottlenecks, and sustain the country's high rate of economic growth. Total cost: $258 million.
Urban Development
ALGERIA: IBRD—$33 million. A cadastre project, which aims to strengthen Algeria's capacity to implement its national land-registration system, to increase land registration, and to develop an adequate data base for designing a sound land-taxation policy, will be supported. Total cost: $96 million.
ANGOLA: IDA—$45.6 million. As many as 800,000 residents of the twin cities of Lobito and Benguela will benefit from the rehabilitation of water and sewer networks, the provision of clean water and affordably priced latrines, and the rehabilitation of storm-drainage and solid-waste management systems. Technical assistance and training are included. Cofinancing is anticipated from NORAD (S5 million) and SIDA ($5 million). Total cost: $58.9 million.
BENIN: IDA—S22.8 million. Ongoing programs of infrastructure rehabilitation and environmental sanitation in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, which focus on public works so as to raise employment and income levels of the urban poor, promote the development of local small and medium-sized private enterprises, and involve nongovernmental organizations and residents, will be supported. Cofinancing is expected from the FAC ($1.3 million) and. the UNDP ($450,000). Total cost: $26.8 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$126 million. The foundations for the financial, institutional, and organizational policy changes required to achieve sustainable, integrated, multimodal transport in the Sao Paulo metropolitan region will be laid. Total cost: $281 million.
CHINA: IDA—$100 million. Long-term
improvement of Tianjin's urban infrastructure and environment is the goal of a project that seeks to increase the efficiency and responsiveness of
the city government's sector-management systems. In addition, cost-effective investments in industrial-pollution control, environmental sanitation, and transportation will be supported. Total cost: $195 million. CHINA: IDA—$60 million. Through road
improvements, traffic management, construction of nineteen kilometers of nonmotorized vehicle roads, and provision of technical assistance, the first stage of a long-term program to upgrade and develop the urban-transport infrastructure of Shanghai will be launched. Total cost: $148.3 million.
IRAN: IBRD—$77 million. Central Tehran, as well as low-lying areas to the south, will be protected against costly flooding through the provision of a stormwater-collection system. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $95.6 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$24 million. Through policy reform, institutional strengthening, and the provision of infrastructure and services, the financial and administrative capacity of the local-government system to provide and maintain affordable municipal services and infrastructure consistent with the size and growth rate of the urban population will be enhanced. Cofinancing is expected from the UNDP ($1.7 million), the ODA ($800,000), and USAID ($700,000). Total cost: $36.3 million.
MALI: IDA—$20 million. A program of essential, small-scale public works, aimed at rehabilitating and maintaining urban infrastructure, will be carried out by local contractors using labor-intensive technologies. Technical assistance to contractors and a training program for local government officials and consultants is included. Cofinancing ($6 million) is anticipated from Germany. Total cost: $28.2 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$450 million. The supply of finance for low-cost housing to be built by private developers will be expanded, and regulatory barriers to housing will be removed, thus helping to lower housing costs and encourage commercial banks to increase lending for housing, especially at the lower-income end of the market. Total cost: $1,594 million.
THE PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$68 million. A third municipal-development project seeks to improve the delivery of services, infrastructure, and public facilities at the local level, strengthen the management capacity of local governments, and improve the national government's ability to assist cities and municipalities to respond to the needs of an increasing urban population. Total cost: $113.7 million.
POLAND: IBRD—$200 million. Through the provision of lines of credit for mortgages and construction, as well as of technical assistance, the government's first steps in moving from a
heavily subsidized, centrally-controlled mode of housing production to a more efficient, market-based system of supply through private initiative will be supported. Cofinancing is anticipated from the EBRD ($67 million). Total cost: $677 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$39 million. A second public-works and employment project has been designed to create low-cost, short-term employment opportunities using private-sector enterprises in the execution of social and economic public works. Institution-building assistance is included, as is training of local contractors who are awarded public-works contracts. Cofinancing, totaling $15 million, is expected from the AfDB, CIDA, the EC, and the WFP, Total cost: $81 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$71.2 million. Short-term and medium-term reconstruction of essential economic and social infrastructure in secure areas of the north will be financed so as to restore the region's economic productivity and begin the process of reducing the historical disparity between the north and south of the country. Cofinancing is anticipated from DANIDA ($10.5 million) and the Netherlands ($6.4 million). Total cost: $98.2 million.
VENEZUELA: IBRD—$40 million. The
environmental and sanitary conditions of about 230,000 low-income inhabitants of city slums will improve as a result of a pilot project that has also been designed to lay the institutional foundations for stronger municipal government. Total cost: $85.5 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
BRAZIL: IBRD—$250 million. By helping finance a time-slice of the six-year investment program of the state water companies of Bahia, Mato Grosso do Sul, and Santa Catarina, some 4.3 million additional people in hundreds of cities and towns in those states will be provided with water-supply and sewerage services. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $500 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$32.7 million. Public health and living conditions will improve through the construction of rural water-supply systems in nine of the country's fifteen provinces and through the catchment and development of about 3,000 springs. Institution-building assistance to the Department of Rural Water Resources and Electrification is included. Cofinancing is expected from the AGCD ($12.6 million) and Germany ($6.2 million). Total cost: S54.7 million.
CHINA: IBRD—S45 million; IDA—$80 million. The environmental-planning and management capabilities of Beijing municipality agencies will be strengthened, and specific pollution-abatement investments (including construction of sewer systems, a sanitary landfill, and a pressurized hot
water piping system for district heating) will be financed. Total cost: $304.5 million.
CHINA: IDA—$110 million. The health and productivity of some 9 million rural inhabitants living in six underdeveloped inland provinces and autonomous regions will improve through increased coverage of water supply, to be complemented by sanitation services, health and hygiene education, technical assistance, and training. Total cost: $189.1 million.
CYPRUS: IBRD—$32 million. The drainage and wastewater-disposal problems in Larnaca, Ayia Napa, and Paralimni, three towns on the southeast coast of the country, will be tackled, thus contributing substantially towards environmental improvement and protection of the country's critically important tourism industry. Cofinancing ($32 million) is anticipated from the CERE Total cost: $103.3 million.
IRAN: IBRD—$57 million. Through the
rehabilitation and upgrading of dikes along the southern shore of Lake Hirmand, along both sides of the Sistan river, and along the Niatak floodway, flood-related risks to human life will be reduced and damage to property and infrastructure prevented; other benefits include health improvements to the population, protection of archaeological sites, and preservation of wetlands and land-based habitats. Total cost: SI00 million.
KENYA: IDA—$43.2 million. The National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation will be assisted in carrying out a preparatory project (to be followed by a major project) aimed at improving and extending the water-supply and wastewater-disposal systems in Mombasa and other locations in the coastal region. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $48.7 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$40 million. Sewage-treatment plants will be built in Pusan and Taejon, thus reducing pollution in Korea's water courses and coastal waters, as well as associated health hazards. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $272.1 million.
LESOTHO: IBRD—$110 million. The first phase of a thirty-year scheme to export water to the industrial heartland of South Africa—involving the construction of facilities to permit water transfers of up to 18 irr/sec and the installation of 72-mW capacity of hydropower—will be supported. Donor cofinancing is anticipated from the EDF ($57 million), the AfDB ($50 million), the CDC ($36.1 million), the EIB ($20 million), France ($8.7 million), the ODA ($1.3 million), Germany ($800,000), Ireland (S400,000), and the UNDP ($250,000), while discussions involving cofinancing totaling $106.7 million are continuing with other bilateral donors. Export-credit financing is expected from Hermes ($118 million), the SACE ($107 million), COFACE
($104 million), and the ECGD ($82 million); in addition, some $67 million in commercial-bank financing is being negotiated. Total cost: $2,415 million. MAURITANIA: IDA—$10.5 million. The midterm investment program of the Societe National d'Eau et d'Electricite in the water sector, which covers the most urgent rehabilitation and extension works, will be financed. In addition, the technical groundwork for the other works included in the investment program will be undertaken. Total cost: $13.8 million.
NIGERIA: IDA—$101 million. The quantity and reliability of water supply in the more important towns and settlements of Katsina and Kaduna states will be improved, thus helping meet the basic needs for water of about 1 million people, about half of whom are at or below the poverty level. In addition, technical assistance will be provided to help commercialize the water boards of the two states. Total cost: $128.2 million.