Glossary
Agenda 21 The main operational product of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), Agenda 21 is an ambitious action plan covering over 100 program areas (climate, desertification, sustainable agriculture, for example) integrating environment and development, to be supported by new and additional financial resources, improved access on favorable terms to environmentally sound technology, and strengthened institutional capacity in developing countries. States were called upon to prepare national sustainable development plans outlining their own environmental problems as well as their strategies, programs, and priorities for implementing Agenda 21. UNCED agreed that financing should be assembled to support these programs through a variety of existing, rather than new, funding mechanisms.
“Brady” operations Named after a March 1989 initiative by then-U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Nicholas Brady who proposed that countries with sound adjustment problems should get access to debt- and debt-service reduction facilities supported by international financial institutions and official creditors. It represented a shift in the international community's debt strategy from supporting adjustment with concerted new lending to supporting adjustment with debt- and debt-service reduction.
“Brown” environmental agenda Refers to the immediate and most critical environmental problems facing cities and includes three main areas—energy use and efficiency, urban and industrial pollution control, and urban environmental management.
Central bank facility A facility used by the IBRD to raise short-term United Stales-dollar debt by offering to central banks and other government organizations of member countries a one-year, United States-dollar denominated variable-rate instrument. The interest rate is adjusted monthly on the yield of the one-year U.S. Treasury bill plus a spread.
Committee of the Whole The Committee of the Whole is a committee made up of all exec-
utive directors; it has traditionally served as a forum in which preliminary discussion of issues takes place before they are taken up by the executive board. It is also the forum in which the executive directors act as a preparatory body for the work of the Development Committee.
Currency swaps Currency swaps are used by the Bank as a liability-management tool and essentially involve an exchange of a stream of principal and interest payments in one currency for a stream in another currency. The Bank uses currency swaps to obtain borrowings in the ultimately desired “target” currency at below cost of a market borrowing in that currency.
Development Committee This committee is known formally as the Joint Ministerial Committee of the Boards of Governors of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund on the Transfer cf Real Resources to Developing Countries. Established in October 1974, the committee currently consists of twenty-four members, generally Ministers of Finance, appointed for periods of two years by one of the countries or a group of countries that designates a member of die Bank's or the International Monetary Fund's board of executive directors. The committee is required to advise and report to the boards of governors of the two institutions on all aspects of the broad question of the transfer of real resources to developing countries and to make suggestions for their implementation.
“Enhanced” Toronto terms A menu of Paris Club concessions for low-income countries, initiated in 1991, comprises two options providing for deeper debt reduction plus the nonconcessional option from the old Toronto terms. The concessional options amount to 50 percent forgiveness in present-value terms on debt-service payments falling due during the consolidation period. Enhanced Toronto terms also provide for a third nonconcessional option: consolidation at market rates, with a repayment period of twenty-five years, including a fourteen-year grace period. This option was adopted by the United States and some smaller
creditor countries that were, at the time, unable to adopt debt cancellation for non-ODA debt.
Forward foreign exchange market Allows for the sale or purchase of foreign currency for deferred rather than immediate delivery.
G-7 countries Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States
“Green” environmental agenda Refers to the promotion of sustainable natural resource management and the reduction of resource degradation, and includes agriculture and land management, forest management, water-resource and watershed management, marine and coastal zone management, and biodiversity conservation.
ICOR (incremental capital-output ratio) An
aggregate measure of the efficiency of investment. It shows the amount of investment required to produce an annual income stream of one dollar. The lower the ICOR, the more efficient the investment.
LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) LIBOR is the rate at which major banks in London are willing to lend in a specific currency or currency unit to other banks. It is used as a base rate for many international interest-rate transactions.
Low-income countries Are those countries with a GNP per capita of S675 or less in 1992 United States-dollar terms.
Mezzanine financing Has two separate meanings, one having to do with the type of finance, the other with the stage a company has rcached. It is the second sense that applies to mezzanine finance funds supported by the IFC: risk capital made available to unlisted companies to support development and expansion programs, in anticipation of the companies' being listed.
Middle-income countries Are those countries with a GNP per capita of more than $675 but less than $8,356 in 1992 United States-dollar terms.
Negative-pledge clause Negative-pledge clauses are concerned with the granting of security interests by a borrower over its assets to its creditors. By the terms of such a clause, the borrower agrees with a creditor or group of creditors to restrictions on its granting, or otherwise permitting to exist, security interests in favor of other creditors. Negative-pledge clauses are usually standard in Bank loan documents. They may be waived on a case-by-case basis, however.
Official development assistance (ODA) Financial aid to developing countries and multilateral institutions provided by official agencies, or by their executive agencies. ODA is administered with the promotion of the economic development and welfare of developing countries as its main objective, is concessional in character, and contains a grant element of at least 25 percent.
Panel data set Is one composed of both time series and cross-section observations. The resulting data base is a gold mine of analytical information relative to the much more common cross-sectional base.
Paris Club The Paris Club is the name given to the ad hoc meetings of creditor governments that, since 1956, have arranged, when necessary, tor the renegotiation of debt owed to official creditors or guaranteed by them. (Debts to commercial banks are renegotiated with committees of the banks involved.) The World Bank is not a member of the Paris Club.
Social-action programs Social-action programs and social funds consist of multisectoral operations that mobilize several sources of financing to fund special interventions and targeted projects seeking to alleviate the social costs of adjustment, as well as poverty in general. The project components that typically get financed include public works, severance payments, retraining, and schemes in nutrition, primary health, and primary education. While the objectives and project content of social-action programs and social funds are similar, they differ in their institutional set-up. Social funds finance small, demand-driven subprojects and often bypass existing bureaucratic systems and procedures; funding commitments are often based o:i the evaluation of project proposals prepared according to predetermined selection criteria. Social-action program subprojects are typically appraised by the World Bank. Whereas social funds are most often parastatal quasi-financial institutions, social-action programs generally cover a broader array of institutional arrangements, such as quasi-autonomous project units or integration into sectoral ministries.
Social fund (See social-action programs)
SPA-digible country Country eligibility is determined on the basis of poverty (countries cannot be eligible for IBRD loans), indebtedness (countries have to have projected debt-service ratios of 30 percent or more, and efforts to adjust (countries have to be currently implementing a policy-reform program that is endorsed and normally supported by the Bank
and the International Monetary Fund, and agreement has to be reached on a policy framework paper).
Special drawing rights (SDRs) The special drawing right is a reserve asset created in 1968 by the International Monetary Fund for use by its members and certain prescribed institutions, among which are multilateral development banks and the Bank for International Settlements. Its value is calculated daily by using a weighted basket of the currencies of the G-S countries (France, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States).
Structured notes Those for which the returns are linked to interest and/or exchange rate indices.
Toronto terms Toronto terms refer to a menu of options that can be chosen to reduce official
debt in low-income, debt-distressed countries. The terms, agreed upon in September 1988 (following agreement in principle at the economic summit held in Toronto three months earlier), include reduced interest, very long grace and repayment periods (at commercial rates), or partial write-offs of debt-service obligations during the consolidation period (with the rest rescheduled at commercial rates and shorter maturities), or a combination of these options.
Vehicle currency A currency in which the Bank borrows and simultaneously enters into a currency swap in order to convert the “vehicle" currency liability into a liability denominated in another currency (a so-called “target” currency”).
Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1994
The fundamental objective of the World Bank is to support the reduction of poverty in its member countries. During fiscal 1994, the Bank continued to make progress—through its lending operations and a strengthened policy dialogue—in implementing the poverty-reduction strategies first outlined in World Development Report 1990 and subsequently elaborated in a policy paper and associated operational documents.
A report on poverty reduction, discussed by the executive board in April 1994, concluded that progress was being made in implementing the Bank's poverty-reduction strategy—in the Bank's lending operations, in country-assistance strategies and the policy dialogue, and in strengthening poverty analyses. The report noted, however, that several challenges had to be addressed in the Bank's future poverty-reduction work. They include ensur-
ing an integrated poverty-reduction effort in country-assistance strategies; completion of, and improvements to, poverty assessments for all borrowers; and development of poverty-monitoring systems and expansion of countries' capacity to implement them.
Most recently, the Bank has placed less emphasis on the growth of its portfolio and more on its quality. This shift grew out of the 1992 report of the Task Force on Portfolio Management, which identified certain aspects of Bank practice that either may have contributed to portfolio-management problems or were insufficiently effective in resolving them. Steps were taken in fiscal 1994 to incorporate the task force's recommendations so as to make the Bank more effective in pursuing its basic goal of reducing poverty in borrowing countries.
As the core of its action plan, the Bank introduced a country-by-country approach,
rather than a project-by-project approach, into the management of its ongoing lending operations. To complement the changes it made in its own policies and practices, the Bank is collaborating with the authorities in borrowing countries to review the performance of the portfolio in each country and resolve systemic problems. These and other measures are helping the Bank take a much more strategic view of its $148 billion loan portfolio ($107 billion, 982 projects, IBRD; $41 billion, 915 projects, IDA). According to a report on the progress of activities designed to improve the management of the development programs and projects the Bank finances, steady and substantial progress has been made during the past year towards sharpening the focus on implementation and on a performing portfolio. The report adds, however, that more remains to be done, for the action plan is not a set of one-time activities; rather, it is a process that ls expected to take years before it is satisfactorily completed.
The Bank is also devoting more energy and resources to fostering stakeholder participation during project preparation. In June 1993, a Participation Fund was established to finance
extra expenditures incurred in involving beneficiaries in project preparation and in economic and sector work. The initial monies allocated to the fund were fully committed by November, and additional amounts were allocated in March 1994. Involving beneficiaries in project preparation is now beginning to become normal Bank procedure.
Cooperation between the Bank and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) continued to expand in terms of both lending operations and the policy dialogue throughout the year. Increased collaboration was clearly exhibited at the Conference on Actions to Reduce Hunger Worldwide that was convened by the Bank in November 1993. In addition to participating in presentations and discussion, NGOs assisted in the conference’s preparatory and follow-up work.
During the year, steps were taken to increase the Bank's accountability and openness:
In September 1993, the executive board of the Bank established an independent Inspection Panel, which will receive and investigate complaints that the Bank has not followed its own policies and procedures with respect to
The Bank, Age 50, Looks to the Next Century
Fifty years ago, in July 1944, the World Bank was conceived at the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference held in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire. United States of America.
Representatives of forty-four nations assembled there established two complementary financial institutions—the Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
This is what the report of Commission II (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development) to the Executive Plenary Session (United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference) wrote about the Bank in that sr mer of 1944:
“The creation of the Bank was an entirely new venture. ... So novel was it, that no name could be found for it. Insofar as we can talk of capital subscriptions, loans, guarantees, issue of bonds, the new financial institution may have some apparent Jaim to the name of Bank. But the type of shareholders, the nature of subscriptions, the exclusion of all deposits and short-term loans, the non-profit basis, are quite foreign to the accepted nature of a Bank. However, it was accidentally bom with the name Bank, and Bank it remains, mainly because no satisfactory name could be found in the dictionary for this unprecedented institution.”
Reflection on the experience of the past fifty years highlights how far the world has progressed
economically and socially and how far it still has to go.
In the developing countries, average life expectancy has increased by about SO percent; the proportion of children attending school has risen from less than half to more than three quarters; and average income per person has more than doubled. The Bank—through its support for more than 5,000 projects in about 140 countries—has contributed to this progress.
Enormous challenges remain, however. They include reducing poverty for the more than 1 billion people who struggle to survive on about a dollar a day and providing basic sanitation, clean water, health care, and schooling for those lacking access to these basic services. Most countries in sub-Saharan Africa have been mired in lackluster or declining rates of growth for more than a decade. The problems associated with economic transformation in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union have proved to be extremely complex. And new challenges are' coming to the fore, in South Africa and the West Bank and Gaza, for example.
In a number of ways, the Bank is uniquely placed to help address these challenges. Most important is its fifty years of experience in working on almost every kind of development issue in almost every developing country. From that experience has come lessons learned over the years:
the design, appraisal, and/or implementation of a developmen' project that it supports. The panel will be functionally independent and will report directly to the board. In April 1994, the three members of the panel were appointed.
In January 1994, the Bank expanded public access to operational information by opening a Public Information Center at the Bank's headquarters in Washington, D.C. that aims to provide timely and relevant information about the Bank’s present and future plans by allowing public access to previously restricted documents. The information is also available through Bank offices in London, Paris, Tokyo, and through the institution's many field offices. The public can also use the Internet computer network to access project information documents and to view (and order) the titles of all Bank documents available on request, as well as the abstracts and entire text of selected documents. Greater transparency is essential to explain the Bank's work to the various stakeholders and thereby increase understanding of and support for Bank-supported activities.
Resources devoted to the many types of nonlending activities that serve to underpin future
lending operations continued to be significant. In fiscal 1994, resources spent on economic and sector work were about 19 percent of the total. On an ongoing basis for all borrowers, the Bank is engaged in preparing or updating poverty assessments, private sector assessments, environmental assessments, national environmental action plans, and country-assistance strategies for discussion by the executive directors.
These and other economic and sector analyses are designed to deepen the Bank's understanding on development issues, improve the impact of its operations, and enhance policy-reform efforts. They are particularly important for the Bank's newest member countries, where there continues to be a need for considerable investment in analytical work prior to expanding technical assistance and lending programs. Furthermore, through the three new thematic vice presidencies, the Bank is evaluating best practices in human resources development, environmentally sustainable development, and financial and private sector development and is disseminating them to both staff and external audiences.
that people are both the means and ends of development; that sustained commitment to sound macroeconomic policy is vital; that institutional capacity is a major determinant of progress; and that economic growth should be broad-based and environmentally sustainable to reduce poverty effectively.
Of fundamental importance, through decades of experience in designing and implementing investment projects, the Bank has become a trusted adviser on development—sharing its global experience of what does and does not work—and helping its member countries apply those lessons.
In assisting its member countries to meet current and future challenges, the Bank is committed to build on and enhance its roles as a supplier of development finance/provider of advice, and, in special cases, as a resource for helping address strategic development issues that transcend national boundaries.
Given the scale and scope of the development agenda, the Bank is aware that it must avoid stretching itself too thin. It is focusing, therefore, on doing what it does best and Is encouraging a division of labor with its partners. It is doing this by following six guiding principles:
Being selective in choosing which strategic actions to pursue; embracing partnerships with other participants—multilateral, bilateral, gov-emn.ental, nongovernmental, the private sector;
responding to borrower needs and facilitating their participation in the design and implementation of Bank-supported programs; looking beyond lending commitments and concentrating on results in the field; ensuring that scarce development resources are spent wisely and efficiently; and maintaining its high standing in the financial markets.
The Bank's record in fostering economic development over the past half century has been-aided in no small part by its ability to respond quickly and flexibly to the ever-changing environment In which it works. One fundamental point, however, has endured and will not change:
The Bank remains the only development institution in the world with a long-term partnership with virtually every developing -ountry, a wealth of cross-country experience, and a product mix that combines finance, policy advice, and indepth research. This unique capacity and the fifty-year experience with development make the Bank a major global asset in the effort to reduce poverty and improve the human condition—an asset that is just as needed today as it was fifty years ago.
The Bank calls on its partners to work with it in meeting the challenges of the twenty-first century.
In various parts of the Bank, changes in business practices are being explored. Experimentation is under way to help define means of delivering Bank products of higher quality with reduced costs. Most of these efforts are currently directed to process simplification, although more ambitious “redesigning” or process-innovation pilot programs are also under review. In addition, more focused priority setting is fostering greater partnerships with the private sector and other multilateral and bilateral donors. A greater role for the private sector is being promoted explicitly as the Bank moves to support and catalyze private sector activities. Collaboration with the International
Finance Corporation at the operational level has been intensified, including review of programs in support of the telecommunications sector and private sector development activities.
Private flows represent an increasingly important source of finance for developing countries, with net flows reaching a ten-year high in
1993	of $113 billion, an increase of more than 150 percent of the level of 1990. Although levels of flows in the future are unpredictable, clearly today the private sector is playing a major role in those countries where reform programs are well established or the potential exists for large gains. Countries in East Asia,
Latin America, and Central and Eastern Europe have been the largest recipients of private capital, enabling the Bank to address more basic social and environmental issues that are not covered by other lenders.
In summary, the operational context was one of changing business products and processes in an environment containing many country uncertainties, making it all the more important that the Bank be well positioned to deliver work programs that are appropriate to current country circumstances and be able to respond quickly to changing conditions as they arise.
In fiscal 1994, lending by the Bank to all borrowers amounted to $20,836 million: $14,243.9 million by the IBRD and $6,592.1 million by IDA.
Specific investment loans and credits was, by far, the most favored lending instrument employed during the year. Commitments for this type of instrument totaled $14.1 billion (68 percent of the total).
Adjustment lending has been declining since
1989.	In fiscal 1994, adjustment lending amounted to $2.4 billion, representing 12 percent of the total, compared with $6.2 billion in fiscal 1989, an amount that represented 29 percent of total lending. This decline is due to the relative maturity of the reform process in many countries and to constraints and uncertainties that impede progress in others.
Assistance to the poorest countries—those with a per capita gross national product of $675 or less (in terms of 1992 United States dollars) totaled $9,435.4 million: $4,073.6 million from the IBRD and $5,361.9 million from IDA (see accompanying figure). One loan of $30 million, on IDA-like terms, from resources provided by
the Trust Fund for Gaza was approved for the Occupied Territories.
Net disbursements from the IBRD to member countries were a negative $731 million. IDA'S net disbursements were $5,110 million.
During the year, the tenth replenishment of IDA's resources (IDA-10) became effective, and the Debt-reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries was extended until July 31, 1995. In July 1993, the executive board agreed to allocate $100 million from the IBRD's net income earned during fiscal 1993 to the facility.
The IBRD borrowed the equivalent of $8,908 million in the world's financial markets. Net income was $1,051 million.
During the fiscal year, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia fulfilled the required formalities to succeed to the membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, bringing the total membership of the IBRD to 177. At the end of the fiscal year, action was pending on membership in the IBRD for Bosnia-Herzegovina, Eritrea, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia also fulfilled the required formalities to succeed to the membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as a member of IDA. Armenia became a member of IDA on August 25,1993, Georgia became a member on August 31,1993, and Moldova became a member on June 14, 1994, bringing the total membership of IDA to 156. At the end of the fiscal year, action was pending on membership in IDA for Bosnia-Herzegovina, Eritrea, Turke-menistan, Ukraine, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Section One The Executive Board
The executive directors are responsible for the conduct of the general operations of the Bank, which includes deciding on Bank policy in the framework of the Articles of Agreement and approving all loan and credit proposals. The president of the Bank is the chairman of the executive directors. The president is also the chief of the operating staff of the Bank and conducts, under the direction of the executive directors, the ordinary business of the Bank.
The executive directors are also responsible for presenting to the board of governors an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, the Annual Report on the operations and policies of the World Bank, and any other matters that, in their judgment, require submission to the board of governors. Matters may be submitted to the board of governors at its annual meetings or at any time during the year.
The executive board exercises its authority, under the Articles of Agreement, in three general areas. First, through its annual oversight of the financial and operating programs, and administrative budgets, the board determines the allocation of financial and staff resources for the coming year. Second, through its review of evaluations of completed Bank projects and the Bank’s experience in individual sectors and with particular policies, as well as through its participation in the annual review of portfolio performance, the board is actively involved in auditing development effectiveness, thereby ensuring that the Bank and member countries can benefit from the lessons of experience. Through its review of specific policy proposals (for example, the Bank's financial policies, operational policies, lending terms, sectoral priorities), the board determines the direction of Bank policies. Through its approval of lending operations and its review of the Bank's country-assistance strategies, the board oversees the Bank's lending program.
Exercise of executive board authority in these three areas results in continuous dialogue between the board and the management of the Bank. The quality of that dialogue was further enhanced throughout the fiscal year on those occasions of broad discussion on key issues such as emergency assistance to the Occupied
Territories and the countries of the CFA Zone, poverty reduction, portfolio management, establishment of an independent inspection panel, and the Bank at age fifty as it looks towards its work and role in the Twenty-first Century.
Oversight of Financial and Operating Programs
In fulfilling its responsibilities to oversee the IBRD and IDA financial and operating programs, the executive directors authorized a program of borrowings and liability management in the context of a borrowing plan for fiscal 1994 of $12.0 billion equivalent. This program, which the board monitored on a quarterly basis through regular market briefings, was carried out according to agreed broad parameters. In accordance with the simplified budget review cycle endorsed by the board in fiscal 1992, the executive directors were involved in the formulation of the Bank's medium-term planning directions (fiscal 199597) and in setting the fiscal 1995 operating budget. In this framework, they approved indicative IBRD lending for the year at between $15.5 billion and $17.5 billion, with an indicative IDA lending program of 5.3 billion in special drawing rights (about $7.5 billion). The board also approved the allocation of fiscal 1993’s net income and the plan for fiscal 1994.
Operations Evaluation and Project Implementation
In order to fulfill its responsibility to review project evaluations and proposals for future evaluation activities, the board continued to give particular attention to the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The OED, under the management of the director general, is linked administratively to the Bank president but is directly responsible to the executive directors. The board approved OED's work program and staff budget for fiscal 1994 and reviewed the status of the department's work and its report on operations evaluation. The executive board also agreed that, following its discussion of OED's annual review of evalua-
tion results, the review should be published and made available outside the Bank.
In addition, the executive directors endorsed steps for strengthening portfolio-performance management, including the internal processes used by the Bank to oversee portfolio performance. In turn, they held discussions with management and staff on the “Annual Report on Portfolio Performance,” which covered the results of fiscal 1993. This report noted that the greater attention to portfolio-performance management, particularly the “cleaning up" of the operations portfolio, had helped in the short term to avoid a further deterioration in the Bank's quantitative measures of portfolio performance. The board will continue to monitor progress and review the next steps in this ongoing process.
Review of Policy Proposals
In the course of the fiscal year, the executive board reviewed policy proposals and made decisions that affected the operations in many areas of Bank activities, including finance, lending operations, sector policies, development economics, and administration.
Finance. In fiscal year 1994, IDA policies and operations continued to receive the attention of the directors. Early in the fiscal year, the board reviewed IDA's policies, operations, and finances during the ninth replenishment period (fiscal 1991-93).’ With respect to IDA reflows., the board set the use of advance commitment authority from future reflows amounting to SDR800 million (about $1,126 million) annually for the period fiscal 1994-96 and further annual allocations in fiscal 1994 of SDR190 million (about $265 million) for the “fifth dimension” program. This program provides supplementary IDA resources to those IDA-only countries that have outstanding debt to the IBRD, are current in their debt-service payments to both the IBRD and IDA, and have in place IDA-supported adjustment programs. Such supplementary resources, therefore, take into account the debt impact arising from IBRD interest payments.
Following the launch of a pilot program of single-currency loans to respond to some borrowers* needs in fiscal 1993 for a choice of terms to help reduce the currency and interest rate risks in their IBRD loans, the board held an interim review to assess the target ratios for the composition of the currency pools.2 The executive directors also approved a structured bond borrowings and liquidity arrangement that, by applying the existing debt buyback and borrowing authority, would permit the IBRD to exchange outstanding structured bonds denominated in any currency for floating rate
notes or new structured bonds with different embedded derivatives. In order to facilitate such exchanges, and structured borrowings generally, the executive directors also authorized short-term borrowings to be conducted in any currency by amending the short-term United States dollar borrowing authorization and the exclusion of such exchanges from the volume limit approved by the board applicable to the IBRD’s regular repurchases of debt securities.
In fiscal 1989 the board had approved a joint resolution establishing the Debt-reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries. Subsequent extensions were made to the facility, and in fiscal 1994 the board assessed progress under the facility and approved its extension until July 31, 1995.
Operations. In fiscal year 1994 the board interacted with Bank management and staff to set policies fundamental to the Bank’s operational priorities and strategies. Establishing an inspection function at the Bank was one of the board’s major concerns in the fiscal year. As a result of its intensive discussions of the issues and options in both formal and informal settings, the executive directors established the objectives, mandate, and operating procedures for an inspection panel. This panel would provide an independent review mechanism for affected parties of an action or omission by the Bank resulting from its failure to follow its operational policies and procedures.3 The three members of the panel were named in April
1994.	The members of the panel accepted their appointments, effective August I, and the panel was expected to open for business in early September.
A similar process was followed by the executive directors in expanding access to Bank information through revisions to the Bank’s policies on disclosure of information, which provided, among other things, access by the public to a number of previously restricted documents and the establishment of a Public Information Center at the Bank's headquarters.4
The board reaffirmed the importance of poverty reduction as an integrating theme in nearly all Bank assistance. The executive directors assessed the progress that had been made in supporting poverty reduction in the Bank’s activities in fiscal year 1993 and reviewed the adequacy of the steps taken by the Bank to improve the way it addresses poverty issues.5
In fiscal 1993, the board approved a policy under which countries in transition could be granted a temporary waiver of the negative-pledge clause under certain conditions. The negative-pledge clause is a standard feature of all IBRD loan agreements. Its basic purpose is to protect the Bank by prohibiting, among other things, member-country borrowers from establishing liens on public assets that would create a preference for other creditors on foreign exchange loans over the debt owed to the Bank. For countries in transition to market economies, however, most of their important assets are still publicly owned, and, therefore, the negative-pledge clause makes it extremely difficult for public sector enterprises to enter into much-needed financial relationships with private creditors without either requesting a waiver of the negative-pledge clause or granting equal and ratable security to the IBRD.
As a result of the eligibility requirements established under the fiscal 1993 policy, however, no waivers of the negative pledge were granted. Therefore, substantial investments were pending in several countries because of the continued application of the negative-pledge clause. To address this problem, the board approved in fiscal 1994 a modification to the negative-pledge waiver that would allow the country-eligibility decision to be based on the Bank's judgment that the country was making progress in privatization, was moving toward a market economy and experiencing improvement in its macroeconomic situation, and that the waiver of the negative pledge would further contribute to the attainment of these goals. In the wake of this modification, the board approved country waivers for Russia, Uzbekistan, and Kazakhstan.
The board continued to monitor the Bank’s role in providing technical assistance. They reviewed the first year of experience with the Institutional Development Fund,6 recommended to the board of governors the establishment of the Joint Vienna Institute, and discussed the board's report on technical assistance activities in fiscal year 1993. In addition, the board provided guidance to staff on revising the Bank's policies as they relate to procurement activities, outreach, and supervision.
The importance placed by the board on environmental sustainability in the Bank's operations was reflected in the directors' discussions of the annual report on the Bank and the environment, in their major review of Bank projects involving involuntary resettlement in the period 1986-93,7 and in their substantial involvement with the negotiations, replenishment, and restructuring of the Global Environment Facility.*
The board carefully followed developments in the international economic and political environment, often in forums such as seminars and briefings, which allowed for a more informal debate with management and staff. Major issues included the establishment of a donors' group for the Occupied Territories and a transfer from surplus to fund an emergency rehabilitation program for Gaza,9 specific issues related to development in Africa, such as the adjustment experience,10 better health," and the Bank's role in the development of South Africa; Latin America, a decade after the debt crisis; the East Asian economic “miracle”;11 and the international conference on hunger.1* The executive directors were also participants in a colloquium with outside experts on the recent economic developments in China.
The board reviewed the Bank's development in the context of the country-assistance strategies (CAS) of sixty IBRD and IDA borrowers. To ensure that these reviews provided appropriate coverage of the key issues affecting the Bank's strategy and that individual lending operations were consistent with the overall strategy. the board considered the role and nature of the CAS and set guidelines for their preparation. The executive directors also kept abreast of the activities and progress of the increasing number of consultative and aid groups chaired by the Bank at the request of the recipient countries (see Table 1-1).
In addition to approving all IBRD loans and IDA credits, the board monitored the progress of the Bank's overall lending program through regular briefings with senior management. In addition, to gauge the impact of the Bank's work “on the ground" and to discuss priority development issues with senior policymakers in member countries, selected groups of executive directors and alternate executive directors travelled to a number of borrowing countries. In fiscal 1994, there were four such missions: to Indonesia and Fiji; the Czech Republic. Hungary and Slovakia; Egypt, Lebanon, and Morocco; and Benin, Cote d'Ivoire, and Ghana.
Sector Policies and Development Economics
In regular board sessions, committees of the whole, seminars, and informal briefings, a
number of sector policies, their implementation, and “best practices” were reviewed. In the area of human resources development, the executive directors discussed the lessons of experience with higher education14 and, on several occasions, debated the issues of gender and development, which culminated in a policy paper on enhancing women's participation in economic development.” In the area of trade, the board considered a preliminary assessment of the completed Uruguay Round of GATT talks, as well as the emergence of “new regionalism" and its consequences.16
Other important sector reviews included Bank Group issues with regard to telecommunications, transport policies, and financial and private sector development. The board also
considered the outline and final draft of World Development Report 1994, which examined the interplay between infrastructure and development.17
Administration
The board also dealt at some length with the Bank Group's administrative policies and practices. In fiscal year 1994, it was involved in issues of staff benefits, including the quadrennial review of benefits and eligibility for expatriate benefits. They also reviewed their own
operational travel policies and made modifications that aligned these policies with those of the staff. As it does each year, the executive directors considered the issues affecting staff compensation and approved a salary adjustment. They made a recommendation to the governors on the remuneration of the Bank's president.
In a number of meetings, the board followed the implementation of the rehabilitation of the Bank's main complex building. They also reviewed the arrangements for the Bank’s annual meetings.
As the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Bretton Woods institutions approached, the executive directors extensively involved themselves in the planning for commemorating the anniversary and in collaborating with Bank management and staff on the drafting of the Bank's current and future agenda.
Development Committee
As in previous years, the executive directors were actively involved with the Development Committee, assisting committee members in preparing for their meetings, considering the draft provisional agenda, and discussing the president's reports and background papers that were the basis forthe ministers' discussions. In addition, several months prior to each Development Committee meeting, the executive directors convened as a committee of the whole to review the preliminary agenda, and the outlines for the background papers in order to ensure that the main issues and concerns of committee members were well reflected in the documentation.
In preparing for the committee's semiannual meetings, the board discussed a range of papers and reports that touched on many issues of importance to the Bank's member countries, including the adjustment experience in, and implications for, low-income countries; social security reforms and social safety nets in reforming transition economies; reports on population in developing countries18 and migration flows, and Bank activities in women in development.” The executive directors’ Steering Committee reviewed the communiques released by the Development Committee following its semiannual meetings and made suggestions to ensure that the board’s work program was responsive to the directions set by the committee.
Board Committees
Joint Audit Committee. Established in 1970, the Je:nt Audit Committee (JAC) represents shareholders in overseeing the soundness of the Bank’s financial practices and the ade-
quacy of the work of the operations evaluation and internal audit units. The committee provides a channel through which the internal and external auditors can communicate with the executive directors.
In pursuing its responsibilities during fiscal
1994	the committee nominated a firm of private, independent, internationally established accountants to conduct the annual audits of the Bank. The committee reviewed the scope of the independent accountants’ examination and their annual audited financial statements. It also held in-depth discussions with the external auditors on the scope of their work on special audits, particularly those carried out on the main complex rehabilitation project. The committee reiterated the importance of maintaining a close working relationship with the external auditors. Several meetings were held in the course of the year to this effect. In addition, through regular meetings with the Bank’s senior financial officers, the committee helped to provide assurance to the executive board that the financial affairs of the Bank were properly conducted. In this regard, the committee reviewed and endorsed recommendations pertaining to the fiscal 1994 implementation of the IBRD’s policy for loan-loss provisioning. It was also briefed on the status of the current Bank loan portfolio. In addition, the committee reviewed die situation of countries in arrears and heard reports on recent developments in nonaccrual countries. The commit.ee also reviewed and endorsed preliminary recommendations regarding the annual allocation of the IBRD's net income. Another area examined was the adequacy of the Bank’s internal control systems. As part of its oversight function, the committee undertook its annual review of the work programs of the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and Internal Auditing Department (IAD). Two subcommittees of alternate executive directors were appointed to assist the committee in carrying out its mandate with regard to the OED and the IAD. In addition, the committee reviewed numerous papers by the OED as part of an ongoing effort to identify problems or policy issues for consideration by the executive directors.
The committee consists of eight executive directors. Marc-Antoine Autheman has served as chairman of the committee since March
1994.
Committee on Cost Effectiveness and Budget Practices. The Committee on Cost Effectiveness and Budget Practices (CEBP) was established in 1986 to examine aspects of the
Board Committees 21
Bank's business processes, administrative policies, business standards, and budget practices that significantly affect the cost effectiveness of its operations.
Fiscal year 1994 was the first year that the committee's mandate was expanded to include the review of all the major papers in the Bank’s budget cycle—the fiscal 1993 retrospective review, IBRD/IDA planning directions for fiscal years 1995-97, the fiscal 1994 mid year review, and the IBRD programs and fiscal 1995 budget. Following meetings to consider the relevant papers, the committee prepared reports to the board conveying its views on the planning directions paper and on the budget for fiscal
1995.	The discussion of the latter was added to the committee's work program as a follow-up to the fiscal 1994 budget discussion during which the importance of the committee’s active involvement in the planning and budgeting process was strongly encouraged.
The committee devoted a number of meetings to considering cost-saving issues that covered a wide range of Bank activities, from improvements in the efficiency with which work is carried out to systematic and incentive changes in processes and procedures. As a part of this exercise, the committee requested and was given a presentation on the work of the staff Committee on Business Innovation and Simplification (BIAS). Thereafter, the BIAS Committee sought the advice and views of the CEBP on the streamlining of some board documentation.
The committee consists of eight executive directors. Angel Torres has served as chairman of the committee since December 1992.
Committee on Personnel Policy Issues. The committee, which was established in 1980, is charged with keeping under continuing review and, where appropriate, advising the executive directors on, staff compensation and other significant personnel policy issues. It also maintains close liaison with the executive directors of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on these issues, bearing in mind the general parallelism of the two institutions.
One of the main undertakings of the committee during the year was the continuing examination of the complex subject of expatriate benefits. The board subsequently took up the matter, first, on the basis of the committee's report and recommendation, and then, on the basis of a paper from management. The board finally decided not to change the current policy.
The committee reviewed the Bank's and the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) personnel policies and practices, results of the 1993 staff attitude survey, issues related to skills mix (that is, how the Bank identifies and
recruits people with the skills needed to carry out its changing work program), and possible changes in the local currency option of the staff retirement plan. Two of the major actions undertaken by the committee were to review the results of the quadrennial benefits survey and of the 1994 review of staff compensation. Following the committee's endorsement, the board approved management's recommendations with respect to both items. The role of the Bank’s field offices was also a focus of the committee's scrutiny.
The committee consists of eight executive directors. Jean-Pierre Le Bouder has served as chairman of the committee since January 1993.
Committee on Directors’ Administrative Matters. The Committee on Directors' Administrative Matters (CODAM) was established in 1968 to consider administrative matters relating to executive directors and their alternates, advisers, and staff. The committee recommends to the executive board the formulation and implementation of new administrative policies and changes in existing policies.
Major issues taken up by the committee in the fiscal year included remuneration of advisers and executive directors' assistants; executive directors' travel to member countries outside of their constituencies (group travel); travel policy for executive directors; and consideration of executive directors' administrative expenses.
The committee coordinates many of its recommendations with a similar committee established by the executive board of the IMF.
The committee consists of six executive directors. John Cosgrove has served as chairman of the committee since January 1993.
The Ad Hoc Committee on Review of Board Committees. The Ad Hoc Committee on Review of Board Committees was established in December 1993 to review the function, structure, and terms of reference of standing committees of executive directors, including criteria for appointments to committees. It completed its work in April 1994. The committee's recommendations will be implemented following the 1994 regular election of executive directors.
The conclusions and recommendations in the committee's report, which was approved by the executive directors ic May 1994, aim to improve and strengthen, rather than fundamentally change, existing arrangements for executive directors' committees. The main conclusions and recommendations are summarized below.
Functions and structure of committees. It was agreed that the overall objective of committees should be to strengthen the efficiency and ef-
fectiveness of the board in discharging its responsibilities. To meet this overall objective, committees need to carry out work programs that facilitate the process of consensus building and decisionmaking in the board and assist the board in discharging its oversight responsibilities. Generally, committees need to focus on a limited number of dearly defined priority issues.
In view of the overall workload of committees and the steadily growing importance and need for review of operations evaluation and development-effectiveness issues in the context of the Bank Group's operational activities, it was further agreed that (a) the mandate of the Joint Audit Committee should focus on external and internal audit and financial policy issues and (b) a new committee of eight executive directors should be established to review operations evaluation and development-effec-tiveness issues.
It was agreed that the mandates of all committees should apply uniformly to the IFC.
Interaction between committees, Bank management, and the board. New procedures were approved to strengthen interaction between committees, management, and the board. These procedures cover reporting requirements of committees and management to the board and are designed to facilitate board discussion of formal management proposals (including, in some cases, management option papers) submitted to committees for prior review.
A number of recommendations aimed at Improving efficiency in the conduct of committee business were also approved, including, forex-ample, recommendations for building consensus among executive directors on controversial issues, for identifying priority issues for board consideration, and for board approval of committee recommendations on an absence-of-objection basis.
Composition and guidelines for appointment to committees. It was further agreed that appointments to committees should be governed by general principles that can be applied flexibly, the two most important of which are consultation among executive directors and balanced representation from the board. Specifically. appointments to committees should reflect economic and geographic diversity of the Bank's member countries with a view to ensuring balanced representation between borrowing and nonborrowing member countries.
The committee consisted of four executive directors. Jorunn Maehlum served as chairman of the committee.
Executive Directors’ Steering Committee. The Executive Directors' Steering Committee, an informal advisory body of executive directors composed of the dean and the co-dean of the board, as well as the chairpersons of the other standing board committees, meets monthly to consult on, and review with the Bank's vice president and secretary, the executive directors' work program. The committee also provides a consultative framework for various board issues. In addition, the committee reviews the Development Committee's communiques to ensure that the implications for the executive directors' work program are fully considered. The steering committee has also taken a leadership role in ensuring the implementation of the new board policies and procedures, including, among others, the determination of the scheduling of country-assistance strategies and periodic reviews of sector policies. The committee consists of six executive directors. The dean of the board, Ibrahim Al-Assaf, has served as chairman since September 1993.
The meetings of committees of the executive board are open to participation by all executive directors.
Economic activity in the industrialized countries slowed further in 1993, to 1.2 percent, as a result of sluggish growth in Japan and recession in continental Europe (see Table 2-1). Recovery in the United States was well under way by the fourth quarter of 1993, when output expanded by 7 percent on an annual basis. Canada and the United Kingdom experienced a modest recovery in 1993. The slow pace of overall growth in 1993 was associated with rising unemployment, which reached 8.2 percent in the industrial countries as a group, topping out at 10 percent of the labor force in several European countries.
Reflecting the significant gap between actual and potential output in most industrial countries, Irilation continued to ease, as growth in the GDP deflator fell to 3.3 percent, down from
4	percent in 1992.1
The developing countries—excluding the countries in transition in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union (FSU)— grew by an estimated 4.5 percent in 1993, up from 3.6 percent in 1992, thereby exceeding industrial-country growth by more than three percentage points for the third straight year (see Table 2-2). Underlying these aggregates, however, were widely differing trends between the countries in transition and the traditional universe of developing countries. Output in Central and Eastern European countries and in the republics of the FSU fell by an estimated
7.4	percent in 1993. Although the rate of decline slowed from 12.7 percent in 1992, it was the fourth straight year of diminishing output.
The continued robust growth in the traditional developing countries in the face of recession in the industrialized countries can be attributed to several factors. These include the effects of increasingly widespread and sustained policy reforms in many countries; low international interest rates (that partly offset the depressing effect on commodity exporters of falling export prices); and, associated with these two factors, the enormous continued surge in private capital flows to developing countries.
Growth performance among the main developing country regions continued to diverge
widely. Growth in East Asia and the Pacific, of
9.2	percent, continued to outpace that in every other developing region by at least five percentage points. China remained the fastest growing economy in the region—and the world. Growth has averaged 13 percent in the past two years, as the government continued to implement market-based reforms and as transnational corporations continued to commit record amounts of investment. In July 1993, the Chinese authorities undertook measures to slow the torrid pace of growth and ease rising inflationary pressures. Malaysia and Thailand, two other prime recipients of foreign direct investment, once again displayed outstanding growth performance. These countries began to show strains resulting from shortages of skilled labor and adequate infrastructure, as well as from the need to address longer-term issues, such as upgrading production to higher value-added sectors as competition in the laborintensive sectors increases from countries such as China, India, and Indonesia.
Latin American and the Caribbean once again experienced gains in output as reforms in many countries continued to take root and show results. Growth for the region as a whole, supported by large inflows of foreign private capital flows, rose to 3.5 percent, up from 2.8 percent in 1992. Individual country performance was mixed, however. Although Brazil’s economy grew by sui estimated 4.9 percent (up from a decline of close to 1 percent in the previous year), the inflation rate increased dramatically. Political uncertainty, lower oil prices, and policy weaknesses moved Venezuela into recession during the year. Growth, which slowed in Mexico to about 2 percent in 1992 after several years of more robust gains, was stagnant in 1993, as tighter credit conditions aimed at curbing a bulging external deficit slowed activity. The signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA),
however, bolstered the positive longer-term	tion of the deep social and structural challenges
outlookfortheeconomy. Argentina, Chile, and	feeing a new administration.
Colombia experienced growth of more than 5	Growth in South Asia slowed to 3.8 percent,
percent.	in part the result of devastating floods in Paki-
Sub-Saharan Africa (excluding South Africa)	stan towards the end of 1992 and weak indus-
posted a modest increase in GDP of 1.4 per-	trial growth in India. Nevertheless, countries in
cent; the region was helped by recovery from	the region showed improvements in their ex-
the most severe drought to hit Eastern and	temal account performance, with increased exSouthern Africa in this century, as well as by	ports and private capital inflows. The new
gradually improving performance in countries	government in Pakistan confirmed its adher-
that have persisted with adjustment and reform	ence to the reform policies of the previous tran-
policies. Although overall growth remained	sitional administration. India continued its
low, some hopeful signs also emerged: Civil	moderately paced but steady economic reform
war came to an end in Ethiopia and Mozam-	policies. Although inflows of foreign capital to
bique, beverage prices moved higher during the	that country were small by comparison with
year, and expectations for at least a stabiliza-	leading East Asian and Latin American econ-
tion in nonoil commodity prices became some-	omies, they were nonetheless far greater than
what firmer. The SO percent devaluation of the	at any time in the past.
CFA franc and the subsequent prompt support	A fell in world oil prices of more than 10 per-
from multilateral lenders and the French gov-	cent contributed to a marked decline in growth,
emment substantially improved prospects for	to an estimated 1.9 percent, in the Middle East
the revitalization of the adjustment process in	and North Africa. Output fell almost 2 percent
the CFA Zone countries. Finally, the South Af-	in Algeria as the country's political crisis deep-
rican economy began its recovery from pro-	ened. Growth was almost negligible in Egypt,
longed recession with the passing of drought,	where the process of adjusting fiscal imbal-
rising gold prices, and the ending of interna-	ances continued.
tional sanctions, thereby providing a more fa-	As a group, the transitional economies in
vorable backdrop for the country's transition	Central and Eastern Europe and the FSU suf-
to multiracial democracy. That process has	fered a further decline in output of more than 7
brought to the fore both hopes for substantial	percent. The republics of the FSU contributed
future economic progress, as well as recogni-	the most to this decline, as their output fell 13
percent on top of a 20 percent drop in 1992. Political uncertainty and macroeconomic instability in Russia continued throughout the year. Nonetheless, the government maintained progress on the structural reform agenda, albeit at a halting pace. The privatization program maintained momentum; by the end of 1993, two thirds of all small service enterprises had been privatized. Output in Poland grew for a second year in a row, while economic contraction in Hungary and the Czech Republic appeared to be drawing to a close. There is evidence, especially in those three countries, that “new” largely private sector activity (concentrated in services, construction, and the trades) is beginning to account for a significant share of output (approaching SO percent in some cases) and is providing support for growth.
Recent Trends in External Debt and Debt Strategies The total external debt of all developing countries, including short-term debt, was esti-
mated at $1,700 billion at the end of 1993, an increase of 6.S percent in nominal terms, or about $108 billion, over the previous year. Of this amount, long-term debt outstanding stood at $1,411 billion, an increase of 7.9 percent ($103 billion) (see Table 2-3). The increase in long-term debt is accounted for principally by net inflows of around $72 billion and a currency-valuation factor of over $20 billion resulting from the fall of the United States dollar against the yen in 1993. In addition, capitalization of interest through debt reschedulings added $15 billion to long-term debt (though much of this was offset by reduction in shortterm debt, in which interest arrears are classified for debt-accounting purposes), while voluntary debt reductions (buybacks, debt exchanges, equity swaps, and so forth) were expected to have reduced debt by $9 billion.
Private creditors provided 61 percent, or $44 billion, of the overall $72 billion net flow of long-term debt to the developing countries, an increase of $2 billion from 1992. For the second
year in succession, private net flows exceeded official ones, an occurrence otherwise not experienced since the onset of the debt crisis of the early 1980s. East Asian and Latin American countries continued to borrow actively in financial markets, as falling short-term and long-term international interest rates and an intense (if temporary) vogue for emerging market debt facilitated a substantial increase in bond issuance. Ten countries—Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, and Venezuela in Latin America; China, Korea, and Thailand in East Asia; and the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Turkey in
Europe—are estimated to have raised over $34 billion in public and private bond placements.
Official net flows increased sharply by $8 billion, to $28 billion. Net flows from multilateral sources, including the World Bank, are estimated to have risen to around $18 billion, up from $12 billion in 1992 (see Table 2-4). Bilateral lending was estimated to have risen by 22 percent, to almost $10 billion. The share of concessionality in official debt is also estimated to have risen, reflecting the restructuring of nonconcessional debt on concessional terms in Egypt, Poland, and those countries benefiting
from enhanced Toronto terms, as well as new concessional flows to sub-Saharan Africa, the Central Asian republics, and Viet Nam.
Voluntary debt-reduction operations, including official debt forgiveness by key Arab creditors to countries in the Middle East, are estimated to have reduced debt by about $9 billion in 1993, bringing the total of ;uch reductions since 1988 to almost $100 billion. The “Brady” type of debt and debt-service reduction operation carried out by Argentina in April 1993 reduced the face value of its debt by close to $3.3 billion. Jordan came to an agreement with its commercial creditors in December 1993 to restructure an estimated $900 million of principal and arrears. The Dominican Republic, after reaching agreement in principle with bank creditors in May 1993 to restructure $1.1 billion of principal and arrears, continued to make progress towards a final agreement, while Bulgaria reached an agreement in principle with its creditor banks on restructuring $9.3 billion of commercial bank debt. Brazil also continued discussions on a restructuring of about $50 billion of obligations.2
Use of the other main venue for commercial debt reduction, the Debt- reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries, also increased. This facility, created in 1989, provides grants to eligible ID A members to reduce their commercial debt. Significant bilateral official cofinancing support has also been made available for facility-supported operations. By the end of 1993, five operations had been completed: Niger and
Mozambique in 1991, Guyana in 1992, and Uganda and Bolivia in 1993. These operations extinguished $623 million of principal in commercial debt at an average price of 14 cents on the dollar. Similar buyback operations were in preparation for another ten countries: Albania, Ethiopia. Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Sao Tom£ and Principe, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, and Zambia.
Restructuring of official bilateral debt under Paris Qub auspices also contributed to debt reduction. During 1993, agreement was reached with eleven countries to reschedule or restructure $1.2 billion in debts. Six of the agreements— with Benin, Burkina Faso, Guyana, Mauritania, Mozambique, and Viet Nam—were reached under enhanced Toronto terms. In November
1993	the French government canceled F800 million of the debt of four CFA countries, and, in the wake of the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994, France proposed canceling another F25 billion owed by the CFA Zone countries affected by the exchange-rate adjustments. The focus of the debt strategy, especially for the severely indebted low-income countries, continues to shift from repeated reschedulings to the maintenance of a positive cash flow as a means of accelerating the resumption of these countries' external viability.
- In April 1994. Brazil implemented the deal with its commercial creditors and exchanged old debt tor new longterm bonds. The debt collatcralizcd by the zero-coupon bonds amounts to SI7.8 billion.
Accumulated interest arrears were reduced by about $10 billion in 1993, the second year in succession that arrears fell rather than increased. A large portion of this reduction came from clearance of arrears in Latin America, especially Peru, and the former Soviet Union. Rescheduled interest payments in 1993 were estimated at $15 billion, up slightly from the previous year’s $14.2 billion.
Despite the increase in developing country debt stocks, key debt ratios did not worsen as economic and trade conditions improved. Although the ratio of developing countries’ longterm debt to GNP rose to 31.7 percent from
29.6	percent in 1992, the increase partly reflected large currency devaluations that reduced the dollar value of GNP in some Middle Eastern, European, and Central Asian countries. Significant increases in the outstanding debt of East Asian and South Asian countries, as well as of the FSU, also contributed to the rise. The long-term debt service-to-exports ratio remained constant at 16.3 percent. This ratio has hovered around the 16 percent mark for four years in a row.
Capital Flows on the Increase
Aggregate long-term net resource flows to developing countries—defined as net Bows of long-term debt, grants (excluding technical assistance), and equity investment (foreign direct and portfolio-equity investment)—are estimated to have increased by $20 billion to $177 billion in 1993 (see Table 2-4). Net flows of long-term debt of $72 billion were the largest single component of aggregate resource flows. Of these debt flows, $28 billion was from official creditors. Official creditors also provided grants of $36 billion, up $1 billion from 1992; official finance, therefore, amounted to $63 billion, up $9 billion from th^ previous year.
Net foreign direct investment (FDI) rose 19 percent, or $9 billion, to $56 bQIion. Equity-portfolio investment, which reached $13 billion in 1992, stayed at that level. In addition to FDI and portfolio investment, private flows in the form of long-term debt amounted to $44 billion. Private sources, therefore, are estimated to have been responsible for 64 percent of overall net resource flows to the developing countries, an increase of more than 150 percent since 1990. This amount, in constant dollars, matches the level attained in the early 1980s before the onset of the debt crisis.
Aggregate long-term net transfers to developing countries—defined as net resource flows less interest payments on long-term debt and profits on FDI—increased by $12 bdion to $92 billion, as increased net flows more than offset the increase in interest and profits. Net trans-
fers to developing countries were positive for the fifth consecutive year. They were also substantial, amounting to 2.1 percent of developing country GDP, an increase from 1.8 percent in 1992.
Because the flow of FDI to industrial countries declined, developing countries are estimated to have increased their share of global FDI from 31 percent in 1992 to around 35 percent. An improved economic climate has made foreign investment attractive in many countries; privatization of state-owned enterprises has also boosted inflows, especially in Latin America and Eastern Europe. China, by far, was the largest recipient of FDI, with $15 billion flowing into the country in 1993, up $4 billion over the 1992 total.3 In general, FDI continues to be concentrated in a limited number of developing countries: Five countries—in order of FDI amounts, China, Mexico, Argentina, Malaysia, and Thailand—received 59 percent of FDI Sows. Regionally, FDI favored East Asia ($25 billion), Latin America ($18 billion), and Europe and Central Asia ($9 billion). Flows to most low-income countries were stagnant, however, reflecting the slow growth of official flows and the lack of access of most of these countries to private capital markets. In some instances, low-income countries have suffered from a lack of enthusiasm by the private sector—for example, commercial banks in sub-Saharan Africa.
Portfolio-equity flows appear to have been similarly concentrated, with three quarters of the $13 billion total going to East Asia and Latin America. Developing country securities are currently underrepresented in the portfolios of industrial country investors, given their big diversification benefits and higher risk-adjusted returns. If countries persist with their policy reforms, a gradual rebalancing of these graving portfolios is likely to increase private flows to developing countries significantly. At the same time, such flows are likely to be more volatile than FDI because they are more sensitive to global interest-rate movements and to positive or negative “bandwagon” effects.4
Primary Commodity Developments
Primary commodity market trends in 1993 were mixed, with nonoil commodity prices rising modestly and oil prices falling sharply once again. The dollar index of nonoil commodity-
prices was 1.4 percent higher than in 1992, supported by gradually reviving growth in the industrialized countries, continued growth in the developing countries, and lower international interest rates (see Table 2-5). In terms or constant 1990 dollars (using the unit-value index of exports of manufactured goods from the five largest industrialized countries to the developing countries as the deflator) nonoil prices were up 1 percent. By either measure, the slight increase in 1993 was the first in five years and followed a 27 percent fall (in constant dollar terms) during the period 1988-92. Indeed, constant dollar prices in 1993 were almost 50 percent below their postwar average. If the rise in the nonoil commodity price index was mild, it was at least fairly steady over the course of the year; by the fourth quarter, prices were 3.7 percent above the cyclical low reached in the same period of 1992. On a fourth quarter-to-fourth quarter basis, the largest contributions to the pick-up in prices were made by beverages, grains, and timber.
Metals and minerals suffered the steepest price decline of any commodity group in 1993, averaging 14.6 percent lower than in 1992. In constant dollar terms, the price index of this group fell to its lowest level in the whole postwar period. Prices for all the main industrial metals (copper, tin, nickel, aluminum, lead, zinc, iron ore) fell sharply; only precious metals prices moved higher. Overall world demand for industrial metals was broadly flat or lower than in the previous year, as increased demand in the United States and in the developing countries was offset by weakness in Europe, Japan, and the transitional economies of Central and Eastern Europe and the FSU. Surplus
output capacity and higher world production added to the downward pressure on prices in aluminum and iron ore. Increased exports from Russia affected the aluminum and nickel markets. Late in the year, lead, zinc, and nickel prices rallied to varying degrees, reflecting the more substantial production cutbacks that have taken place in these industries.
Crude-oQ prices fell by $2 a barrel, or 11.6 percent, to $15.30. Much of the decline occurred in the second half of the year. The pressure on oil prices derived from several sources. A weak increase in demand by the industrialized countries was more than offset by higher output from the North Sea and Canada. Although production fell steeply in the FSU and Eastern Europe, consumption fell a little more steeply yet, releasing more oQ to the market. Finally, although demand for oil increased in the developing countries (by about 1 million barrels a day), output in these countries increased even more (by about 1.2 million barrels a day). OPEC countries were responsible for two thirds of the production increase.
World Trade Growth Slows
The rate cf growth in the volume of world merchandise exports slowed to an estimated
2.6	percent in 1993 (see Table 2-6). The two most important reasons for the slowdown were the recession in Europe (which curbed intra-Europe trade, the largest part of the trade of individual European countries,3 as well as imports from the rest of the world) and sluggish
5	Because of the merger in trade-accounting procedures in the European Union, it is generally thought that intra-European trade was underreported.
growth in Japan. The recovery in the United States, which caused demand for imports to rise, was not sufficient to offset the dampening effect on world trade of the adverse conditions in Europe and Japan. Estimates by the GATT suggest that trade in commercial services may have increased by only 3 percent in nominal terms to reach Si,030 billion, as against a 12 percent rise in 1992.
Reflecting these conditions, the growth of merchandise export volumes from the low-income and middle-income countries decelerated to an estimated 3.8 percent. Export growth in Asia slowed from 12.5 percent to a still robust 7.4 percent, while Latin American export growth slowed from 6.3 percent to 5.6 percent. Exports from the Europe and Central Asia region, with their greater focus on Western European markets, fell 4 percent.
Two developments in 1993—the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of the GATT and of the NAFTA among Canada, Mexico, and the United States—underlined the importance for the future of two coexisting trends, one towards broad multilateral trading arrangements under the GATT and the other towards regional integration arrangements (RIAs).
According to the GATT Secretariat, the Uruguay Round is expected to generate an increase in merchandise trade of 12 percent by the year 2005 (or roughly $745 billion in 1992 dollars) over the level that would have existed by then had trade grown only at its average for the period 1980-91 (4.1 percent). The largest increases are expected in clothing (60 percent); textiles (34 percent); agricultural, forestry, and fisheries products (20 percent); and processed food and beverages (19 percent). Estimates
suggest that world income could increase by at least 1 percent, or some $212 billion to $270 billion annually (1992 dollars). Of that amount, $80 billion is expected to accrue to developing countries. The regional effects on exports and real incomes are likely to vary significantly, depending largely on the market-access provisions of the round (see Box 2-1).
Gains for Asia will be substantial. Quota-constrained exporters of textiles and clothing (mainly in Southeast Asia and East Asia, including China) will benefit greatly from the slow phaseout (over a ten-year period) of the Multi-Fibre Arrangement, with quotas increas-
ing about SO percent over seven years. Latin America will also gain, but proportionately less. Its food exporters (Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay, in particular) will benefit from reductions in agricultural subsidies. Latin American economies are also likely to benefit from reductions in tariffs oc metals and minerals, and they have little to lose on preferences. Sub-Saharan Africa's gains from the Uruguay Round will be limited by the low proportion of manufactures in its exports. Nevertheless, fester world growth resulting from the round's partial liberalization of trade would provide additional support at the margin for prices of, and
Box 2-1. The Uruguay Round, Market Access, and the Developing Countries
For each of the 118 participants in the Uruguay Round, the increase in national income resulting from the successful conclusion of the round will come from two principal sources: first, more efficient use of domestic resources when domestic distortions, such as trade barriers, are reduced or removed; and second, increased access to markets of trading partners.
It is estimated that implementation of the market-access provisions of the round could add between S200 billion and S300 billion (in 1992 dollars) annually to world income. These figures are probably an underestimate; they do not include services, and no attempt Iras yet bm m. de to capture the effects on productivity growth of greater openness in trade. Even at the '‘underestimated*' level, full implementation of the Uruguay Round could boost the GDP of developing economies by almost S80 billion (in 1992 dollars) a year. Developing country gains Grom agricultural liberalization alone are estimated at between $20 billion and $60 billion a year, depending on the extent of each economy's liberalization.
Improved market access for agricultural and industrial products will result primarily from broad reductions in tariffs and more control of quantitative restrictions and subsidies. In contrast to the situation for industrial products, increased market access for agricultural products will involve limiting the use of domestic support policies. Reduction of export subsidies by industrial countries will boost the competitiveness of exports from developing countries.
The effect of the reduction in most-favored-nation (MFN) tariffs on individual suppliers depends on whether the importing country gives the product MFN. preferential, or free-trade treatment. For MFN imports there is an unambiguous increase in the volume of sales in the importing country following a tariff reduction. In the case of imports already receiving preferential or free-trade-area treatment, the reduction in MFN tariff rates can reduce margins of preference, inducing buyers to switch to competing suppliers. Analyses suggest that the trade gains from reductions in
MFN tariff rates are likely to outweigh the losses from preference erosion, even for exporters receiving preferences.
The reduction in duties that apply to developing countries is estimated at 34 percent—less than the 38 percent reduction on industrial products from all sources—and the figures for clothing and footwear (of particular interest to developing countries) are even lower. Nevertheless, the effects on trade creation will be large even for such products because existing tariff rates on them are the highest, and the percentage decline in the tariff-inclusive price in importing countries will be substantial. Moreover, where a quantitative restriction (rather than tin tariff) is the binding restraint under the Multi-Fibre Arrangement, the extent of the increase in market access may be larger than the cut in the tariff alone would indicate.
A disappointing result of the agreement is that tariff escalation will continue for agricultural products. It was hoped that discrimination against processed commodities would be reduced, thus enhancing strategies for natural resource-based industrialization. But the agreed reductions in tariffs, whether viewed in absolute or percentage terms, do not clearly rise or fall with the level of processing.
Considerable progress has been made in the latest agreement toward the goal of increasing the proportion of tariffs that are bound (subject to commitments not to raise the tariff rate). This will significantly reduce exporter risk. For industrial products, virtually all tariffs in developed and transition economies are bound under current offers, and developing countries have offered to increase the proportion of bound tariffs to 65 percent. For agricultural products there is a substantial increase in the proportion of tariff lines subject to bindings, especially in the developing economies, where there is a fivefold increase (from 17 to 89 percent). For the first time In the GATT's history the proportion of bound tariff lines will be broadly the same for agricultural and nonagricultural products.
volume demands for, primary commodities of significance to the region. A point of concern to African countries is that reductions in tariffs will reduce the margin of preference enjoyed by the exports from African countries under current unilateral preferential arrangements such as the Lom£ Convention. However, the limited nature of these preferences and the gradual phasing-in period of the new provisions are likely to limit adverse effects.
Over the next fifteen years, the NAFTA will remove barriers to trade and investment flows within North America; it also sets the stage for reforms in domestic policies to foster trade and competition within an area rivaling the European Union in economic size. The NAFTA’s main effect will be to improve the growth prospects of Mexico, which is required by the agreement to liberalize its policies the most and which should consequently experience a significant boost in its exports. Economic models estimate that in the short term, the NAFTA will be responsible for increased exports to the United States of 11 percent and 9 percent from Mexico and Canada, respectively, while exports to the United States from elsewhere could fall by small amounts. One drawback is that the NAFTA’s domestic content regulations could prevent the agreement’s three member countries from relying on some low-cost (non-NAFTA) sources of production inputs—a factor that would restrict the ability of members to use their NAFTA tariff and nontariff preferences.	.
The passage of the NAFTA and the deepening of the European Union under its singlemarket program are illustrative of the renewed interest in RIAs, a trend referred to as the “new regionalism.”
RIAs, which entail reciprocal negotiation of trade preferences among participants, can take several forms. These extend from preferential trading arrangements and free trade arrangements (under which participants levy lower, or eliminate, respectively, tariffs on imports from each other while maintaining independent trade policies toward third parties) to customs
unions. In a customs union, members not only reduce tariffs among themselves; they also adopt a common foreign trade policy against nonmembcrs. Common markets, in turn, expand the parameters of a customs union by allowing free movement of labor and capital among members; in an economic union, members further expand those parameters by explicitly pursuing harmonization of their microeconomic and macroeconomic policies (“deep integration”).
The trend towards increased regionalization of world trade is long standing. A recent GATT study shows that the amount of world trade occurring within regions as a share of world GDP rose from 7 percent in 1948 to 17 percent in 1990, driven mainly by the performance of Western Europe. However, this rise did not choke off trade between regions, as the amount of intraregional trade as a share of GDP has remained fairly stable at between 15 percent and 16 percent.
The fiiture of “benign regionalism,” which minimizes harm to outsiders and contributes to world trade and welfare, depends critically on a commitment to maintaining and furthering openness and multilateral cooperation among trading blocs. In this regard, the successful completion of the Uruguay Round has helped to alleviate concern that the “new regionalism” might substitute for multilateral trade liberalization. In recognition of the potential threat posed by RIAs, the Uruguay Round strengthens existing GATT rules that forbid barriers against third parties from rising through the creation of an RIA. Further, the round will strengthen surveillance of RIAs, an effort that will undoubtedly be pursued by the new World Trade Organization (WTO), which will succeed the GATT in 1995. The WTO, designed by the Uruguay Round participants to enforce the GATT's free trade rules, will have the power to levy trade penalties against countries by a semijudicial disputes procedure that will no longer allow countries to ignore findings against them.
Section Three Major World Bank Programs: Fiscal Year 1994
World Development Report 1990 outlined a strategy for reducing poverty based on experiences from developing countries across the world. How this strategy should be implemented in the World Bank's operations was subsequently spelled out in three documents: the policy paper. Assistance Strategies to Reduce Poverty, the Poverty Reduction Handbook, and a World Bank Operational Directive on poverty reduction. The yardstick to evaluate the Bank’s progress in implementing the poverty-reduction strategy is the extent to which the Bank is implementing the strategies articulated in the three documents.
During fiscal 1994, the Bank continued to make progress in implementing its poverty-reduction strategy both through Its lending operations and a strengthened policy dialogue. Analysis is also being strengthened to ensure that the Bank’s country-specific assistance strategies develop the most relevant mix of lending for each country, as well as to improve the targeting and design of its operations. The Bank, in both the central and regional vice presidencies, now systematically monitors how it supports government efforts to reduce poverty. At the planning stage, each adjustment operation is classified as to whether or not it is poverty focused, and each investment project is classified as to whether or not it is in the program of targeted interventions (PTI). Each region periodically outlines what progress is being made in implementing the Bank’s poverty-reduction strategy and what special initiatives are being undertaken to strengthen these efforts. To strengthen both the technical and analytical tools being used in the Bank’s operations, the central vice presidencies are supporting the regions by refining methodologies for analyzing policy issues, disseminating best-practice analysis and project design, and providing training.
Human Resources Development
Developing countries are turning to the Bank for intellectual leadership and financial assistance for investments in the human resources
area. Aid donors are increasingly channeling their assistance to this area and are asking the Bank to coordinate the aid flows.
The Human Resources Development and Operations (HRO) vice presidency is the focal point of the Bank's human resources and poverty operations. Operational relevance and client orientation are the main criteria used for selecting tasks in the human resources development sectors.
During the past year, demand was also heavy for HRO's analytical services. The executive directors of the Bank, as well as the six operational regions, requested a number of analytical papers on several critical issues: higher education (see Box 3-1), gender policy, and population. The dissemination of information through the vice presidency’s Working Papers series and Dissemination Notes, as well as through population and health/nutrition newsletters and the electronic network, has proven popular with task managers and external audiences alike.
Tools for Reducing Poverty. By a variety of measurements—through its lending program, development of country-assistance strategies and the policy dialogue, and analysis of poverty issues—the Bank continued to advance during the year in its work to reduce poverty.
The lending program for human resources development (comprising lending to education: population, health, and nutrition; and the social sector) continued to be robust during fiscal 1994, attracting $3,104 million in commitments (15 percent of total Bank commitments). Eighteen percent of all new IDA commitments—some $1,198 million—were directed toward human resources development. Lending for the agriculture and water supply and sanitation sectors, which play an important role in supporting the Bank's poverty-reduction efforts, increased by more than $400 million.
Lending for projects in the PTI was 25 percent of total investment lending (see Table 3-1). IDA commitments for the PTI. as a share of IDA investment lending, increased to 43 per-
Box 3-1. Higher Education—Lessons of Experience
Higher education is in crisis in all parts of the world, both developed and developing, a study by the World Bank finds. And, as might be expected, the crisis is most acute in the developing world, where fiscal constraints are tighter and pressures for expansion of enrollment are greater.
The study—the third in a series on education subsectors'—analyzes recent lessons of developing-country experience in higher educa-don reform at both the national and institutional level to show how countries contemplating reform, or just starting on its path, might realize the goals of greater efficiency, quality, and equity in higher education. The study also charts the probable course of World Bank lending to the subsector in the years to come.
Based on a review of experience across countries, the study suggests—without trying to provide a blueprint for each country—that higher education reform might best be directed at (a) expanding the menu of higher education choice in terms of types of institutions and modes of delivery (which, concomitantly, would stimulate the development of private institutions); (b) providing incentives for public institutions to diversify sources of funding; (c) linking public funding closely to performance; (d) redefining the role of government in higher education; and (e) introducing policies explicitly designed to increase the quality and equity of higher education.
An expanded menu of tertiary education would find universities being complemented by other types of institutions such as polytechnics, short* cycle professional technical institutes, community colleges, and “distance” and ''open-learning” programs. Typically, these higher-education supplements are often less costly to set up and operate and are therefore attractive to private entrepreneurs.
To relieve the financial burden imposed on public institutions by increasing enrollments, the World Bank study advocates sweeping reforms in the ways such institutions are funded. For example, students should be required to pay a greater share of their education costs" public subsidies for noninstructional expenses—bousing and meals, for instance—should be sharply reduced if not eliminated altogether; tax codes should be modified to encourage philanthropy by alumni and private industry; and public higher-education institutions should be encouraged to pursue income-generating activities. At the very least, governments should stop penalizing entrepreneurial activities as they do, for example, when they reduce budget allocations by the same amounts as public institutions make on “noncore” activities.
The study reports that, as a result of the crisis in publicly funded higher education, government's role in the subsector is being redefined.
cent.1 Projects are included in the PTI if they include a specific mechanism for reaching the poor or if die participation of the poor significantly exceeds the proportion of the population as a whole.2
Of the twenty-three adjustment operations approved during the year, seventeen, or three of every four, were poverty focused.3
It is now widely acknowledged that participation by beneficiaries in the design and implementation of projects can often be an important determinant of project effectiveness. As a result, the Bank's use of participatory methodologies—including beneficiary assessments, participatory rural assessments, and participatory workshops to fine-tune project design—is on the rise. A preliminary review of fiscal 1994 operations shows that ninety-six out of the total of 228 projects included participation by primary stakeholders (individual beneficiaries, people affected in one way or another by the project, community organizations, user groups, and others such as producer groups and cooperatives).4
The salutary effect of beneficiary parti cipation is now becoming clearer. A study ot 121 rural water supply and sanitation projects.5 supported by eighteen development agencies
(including the Bank), throughout Asia, Africa, and Latin America, has revealed beneficiary
1	The Bank lakes very seriously its commitment to increase the shares of poverty-targeted investments and social-sector lending during the three-year period encompassed by the tenth replenishment or IDA resources (fiscal 1994— 95). Care should be taken, however, not to use the PTI as the sole measure of the Bank's poverty-reduction efforts. In some cases, (he greatest contribution to poverty reduction in a given country could come from the implementation of a well-designed adjustment program. In addition, many PTI projects are experimental and. as a result, loan amounts can be expected to be small. For these reasons, there may be natural fluctuations in the size of the PTI from year to year, although the trend line should be an increasing one.
' A description of each project in the PTI that was apprc 'ed during fiscal 1994 can iiie found in the project summaries in Sec.ion Five of this Annual Report. The PTI projects are marked by an asterisk.
3	A description of each poverty-focused adjustment operation that was approved during fiscal 1994 can be found in the project summaries in Section Five of this Annual Report. These operations arc marked by a pound sign (#).
*	A description of each project approved during fiscal 1994 with participation by primary stakeholders can be found in the project summaries in Section Five of this report. The projects are marked with a “t.”
5	Dcepa Narayan. 1994. The Contribution of People's Participation: 121 Rural Water Supply Projects. The World Bank: Washington. D.C.
Rather than aiming at direct control of the entire subsector, a government's main responsibility is becoming that of providing an enabling policy environment—for private as well as public institutions—and of using the leverage of public funding to stimulate institutions of higher learning to meet national training and research needs more efficiently.
Encouraging an expanded menu of opportunities for higher education, providing incentives for diversifying funding sources, and relaxing gov-emmental control are necessary elements for improving higher education. By themselves, however, they are insufficient. The Bank study goes on to say that the final element of the reform process must be implementation of policies that increase the quality of higher education and improve the access of traditionally disadvantaged groups. Greater equity of participation is important not only for economic efficiency but for social justice as well.
The Bank’s laiest examination of an education subsector points to the conclusion that higher education investments have lower social rates of return than do investments in primary and secondary education and that investments in base education have a more direct impact on poverty reduction. As a result, the Bank will continue to give priority to lending for primary and lower secondary education.
participation as the single most important element In determining the overall quality of implementation. Similarly, the Operation Evaluation Department's Annual Report of Evaluation Results 1992 listed beneficiary participation and borrower ownership as two important features of the twenty-four operations classified as outstanding.
Fiscal 1994 marked the culmination of a three-year Bankwide learning process on participation, which has sought to review the
Lending in support of higher-education reform, however, can be justified, as Bank financing helps countries free up some of the incremental public resources needed to improve quality and access at the primary and secondary levels. Prop, eriy designed projects also allow the subsector to operate more efficiently and at lower public cost. Higher education tending will be directed to countries prepared to adopt an education policy framework that stresses a differentiated institutional structure and a diversified resource base, with greater emphasis on private provision of services and private funding. In these countries. Bank lending is supporting, and will continue to support, sector-policy reforms, institutional development, and improvements in quality.
1	The first study, on primary education, was discussed by the executive board in fiscal 1990. while policies for vocational and technical education and training were the subject or a board discussion in fiscal 1991.
2	Cost-sharing cannot be implemented equitably, however. without scholarship programs that guarantee necessary financial support to academically qualified poor students unable to absorb the direct and indirect (foregone earnings) costs of higher education and without a functioning student-loan program to asset students who need to borrow for their education.
Bank's experience in participatory approaches and to identify ways to support participation in borrower countries. The result—a report to the Bank's management, developed by a learning group of some fifty Bank staff involved in participatory work—has been widely reviewed by Bank staff and outside experts in participation. The report puts forward a number of recommendations, including ensuring that all projects under preparation include (a) a provision for systematically identifying and seeking the par-
ticipation of relevant stakeholders and (b) sharing responsibility for economic and sector work with a wide range of stakeholders. The report was a focus of discussions at a May 1994 workshop on participatory development, hosted by the Bank, which included sixty nongovernmental organization (NGO) representatives, staff from donor agencies, and academics. The workshop discussions helped prioritize the Bank's next steps in.this area as it begins to mainstream participatory approaches in its work.
As a further means of encouraging a mainstreaming of participatory approaches, a $300,000 Participation Fund was established during the year to support a wide range of participatory initiatives in the Bank's lending and nonlending operations. The fund proved so popular among task managers that a $200,000 replenishment was approved to meet the heavy demand.
Activities financed by the Participation Fund included several workshops during project preparation involving beneficiaries, NGOs, and government staff in discussions about project design; workshops were also funded that involved local communities in the evaluation of participatory components of ongoing projects. Building on this precedent, a $2 million Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development was set up toward the end of the fiscal year. The fund will support efforts to promote participatory approaches and will finance a limited number of social assessments of the potential impacts of proposed projects.
Country-assistance strategies and the policy dialogue increasingly address poverty in a wide context. In particular, poverty issues are being addressed comprehensively, both within the context of human resources development and more fully within the overall country-assistance strategy (including macroeconomic and sector policies) in the more than three dozen countries for which poverty assessments or other poverty analyses have been completed. In the policy dialogue on country-assistance strategies, poverty reduction is high on the agenda. In particular. Bank staff are discussing poverty reduction more frequently than before with finance and planning ministries in the context of macroeconomic and sectoral policies. In several countries (Belarus, Ecuador, and Sierra Leone, for example), special units have been created within those ministries to integrate the goal of poverty reduction more explicitly into economic planning.
In the area of analysis of poverty issues, significant progress was made in preparing poverty assessments and other analytical work in
fiscal 1994.'’ Eleven assessments were completed, bringing the number of completed assessments to thirty-nine. By the end of fiscal
1995,	ninety-four assessments for eighty-three countries are scheduled to be completed. Strides were also made during the year toward overcoming the lack of good household data on poverty, although this remains a problem in many countries. The most progress in data collection and analysis has been made in the Africa region, where acquisition of recent household data has accelerated.
In a report to the Bank's executive directors that was later made public/ several lessons from the Bank's past poverty-reduction work, as well as challenges for the future, were highlighted.
•	The challenge for future country-assistance strategies is to ensure that they address the main poverty problems in each country, that they complement efforts by government and donors to reduce poverty, and that the appropriate mix of broad-based and targeted lending instruments evolves for each country.
•	Clearly the Bank is challenged to complete poverty assessments for all borrowing member countries, to continue to improve their quality, to enhance the quality of analysis through greater coordination among donors, and to ensure that assessment findings are fully integrated into country-assistance strategies.
•	Development of poverty-monitoring systems and expansion of countries' capacity to implement them is a priority. To date, only a few poverty assessments have evaluated a country's statistical system for monitoring poverty: even less attention has been given to developing action plans for implementing poverty-monitoring systems over time.
Activities on Women in Development (WID). According to a report written for the September 1993 meeting of the Development Committee, the Bank has made progress in implementing its operational strategy on WID. That strategy aims to reduce gender disparities and enhance women's participation in die eco-
*	Poverty assessments are crucial to the Bank's poverty-reduction efforts. A poverty assessment provides the basis fora collaborative approach to poverty reduction by country officials and the Bank. It also helps to establish the agenda of issues for the policy dialogue between the government and the Bank and between the government and agencies of the international donor community. The process of completing assessments for all IDA borrowers has taken longer than originally planned. This is mainly because of the time-consuming process of overcoming data constraints, developing appropriate analytical approaches, and increasing government involvement in the proccss.
7 World Bank. 1994. Poverty Reduction and the World Bank; Progress in Fiscal 1993. Washington. D.C.
nomic development of their countries by integrating gender consideration in country-assistance programs. Of all projects approved by the Bank in fiscal 1993, about one in three included gender-targeted interventions.
The integration of WID issues into the Bank’s economic and sector work continues. Almost half of the Bank's economic and sector reports contain WID-related analytical work. Gender issues are also increasingly addressed in poverty assessments, particularly in countries where the number of female-headed households is disproportionately high and where there are significant disparities in social indicators between males and females.
According to the 1993 progress report, various lessons have already been learned from the preparation by the Bank of best-practice papers on education, agriculture, safe motherhood, and enterprise development and financial services. In agriculture, for example, it has been found that targeting special services to women does not guarantee success. Rather, it is more effective to ensure that women's programs become part of the mainstream extension services and to encourage women farmers to participate in the services' design. Projects also need to be tailored to specific country or regional circumstances so that women's roles and needs can be properly taken into account.
Lessons learned by the Bank, by other donors, and NGOs suggest some promising approaches to overcoming the barriers to improving the status and productivity of women. That combined experience paints unambiguously to five operational strategies that are key to improving the status and productivity of women: expanding the enrollment of girls in school, improving the health of women, increasing their participation in the formal labor force, expanding their options in agriculture, and providing financial services to them.
Until quite recently, WID programs, including those of the Bank, tended to treat women as a special target group of beneficiaries in projects and programs. According to a recent Bank policy paper,8 development organizations have begun to recognize, however, that the best way to ensure that women are not left at the margin of the development process is to analyze the relative roles and responsibilities of both men and women and to apply the insights gained from this analysis to the design of projects and programs. This new approach, which focuses on gender relations in the family and in the community rather than on women in isolation, constitutes the “gender and development” approach. This is the focus that the Bank is now promoting to enhance women's participation in development.
The policy paper outlined the rationale and strategy for integrating gender in Bank operations. Addressing gender issues is essential for the realization of the Bank's goal of reducing poverty. In addition, reducing gender disparities and enhancing women's participation in economic development are entirely compatible with the promotion of growth as well as with environmentally sustainable development. The Bank is committed, therefore, to integrating gender issues into the mainstream of its operational, as well as its analytical, activities.
A new operational policy directive, issued in April 1994, states that it is the Bank's intention to reduce gender disparities and enhance women's participation in economic development by integrating gender issues into country-assistance strategies. These issues will be identified through the use of various instruments (poverty assessments, country WID assessments, public expenditure reviews, and other economic and sector work). Objectives and interventions for carrying out gender strategies are then to be reflected in the Bank's lending program and the design of lending operations. Implementation is to be monitored as part of the country-implementation review.
The Bank is only one contributor on the international scene that seeks to advance women's status and participation in economic development. Other donors, as well as international, national, and local institutions are also playing important roles in closing the gender gap. The Bank will continue to learn from, and collaborate with, other agencies and capitalize on a wide range of expertise that exists in advancing gender issues on the development agenda. Ail these efforts, however, will be fruitful only with governments’ leadership, commitment, and collaboration.
Population, Health, and Nutrition. Rapid population growth in the world’s poorest countries is a matter of considerable concern because of its possible negative effects on efforts to reduce poverty, generate economic growth, and preserve the environment.
Although the global picture is one of continued growth, rates of growth have begun to slow in many developing countries. The slowing of growth reflects a pervasive shift in reproductive attitudes and behaviors in those countries. The p^ce of change varies by region, but fertility declines are widespread.
Over the past three decades, the percentage of married women in developing countries using some method of contraception has in-
H World Bank. 1994. Enhancing Women's Participation in Economic Development. A World Sank Policy Paper. Washington. D.C.
creased from 10 percent to 51 percent—from 40 million users in 1960 to some 365 million in
1990.	Because of the large increase in the number of women of reproductive age, however, the total number of women not using contraception has declined little, leaving an estimated 350 million still to be served.
During the 1990s, an additional 170 million individuals will move into their reproductive ages in developing countries; another 180 million are projected for the following decade. Just to maintain the current level of coverage, services will have to be expanded to accommodate 80 million to 90 million more contraceptive users during each of these two decades. That still leaves the challenge of providing services for at least 100 million married couples and at least 20 million unmarried individuals, many of whom are at risk of contracting sexually transmitted diseases, as well, because needed contraceptive services are not available or are of poor quality.
As the number of potential clients increases, the definition of what constitutes a population program is expanding. It is now widely accepted that programs must meet a wide range of the reproductive health needs of women and men.9 In addition, they are increasingly addressing other health concerns related to sexual activity and ref luction—the AIDS epidemic and other sexually transmitted diseases, for example. Similarly, the scope of programs is also expanding to include such groups as unmarried adolescents and males, particularly those who engage in high-risk sexual behavior, whose needs have not been served by traditional modes of service provision.10
The Bank's role in population has been shaped by its comparative advantage in a number of areas: It brings strength in sector and economic analysis, which together provide a basis for policy dialogue between the Bank and borrowing countries. This strength is particularly relevant in the current populadon-policy environment, in which fertility reduction is increasingly being pursued as part of a broad range of social policies, particularly those that improve the status of women, such as education.
The Bank has been an active player in the population field for the past twenty-five years, lending more than $1.7 billion to support population activities through more than 100 projects. The value of the current portfolio stands at slightly more than SI billion, representing seventy-three projects under Bank supervision. Many Bank projects include family planning within larger health and nutrition projects, leading to mutually reinforcing effects for both better health and increased demand for family planning. Commitments in fiscal 1994
totaled $199 million for family-planning and population-policy components in fourteen health and social development projects. New commitments vary considerably from year to year, but the trend has been steadily upward.
The increasing complexity of population projects offers particular challenges when it comes time for project supervision. Some of the Bank’s more successful population and health projects—in Bangladesh and Kenya, for example—have included provision for resident management staff to strengthen supervision capacity. The experience of other donors also suggests a strong relationship between the intensity of in-countrv management effort and project effectiveness. The Bank has been making a special effort to improve supervision and strengthen its skill mix in needed technical areas and to assure that it is responsive to borrower needs.
Health sector reform is a high priority. Since the publication :n July 1993 of World Development Report 1993, which was devoted to the issues of health reform, assistance has been requested by more than three dozen countries for assessing the burden of disease. Guidelines for health-sector reform are now being prepared; they will be published in fiscal 1995 as a companion volume to World Development Report
1993.	Also under study are managed-care arrangements in both developing and industrialized countries, the efficacy of differing systems of health care, and pharmaceutical policies in a number of countries. The goal of the last-named study is to assist borrowing member countries in formulating and enforcing policies that improve the access to, and quality of, essential drugs.
The upward momentum that has characterized recent lending trends for nutrition within Bank projects continues, assisted, in part, by
9	The Development Committee. Tor example, in its April 1994 communique following its spring meeting, noted that an integrated population policy must recognize the links between economic growth, population, poverty reduction, health, investment in human resources, and environmental degradation. “Family planning.” the communique went on to say. “is only one of the available instruments and needs to be seen in the broader context of changing social patterns and the increased awareness of women's role.**
10	The changing nature of population programs and the challenging population issues of this decade and beyond will be the subjcct of the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development—the third in a series of United Nations conferences that started in Bucharest in 1974 and continued in Mexico City in 1984. These meetings produced and refined the Worid Population Plan of Action, which has provided donors and developing countries with a framework for population policies and action programs over the past two decades. The 1994 conference will be held in September in Cairo.
the recommendations for cost-effective interventions in World Development Report 1993. An additional focus within the Bank was generated by the convening in late November rf the Bank's first major conference on hunger, “Overcoming Global Hunger—A Conference on Actions to Reduce Hunger Worldwide."
Children three years old and younger and pregnant and lactating women remain the primary target of nutrition operations in Bank projects. Several recent projects, however, such as fiscal 1994’s Maternal and Child Health Project in Argentina, include integrated early childhood-development components that address the Cull range of health, nutritional, and educational needs of young children in their most critical years of development.
Overall lending for population, health, and nutrition has increased substantially, from an annual average of $103 million in new commitments during the four-year period fiscal 1981-84 to an annual average of $1,307 million during the period fiscal 1991-94.'1
Bank investments in education (which amounted to $2,068 million in fiscal 1994) are increasingly targeted toward getting girls into school and eliminating existing gender disparities in participation, achievement, and attainment; the objective is to empower women as producers, reduce their dependence on husbands and sons, and lower the fertility rate.
The HRO vice presidency is actively involved in improving the design and implementation of the Bank’s education projects. During the past yssr, for example, senior staff were actively involved in the implementation of a complex and comprehensive primary education project in Uttar Pradesh—one of the most educationally deprived states of India. The project, supported in fiscal 1993 by a $165 million IDA credit, focuses on the education of girls and disadvantaged ethnic minorities. The project design and its implementation reflect a deep government commitment to the concept of education for all, both at the central government and at the grassroots level. This commitment has manifested itself in the ways that staff and other resources have been assigned to the project, in the interest of tcp-level civil servants and grassroots-level NGOs in its implementation, and in the exceptionally fast pace with which project baseline studies and infrastructure are being carried out, facilitating subsequent evaluation and measurements of project achievements. The results of this project are now being replicated in a much larger, countrywide project.
At the other end of the education spectrum, HRO staff have been involved in the design and implementation of higher education projects in
countries that are changing from centrally planned economies to market-responsive ones. One such project is in Hungary, which has introduced reform to its higher education system by promoting the concept that participating institutions must compete for investment funds by submitting funding proposals to an impartial national agency. This agency assesses the submitted proposals on their educational and economic merits through well-understood and transparent criteria and procedures that emphasize economy and efficiency in the use of public resources. A recent midterm review of the results has been encouraging; the new procedures are being expanded to replace the entire higher education funding mechanism, and neighboring countries have shown interest in replicating the system.
In July 1992, Lewis Preston, in a letter to 1,400 parliamentarians from twenty-six countries about future lending by the Bank, wrote that the Bank would increase it:; support for education projects in the period fiscal 1993-95 over levels of the preceding three-year period. Commitments in fiscal 1993 and 1994 totaled $4,074 million, $336 million higher than in the period fiscal 1990-91. Mr. Preston also said that support by the Bank for basic education during fiscal 1993-95 would rise above the 42 percent mark achieved in fiscal 1992. Such support amounted to 45.7 percent and 30.2 percent of total lending for education in fiscal 1993 and 1994, respectively.
Externa] Relations. The Bank is a partner with numerous United Nations organizations and a variety of other international and bilateral agencies, as well as with major NGOs. The HRO vice presidency pays close attention to nurturing these relationships, to listening, to sharing understanding of the problems being faced, and to building collaborative relationships.
During the past year, the Bank shared the podium in United Nations’ fora to address development issues of global reach. The Bank’s follow-up to environmental activities after the
11	In July 1992, Lewis Preston, president of the World Bank, said that the Bank planned to substantially increase lending for population, hratfth, and nutrition—in both dollar-volume terms and as a percentage of total commitments— during the period fiscal 1993-95 as compared with the three previous years. Raring fiscal 1990-92, lending to the sector averaged 51,15*; trillion annually and represented 5 percent of total Bank lending. During fiscal 1993-94, lending for population, health, and nutrition averaged $1,349 million and amounted to 6 percent of total commitments. Mr. Preston also projected that lending for primary health would be more than 5 percent of total lending ever the same period. In fiscal 1993 and 1994, commitments in support of primary health amounted to 6 percent and 4 t-cent of the total, respectively.
United Nations Conference on Environment and Development was discussed in the UN's Inter-Agency Committee on Sustainable Development and in the Commission on Sustainable Development. The Bank also addressed environmental issues at such UN gatherings as the Small Island Economies Conference (held in Barbados) and the Disaster Reduction Conference (held in Japan).
The Bank actively participated in all phases of the preparations for the Third Population and Development Conference, scheduled for September 1994 in Cairo. The Bank provided travel grants to developing country NGOs to ensure their full participation in the conference and its preparation. It also participated in the preparations (including provision of background papers on social and human resources development and grant funds to ensure NGO participation) for the Social Summit that will be held in Copenhagen in 1995. The Bank also cosponsored, with the summit's secretariat and the government of the Netherlands, a meeting held in June 1994 in Zambia of a preparatory expert group on poverty. The Bank's contribution to the Conference on Women and Development—to be held in Beijing in 199S— included a special study on the economic potential of women, while the Second (Economic and Financial) and Third (Social, Humanitarian, and Cultural) Committees of the UN General Assembly provided a forum for presenting updates on major Bank activities.
The Bank continues to coordinate project-focused work with UN agencies in areas of mutual involvement, including food security with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN; health and education with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF); employment with the International Labour Office; AIDS and other health interventions with the World Health Organization; environmental issues with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP); basic education with the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization, UNICEF, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP); and water and sanitation and technical assistance with the UNDP. The Bank remains a cosponsor (with the UNDP) of the Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme (ESMAP), designed to assist countries in developing environmentally sound energy strategies and investments.
Cooperation with Nongovernmental Organizations. Cooperation with NGOs continued to expand in terms of both lending operations (see Tables 3-2 and 3-3) and the policy dialogue. Some 50 percent of all Bank-approved projects involved NGOs.
In the realm of lending operations, NGOs increasingly are designing, preparing, implementing, and evaluating subprojects financed through Bank-assisted projects, while the expansion of the policy dialogue has led to increased beneficiary ownership of Bank-assisted projects. Social-fund projects worldwide and food-security and nutrition projects in Africa have benefited from NGO involvement, while Pakistan's Social Action Program is an example of the Bank’s increasing commitment in support of participatory development. In the Pakistan program, the Bank created a $10 million Participatory Development Program Fund to support various implementing organizations in their efforts to involve communities in the delivery of basic social services, such as primary education and health care and rural water supply.
One of the Bank’s main goals in collaborating with NGOs has been to increase the institutional capacity of project-implementing organizations. To this end, the Bank has provided, or has made arrangements with other organizations (very often NGOs) to provide, capacity-building assistance to various NGOs and communities. One such example is the capacity-building exercise for indigenous NGOs that has been launched in several Latin American countries with grants from the Bank's Institutional Development Fund. This exercise stemmed directly from requests From indigenous NGO leaders who attended the Latin American Second Interagency Workshop on Indigenous Development, held in Washington, D.C. in September 1993.
The Bank is also helping governments analyze their relationship with NGOs with a view to constructing a more enabling environment for NGO activities. For example, it convened a workshop in Uganda that brought together NGOs, government officials, and d onors to discuss specially prepared reports on the country’s NGOs and the policy environment in which they operate and to formulate a national action plan to promote the role of NGOs in poverty reduction.
In the twice-yearly meetings of the Bank-NGO Committee, topics such as popular participation and the social effects of structural adjustment programs were discussed. The Bank also consulted on an ad hoc basis with NGOs on issues of particular concern. In May 1994, for example, discussions with NGO representatives were held on the implementation experience of the Bank's forest policy in preparation for a review in fiscal 1995 of the policy by the Bank's executive directors. A separate consultation with NGOs in May 1994 helped the Bank evolve strengthened indicators of development impact. Consultations were also
held with NGOs in Paris and Washington on the draft of World Development Report 1994: Infrastructure for Development.
In addition to formal consultations, an increasing number of meetings between senior Bank officials and NGO representatives around the world have been held. A series of meetings took place with NGOs during the past
year on issues such as the disclosure of information, creation of an inspection panel, and follow-up to the report of the Bank's Task Force on Portfolio Management. Another series of meetings focused on environmental sustainability, resettlement issues, specific project concerns, and the environmental effects of macroeconomic policies.
The changing nature of the Bank-NGO relationship was clearly exhibited at the Conference on Actions to Reduce Hunger Worldwide that was convened by the Bank in November
1993.	In addition to participating in presentations and discussions, NGO representatives assisted in the conference's preparatory and foltow-up work. Discussions at the country level on hunger issues are currently being planned by the Bank and NGOs in various countries.
NGOs are also playing a rale in the Global Environment Facility (GEF), especially in the areas of project design, implementation, and monitoring. The twice-yearly meetings of GEF “participants” (members) are routinely preceded by GEF-NGO consultations.
The instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility, adopted in March 1994 at the GEF Participants Meeting in Geneva, included several provisions that relate to NGOs' concerns: In the restructured facility, NGOs will have important roles to play in proposing, preparing, and implementing projects, and local communities will be consulted throughout the project cycle.
The facility's three implementing agencies are moving to modify their procedures as needed to assure consultation with affected communities, increased participation by NGOs in GEF projects, public access to GEF project information, and regular monitoring and evaluation of project implementation and results.
Environmentally Sustainable Development
Achieving environmentally sustainable development is a major challenge of the 1990s. The June 1992 UNCED succeeded in raising the consciousness of the world to the urgency of this task. The World Bank, as the largest multilateral source of development finance for developing countries, has a special responsibility to ensure that the programs and projects it supports are consistent with the objective of sustainable development. The mandate of the Environmentally Sustainable Development (ESD) vice presidency is to develop an effective Bank response to this challenge.
At all times, people and the capacities of ecosystems to support life are the center of ESD’s focus. The existence of acute poverty in the world and the degradation and contamination of ecosystems are related critical issues and essential concerns in environmentally sustainable development. The Bank must provide leadership in accelerating the improvement of living standards while incorporating the objectives of environmentally appropriate management and sustainability into the design of development policies and projects.
In carrying out its mandate, ESD engages in six types of activities:
•	improving the Bank's understanding of the meaning of, and requirements for, achieving environmentally sustainable and equitable development;
•	formulating sound environmental, agricultural, and infrastructural policies, projects, and programs—through its own studies and by drawing on the best work wherever it is being done—that promote sustainability;
•	providing guidance and technical support to the Bank's six regional offices in devising operations consistent with the object of sustainability;12
•	helping to address global issues related to the environment, agriculture, and infrastructure and urban development—in partnership with bilateral agencies, other multilateral institutions, and NGOs;
•	exchanging and disseminating the findings of policy and “best practices" work with its external partners and within the Bank; and
•	developing the Bank's technical capabilities through selective recruitment and training of staff to become more alert to environmental issues and more proficient in elaborating and managing environmentally sound programs.
Policy and Best-practice Work. The ESD vice presidency is responsible for advancing appropriate sustainable development policies in the Bank and monitoring progress in the field of environment, agriculture, and infrastructure. Recent policy papers have addressed urban development (fiscal 1991), forestry (fiscal 1992), housing (fiscal 1993), and water-resource management (fiscal 1993) issues.
During the past fiscal year, the vice presidency promoted the acceptance of the Bank's waler-resource management policies, which call for treating water as an economic good, involving stakeholders in its management, and fostering institutional environments that encourage efficient, effective, and equitable water use. The importance of a comprehensive framework that takes into account cross-sectoral considerations was also stressed.
These concerns were pursued in countries worldwide. In the Africa region, for example, staff have been assisting the government of Malawi to develop a water-resources management policy to guide the sustainable use of water resources and the planning and provision of services, accompanied by substantial sector re-
11	The 1987 report of the World Commission on Environment and Development (the Brundtland Commission) defined sustainable development as development that meets “the needs of the present generation without compromising the needs of future generations."
form. In China, work has focused on water issues and policy reforms as they relate to urban environmental management; and in the Brazilian states of Parani, Minas Gerais, and Sao Paulo, the principles of water-resources management at the basin level, including consideration of the use of economic instruments for water allocations and pollution control, are being implemented.
In the second half of the fiscal year, ESD undertook a review of the degree of acceptance and implementation of the findings of the 1991 paper on forest policy.13 The ongoing review—it had not been completed by the end of the fiscal year—is concentrating on the degree to which changes are being made at the country level to sector work and project design. Consultations on an early draft of the review were held in Libreville (capital of timber-rich Gabon), London, and Washington, D.C. Participants included NGOs from both developed and developing countries, members of the Forestry Advisers Group (which includes the forestry advisers of the principal donor agencies), representatives of the timber industry, and academicians.
Fiscal 1994 saw the publication of World Development Report 1994: Infrastructure for Development,1* which examines the links between infrastructure and development and explores ways in which developing countries can improve both the provision and the quality of infrastructure services (transportation, telecommunications, water and sanitation, power and gas, and major water works).
World Development Report 1994 presents new strategies for developing infrastructure in more effective, less wasteful ways. The report shows that the quantity of investment cannot be the exclusive focus of policy. It is also vital that the quality of infrastructure service be improved. To promote more efficient and responsive delivery of infrastructure service, the report points to the need to change incentives through the application of three instruments —commercial management, competition (directly if feasible, indirectly if not), and stakeholder involvement.
The report also identifies trends that will facilitate improvements in the performance of infrastructure. These include innovation in technology and regulatory management, the new willingness of governments to involve the private sector, and increased concern about social and environmental sustainability.
World Development Report 1994 benefited from analysis initiated in ESD and published in the Bank's Discussion Papers series. Papers on '"Railways, Energy, and the Environment” and “Rural Road Maintenance and Improve-
ment” were also completed during the past year.
Four major parallel reviews—the second review of environmental assessments, the implementation review of the Bank's active portfolio of environmental projects, a review of national environmental action plans (NEAPs). and a review of projects involving involuntary resettlement—were the focus of environmental activities during fiscal 1994. The resettlement review, rather than being carried out as a deskbound and static stock-taking exercise, was deliberately designed as a broad process of resettlement analysis in the field, carried out by the Bank's relevant regional and central units jointly with borrowers (see Box 3-2).
Central to integrating environmental concerns into the Bank's activities is the '‘Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment,” which was issued in October 1989. The directive mandates an environmental assessment (EA) for nil projects that may have a significant negative effect on the environment. Those expected to have significant, sensitive. irreversible, or diverse effects are classified as "Category A” and require a full EA. Less sensitive “Category B” projects undergo a more limited environmental analysis.
A first review of EA procedures, conducted in fiscal 1992, found that although they were realistic, workable, and instrumental in improving development planning and environmental management, problems remained. More effort was needed, the review concluded, to strengthen borrowers' capacity to conduct effective EAs. The review recommended, therefore, that EA training in borrowing countries be made a priority. The review also recommended that the Bank seek to move the EA process to earlier stages in borrower project planning before major decisions—for example, siting and technology—are made.
The paper set forth a fourfold strategy to check deforest tatioD. First, although general economic development is necessary for a longer-term solution to the problem of deforestation. priority should be given in the interim to increasing agricultural productivity in poor, densely populated areas—especially those adjacent to forested areas or those from where most forest encroachcrs originate—and to expanding nonfaim employment opportunities in these targeted areas. Second, forest protection will need to be ensured through specific legislation and regulatory measures, especially in tropical moist forests. Third, private incentives need to be changed, for enforcement of zoning and other regulations is likely to be ineffective unless they are. Fourth, public investments need to be preceded by much more careful environmental assessments.
14	World Bank. 1994. World Development Report 1994: Infrastructurefor Development. New York: Oxford University Press.
Box 3-2. Review or Projects Involving Involuntary Resettlement
In the wake of the Bank's experience with its involvement in the Sardar Sarovar projects in India, a task farce was formed in 1993 to carry out an analysis of 146 projects approved between 1986 and 1993 with resettlement components to ensure that project implementation was being carried out consistent with loan and credit agreements and with Bank guidelines and policy.1 Nearly 2 million people were in various stages of resettlement in the 146 projects, which represented 8 percent of the Bank's active portfolio of projects (and IS percent by worth).
The main product of the review was not simply its final report,2 but the process that the review triggered throughout 1993 across the Bank and on the ground. The review process consisted of intensified field supervision; analysis of project preparation, appraisal, supervision, and implementation; on-site consultations with nongovernmental organizations; sectoral resettlement studies; development of new technical tools for resettlement planning; and a considerable number of remedial actions initiated by the Bank and borrowers for those projects that were failing to meet set objectives.
Although task force members found that the Bank had made significant progress between 1986 and 1993 in some areas, they also discovered that when projects were not consistent with policy and processing guidelines, resettlers ended up worse off in some cases.
The single most important message of their review was that good resettlement can prevent impoverishment and even reduce poverty by rebuilding sustainable livelihoods. Socially responsible resettlement is also economically beneficial because the heavy costs of poorly handled resettlement extend well beyond the immediately affected population—to the regional economy and to the host population in relocation areas. Inadequate resettlement induces local resistance.
increases political tensions, entails extensive project delays, and postpones project benefits for all concerned; the benefits lost because of such unavoidable project delays sometimes far exceed the marginal cost of a good resettlement package. Ensuring that involuntary resettlement is minimized—and when unavoidable, is carried out without impoverishing the people displaced—is fully justified, therefore, on both economic and ethical grounds.
The review showed, once again, that resettlement is nearly always more difficult, more expensive, and more time consuming than generally realized. The largest resettlement operations move tens of thousands of people—often very poor people—long distances in a very short time, and reestablishing their standard of living is a hard task. The inherent difficulty in reestablishing standards of living and community services is compounded by the limited technical and institutional resettlement capacity of most borrowers, as well as by weak commitment from some executing agencies.
Dining the review period, the Bank tripled its resources for resettlement supervision, and more supervision missions of projects with resettlement components were launched than in the previous three years put together. Remedial actions—they included increasing participation of affected people, finding ways to reduce displacement, provision of additional financial resources, and adjusting resettlement timetables—had the effect of considerably improving the Bank's overall portfolio. In-house analytical work and training offered to country officials also contributed during 1993 to improving portfolio management. In fact, the entip' review process proved to be an exceptional opportunity for learning how to do resettlement better, for identifying good practices, adjusting general approaches to particular circumstances, building institutional capacity for
The second EA review found that Bank support to activities aimed at building and strengthening EA capacity in borrowing countries did significantly expand in the two intervening years. Support came mainly in the form of environmental institution-building projects aimed specifically at this and related objectives; technical assistance components, aimed at developing EA capacity, in regular investment projects; in-country training spearheaded by the Bank's Economic Development Institute and the Bank's regional environmental divisions; and advice on EA legislation and procedures. The Bank has also been successful in moving EA “upstream" in borrowers' planning processes, as evidenced by the growing number of “sectoral'' EAs.
These efforts are beginning to bear fruit. Quality has improved considerably in important areas such as impact identification and analysis; public consultation, especially in the context of resettlement; and mitigation, monitoring, and management planning for projects. In addition, and even more important, the Bank has witnessed a diversification of EA approaches into newer areas, both in terms of sectoral spread (tourism and solid waste management, for example) and types of lending operations (privatization and onlending, for example).
Progress has been particularly significant as concerns the preventive dimension of EA— minimizing the negative environmental effects of a given project. But progress was also made
resettlement, and refining analytical and evaluation methodologies.
In the end, the Bank will be judged on how well the lessons learned from the review process will be integrated into its future activities. Important weaknesses in past Bank practice have been revealed, and actions to improve Bank resettlement work are under way. Thus:
•	The Bank will not finance projects involving large-scale resettlement operations unless the government concerned adopts policies and legal frameworks that are conducive to resettlement with income restoration.
•	The Bank will help borrowers build their institutional capacity to implement review before displacement starts with a new to protecting people's rights.
•	Bank-assisted projects will avoid or reduce displacement as much as possible through technical and social studies for project design and execution.
•	The active participation of would-be resettles in the preparation, planning, and implementation of resettlement will be required.
•	All projects will internalize the full cost of resettlement and of the investments required for income restoration within total project costs so as to prevent impoverishment.
•	Twin-project approaches for large-scale civil works causing resettlement will be considered. Hus approach was used in fiscal 1994, when a $460 .million loan In support of China's Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project was coupled with a Si 10 million IDA credit to help resettle and restore and improve the livelihoods of 154,000 people (directly) and 300,000 people (indirectly] affected by the multipurpose project.
•	The Bank’s own institutional capacity will be strengthened, primarily through the better use of existing staff skills and by adding staff capacity in critical fields.
•	Remedial and retrofitting actions will continue for all active projects that fall short of policy and legal provisions.
•	Full compliance with procedures and established safeguards for ensuring project quality will be insisted upon. While full implementation responsibility rests with borrowing governments, the Bank has a responsibility to follow up carefully on performance, impacts, and outcomes.
•	The content and frequency of resettlement supervision will be further improved, and regular and adequately staffed supervision missions will take place at least every twelve months, including on-the-ground visits to places where displacement and relocation occur.
•	To sustain progress achieved and to monitor continued compliance with Bank guidelines and procedures, regional units will prepare annual reports on projects with resettlement in their portfolio as part of the annual review of portfolio performance.
By setting such exacting norms for the operations it assists and promoting resettlers' reestablishment at comparable or improved income levels, the Bank will continue to work to narrow the gap between resettlement goals and past entrenched practice in many countries.
*	The Bank's resettlement policy has evolved steadily since 1980. Basic elements of that policy include avoidance or minimization or Involuntary displacement whenever feasible; assistance to displaced persons in their efforts to improve, oral least restore, former living standards and earning capacity; compensation to displaced persons for their losses at replacement -Tost; promotion of rcsenlers’ and hosts' participation in planning resettlement; and provision of adequate land, infrastructure, and other compensation for groups that may have informal customary rights to the land or resources taken for the project.
2	World Bank. 1994. Resettlement and Development: The Bankwide Review of Projects Involving Involuntary Resettlement, 1986-93. Washington, D.C.
on the “proactive” front in terms of helping design individual projects and larger investment programs that actively enhance environmental quality.
The implementation review of environmental projects covered ninety-three projects—4.2 percent of all projects under implementation at the end of fiscal 1993 and entailing commitments of $6.4 billion—that had been identified as having primarily environmental objectives, lliese operations were approved between fiscal 1986 and fiscal 1993, with the majority coming after fiscal 1990. The operations, therefore, comprised a rather “young” segment of the total active portfolio.
On the basis of supervision ratings, environmental projects were found to be performing
slightly better than the average for the portfolio as a whole at the end of fiscal 1993. Part of the explanation of the apparent above-average performance is the aforementioned “youth” of the projects in relation to the portfolio as a whole. Thus, controlling for project “age.” it is probably more accurate to conclude that environmental projects are performing about the same as the Bank's active portfolio as a whole.
As in the case for the Bank's portfolio generally, there also appears to be a clear positive correlation between country income level and environmental project performance. Only one “problem project” was found in an upper-middle-income country, compared with the much larger number found in lower-middle and low-income countries.
It does appear, however, that certain types of environmental projects are performing better than others ("brown” projects are doing better than “green” and “institutional'* ones). Furthermore, as a comparatively recent area of Bank lending, there are the inevitable number of start-up costs associated with new and often weak national and sectoral institutions. Other problems include the relative unfamiUarity of executing agencies with Bank requirements; a tendency in some cases to try to “pack too much” into single operations; and, in some cases, less thz-n full borrower commitment to project objectives and components, especially those not involving physical investment.
Bank assistance in elaborating and implementing national environmental action plans (NEAPs) plays a critical role in helping member countries improve their environmental management. NEAPs provide a basis for the Bank's dialogue with borrowers on environmental issues, describe a country's major environmental concerns and problems, and formulate policies and actions to address whatever problems are identified. The responsibility for NEAP preparation and implementation rests with the borrower. By the end of fiscal
1994,	most active IDA borrowers had completed NEAPs or equivalent documents, and several non-IDA countries had completed them or were in advanced stages of preparation.
A study of country environmental strategies is currently under way in the Bank; it has been designed to provide guidance to governments in preparing such strategies. The study— “National Environmental Strategies and Action Plans—Key Elements and Best Practice”—is expected to be completed by the middle of fiscal 1995. Its findings will be directed to governments of developing countries, particularly ministries that are primarily responsible for environmental planning and implementation.
The study is finding that the experience with preparing NEAPs has varied con siderable from country to country. NEAPs need to be country driven and participatory, involving all segments of society and the government. At the same time, as strategies, national plans become more feasible to implement when there are clear priorities. Achieving both objectives has sometimes proved difficult, the study shows.
Making Development Sustainable: The World Bank Group and the Environment, a detailed review of World Bank environmental activities in fiscal 1994, was published in early fiscal 1995.
An important element of the support ESD provides the Bank's operational departments in delivering assistance of good quality to the
Bank's borrowers is the promotion of “best practices.” Best-practices papers, which build on completed policy papers, are drawn from ESD's operational support work and from rapidly accumulating experience as developing countries endeavor to put policies into practice. They are brief, practical, and driven by real-world successes and failures. During fiscal
1994,	examples include the initiation of the Agricultural Technology News series—consisting of four-page notes written specifically for operational task managers on recent technological developments in specific branches of agriculture—and the continuation and expansion of the Infrastructure Notes series. Technical papers on topics as diverse as air pollution from motor vehicles, experience with lending for railways, urban infrastructure and productivity, and sectoral indicators for housing were also completed.
The sectoral indicators for housing have been developed collaboratively with the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements under the Housing Indicators Programs (HEP). The indicators reflect the interests of all key stakeholders in the sector (end users, suppliers, financiers, and governments) and cover factors as diverse as the price of housing, homelessness, quality, production, investment, interest rates for mortgages, the importance of housing finance within the overall financial system, subsidies, and taxes. They have been collected in fifty-three countries at every level of economic development and have been used within the Bank to evaluate priorities for policy reform and lending in a number of countries. Several borrower countries (Hungary and the Philippines, for example), with assistance from the HIP, have developed housing indicators as a tool for evaluating housing policies and programs at both the local and national level and for monitoring the performance of the sector on a continuing basis. Drawing on the successful experience of the HIP, sectoral performance indicators are now being extended to other urban subsectors, including local government finance and services, water supply and sanitation, urban environment, and urban transport.
Evidence exists that the failure to pay sufficient attention to social factors in development can jeopardize the effectiveness of Bank-supported programs and projects. The social dimensions of development are especially important in dealing with environmental and social issues. It is increasingly recognized that problems can be diagnosed and solutions implemented only through the development and application of the tools of social analysis. To bridge the social-dimension gap. preparation of
a Participation Sourcebook was begun during the past year.
The sourcebook, which builds on the findings of a three-year learning program funded by the Swedish International Development Authority, is being prepared in a participatory manner, drawing upon contributions of more than 200 Bank staff and external advisers. The sourcebook will be a loose-leaf action guide, providing Bank operational staff with key questions they should ask; best-practice answers to tackle these questions; brief case studies; and available resources. In addition to the sourcebook, ESD has also prepared a document providing guidance on social assessment (SA). The SA draws on best practice from a number of areas. Its objectives are to (a) identify key stakeholders and provide an appropriate framework for their participation in Bank-assisted operations; (b) ensure that project objectives and incentives for change are acceptable to those the project is intended to benefit; (c) assess the social impact of projects and minimize adverse .impacts, if any; and (d) develop capacity at the appropriate level to enable participation and to carry out proposed activities. Both the guidelines and sourcebook will be elaborated upon and improved as practical experience is gained.
Training and Seminars. A key element of the work program of the ESD vice presidency is the training that it provides Bank staff on a range of topics to support operational work and help improve project implementation. During the past year forty-eight training courses were given. In addition, seminars, workshops, and study tours were organized, with participation by experts in their fields from outside the Bank. Thus, the Bank cosponsored—with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Rockefeller Foundation—a workshop (held in Bangkok) on integrated pest management and biotechnology. Similarly, an irrigation seminar/study tour in Mexico, concentrating on the successful experience there with promotion of water-users’ associations, brought together Bank staff with irrigation specialists from both developed and developing countries.
Direct Operational Support. A central objective of the Environmentally Sustainable Development vice presidency is to help the Bank's operational departments achieve the full integration of environmental considerations—with state-of-the-art technical, social, and economic approaches—in their project designs (appropriate to local ecosystems and country conditions) with the objective of long-term sustainability. Operational support activities are viewed as opportunities to explore systematically new
approaches and build up knowledge step-by-step in a process of structured learning.
For example, the Russia Farm Transformation Study involved setting up an apparatus for farm surveys to monitor changes in farm organization; training of staff of the collaborating local institution in farm-survey techniques, data processing, and analytical methods; and producing an up-to-date picture of the situation in the farm sector. The capacity-building aspects of this task are already bearing fruit, as the collaborating institution is now conducting a follow-up survey with very little supervision. Furthermore, the work served as a model for a similar study under way that deals with Ukraine.
Protecting the Global Environment. The ESD vice presidency leads the Bank's efforts to address critical global issues affecting the environment, agriculture, and infrastructure and to follow up on the strategic agenda that emerged from UNCED. A part of this work emerges from the Global Environment Facility (GEF).
The GEF was established as a pilot program in 1991 to act as a mechanism for international cooperation for the purpose of providing new and additional grant and concessional funding to meet the incremental costs of measures to achieve agreed global environmental benefits in four focal areas: climate change, biological diversity, international waters, and ozone-layer depletion. The agreed incremental costs of activities concerning land degradation, primarily desertification and deforestation, as they relate to the four focal areas, are also eligible for funding. Day-to-day operation of the facility is shared among the UNDP. UNEP, and the Bank. In addition to providing administrative support to the GEF secretariat, the Bank performs two principal functions: as trustee of a new trust fund and as one of the implementing agencies.
During its pilot phase. 1 IS projects, valued at more than $733 million, had been endorsed by GEF participants, of which sixty-eight (worth $471 million) had received final clearance. Forty-two percent of the facility’s resources had been allocated to biodiversity projects, 40 percent to climate-change projects, 17 percent to international waters projects, and 1 percent to ozone projects.
In March 1994, more than eighty industrialized and developing countries agreed to restructure and replenish the GEF. Twenty-six countries, including several developing countries, pledged more than $2 billion to the GEF* s core fiind (the GEF Trust Fund) over the next three years. The eight principles that serve as the basis for the restructured facility may be
found on page 5i of the World Bank's Annual Report for fiscal year 1993.
After fifteen months of negotiations, the participants settled on a “double majority" voting system in a thirty-two-member council to protect the interests of both donor and recipient countries. This requires approval by a 60 percent majority of all member countries, as well as approval by donors representing at least 60 percent of contributions. The council will operate by consensus, using votes only in exceptional circumstances. The restructured and replenished GEF represents an innovative mechanism for international cooperation. As one of the GEF implementing agencies, the Ban k has a special responsibility to assist countries in integrating their actions to protect the global environment with their national development strategies. One aspect of this is for the Bank to ensure that where it is responsible for GEF-financed activities linked to Bank-assisted projects, the GEF component is fully integrated with the project and is not seen simply as an add-on.
In December 1992, GEF participants requested an independent evaluation of the pilot phase of the facility to guide future planning. Reflecting the organizational structure of the GEF, the evaluation was conducted under the oversight of senior evaluation managers from each of the implementing agencies, with the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department providing the secretariat. An independent panel of experts provided strategic guidance and validated the methodology and approach used for the evaluation.
The resulting evaluation study. The Global Environment Facility: Independent Evaluation of the Pilot Phase. published jointly by the UNDP, UNEP, and the Bank in May 1994, advocated some fundamental changes. These include articulating more clearly the GEF’s mandate, goals, and strategies; addressing deficiencies in meeting the GEFs global focus; improving the capacities and procedures of implementing agencies for managing the portfolio; and increasing NGO. country, and community-level participation.
The vice president for ESD also serves as chairman of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). an informal association of forty-two public and private sector donors that supports a network of eighteen international agricultural research centers.13 The Bank is a cosponsor of the CGIAR, together with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO) and the UNDP.
The centers pursue a research agenda agreed upon by the donors on the recommendations of
an independent Technical Advisory Committee. after a careful review of the global challenges, the work of other institutions, and the centers' proposed programs. The CGIAR is widely considered as an outstanding success. The past contribution of its research centers to reducing hunger and poverty is demonstrable. Following a recent realignment of research programs. the centers are committed to grappling with today's challenges to sustainable agriculture, food security, and poverty reduction.
At the mid term meeting that took place in New Delhi in late May 1994. proposals for revitalizing the CGIAR system were endorsed. The proposals aim at stabilizing the system's financial system and halting the erosion of its scientific capacity; refocusing the research agenda on approved programs; improving governance and reforming management with a view to ensuring predictability, transparency, and accountability; linking the CGIAR's programs with participatory programs at the form level; and developing an action plan and an eighteen-month timetaLle designed to secure government endorsement of the new strategy.
In the area of finances, members of the group stressed their commitment in support of the $270 million core research agenda. To this end, it was decided to redirect funding of activities in the complementary program to the core program, and a proposal by the three cosponsors to launch a one-time financial supplement brought indications of support of at least $10 million in additional pledges for 1994. The World Bank is considering matching additional donor core funding with an extra contribution on a 1:2 basis, up to a maximum of $10 million annually, for both 1994 and 1995.
To ensure transparency, accountability, and predictability of finances, the CGIAR will move toward a new program-budgeting system. The system will clearly identify the relative role of CGIAR centers in undertaking research programs within the context of a global research agenda implemented by industrialized countries, international agricultural research centers, the national agricultural research systems of developing countries, and nongovernmental organizations. The 1995 program and budgets will be presented in a form that facilitates the move towards the new approach.
15	There will be sixteen centers in 1995 following (he creation of a new single institutional entity for livestock research, which would comprise the existing International Livestock Centre for Africa and the International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases, and the menscr of the International Network for the Improvement of Banana and Plantain with the International Board on Plant Genetic Resources.
The Russian Federation became the forty-second member of the group at the New Delhi meeting, and South Africa attended for the first time as an observer.
Outreach. Reliance on policy studies, best-practices papers, and other reports and studies for the dissemination of ESD’s intellectual output is increasingly being supplemented by briefer specialized newsletters that are circulated widely (“Urban Age,” “ENV Dissemination Notes,” and “Forestry Newsletter,” for example), as well as by informal workshops, seminars, and symposia aimed at enhancing collaboration with other agencies. Examples of the latter included involvement in the Dutch Ministerial Conference on “Drinking Water and Environmental Sanitation: Implementing Agenda 21" and continuing collaboration with the bilateral aid agencies of Denmark and Sweden on water resources-management issues.
The First Annual ESD Conference (September 30-0ctober 1, 1993), convened at the Bank's headquarters, focused mainly on the question of properly identifying the costs and benefits of alternative uses of natural resources. The hundreds of experts attending the talks also looked at the growing need for better management in the face of worsening shortages and increasing pollution.
The conference yielded a rich discussion of some of today's cutting-edge environmental challenges. Its purpose was not, however, to look for a perfect solution to the world’s environmental problems; instead, it set out to change the processes by which solutions are identified by involving people and focusing on the environment while promoting economic development.
ESD also organized a Conference on Actions to Reduce Hunger Worldwide (November 30-December 1,1993). The inspiration for the conference came from a twenty-three-day fast earlier in the year by United States Congressman Tony Hall to raise public awareness about the growing scourge of hunger. The conference, which was planned in collaboration with other multilateral development agencies and NGOs from both the developing and industrialized world, aimed at strengthening global efforts to reduce hunger.
The Bank announced at the conference its willingness to work with other donors to fund credit organizations that offer very small loans to the very poor as part of an overall program to empower them to take control of their lives. The program is similar to several successful programs in the developing world such as the Grameen Bank of Bangladesh, the Badan {Credit Kecamatan of Indonesia, the micro-
enterprise credit programs sponsored by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), and the Freedom from Hunger Campaign. An immediate grant of $2 million was extended by the Bank to the Grameen Bank to help cover the start-up costs of the Grameen Trust for the first year of its operations. The grant is separate from the World Bank's normal loans and credits, which are made only to governments or involve a government guarantee.
The $2 million allocation to the Grameen Trust is indicative of the Bank's commitment to directly support action-oriented programs that target the reduction of poverty and the alleviation of hunger. Other agencies have already contributed to the trust, and the Bank's modest contribution reinforces the institution's intent to join donors and other partners to explore programs that address the credit and savings needs of the self-employed poor and to support institutions whose aim is to help those who are in the greatest need. The Grameen Trust was founded by the president of the Grameen Bank, Mohammed Yunus, one of the speakers at the conference.
Other speakers included Boutros Boutros-Ghali, secretary general of the United Nations; Ketumile Masire, president of Botswana; former United States president Jimmy Carter (in his capacity as a leader of the Carter Center, a nongovernmental organization); World Bank president Lewis Preston; and Congressman Hall.
Lending operations. Li fiscal 1994, lending in support of environmentally sustainable development totaled $10,203 million, or 49 percent of total Bank lending. Some $6,835 million of the investments were supported by IBRD loans, while $3,368 million were supported by IDA credits.
Eight projects with primarily environmental objectives, invoicing commitments of $748 million, were approved. Seventeen projects contained significant environmental components that advanced the green agenda (ten projects, $742 million) and the brown agenda (seven projects, $913.6 million).16
Lending in support of agriculture and natural-resource development totaled $3,907 million for forty-six projects; transportation lending amounted to $3,293 million (twenty-five projects); fifteen investments in the urban
14	In fiscL'l 1994. “environment" was formally included as a
sector. To be so classified, a project must primarily ad-
dress one of four conccrns: environmental institutional development, natural resources management, pollution controlAvaiite management, end resettlement.
development sector amounted to SI,279 million; and commitments totaling $975 million (ten projects) were made in the water supply and sewerage sector.
Financial and Private Sector Development
During fiscal 1994, the World Bank Group— the World Bank, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Inve<~ ment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)—stepped up its support to developing countries to expand their private sectors and build up their financial sectors. The objective is to enhance their prospects for growth and to make their economies responsive enough to compete in today’s fast-moving global economy. The Bank Gruup’s support for private sector development and privatization also helped governments reduce their responsibilities and fiscal burdens— freeing them to focus on poverty and the environment.
As last year’s Annual Report noted, the Bank Group is looking for ways to understand the dynamics of the environment affecting private sector development- It is also forging links among local institutions critical to creating a vibrant environment for business. And it is learning from—and disseminating—successful country experiences in implementing reforms.
Contributing to much of this work is the Bank's new central vice presidency for finance and private sector development (FPD), which, during fiscal 1994, completed its staffing and organizational set-up. Bank Group operations and activities in support of private sector development focused on three main areas:
•	effectively supporting private sector development through an increasing range of actions;
•	better dissemination of knowledge; and
•	experimenting with innovative ideas.
Supporting Private Sector Development. The
Bank is fostering the private sector throughout the developing world in a variety of ways. World Bank adjustment loans and credits, for example, help produce a competitive and attractive business environment, as well as help reform in the financial sector. In addition, the Bank Group is supporting about $25 billion worth of private investment annually. The Bank’s financial intermediation loans of about $1.5 billion a year support $4 billion in private sector investment; the IFC—through its loans, equity, and credit lines—provides about $2.5 billion a year, and with a much bigger multiplier of about 7 to 1, supports approximately $18 billion worth of investment; and MIGA's guarantee operations are currently running at about $400 million a year, supporting about $3 billion in private sector investments. That $25 billion represents about 10 percent of pri-
vate investment by enterprises in developing countries.
Support for operations. In its efforts to help develop more vibrant and competitive private sectors, a central concern of FPD has been to improve the quality and effectiveness of Bank operations—the focus of more than two thirds of FPD’s resources. Activities during the past year have included support to country teams for better design and execution of projects, more and better staff training, better programs of technical assistance, increased networking with “best-practice" innovators throughout the world, and enhanced dissemination of knowledge and best practices to Bank staff and borrowers.
As was highlighted at a seminar on finance and private sector development for the Bank's executive board in March 1994, with governments everywhere reexamining their role in development and reorienting public sector activities to maximize efficiency, the private sector is increasingly being asked to help meet their development priorities. At the same time, today's worldwide trade and business patterns imply a higher competitiveness threshold and much higher standards of responsiveness for government institutions and firms alike.
Accepting this reality requires a fundamental change in what governments do and in the way they relate to the private sector. It means that governments have to move away from controlled, inward-looking economies to competitive, outward-looking ones. And it means that firms have to move from courting the state for special privileges to courting the markets for profits.
Governments thus have to establish a competitive environment, a legal and regulatory system that can support the market, and institutions that can help firms upgrade their capabilities. They have to move from being owners and operators to being competent regulators and partners.
During fiscal 1994 the Bank Group continued to help its borrowing countries intensify their efforts in privatizing publicly owned enterprises, redesigning regulatory frameworks, and. more generally, developing an attractive business environment. By the end of the fiscal year the Bank and the IFC jointly had virtually completed seventeen private sector assessments. Their findings have been disseminated through seminars and workshops with a view to assisting governments develop solutions in consultation with the private sector. The reports themselves, however, have typically presented the Bank Group's own diagnosis and recommendations to the governments concerned as a means of assisting them in their
policy formulation on private sector development-related issues. The recommendations of these assessments have helped the Bank's country-assistance strategy and lending program (see Box 3-3). Over the past few years, almost three of every four Bank-supported adjustment operations have included components that helped establish competitive markets and an environment to support the development of a successful private sector. There has also been an increasing effort to generate the institutions fundamental to the development of competitive and responsive markets—customs and tax. technology, technical education, and standards and patents institutions, for example.
Privatization remained a central focus of the Bank Group’s and FPD's assistance to a geographical cross-section of member countries during fiscal year 1994. Many initiatives were aimed at establishing the institutional framework for privatization in such a way as to facilitate efficient, timely, and transparent divestitures. Major programs were undertaken in a range of economies, from larger (Turkey) to smaller (Bolivia and Fiji). The targets for divestiture included the sale of small businesses and shops, medium-sized and large enterprises in the tradable sector, and public utilities. The IFC has taken an active role in technical assistance for privatization in Russia, helping to develop suitable methods built around an easily
Bax 3-3. Private Sector Assessments
To sharpen the focus of its work on private sector development, the Bank introduced in fiscal 1992a new element in its program of economic and sector work—the private sector assessment. As of June 30, 1994, seventeen assessments had been completed (of which ten were completed during the past year). Six additional assessments ate currently under preparation, and fourteen more are expected to be started and completed daring the next two yean.
These assessments differ from other Bank economic and sector work in that they involve the formal cooperation of the IFC. This cooperation has had several beneficial effects: It helps focus assessments tightly on those elements of the basi-ness environment that directly affect private business activity, and it permits the Bank to take advantage of the IFC’s considerable transactions experience in the private sector. Cooperation also helps ensure that the Bank and the IFC pursue consistent private sector development strategies and that the country dialogue, economic and sector work, and lending operations reflect joint Bank/IFC concerns.
In general, a well-formulated private sector assessment describes the structure of the private sector in a given country, identifies the key constraints to its development, and lays out economically efficient ways for the country to remove those constraints.
The exact content of a private sector assessment depends largely on other economic and sector work that has been prepared for a country. Typically, this work would:
•	set out the major macroeconomic issues feeing the private sector and discuss how trade barriers and price distortions might lead the private sector to make investments that are not conducive to growth;
•	discuss the merits of different public investments and expenditures, suggesting economically efficient changes in spending and raising possibil-
ities for the private provision of infrastructure and services that are currently being provided by the government; and
•	report on the entities in the financial sector and explore how well the sector offers access to credit to the business community.
When these areas are not covered in economic and sector work, they are covered by a private sector assessment. Typically, however, a private sector assessment focuses more on the business environment. How is business regulated? What are the costs of excessive regulation? Are monopolies and anti-competitive practices properly regulated? Does the state supply its public services efficiently? Does the legal system permit the writing of loan contracts that cover important economic transactions? Does it permit these contracts to be enforced?
Private sector assessments have turned up several broad areas of interest.
•	Many high-payoff returns have come from small and uncontroversial changes in practice that, nonetheless, have caused private sector activity to take off.
•	Private sector assessments have helped focus the Bank's other economic and sector work more sharply on private sector development concerns.
•	Recently completed surveys of private enterprises that assess the institutional and policy framework that governs private sector activity indicate that among the regulatory constraints that businesses face, tax and labor regulations are the most burdensome. Surveys have found regulatory compliance costs to be high—in one instance, taking up as much as 26 percent of senior management time.
•	Failure of public infrastructure is a large problem. Infrastructure problems tend to be sector specific, although larger firms in any sector are better able to bear the costs of infrastructure failure than smaller firms.
repl icated open vou chcr process. The IFC’s assistance began with model approaches for privatizing small-scale enterprises and then truck transport, followed by voucher privatization of medium and large-scale enterprises. The Bank Group has also continued to play a central role in the design and implementation of mass privatization schemes aimed at introducing sweeping ownership changes in such transition economies as Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, and Ukraine. Work is also underway—in many of these transition economies and in Latin America—to devise and implement programs to support the growth and sustainability of recently privatized enterprises.
The Bank's traditional agenda in dealing with state infrastructure monopolies was to expand the network, introduce new technology, and strengthen operating entities. The emphasis was on least-cost design, efficient procurement, and the financial and managerial autonomy of operating entities. For this, the main instruments were Bank investment loans and the use of the ECO—expanded cofinancing operations—program.
In today's world, the move toward increasing private participation in infrastructure is driven by dissatisfaction with the performance of state-owned and state-operated infrastructure enterprises. At the same time, government finances are precarious, while investment needs are on the order of $200 billion a year. And technical change is making it possible for smaller scales to be economical—and private.
Seeking greater efficiency and better value for money, regulatory reforms can facilitate competition by unbundling potentially competitive activities (electric power generation and distribution) from less competitive activities (power transmission).
Where full-fledged competition is absent, complementary regulation aimed at protecting the public interest can improve efficiency. New approaches to regulation are evolving, too— aimed at improving incentives for cost control and technical innovation. The choice of the right regulatory approach is complex, and while some are better than others, there is no best scheme for all circumstances. Much depends on each industry's structure and each country’s institutional and civil service capacity.
Private sector financing of infrastructure is growing fast, although it is still fairly small. Both the number of countries and subsectors involved have expanded significantly. Apart from power and telecommunications, private participation in infrastructure is entering areas such as airports, railways, ports, toll roads.
and water supply and treatment. The IFC's investments in this sector have risen sharply in recent years. The corporation’s infrastructure operations for fiscal 1994 were in excess of $550 million in terms of net financing ($1.29 billion gross), for about $5 billion worth of projects. These figures represent an increase of 80 percent to 90 percent over fiscal 1993 figures.
Telecommunications is a good example. As was highlighted at a joint Bank-1 FC seminar on telecommunications for the executive board in February 1994, developing countries must invest about 530 billion a year just to provide the basic infrastructure to sustain economic growth and meet current demand. Even with the support of the Bank Group and other official lenders, there is at least a $20 billion gap in financing—a gap that only the private sector can fill.
To mobilize such amounts of private capital, more and more developing countries are undertaking broad reforms in telecommunications. The time for this is propitious. Rapid technological change, declining costs, and good potential for fast growth—unparalleled in other sectors—open the way to a range of ownership and management structures.
The Bank Group is supporting these reforms by acting as agent of change and using a widening range of Bank, IFC, and MIGA instruments to attract private capital and management. Under joint approaches of the three institutions, flexible packages of technical assistance, lending, investment, and guarantees are being tailored to individual country situations.
The Bank's work on energy during fiscal
1994	focused on energy efficiency, energy sector restructuring and regulation, private sector involvement, gas trade, rural energy, household fuels, and renewable energy sources— with particular emphasis on the analysis and mitigation of environmental impacts. FPD continued its analysis of success factors in energy-efficiency programs—with a view to designing better country-specific and market-based approaches for improving energy efficiency on both the supply and demand sides. Various initiatives assisted sectoral reforms in key countries. The Bank encouraged cross-fertilization through technical assistance, seminars, and workshops for policymakers, notably in Brazil, China, India, and several countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
The Bank strengthened its work on natural gas, which is abundant and environmentally clean. The challenges have to do with the distance of many gas fields from the market and
Box 3-4. Managing Energy
The joint UNDP/Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme (ESMAP) was established in the early 1980s to assess the effects in developing countries of dramatic changes in energy prices. With the help of more than a dozen donors, it now focuses mainly on sector restructuring, regulation, energy efficiency, and household fuels, as well as on institution building and policy advice in selected countries. ESMAP's activities, integrated into the Bank’s Industry and Energy Department, are often vital complements or preconditions to Bank operations and bilateral aid programs.
In fiscal 1994, ESMAP focused on assisting developing countries as they embark on “second generation” energy strategies, often linked to broad economic reforms. During this phase, traditional technical assistance activities take place in conjunction with the implementation of major economic reforms—including restructuring and regulatory adjustments, price and tariff revisions—and new investment programs that increasingly embody environmental concerns.
During the past year. ESMAP assisted countries such as Bolivia, India, Morocco, and Poland in planning and carrying out a restructuring of key segments of their energy sector. ESMAP household and rural energy activities, one of the program’s long-term strengths, continued vigorously in Bolivia, Chad, India, Jamaica, Mali, Rwanda, and Viet Nam. Similarly, energy efficiency and conservation efforts, including institution and local capacity-building work and training in demand-side management, have been a major feature of ESMAP work in Brazil, China, Pakistan, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, and elsewhere. Oil and gas activities remained important in countries such as Mozambique and Morocco, as well as in several Central and Eastern European countries that have substantially underused capacities and an urgent need for reliable and clean energy sources. In this respect, trade issues associated with the development and use of natural gas resources are an area of particular emphasis for ESMAP's present and future activities.
the difficulty of transporting the gas. During the year, Bank work focused on improving the regulatory framework and on supporting new projects for transporting gas to the markets—in such countries as Argentina, Bolivia, and Pakistan.
FPD continued to administer the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme (ESMAP), now supported by fifteen bilateral donors. The program provides technical assistance to help developing countries implement key policy reforms for making the energy sector more efficient and ensuring that investments in the sector make the most use of scarce domestic and external resources (see Box 3*4).
In the realm of financial systems and capital markets, experience shows that when a banking system is in crisis, strong measures are required at several levels. At the broader level of the banks' business environment, three types of action are necessary. First, the macroeconomic environment has to be improved, and enterprises restructured so they become healthy, productive borrowers. Second, the interest-rate regime and the * chemes that provide targeted, subsidized c: ;dit need reform. Third, the financial infrastructure, including the legal, accounting, and regulatory framework, needs to be upgraded.
Because the financial health of banks determines the quality of resource allocation in an economy, a principal focus of the World Bank has been to help strengthen banking institu-
tions and their environments. Through financial sector adjustment loans and similar operations, the Bank is working with borrowing countries to build better systems of prudential bank regulation and transparent accounting. Supervision has been strengthened to ensure that reasonable standards of bank capital are maintained—along with the management capacity necessary to see that it is effectively deployed. Assistance has also been delivered directly to banks, through capacity-building operations and financial restructuring to strengthen their ability to respond to effective enterprise demand for investment capital.
Bank restructuring has become a frequent component of Bank operations. It aims at isolating and tackling the nonperforming assets of the banking sector. Bank management and procedures also need reform to prevent the reemergence of subsequent asset problems. Once the banks are overhauled, it is vital to strengthen durably the institutions and processes of bank supervision and regulation so that a recurrence of asset problems is forestalled. Because the process of bank restructuring is long and arduous, it is vital that Bank supervision of associated loans be intensive for several years. Without intensive supervision, it is unlikely the process of reform will maintain sufficient momentum and avoid a relapse.
If banking intermediaries are in good health, the Bank and the IFC can usefully lend through them. Financial intermediary lending, an important instrument for the Bank in achieving its
developmental objectives, can be very cftec-tivc in reaching several classes of borrowers (small industry, farmers, the housing market, municipalities, and infrastructure developers). This lending is a means for the Bank Group to deliver to borrowers the beneliv of its excellent credit standing in global financia: markets. And as the reform and restructuring ei forts of Financial sector adjustment loans be::r fruit—and financial intermediaries begin to function efficiently in a sound business environment— financial intermediation lending may well again emerge as an important part of the Bank's lending activities, complementing the IFC's successful credit line activities. Market pricing of such financial intermediation loans is essential in all cases.
The Bank and the IFC are also engaged in a variety of capital-market development activities. Complementing the IFC's long-standing work with capital markets in developing countries, the Bank is concentrating on the broader issues—such as regulation, institutional investment capacity, and contractual saving schemes. This work typically includes the promotion of credit transparency through such channels as independent rating agencies and the development of simple, standardized securities, such as bank debentures. The Bank and the IFC have collaborated closely in capital-market development in Mcxico, where a joint Bank-IFC-Inter-American Development Bank team worked on the design of promising structures for a private infrastructure-financing facility.
The Bank's role in developing capital markets has depended on the needs and capabilities of its borrowers. In the weaker economies and in the transition economies, the Bank has focused primarily on the provision of basic financial services and the creation of sound banking intermediaries. For many borrowers, the Bank has focused on developmental lending through financial intermediaries—if their health was assured. For sophisticated borrowers, including many larger borrowers such as Argentina and Mexico, the Bank has been active in providing assistance to promote capital markets. The Bank's resources have also helped strengthen the capacity of governments to promote acceptance and liquidity for securities backed by creditworthy issuers, which might otherwise be unmarketable as a result of concerns about broad economic policy and performance.
Better dissemination of knowledge. One of FPD's main responsibilities is to enhance the Bank's role in the realms of knowledge, policy advice, and dissemination of best practices in the area of financial and private sector devel-
opment. The Bank's work in these areas un-dcrgirds its financial role. With its repository of research, knowledge, and information about development—and with its unique global reach—the Bank is increasingly becoming a knowledge-based institution. The global economy is increasingly driven by knowledge—by ideas, relationships, and innovations. And value added and comparative advantage now come as much from these factors as from raw materials, labor, or capital.
As countries move up the development ladder. their ability to compete and integrate into world markets moves beyond knowing what to do to knowing how to do it. The Bank is thus doing more as a collector and disseminator of best practices and innovations for meeting the broad array of requirements to compete in world markets.
FPD has actively disseminated knowledge about best practices through conferences, seminars, and training programs, often held in collaboration with the IFC. In fiscal 1994, FPD held sixty seminars and training sessions, providing more than 1.800 person-days of training to Bank staff (largely on private sector development) and 2,000 person-days to external participants (largely on financial sector development, industry, and energy). The Bank's six regional vice presidencies, the IFC. and MIGA also organized similar events, covering a broad array of topics.
In May 1994 an innovative Bank seminar on international experience in restructuring the coal industry drew government officials from a broad range of ministries in Russia, as well as industry experts. In addition, a June 1994 conference, “'Development, Environment, and Mining: Enhancing the Contribution of the Mineral Industry to Sustainable Development”—cosponsored by various international organizations and attended by 300 government, industry, and NGO representatives two thirds of them from developing countries—covered issues related to mining activities and the preservation of the environment.
The Bank and the IFC have forged informal and formal ties with a range of trade groups, commercial enterprises, business-promotion agencies, multilateral organizations, and NGOs to bring new ideas to the Bank, build public support, and initiate joint programs.
The Bank has also begun holding industry-by-industry roundtables to create an environment for dialogue and problem solving. A series of workshops and roundtables on the private provision of power supply was conducted with producers, regulators, donors, government representatives, and developing country operators. These fora helped foster a broad di-
alogue, allowed the Bank to listen to experts from outside, and Facilitated a consensus on the agenda for moving ahead. In the oil and gas sector, the Bank has sponsored workshops and conferences for investors and host countries to develop better understanding of gas trade and markets, and of opportunities for investment. It has also used these fora as a means of disseminating experience and best practices. In the same spirit, the Bank and the IFC worked with the government of Morocco and the private secto; on developing options for attaining quickly a higher threshold of competitiveness. As a follow up to this work, the Moroccan government hosted a major seminar in early June 1994 with the private sector on ways to improve the business environment and compete in global markets.
Experimenting with Innovative Ideas. During the past year, the Bank intensified its work on renewable energy alternatives, working with countries, representatives from the energy industry, and NGOs. The objectives are to identify and prepare solar energy projects suitable for financing by the Global Environment Facility and other funding sources—and to encourage collaboration among countries in research and development and in demonstration projects.
The Bank has also been active in developing new types of lending assistance to support the increased role of the private sector in the provision of public services.
To support domestic bond markets, the Bank has designed catalytic operations that create a bridge between institutional investors (pension funds, insurance carriers, mutual funds) and the need for long-term funds for enterprises and infrastructure. This will enhance the sustainability of the financial system in borrowing countries and reduce the heavy reliance on foreign exchange.
A capital-market development project in Argentina broke new ground by finding effective ways of fostering the growth of local market institutions. The $500 million Capital Market Development Project, approved in March 1994, will help prime-rated commercial banks overcome longer-term funding constraints through a backstop facility that would ensure them a source of continued funding at predetermined financial costs.
In principle, the project could have been structured as a Bank guarantee or as a loan fully disbursed into an escrow account, rather than as a loan with disbursement contingent on market conditions. The form of the Bank's credit extension was not crucial. The product innovation lay in the creation of the facility and its associated fund—and its potential for helping local market institutions to grow. The project also says much about the Bank's willingness to change. It would disburse against financial assets rather than goods and services; it is supporting market development as its principal objective: and it is focusing not on Bank disbursements but on facilitating market flows and creating confidence.
There was also a Bank effort to expand financial intermediation lending by developing a new format, using the better intermediaries in countries, with as light a structure as possible. The $120 million Private Investment Credit Project for Tunisia, approved in December
1993.	epitomizes the new approach. Under the old approach, the Bank would have insisted on an elaborate structure for apex operations and on close monitoring of all lending decisions. Now, most lending decisions are up to the intermediaries, whose own capital is at risk.
Small and medium-sized enterprises have an important role in creating jobs. But their special technical, marketing, and financial needs have proved difficult to meet in a cost-effective way. To move forward on this, the Bank has been working with four NGOs with strong track records in delivering credit schemes. The repayment rates of many of these schemes have been high (90 percent to 99 percent), but their transaction costs have also been high—primarily to cover their start-up costs and the technical assistance needs of their borrowers. The Bank has been helping these NGOs devise sustainable and replicable programs, obtain donor finance, and disseminate the results of their efforts. The Bank has also engaged governments in policy and institutional issues that affect small and mediumsized enterprises. In this capacity, it acts as a broker and partner to help NGOs extend the reach and elk ;tiveness of their programs.
Section Four World Bank Operations: Fiscal Year 1994
World Bank (IBRD and IDA combined) commitments to countries during fiscal year 1994 totaled $20,836 million, down $2,860 million from the previous year.
The decrease was accounted for principally by a sharp decrease in commitments from the IBRD—from $16,945 million in fiscal 1993 to $14,244 million. EDA commitments, at $6,592 million, were only marginally below fiscal year 1993's $6,751 million amount. One project, for $30 million, in the Occupied Territories was approved. It was funded by the $50 million Trust Fund for Gaza, which had been approved by the executive directors in the first half of fiscal 1994.
Shortfalls in the IBRD's lending program, as compared with the budget, which set indicative IBRD lending at between $17 billion and $19.5 billion, were particularly sharp in Latin America and the Caribbean, in the Middle East and North Africa (where the lending program in Algeria has suffered), and in South Asia, particularly in India. Increases occurred in East Asia and Pacific (up $219 million) and Africa (up $81 million).
The number of IBRD and IDA operations approved in fiscal 1994—228—was slightly lower than the previous year's 245. One hundred twenty-four IBRD operations were approved, as opposed to 122 in fiscal 1993. The lending-instrument “mix” in fiscal 1994 showed an increase in investment operations, which could not compensate, in volume terms, for the larger size of a typical adjustment loan.
The largest borrower of IBRD funds was China ($2,145 million for eight projects), followed by Mexico ($1,530 million for five projects), and Russia ($1,520 million for six projects). The three largest borrowers of IDA credits were China ($925 million for six projects), India ($835 million for six projects), and Bangladesh ($597 million for three projects).
The sector with the largest number of approved projects was agriculture (forty-six projects), followed by transportation (twenty-five projects) and “multisector,” which includes support for reform programs and emergency imports (twenty-two projects).
Adjustment lending, at $2,425 million, accounted for 12 percent of the World Bank's fiscal 1994 portfolio ($510 million, or 4 percent, for the IBRD; $1,915 million, or 29 percent, fcr IDA). In fiscal 1993, adjustment lending amounted to slightly more than $4,000 million ($2,645 million for the IBRD and $1,363 million for IDA), or 17 percent of that year’s portfolio. To a certain extent, the decline in adjustment lending has been purposeful, especially in Latin America, where the transition from adjustment to lending operations is well under way, and in the Middle East and North Africa region, where no further adjustment operations are currently being planned for Egypt, Morocco, and Tunisia.
In addition, the explosive increase, to $177 billion net, during 1993 of capital flows to developing countries eliminated, in some cases (India, for example), the balance-of-payments justification for adjustment lending.
The principal reason for the turnaround in private flows has been the economic policy reforms of developing countries, especially privatization, fiscal consolidation, greater openness to trade, reduction of commercial bank debt overhangs, domestic price liberalization, and market-oriented reform. To an un-quantifiable extent, the World Bank has helped to foster the environment that has allowed these flows to increase through its support of policy reform.
It cannot be assumed, of course, that $177 billion in flows will continue to find its way to developing countries annually. Some of the money is volatile, and market perceptions, as well as relative returns, will change. One of the risk in the years ahead for the developing countries is the possibility of a substantial decline in these flows and the associated consequences.
Disbursements
The lower level of World Bank lending had its consequence for disbursements, as well, since a substantial part of the reduction in lending was caused by a decline in fast-disbursing adjustment assistance. Gross disbursements to countries by the Bank totaled $15,979 million in
fiscal 1994: $10,447 million by the IBRD and $5,532 million by IDA. In fiscal 1993, gross disbursements by the IBRD and IDA were $12,942 million and $4,947 million, respectively. (The IBRD amount in fiscal 1993 included extraordinary disbursements of $1 billion to Peru when it cleared its arrears.)
Disbursements, by source of supply. Projects financed by the World Bank require procurement from foreign and local sources to achieve project goals. Disbursements are made primarily to cover specific costs for foreign procurement and some local expenditures.
The procurement rules and procedures to be followed in the execution of each project depends on individual circumstances. Three considerations generally guide the Bank's requirements: the need for economy and effi-
ciency in the execution of the project; the Bank's interest, as a cooperative institution, in giving all eligible bidders from developing countries and developed countries an opportunity to compete in providing goods and works financed by the Bank; and the Bank’s interest, as a development institution, in encouraging the development of local contractors and manufacturers in borrowing countries. In most cases, international competitive bidding is the most effective method of procurement. The Bank prescribes conditions under which preferences may be given to domestic or regional manufacturers and, where appropriate, to domestic contractors. Through the end of fiscal 1994, 58 percent of IBRD and IDA disbursements covered goods and services provided directly by foreign suppliers located outside the
Note: Disbursements for debt reduction and net advance disbursements are excluded. Disbursements for structural adjustment loans, sector adjustment loans, and hybrids (loans that support policy and institutional reforms in a specific sector by financing both a policy component disbursed against imports and an investment component) are also excluded. OECD amounts are based on current OECD membership, excluding Mexico, which became a member in May 1994.
All of the percentages are based on the dollar amounts shown under the total disbursements section. These percentages show both the breakdown between OECD and non-OECD countries for individual goods categories and the share of each goods category compared with total disbursements.
curement of goods and services from member countries in fiscal 1994 and cumulatively through fiscal 1994.
Table 4-5 shows the proportion of foreign disbursements from the IBRD and IDA for specific categories of goods and services provided by member countries in fiscal 1994.
Table 4-6 provides a summary listing of the amounts paid to OECD and non-OECD country suppliers in each fiscal year from 1992 to
1994	under investment projects. Amounts dis-
bursed are compared with respect to significant categories of goods procured from foreign suppliers. The extent to which OECD and non-OECD countries participated in supplying these major categories of goods in each of the past three fiscal years is also compared.
In all of these tables IBRD figures exclude disbursements for loans to the International Finance Corporation and “B” loans. IDA figures include Special Fund and Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa credits. Disbursements for
Project Preparation Facility advances are excluded Tor both the IBRD and IDA. Minor adjustments have been made between the foreign and local disbursements for fiscal 1993 as reflected in Tables 4-1,4-2, 4-4, and 4-6.
Technical Assistance
Technical assistance activities financed through IBRD loans and IDA credits continue to represent a significant segment of total Bank lending. A number of reasons underlie the increase in technical assistance activity in recent years.
•	First, an increase in technical assistance for institutional development is an appropriate complementary response to efforts to deepen policy reform and retool the public sector for its new roles. It may also reflect the current phase of Bank assistance after key macr-' policy changes have been put in place.
•	Second, there has been a shift in lending to human resources development and environmentally sustainable development and away from adjustment loans. Historically, these sectors have had the highest percentage of technical assistance components as a share of total lending—well above 10 percent.
•	Third, there has been a general decline in grant funding for technical assistance from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and bilateral donors, particularly to some of the Bank's major borrowers who are major recipients of technical assistance components.
Loan-financed technical assistance (freestanding and components) by the Bank in calendar year 1993 amounted to $2.2 billion. Of this amount, $1.9 billion, or 85 percent of the total, funded components of projects, while $30C million was accounted for by twenty-two freestanding technical assistance projects. Ten countries (led by Brazil, China. Indonesia, and Mexico) accounted for more than half of all technical assistance financed through Bank lending. These large technical assistance borrowers share common characteristics: They are long-standing, mature borrowers and have the capacity to work with the Bank in determining their technical assistance needs. In addition, because most receive inconsequential amounts of technical assistance grants from bilateral and multilateral donors, the technical assistance provided by the Bank is highly valued.
Key issues of technical assistance. With the drive toward open and competitive markets of hitherto centralized economies, a new set of issues is emerging. In many countries, downsizing the large bureaucracies that have been set up to manage state-led economic policies is
a major challenge. There is the need to restore cfTiciency and commitment within the civil service, which has been eroded over time by the politicization of career management and declining remuneration in real terms. This deterioration in public administration constitutes a major obstacle to launching needed policy reforms, restoring good governance, and improving the delivery of public services.
The Bank is paying increased attention to the strategic management of technical assistance for institutional development through the targeting of public sector management and institutional development issues in economic and sector work and country-strategy work. A byproduct of this increased upstream effort is an enhanced policy dialogue with governments on systemic institutional issues and countrywide management of technical assistance. The result could be reform-based adjustment operations, freestanding technical assistance, and improved institutional development interventions in projects. Overall, although there has been some progress in this area and some best practices are emerging, more time is required to build up skills in macro-institutional analysis and to integrate public sector management issues into economic and sector work and the country dialogue. In a number of countries, these issues are highly sensitive and require time and persistence to build up borrower ownership and commitment at the highest levels.
Use of local consultants. The Bank encourages borrowers to employ local consultants either alone or in combination with foreign firms. To some extent, however, local consultants have been handicapped by a lack of marketing expertise. The Bank is currently financing the preparation of a “how-to" manual that deals with consultant operations and marketing. When finished, it will be the focus of discussion in one-week seminars in preselected borrowing member countries. The Bank will follow up the seminars by monitoring progress made by local firms and by facilitating their association with firms from industrialized countries.
In addition, during the past year, workshops were held at the Bank's headquarters for consultant associations from Africa. Asia, and Latin America to review ways and means to enhance participation of their member firms. The increased emphasis the Bank is giving to the issue of local consultant use is. in part, a response to feedback from borrowers that the development of greater institutional capability is essential to project success—and that this includes making more use. and improving the capabilities, of local consultants.
Institutional Development Fund (IDF). The IDF, which became effective on July 1. 1992.
was designed to fill gaps in the Bank's set of instruments for financing technical assistance for institutional development work associated with policy reform, country economic management programs, poverty-reduction programs, public sector management, private sector development, and environment management.
The IDF provides a quick-response instrument for funding small, action-oriented proposals identified during (and closely linked to) the Bank's economic and sector work and policy dialogue in countries where institutional development is a significant country-assistance objective. There is a $500,000 ceiling on individual grants. AH borrowing member countries of the Bank are eligible to apply.
The introduction of the IDF was partially driven by the expectation of a pent-up demand for a grant facility to address capacity-building requirements in many countries. This expectation has not yet fully materialized. Demand for IDF resources has been limited partly as a result of its newness and also because of the availability of resources from competing trust funds. In calendar year 1993, fifty-three grants were approved to forty-three countries for a total amount of $14.3 million. Some delays in implementation have occurred, inevitably caused by the introduction of a new program that required putting in place special procedures and familiarizing member governments and staff with the new grant facility.
Notwithstanding the IDFs modest start-up. the use of IDF funds has permitted the Bank to help initiate difficult institutional changes, such as reform of economic ministries in Albania, disseminate the experience of privatization in Poland, and enable timely work to begin on a privatization strategy for Belarus.
Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The PPF was established in 1975 when the executive directors authorized the Bank's president to approve project preparation advances »o an aggregate amount of $5 million. At the time, it was expected that the typical tasks would cost in the range of $50,000-$150,000. This limit was subsequently raised in 1978 to $1 million and to $1.5 million in 1986.
During fiscal 1994, a new ceiling of $2 million per advance was established for ail advances except those in connection with loans exceeding $200 million; for them, the ceiling was set at $3 million.
At the end of calendar year !993. 138 PPF advances had been approved, involving a total commitment of $84 million. One hundred one advances, for an amount of $49.6 million, had been made on IDA terms, and thirty-seven advances. for an amount of $34.3 million, had been made on IBRD terms. Most of the ad-
vances have been made to sub-Saharan African countries.
The Bank and the UNDP. The Bank interacts with the UNDP through many programs and at many levels. During calendar year 1993. the Bank was the executing agency for 132 UNDP projects having a total value or $303 million. This reflects a decline from 1992, when the Bank was the executing agency for 175 projects with a total value of $348 million. This trend is expected to continue as the UNDP's total resources continue to decline and as the UNDP accelerates the shift from agency execution to national execution and from project to program financing. At present, the loss of funding by the UNDP has been more than adequately compensated for by funding from other sources, notably Japan's Policy and Human Resources Development Fund. In the long term, however, the decline of untied grant fund for technical assistance from the UNDP will be felt in many operations. The Bank and the UNDP are reviewing the implications of this trend.
At the same time, many borrowers, particularly in Latin America, are using the services of the UNDP to implement technical assistance financed by the Bank. This is done through two mechanisms: first, a cost-sharing arrangement under which proceeds from Bank loans are comingled with UNDP funds to create unified UNDP projects, executed either by the UNDP or by others; second, a management-service agreement—a form of contractual relationship between the Bank's borrower and the Office of Project Services of the UNDP for the implementation of Bank-financed technical assistance. This arrangement is particularly helpful in expediting implementation by taking advantage of the UNDP's “privileges and immunities” to process important transactions with minimum delay.
The Bank and the UNDP also collaborate in the field of aid coordination Vo ensure that technical assistance issues receive adequate attention at consultative group meetings chaired by the Bank and at roundtables chaired by the UNDP.
Cofinoddng
The Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services (CFS) vice presidency continued to play a catalytic role in facilitating the flow of financial resources to developing countries by undertaking various activities relating to cofinancing. project financing, and private sector development. These activities included providing operational support and technical assistance to the Bank's country departments, borrowing member countries, and cofinancing
partners such as donor governments, official development aid agencies, cxport-crcdit agencies, and international financial markets.
In fiscal 1994, the volume of cofinancing anticipated in support of Bank-assisted operations was $8.8 billion, down from the $11.6 billion mobilized in fiscal 1993 (see Table 4-7). This reduction was directly related to the declines in IBRD and IDA lending commitments during the year, which fell short of fiscal 1993 amounts by $2,860 million.
The decline is also the result of economic slowdown in both donor and borrowing countries. which has contributed to a significant cut in aid and investment budgets on both the supply and the demand sides. The diminishing weight of quick-disbursing operations in the portfolio of Bank operations, as well as the slow pace of the project cycle arising from the increased attention to qualitative aspects of interventions, also played a role. Nonetheless, the decline in cofinancing is viewed with concern in view of the need for increased financial flows to developing countries.
The cofinancing figures, which represent planned cofinancing, not actual commitments by cofinanciers, are captured at the time of the presentation to the executive board of each IBRD and IDA operation.
About SI percent of all Bank-assisted projects and programs were cofinanced in fiscal 1994, up from 49 percent in the previous year. Although official cofinancing declined to $6.3 billion from $8.1 billion in fiscal 1993, it still accounted for the largest source of anticipated cofinancing support, some 72 percent of the total. Export credit and private cofinancing fell from $1.2 billion to $591 million and $2.3 billion to $1.9 billion, respectively. The only notable exception to this trend was the support mobilized from the private sector in the East Asia and Pacific region, which reached $1.3 billion for the year, compared with $373 million during fiscal 1993. Investment loans received the largest share of cofinancing support, followed by structural adjustment loans and sector adjustment loans.
In fiscal 1994, official cofinancing provided by Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund and the Export-Import Bank of Japan continued to account for the largest percentage of bilateral support to Bank-assisted opera* tions, reaching a total of $1,404 million equivalent for thirteen projects approved in fiscal
1994,	or 48 percent of the aggregate amount of bilateral cofinancing. Other large bilateral cofinancing support came from Germany ($196 million equivalent), France ($84 million equivalent), Sweden ($78 million equivalent), the United Kingdom ($71 million equivalent), and
the United States ($66 million). Total cofinancing currently expected from multilateral financial institutions amounted to $3.4 billion. The inter-American Development Bank, with $1,021 million of planned cofinancing, continued to be the largest multilateral cofinancier, accounting for 30 percent of the total.
The power sector attracted the largest amount of cofinancing with an aggregate of $2,100 million (as opposed to $3,116 million in fiscal 1993). It was followed by transportation {$1,929 million, down from $2,107 million in the previous year): agriculture ($l.t06 million); telecommunications ($519 million); and the multisector category of lending, which includes lending in support of reform programs and of reconstruction and rehabilitation programs ($437 million).
In fiscal 1994, three main activities were carried out in CFS to formulate a policy framework to facilitate cofinancing as a main business tool. They were (a) the undertaking of a Cofinancing Task Force study that focused on developing a coherent Bank policy on cofinancing and identifying other ways the Bank can play a catalytic role in facilitating capital flows to developing countries; (b) the launching of a special policy study on how to mainstream the use of guarantees to mobilize private capital in support of Bank operations, particularly for privatized energy and infrastructure investments; and (c) the establishment of Accelerated Cofinancing Facilities with the Export-Import Bank of Japan, under which cofinancing wall be arranged using an accelerated and streamlined procedure.
In March 1994, the Cofinancing Task Force issued a report that addressed various cofinancing-related issues and concerns. The task force concluded that cofinancing has been, and will continue to be. an important activity for the Bank as an instrument for maintaining partnerships between the Bank and other donors to accomplish joint objectives and to mobilize significant development resources from official institutions, private sources, and export-credit agencies.
The Accelerated Cofinancing Facilities with the Export-Import Bank of Japan are designed to tap Japan's ever-increasing official development assistance in a more active and systematic manner. In the summer of 1993. the Japanese authorities announced their Funds for Development Initiative, consisting of a pledge totaling approximately $120 billion equivalent over the 1993-97 period. The Japanese authorities emphasized cofinancing with the Bank and other international development institutions as one of the initiative's operational priorities. The facilities would allow
— Zero.
Note: The number of operations shown under different sources add up to a figure exceeding the total number of cofinanced projects because a number of projects were cofinanced from more than one source. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a.	These statistics arc com piled from the financing plans presented at the time of approval of the Worfd Bank loans and credits by its board of executive directors. The amounts of official cofinancing are. in most cases, (inn commitments by that stage; export credits and private cofinancing amounts, however, are generally only estimates since such cofinancing is actually arranged as required for project implementation and gets firmed up a. year o r two after board approval. The statistics of private cofinancing in these tables for any fiscal year do not necessarily reflect market placements in that year.
b.	These figures include cofinancing with untied loans from the Export-Import Bank of Japan.
the Bank to mobilize cofinancing resources	during fiscal 1994. Of particular importance in
more easily and systematically in support of its	this context was the adoption of guidelines for
priority operations. Similar cofinancing ar-	donor financing of civil service compensation,
rangements will be pursued with other donor	which will be followed in future interventions
c ountries.	by donor member countries participating in the
The Special Program of Assistance (SPA) for	program. Considerable progress was also made
sub-Saharan Africa constituted the most im-	in implementing previously approved SPA
portant aid coordination and cofinancing exer-	guidelines for simplifying and harmonizing do-
cise promoted by the Africa region. The third	nors' procedures for disbursing balance-of-
phase of the program was launched in October	payments support.
1993,	covering the period 1994-%. By the time As in previous years, the donor community of the April 1994 meeting of SPA donors, $6.6	provided substantial support throughout the
billion of quick-disbursing balance-of-	year to the Bank through trust funds and other
payments assistance had already been pledged.	external funding arrangements. Contrary to
In addition to mobilizing resources, the key	generally decreasing cofinancing trends, this
SPA objective of improving the quality of do-	type of support is growing. The Policy and Hu-
nors’ adjustment assistance was also advanced	man Resources Development (PHRD) Fund.
financed by Japan, continued to provide a broad range of support for various Bank-supported programs and projects in fiscal 1994. Fund grants totaling $141 million were approved for technical assistance for preparing 200 Bank-assisted projects in eighty-seven countries. Continuing support was also provided to the EDI and to finance scholarship grants. Among the special programs approved was a grant to support Russia's privatization and restructuring program. The first operational review of the PHRD Fund, completed during fiscal 1994, concluded that the fund was fully meeting the objectives for which it was established and that it had been particularly effective as a source of untied technical assistance for project preparation. The review also noted that the fund also helped the Bank expedite its work on private sector development.
The Consultant Trust Fund Program—which makes available consultancy services in support of the Bank's operational work in borrowing member countries—also continued to grow. Ten new trust funds were established in fiscal 1994, with grants totaling $29 million. The program, which is now supported by twenty-six donors, including four developing member countries, allocated $52 million in fiscal 1994, enabling the Bank to tap new sources of expertise and to undertake a wider range of analytical work in priority areas and issues, including the environment, poverty reduction, health and nutrition, and women in development.
Projects in the power, telecommunications, and transport sectors dominated CFS's project-finance activities in fiscal 1994, with substantial increases taking place in the use of expanded cofinancing operations (ECOs). The ECO program uses limited Bank guarantees against certain specified risks, such as sovereign risks, to encourage private financing, obtain or increase access to capital markets, and provide improved terms—especially longer maturities—for projects in developing countries. In March 1994, the executive board approved a $120 million ECO in the syndicated loan market for China's Yangzhou Power Project, while in May, proposals for a $100 million ECO to support commercial bond financing for part of the $1.3 billion Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Power Project in the Philippines and for an ECO guarantee of up to $50 million to help finance a telecommunications project in Jordan were approved. Other ECOs under active development include those for projects in Chad, China. Colombia, Lebanon, and Morocco. The CFS vice presidency is also engaged in structuring non-ECO project finance for power in Jamaica and the Dominican Re-
public, tourism in Egypt, and for a variety of projects in Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, and elsewhere.
CFS continues to provide specialized advisory services to member countries on debt reduction under both the Debt-reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries and the “Brady” type of debt and debt-service reduction (DDSR) program. CFS, which administers the Debt-reduction Facility, provides extensive legal and reconciliation work prior to the structuring of complex debt-reduction operations. During the year, facility operations were completed in Uganda and Bolivia, while similar operations were under preparation in Albania, Ethiopia, Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Sao Tom6 and Principe, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, and Zambia. Under CFS's monitoring of the DDSR program, extensive financial and sensitivity analyses are performed, and soundings are conducted to assess the receptivity of markets and creditors to proposed DDSR packages. DDSR operations under preparation include those for Bulgaria, the Dominican Republic, and Poland. A deal for Brazil was completed in April 1994.
CFS consolidated its position as a technical center for privatization and private sector development services. The primary focus continued to be on providing technical services to the Bank's six operational regions for the design and implementation of Bank privatization and private sector development operations. Specialized support was given to almost fifty projects covering all aspects of public enterprise reform, privatization programs, divestitures. and project financing. Increasing focus was given to private sector participation in infrastructure sectors such as telecommunications. transport, and water supply.1
Several technical assistance programs—in Argentina. Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Romania, and Ukraine, for example—were managed directly by CFS in support of privatization programs. Pilot projects were also implemented in areas such as small-scale privatization, retail sector privatization, trucking privatization, and the development of business programs in a number of the republics of the former Soviet Union. In Pakistan, a team was rapidly deployed to help reinvigorate Pakistan's privatization program, while in Romania an innovative assistance effort was mounted to help develop management contracts as one of the country's privatization strategies. This direct assistance to client governments was Ie-
1 Details of the Bank's activities in private sector development during the year may be found beginning on page 50.
veraged by funds mobilized from bilateral donors.
Best practice and comparative studies were also undertaken to disseminate cross-country experience, and new instruments and approaches were designed to mobilize private finance for privatization and enterprise development. Six papers in the “CFS Discussion Papers” series were published, and three studies were launched, one assessing Eastern Europe's experience with medium-scale and large-scale trade sales, another comparing international postal reforms, and a third reviewing private sector support for the power sector in several developing countries.
Improving Portfolio Management, Accountability, and Openness
In fiscal year 1992, the Task Force on Portfolio Management, charged with examining the quality of the World Bank's project portfolio and making recommendations on what might be needed to reverse the decline in the proportion of successful projects over the past decade, was formed.
Its report, transmitted to the Bank's executive board in November 1992, found that although more than three quarters of Bank-assisted projects demonstrated good performance during implementation, there had been a decline in the performance of the portfolio. According to the report, worsening external and country environments contributed prominently to the performance decline. Certain aspects of Bank practice also contributed to portfolio-management problems or were not sufficiently effective in resolving them. The task force's fundamental conclusion was that the institution needed to modify some of its key institutional values that shape its approach to all facets of its lending operations.
Early in fiscal 1994, the executive directors endorsed a detailed plan of action designed to make the Bank more effective in pursuing its basic goal of reducing poverty in borrowing countries.
As the core of its action plan, the Bank introduced a country-by-cou»itry approach into the management of its lending operations. This was designed to allow it to take a strategic view of its $148 billion portfolio. To complement the changes it made in its own policies and practices. the Bank began collaborating with the authorities in borrowing countries to review the performance of the portfolio in each country and resolve systemic problems.2
The various initiatives set in motion to improve portfolio performance represented an important shift in the Bank's business practices—from what was perceived to be an
excessive preoccupation with lending targets and volumes to a greater concern with the development results in the field of Bank-supported operations.
Since the executive directors' approval of the action plan in July 1993, significant progress has been made in various areas. They include, but are not limited to:
•	Placing portfolio performance, or the management of operations under implementation, at the center of country-assistance strategies. Improved guidelines for the formulation of country-assistance strategies now mandate that the Bank's six operational regions account for portfolio performance in the design of their country-assistance strategies and business plans.
•	Restructuring projects and country portfolios. and, as a measure of last resort, canceling problem projects.
•	Improving the quality of projects at entry by ensuring country commitment to the project at the outset, fostering broad-based participation in project design, and monitoring stakeholder commitment throughout the life of the project.
•	Simplifying and modifying the Bank's cofinancing practices so as to minimize project complexity that is often associated with cofinancing.
•	Introducing more rigorous analysis of project risk and sensitivity during project preparation and throughout implementation through the issuance of new operational policy and Bank procedures statements, as well as the distribution of a handbook on risk and sensitivity analysis that provides more extensive guidance at the sectoral level.
•	Increasing budgetary resources devoted to project supervision, including increasing the role of field offices in enhancing portfolio management.
•	Enhancing the role of the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and strengthening the application of evaluation results to the Bank's current operations/
•	Providing intensive training to borrowers on the Bank's procurement processes so as to speed up project implementation. For its part, the Bank is preparing standard bidding documents for some specialized areas of procurement, and a committee was formed to ensure Bankwide consistency on decisions for the award of large contracts.
- Details of the lask force's report, as well as of the action plan endorsed by the Bank's executive directors, may be found on pages 60-64 of the World Bank Animal Report for fiscal 1993.
*	For details, sec page 154.
Box 4-1. Independent Inspection Panel Is Established
An independent Inspection Panel, which will receive and investigate complaints that the Bank has not followed its own policies and procedures with respect to the design, appraisal, and/or implementation of a development project that it supports. was established in fiscal 1994, and the appointment of its chairman and members announced in April 1994.
The panel complements the Bank's existing systems for quality control in project preparation and implementation. As such, it will help the executive board in its governance of the Bank and will not affect the president's accountability to the executive directors for the management of Bank operations. The panel is part of the Bank's policy of improving project implementation, accountability, and openness. The panel will be functionally independent and will report directly to the Bank's executive board.
The environment favoring the establishment of an independent inspection function in the Bank was fostered by the confluence of two events: the taking of office in September 1991 ofa new World Bank president, who undertook to review the overall efficiency of Bank operations, and growing criticism of the Bank on the part of nongovernmental organizations, which reflected a broad concern by some of the Bank's larger shareholders that international organizations in general, and the Bank in particular, should be more open in their activities.
Since 1991. as well, some members of the Bank's executive board, in discussions on operations evaluation and on certain problematic projects, advocated the establishment of an inspection unit. This resulted in a proposal in February 1993 by four members of the Bank's executive board fcr the establishment of an inspection unit to evaluate ongoing projects. A management proposal was discussed by the executive board in July, together with the February proposal: at that time, broad agreement was reached on the need for an inspection function. Subsequent discussion, including discussion on a compromise proposal, led to the decision in Sep-
tember 1993 to establish the panel in its current form.
An investigation by the panel must be requested by a group of people adversely affected by a particular Bank project. After the Bank's executive directors have considered a request for inspection, the Bank will make publicly available the request for inspection, the panel's recommendations on the request, and the executive directors' decision on whether to proceed. The Bank will also make publicly available the panel's report on its investigation and the management's response to it. In addition, the panel's annual report to the executive board will be published by the Bank.
Inspection in the territory of a country mil be undertaken with the consent of its government.
Panel members are appointed on the basis of their professional qualifications, as well as their developmental knowledge and experience. Members are nominated by the Bank's president and are appointed by the executive directors. The members, other than the chairman, will serve initially on a part-time basis.
Appointed for a Pve-year term was Ernst-Gunther Broder. wko served as president of the European Investment Bank and as German governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Mr. Broder will serve as the panel's first chairman.
Alvaro U mafia Quesada, who served as minister of natural resources for Costa Rica and has been a board member of several environmental and research institutes, was appointed for a four-year term.
Richard Etter Bissell, who served for several years with the United States Agency for International Development and who has taught and overseen research at several American universities and research institutes, was appointed for three years.
By the end of fiscal 1994. the inspectors had accepted their appointments, effective August 1. The panel is expected to open for business during the first week of September.
•	Enhancing those staff skills required for good portfolio management. Some 122 new staff in the seven skills areas identified as being both critical to the process and in short supply—environment, financial sector development, population and human resources, private sector development, the social sciences of anthropology and sociology, procurement, and public sector management—were recruited during fiscal year 1994.
*	Developing a new training curriculum that emphasizes portfolio management and related Bank and professional skills and introducing a
new perform ance-evaluation system designed to recognize and reward portfolio-performance management skills.
•	Establishing an independent inspection panel for the review of Bank-supported projects (see Box 4-1).
•	Opening a Public Information Center, which makes available to the public previously restricted operational documents (see Box 4-2).
In July 1993. a commitment was made to undertake eighty-four actions during fiscal 1994 to enhance portfolio management. According to a report made available to the executive board at
Box 4-2. Public Access to Bank Information Expands
The public's access to the World Bank's operational information was significantly expanded in fiscal 1994 with the opening at the Bank's headquarters in Washington, D.C. of a Public Information Center that responds to requests from interested parties for a variety of documents, ranging from staff appraisal reports and environmental assessments to descriptions of individual projects under preparation.
Although the Bank's relationship of trust with its borrowers rests bn the institution’s ability to maintain the confidentiality of certain types of information. in recent years there has been a presumption in favor of disclosure, both outside and within the Bank, in the absence of a compelling reason not to disclose. It was that presumption that was expanded during the year.
Information available at the center and through the offices of the Bank in London. Fans, Tokyo, and through other field offices indudes:
•	A new project information document for all projects under preparation. The document provides substantially more information on projects—and at an earlier stage—than has hitherto been available. The availability of this information will allow interested parties to raise substantive questions and concerns at an early stage.
•	Staff appraisal reports—once the project concerned has been approved by the executive board. The availability of these documents is expected to help increase participation during project implementation by those affected by the project.
•	Country economic and sector work (CESW). Although many CESW reports were being published after government concurrence, there is
now a presumption that all these reports will be made available to the public. The Bank will continue to consult with the governments concerned to insure that confidential information is protected.
•	Environmental assessments. Public availability of environmental assessment reports and analyses—before project appraisal—was expanded to include, with the borrower's consent, assessment reports and analyses for all IBRD projects, thus unifying Bankwide policy on the issue. (Availability of environmental assessment reports of IDA projects was assured in July 1993.)
•	Summaries of evaluation reports, prepared by the Bank's independent Operations Evaluation Department, are included in the expanded list of public documents.
•	Legal opinions prepared for the executive board, access to which had been restricted under the rule of confidentiality of board proceedings, may now be made publicly available by decision of the board on a case-by-case basis.
Interested parties can use the Internet computer network to access project information documents and to view (and order) the titles of all Bank documents available cn request, as well as the abstracts and entire text of selected documents. The project information documents and environmental data sheets are available worldwide free of charge. Documents on a country where there is a Bank field office are provided free of charge at that office. Residents of a country where there is no Bank field office may obtain documents on their own country free of chaise through the Public Information Center in Washington, D.C. All other documents carry a standard charge of S15.
the end of the past fiscal year, almost all of those actions—most of them grouped within the areas as described above—had either been completed or were at an advanced stage of completion by June 30, 1994.
The report cautioned, however, that the steps taken over the past year were only the beginning of what will be a continual, evolutionary process and that specific goals of the program of actions will only be realized over time.
According to the report, the greatest challenges for the future include fully integrating effective and efficient participatory practices into the Bank's work, altering and simplifying Bank procedures in order to shift attention to obtaining more results in the field, and getting the organizational signals and incentives right in order to truly establish a “culture of implementation" in the institution.
During the past year, the Bank also ad-
dressed other sensitive issues in its project work that were not specific to the recommendations of the task force on portfolio management. Following a comprehensive review of the Bank's resettlement practices, resettlement policies were further refined/ In addition, a report on the Bank's experience with governance issues was issued (see Box 4-3). These two studies provided a candid assessment of the issues and a framework for improvements in Bank strategies for dealing with them. Steps such as these arc an integral part of the Bank's efforts to improve participation in project preparation and project management and in the overall way that the Bank does business.
The most visible impact thus far of these efforts, particularly project restructurings and closing or cancellation of loans for poorly performing projects, has been to prevent a slide in
4 For derails, see page 44.
Bax 4-3. The World Bank’s Experience with Governance
The Bank's interest in governance—defined by the Bank as the manner in which power is exercised in the management of a country's economic and social resources for development—derives from its concern for the sustainability of the programs and projects it helps to finance.
If sustainable development is to occur, a predictable and transparent Framework of rules and institutions for the conduct of private and public business must exist. Governance of borrowing countries is relevant to the Bank's work because, in its absence, much of what the institution seeks to achieve through its lending is at risk.
A1992 report to the executive directors on governance described some of the activities the Bank was supporting in the area of governance in the form of studies, technical assistance, and its lending operations. In the intervening two years, according to a follow-up report,1 the Bank has moved rapidly and far to support borrowing countries in strengthening die governance underpin* ning of their development efforts, and it has been able to do so within the framework of the economic and social dimensions of governance permissible under the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.
Much of the governance work in which the Bank is engaged comprises traditional public sector management categories such as civil service reform, public expenditure management, and public enterprise reform. This is a reflection that these categories are central to how power is exercised and that, in these areas, there is a substantial agenda for rehabilitation, modernization, and change. At the same time, the Bank has extended its governance activities to entirely new areas of support under the rubrics of accountability, rule of law, and transparency. While the
Bank's activities in the new areas are expanding, the bulk of the Bank's governance work will continue to be public sector management.
Public sector management work, mainly technical in character, addresses the processes and mchinery of public sector performance, not necessarily its causes. This suggests that the Bank’s future governance agenda should be developed at two levels: first, through more determined attempts to foster local ownership of reform programs, and second, through encouragement of institutions of civil society so that they can grow and, in turn, seek greater accountability from governments in the economic sphere.
The new procedures that have been introduced to improve project preparation and portfolio management are likely to have a strong positive influence on the Bank’s work on governance. Thus:
•	increased emphasis will be placed on the systemic problems of project implementation, many of which are governance related, through the country-portfolio perform ance-review process;
•	the Bank's new disclosure policy provides an excellent opportunity to make much more transparent to die outside worid how the Bank approaches complex situations in borrowing countries.
In addition, the country-assistance strategy dialogue, one of the priipary vehicles for reviewing the Bank’s lending strategy in a given country, can provide a forum for frank evaluation of factors, including governance issues, that constrain the effectiveness of development assistance.
overall portfolio performance.5 Specifically, the latest annual report on portfolio performance—for fiscal year 1993—-revealed that the overall health of the Bank's portfolio—based on overall status ratings—was relatively stable between fiscal years 1992 and 1993. Since peaking at over 20 percent in fiscal 1991, the percentage of problem projects has fallen to 18 percent in fiscal years 1992 and 1993.6
The report also found that the percentage of problem projects based on development-objectives ratings increased marginally, from 12 percent in fiscal 1992 to 13 percent in fiscal
1993.	The slight increase did not necessarily reflect a real deterioration in development performance of the Bank's portfolio, however. Rather, it reflected efforts by the Bank's six operational regions, within the limitations of the current rating methodology, to base development-objective ratings on more realis-
tic expectations about the extent to which project-development objectives would be achieved. (See Box 4-4 for a discussion of the rating systems used to indicate project effectiveness.)
*	By the end of fiscal 1993. the latest date for which data are available, restructuring of 104 projects had been completed or was under way. while restructuring of thirty-six others was being planned. Seventy-seven problem projects were closed or canceled in fiscal 1993 as compared with thirty-eight projects in fiscal year 1992. The project restructurings and closings/cancellations have had a positive cfTcct on the age structure of problem projects, with the greatest improvement in the proportion of projects that had been rated as being problematic for two consecutive years. They have also helped to increase the disbursement ratio in the Bank’s portfolio in most operational regions.
*	Excluding countries that were in nonaccmal status and/or suffered serious civil conflict in fiscal 1993. the percentage of problem projects declined from more than 18 percent in fiscal 1991 to 16 percent in fiscal 1992 and 15 percent in fiscal 1993.
Box 4-4. Increasing the Reliability of Rating Project Effectiveness
Projects are rated on a four-point scale to determine the extent to which project-development objectives (DOs) are expected to be met and to determine their overall status (OS). Projects are rated on a four-point scale, with a 1 representing the best rating and a 4 the worst. A DO rating of 1, for instance, means that all project development objectives ate expected to be substantially achieved, while a 4 rating means that major objectives will probably not be achieved, and the project appears to be no longer justified. An OS rating of 1 means no significant problems, while a 4 rating indicates the existence of major problems that are not being adequately addressed.
Although DO ratings are supposed to be reflected in the OS ratings, a recent analysis of the divergence between Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (ARPP) and project completion report/performance audit report ratings for a sample of more than 1,000 projects completed in the 1980s concluded that OS ratings seemed to be dominated by short-term concerns about implementation, while DO ratings reflected longer-term optimism that objectives would be achieved once implementation problems were resolved. Neither rating, therefore, was judged as being reliable in measuring the development effectiveness of projects in the sample. As a result. Bank staff were required, for the purposes of the most recent ARPP. to pay greater attention to the quality of DO ratings. In addition, any significant gap in assessments based on OS and DO was to be explained.
The greater attention of staff to the DO ratings in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance for fiscal 1993 helped to improve the reliability of those ratings. However, key to further and substantial Improvement in their reliability are the precise definition of the expected development results for each p roject and better means for gauging progress toward these results during the loan disbursement or Implementation period.
In principle, progress should be assessed using the same cost/benefit or cost-effectiveness criteria that are applied at project appraisal or at completion. If costs were not a constraint, this would involve repeating periodically during project Implementation the original cost/benefit or cost-effectiveness analysis done at appraisal with revised or updated data or estimates. As a practical and less costly alternative, however, the portfolio management task force recommended that progress toward expected development results be monitored based on the evolution of a limited number of variables (“performance indicators”) that have been identified in the risk/ sensitivity analysis at appraisal as critical to achieving the expected project development results. This requires substantial improvements in risk/sensitivity analysis and performance-indicator monitoring.
As part of the action plan to improve portfolio management, work is proceeding on developing guidance to staff on risk/sensitivity analysis and performance indicators. Based on this work, revision of the project-rating methodology and project-performance rating system was initiated In June 1994. The major revision entails, among other things, the .^option of a dual rating system that would give separate overall ratings to the implementation status of a project and to its development effectiveness (thus. DO ratings would no longer be subsumed as part of the OS ratings); greater attention to risks in the new DO ratings; greater use of performance indicators to measure development effectiveness; and the adoption of guidelines for ex-post evaluation of development results of completed projects and for the evaluation of development results of ongoing projects. Full implementation of these improvements will realistically take a few years given the sharp departure from current practices that is entailed and the large number of projects in the Bank’s portfolio.
Beyond the immediate effects of portfolio clean-up. however, a definitive turnaround in overall performance in the next few years is not assured. Against the ongoing efforts to improve the management of portfolio performance must be reckoned the implementation risks inherent in the ambitious and complex development agenda of the Bank and its borrowers. The
risks associated with Bank lending to borrowers that are at an early and difficult stage of transition to a market economy, or of economic reform and adjustment, are also significant. As experience shows, country economic and institutional factors have ultimately a considerable effect in determining the development outcome of projects-
Section Five 1994 Regional Perspectives
Africa
The year 1993, on the whole, was a difficult one for the countries of the Africa region, as gross domestic product (GDP), excluding South Africa, grew by just 1.4 percent. Although this represents an improvement over
1992,	it is nevertheless disappointing, considering the region's high rate of population growth and the level needed for development. As in previous years, the countries implementing major reforms, and therefore benefiting from the Special Program of Assistance (SPA), saw their aggregate output increase by 2.1 percent, or more than the average for the region.1 The sixteen core (or steady) reformers did still
better, as their GDF rose by 2.8 percent: the countries composing the CFA Zone, however, saw their economies contract for a third consecutive year.2 A positive development in 1993
1	The SPA for low-income. debt-distressed sub-Saharan African countries provides quick-disbursing balancc-of-payments assistance to twenty-nine eligible countries (as of the end of June 1994} in support of reform programs developed in conjunction with the Bank and the International
^ Monetary Fund (IMF).
2	The countries are Benin. Burkina Faso. Cameroon. Cen-. tral African Republic. Chad. Comoros. Congo. Cote
d'Ivoire. Gabon. Mali. Mauritania. Niger. Senegal, and Togo.
was that, on average, the low-income countries performed better than the middle-income one:., although neither group recorded an increase in per capita terms.
Some of the highest growth rates were achieved by those countries, such as Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, and Zambia that were recovering from the severe drought of 1991-92. The rather quick recov ’.ry of these and other countries from the effects of the drought is testimony to the. relative resilience of their economies and to the effectiveness of collaboration among their public administrations, donors, and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). The improvement in weather conditions was not generalized, however. Drought persisted in some areas, posing a serious threat in parts of Ethiopia and Kenya, and the countries of the western Sahel experienced poor rainfall. In addition, in these and other countries growth was held back by political transition, a high deb£ burden (despite debt forgiveness and reschedulings), a deterioration in the terms of trade, and weak policy implementation.
The political transition sweeping the continent has resulted in increasing multiparty democracies; whereas there were just six democracies a few years ago, the number had reached twenty-nine by the end of June 1994. The transition, however, has not been easy, without cost, or uniformly smooth. Where transition governments are in place, power sharing has proven difficult to achieve, and opposing groups still vie for power in many places. On the economic front, the transition has sometimes disrupted production and commerce, affected the mobilization and allocation of resources, and diverted attention away from needed policy reforms. Yet the transition continues nearly everywhere.
There were sharp contrasts on the African scene in 1993/94. The installation of democratically elected governments in Malawi and South Africa stand in sharp contrast to the mass killings in Rwanda. There were a variety of outcomes in the economic sphere, too, due to the contradictory forces at play not just across countries, but within them and even
within sectors. Some countries (such as The Gambia, Sierra Leone, and Zimbabwe), where the implementation of reform programs is on track, nonetheless experienced low GDP growth rates due to the deterioration of their terms of trade, weather conditions, the lingering effects of the 1991-92 drought, or the disruptions caused by rebel activity and political transition. In contrast, other countries (such as Equatorial Guinea and Sudan, for example), where reform programs were lacking or offtrack, registered growth of 6 percent to 7 percent, helped by oil exports or favorable agricultural conditions. In yet other countries, results were uneven, with agricultural growth coinciding with a decline in industrial production and services, or a decline in overall exports accompanied nevertheless by an expansion of nontraditional exports. Contrasts also marked the implementation of policies. While the countries of the CFA Zone as a group failed to take the necessary measures to restore their competitiveness in 1993, many of them implemented significant structural reforms in the fiscal, financial, trade, and other areas. In several of the good performers, the improvements that took place were still inadequate, however: savings rates, for example, remained too low to support rapid, sustained growth, and social conditions continued unsatisfactory.
Despite this panoply of variations, the events of the past twelve months have some common elements that provide encouraging signs for the future. Despite delays and costs in terms of lives and physical assets, the democratization process is moving ahead. Despite economic and political hardships, reform programs have survived in most countries and have even been strengthened in some. Several countries improved their performance in the course of the past year, and the members of the CFA Zone have taken an historic, bold step to improve their competitiveness. While mucl. remains to be done, more countries are embarked on reform programs and face better prospects than compared with a year ago.
Varying Policies, Varying Performance
Another common thread of Africa's experience. despite the contrasts noted, is that African countries that have sustained adjustment policies generally have performed better than those countries that have not. This observation. made in a recently released staff study that covered the adjustment experience in sub-Saharan Africa from 1981 through 1991 (see Box 5-1). is complemented by comparing the more recent experience of a country where policy reform has been seriously interrupted (Nigeria) with a country that strayed from, but
Box 5-1. Implementation of Economic Reform: Overview and Seven Case Studies
T:-c encouraging news from sub-Saharan Africa is that countries that have persisted in implementing economic reforms have begun to see payoffs. A recent World Bank report1 has traced the effects of policy reforms during 1981-91 in a group of twenty-nine countries. Of this group, the six with the greatest success in eliminating macroeconomic imbalances enjoyed the strongest resurgence in economic performance, experiencing a median increase of almost 2 percentage points in the growth rate of GDP per person. The increase in their industrial and export growth rates was e'/en more striking. Agricultural growth also accelerated in the countries that taxed their farmers less. By contrast, countries that did not improve their policies saw median incomes decline by 2 percent a year.
Seven case studies completed by the Africa Regional Office of the World Bank—from Burundi, Cdte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria. Senegal. a..d Tanzania—reinforce this finding, while explaining in greater detail the interaction between initial conditions, external developments, and social and political choices in implementing economic reforms.2 The primacy of sound macroeconomic policies and stability for sustaining economic development, responding effectively to domestic and extenud shocks, and sending credible signals to the private sector are clearly shown in the case studies.
Broadly speaking, the economic reform programs in all seven countries addressed the problems of high budgetary and balanc«;-of-payinents deficits, distortions in markets for goods and services and factors of production, suppiessed private sectors, and inefficient public services.
Pol.cy adjustments were undertaken to establish market-determined exchange rates; improve revenue mobilization, while reallocating or reducing government expenditures, especially investment; liberalize domestic prices (especially in agriculture), trade and tariff regimes, and agricultural marketing; introduce nondistortionary interest rates and strengthen financial sector regulation; enhance the efficiency of public enterprises and labor markets; and improve the coverage and quality of social services.
The case studies highlight several factors that could explain the diverse economic outcomes in the region. The ability lo persist with the fundamentals—macroeconomic stability, price and market liberalization, and adequate social sector allocations—separates the successes from the failures. Ghana, Kenya, and Tanzania are examples where a fairly good track record in these areas was beginning to be established by the late 1980s. However, even where there is some progress on the fundamentals, the lack of action on other fronts—notably the financial sector and public enterprise and civil service reform—has proven costly. Most policy reversals have been caused by the inability to move forward in a coordinated manner in the core reform areas or the inability or unwillingness to maintain the initial momentum of such reforms.
1	World Bank. 1994. Adjustment in Africa: Reforms, Results, and the Road Ahead. New Yoik Oxford University Press.
2	Husain, Ishrat, and Rashid Furuqce, cds. 1994. Ajiust-ment in Africa: Lessoru from Country Case Swates. World Bank, Washington. D.C.
reembarked on. policy reform (Kenya) and with one that has remained steadily on the reform path (Uganda).
Nigeria went through a tumultuous period in both 1992 and 1993. The planned democratic transition was protracted and, in the end, did not establish civilian rule. The process generated considerable uncertainty, economic disruptions. and social unrest. Budgetary control deteriorated, leading to fiscal deficits, which exceeded 10 percent of GDP. Inflation rose to 40 percent in 1992 and 58 percent in 1993. The official exchange rate was pegged below market rates, with the spread reaching 100 percent by late 1993. The external balance deteriorated significantly, with reserves dwindling and arrears to external creditors rising to more than $6 billion, or one fifth of outstanding debt. Meanwhile, the economy grew by only 4.1 percent in 1992 and 1.9 percent in 1993, compared with an average 5 percent in the preceding six years. The economic policies announced in the
1994	budget abolished free transactions in the foreign exchange and credit markets, thereby removing the remaining core pillars of the structural adjustment program adopted in 19S6.
In 1990-92, Kenya witnessed s> sharp decline in all major macroeconomic performance indicators. However, in early 1993, the Kenya authorities signalled an interest in restarting the reforiii process, and, as a result, the condition* for strong medium-term growth in Kenya have improved significantly. Implementation of stabilization policies and more effective enforcement of financial sector regulations have sharply reduced runaway inflation (falling to an annual rate of around 15 percent during the last quarter of 1993 after peaking at around 100 percent during the second quarter). Important steps towards structural reform, particularly in the area of external trade, have begun to gradually restore domestic and international confidence in the government's commitment to reform. With the elimination of all but a short
list or import licenses and the introduction or a uniried and stabilized market-dclcrmined exchange rate (the Kenya shilling becoming fully convertible in May 1994), the stage has been set Tor the private, and especially the export, sector to lead the recovery. By the end of
1993,	monetary control had been tightened, discipline had been reintroduced in the financial sector, the maize market had been futly liberalized, and foreign-cxchange reserves had recovered to comfortable levels. These improvements facilitated the approval by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) of a one-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement during the fourth quarter of 1993. as well as the successful rescheduling of external arrears with the Paris Club in January 1994.
Uganda has gone quite far in creating a free enterprise economy. At the same time, the gov-ernr.'*ent has stabilized the economy through tight fiscal and monetary programs. Inflation was reduced to around 4 percent in 1993. down from 45 pcrccr.! in 1992 and 240 percent in 1987, the year in which the present adjustment program was initiated. Uganda has in place a program of comprehensive structural reforms covering the civil service, public enterprises, and major financial institutions, and is undertaking a large reduction in military forces to release resources for priority spending programs. These reforms have had a positive effect on the economy: Real GDP growth is estimated to have reached 6 percent in 1993, enabling per capita consumption to rise by about 2.5 percent. The lowered inflation has contributed to a stable exchange rate and renewed confidence in the country's currency. In addition, the downward slide in coffee production, the country's main export, has been halted. There are also signs that nontraditional exports are growing rapidly; that the public's willingness to hold financial assets in the ftvm of savings and time deposits, which have increased fourfold in the past two years, is increasing; that the inflow of private capital has been substantial; and that investment, including rehabilitation and reconstruction work on properties of returning entrepreneurs, is on the rise. All of these gains, together with the increased focus of government spending on basic social services, are expected to have a positive impact on poverty reduction.
Improved Competitiveness
The countries of the CFA Zone have faced major economic, financial, and social difficulties since 1986. These difficulties were caused by a downward deflationary spiral of production, incomes, and expenditures that cut average real per capita income by 40 percent.
reduced the capacity of governments to provide basic social services, increased the incidence of poverty, and undermined the Zone's financial inslitutions. The spiral, in turn, was caused by a massive loss of competitiveness that resulted from a combination of the inflated cost structure existing in the mid 1980s and the major external shocks suffered since then. The prices of the Zone's major exports (coffee, cocoa, cotton, phosphate, uranium, and oil) dropped sharply in the second half of the 1980s, causing its terms of trade to fall by 40 percent between 1985 and 1992. The Zone’s real effective exchange rate (REER) appreciated by 39 percent over the same period. That movement was the result of the depreciation, since 1985. of the United States dollar and the large depreciation achieved by many competing developing countries of their own REERs through nominal devaluations in the context of economic reforms. The internal adjustment programs and structural reforms pursued by various CFA countries in the period 1986-93 were able neither to correct this massive loss of competitiveness nor halt the ongoing downward spiral.
Recession and financial crisis in the CFA Zone continued throughout 1993. Moreover, as it became increasingly clear that internal adjustment programs were not working, external financing for them dried up. For 1993 as a whole, per capita real income declined by 4.5 percent, exports fell by 3.9 percent in volume, and investment further contracted to 13.8 percent of GDP.
Against this backdrop, in early January 1994 the heads of state of the CFA countries met in Dakar to discuss ways to end the economic crisis. The meeting resulted in the historic decision to change the parity of the CFA franc from 50 per French franc, a level at which it had been fixed in 1948, to 100 per French franc.3 At the Dakar meeting, another important, although less publicized, step was taken: the signing of a treaty transforming the West African Monetary Union into a full economic union. A common approach to the implementation of economic reforms that were needed to accompany the parity change was also discussed.
The decisions made at the Dakar meeting have provided a unique opportunity to restart the stalled structural adjustment process in the fourteen countries, restore growth, and reduce poverty. Indeed, since January, nearly all countries have adopted reform programs that
’ The parity \X Comoros' currency was changcd to 75 per French franc.
are being supported by the World Bank and the IMF. All postdevaluation programs give priority to restraining inflation to ensure that the nominal parity change actually leads to a substantial depreciation of the real exchange rate. Hence, public sector wage increases have generally been limited to 10 percent to 15 percent to prevent a wage-pricc spiral. To allow some time for urban wage earners to adjust to the higher cost of imported items, increases in the prices of selected imported goods (petroleum products, rice, sugar, edible oils, medicines, and school books, for instance) are being curtailed through temporary tax reductions and direct subsidies. Fiscal reform—reduction of deficits to sustainable levels, tax reform, and restructuring of expenditures—also figures prominently as an objective of the reform programs. Priority, however, has been given to protecting vulnerable groups and relaunching poverty-reduction programs by increasing public expenditures on basic education and health services, developing and implementing social funds targeted at the poorest groups, and expanding labor-intensive public works programs.
Regional Cooperation Efforts
The recent events in the CFA Zone and the new challenges facing South Africa and its neighbors call for strengthened regional cooperation. Various actions have already been taken in this direction, and others are under consideration. In the CFA Zone, the member countries of the new West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA) and the Central African Monetary Union have decided to form economic—as well as monetary—links. In Western Africa, the signing of the treaty for the new union by the six member states was accompanied by further efforts to render budgetary policies coherent, harmonize tariffs and indirect taxes, and develop a regional financial market. In Central Africa, the six member states of the Central African Customs and Economic Union have taken advantage of their increased competitiveness to accelerate the implementation of a new common external tariff. Nontariff barriers have been removed, and rates have been lowered.
These efforts are being supported by the Bank, together with the IMF, the European Union, and other interested donors.
At the level of the entire CFA Zone, progress was made during the fiscal year in the areas of social-security provision and collection of statistics. With a view to providing a positive environment for private sector-led growth, a treaty has been signed that will put into place a common framework for business law.
The World Bank, together with the IMF, the European Commission for the European Union, and the African Development Bank, is cosponsoring an initiative to facilitate private investment, trade, and payments in Eastern and Southern Africa and in the Indian Ocean countries—the cross-border initiative (CBI).
The CBI is based on a new integration concept that promotes mobility of factors, goods, and services across national boundaries among participating countries while minimizing chances for diversion of trade and investment. It involves voluntary participation by countries that are ready to accelerate the reform effort, and is based on the principle of reciprocity among the participating countries. The proposed reform measures are in the areas of trade liberalization, liberalization of the exchange system, deregulation of cross-border investment, strengthening of financial intermediation, and the movement of goods and persons among the participating countries. The reform agenda supported under the CBI has been developed through a two-year process of discussion by public and private sector representatives of the participating countries, as well as consultations with regional institutions.
The CBI was endorsed by thirteen countries at a meeting in Kampala, Uganda, in August
1993.	To date, nine countries (Kenya. Malawi. Mauritius. Namibia. Rwanda. Swaziland. Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) have confirmed their intention to participate and have established mechanisms to prepare country-specific proposals for implementing the CBI-supported reform agenda.
In addition, the heads of state of Kenya. Tanzania, and Uganda (the members of the former East African Community) recently met in Arusha. Tanzania, to reaffirm their commitment to strengthened cooperation. There is a consensus that this cooperation should be based on practical improvements in investment incentives and tax regimes, and streamlined border formalities.
The Bank’s Assistance Strategy
The priorities for the Bank in Africa are poverty reduction through environmentally sustainable development: human resources development—not just through lending but also by defining frameworks for effective interventions by governments and donors, as in a recent staff study on health in Africa (see Box 5-2); providing an exceptional response, already in progress, to the situation and events in the CFA Zone: working with major partners to fulfill the objectives and the priorities of the SPA: and “getting results in the field” through the improved quality of projects and their
Box 5-2. Toward Better Health in Africa
Health issues are assuming an increasingly important place in the Bank's assistance strategy in Africa. Reflecting this trend, a major sector study was completed in 1993 in elose cooperation with the World Health Organisation, the United Na-lions Children's Fund, and other partners. The study. Belter Health In Africa, aimed at building consensus on future health strategies in Africa among the many stakeholders.1 It found that while dramatic improvements had taken place since independence, most African countries lagged well behind other developing countries in health status. At fifty-one years in 1991. life expectancy at birth in Africa is eleven years less than in the low-income countries as a group, and Africa's infant mortality rate, at over 100 deaths per 1,000 live births, is about one third higher on average than for the universe of low-income countries. Mew health problems, such as AIDS, and new strains of well-known diseases such as malaria, threaten the important health gains made in Africa over the past generation.
The report discussed “best practices" for health improvement by African governments and their external partners in three areas. First, as did World Development Report 1993—Investing in Health, the report emphasized the importance of strengthening the capacity of households and communities to recognize and respond to health problems. This requires health and development strategics that increase the access of the poor to income and opportunity, pay special attention to female education and literacy, provide for community monitoring and management of health services, and fumish information to the public and health-care providers on health conditions and services. Second, the report called for reform of African health-care systems, and especially for making a basic package of cost-effective health services available to Africans near where they live and work through health centers and first-
referral hospitals. Third, the report underscored the need for more efficient allocation and management of public financial and human resources devoted to health improvement, and for their progressive reallocation away from less cost-efTective interventions (largely provided through tertiary facilities) to a basic package. It found substantial room for increases in technical efficiency.2
The report concluded that substantial health improvement in Africa is feasible, despite the severe financial constraints facing most African countries. The will to reform and to provide a limited package of quality, low-cost, and highly cost-effective health services to the vast majority of the population is central to success. The study found that higher-income and middle-income African countries, in due coursc, should be able to finance a basic package of health services for their people from public and nongovernmental resources. without substantial external support. However, the low-income countries are likely to need donor assistance in support of health for an extended period. These countries now spend about $8 per capita annually on health from all sources—public, nongovernmental, and external—compared with the indicative estimate for the basic package in the study of about S13. The transition from the current to the indicative level of spending will have to be implemented flexibly, on acountry-by-countiy basis, with provisions put in place for interim targets to be met along the way.
1 World Bank. 1994. Better Health in Afnca. Washington. D.C.
: For example, poor drug selection. procurement, distribution, and prescription practices are responsible, together with other factors, for an effective consumption of only about S12 on drugs for every S1Q0 in public spending on pharmaceuticals in many African countries.
implementation, especially through strong capacity-building efforts.
Poverty reduction through environmentally sustainable development. The need and urgency to reduce poverty in the region is evident; however, progress has been limited in Africa as a whole, despite success in some countries. Achieving a high rate of economic growth, combined with a pattern of growth favoring increases in incomes in the poorest sections of society, is central to the Bank's poverty-reduction strategy. The Bank's twopronged strategy, as elaborated in Worid Development Report 1990. acts as a guide to the institution's economic and sector work, as well as to its lending operations.
Fighting land degradation and desertification have been key objectives of the Bank in its en-
vironmental program for the region. This program has been addressed primarily through the elaboration and implementation of national environmental action plans (NEAPs) and through the Bank's lending program. NEAPs—which provide a basis for the Bank's dialogue with borrowers on environmental issues, describe a country's major environmental problems and concerns, and formulate actions to address whatever problems are identified—have systematically paid attention to arresting land degradation through better natural resource management. The Bank's regional portfolio includes more than $500 million in environmental projects, some of which can be directly linked to the NEAP process. The Bank has also been involved in the preparation of a new intema-tional convention on desertification that is cur-
rently being negotiated and is prepared to be a partner in its implementation when it enters into effect.
Assistance to CFA countries. Since the parity change and as of June 30. 1994. IDA has provided approximately $1 billion in quick-disbursing credits and adjustment operations to the CFA countries. For the short term, the Bank-supported postdevaluation programs include. in addition to steps to limit the price increases of essential goods, (a) a draw-down of reserve stocks and additional imports of essential foodstuffs to counter speculative commercial practices, (b) increased budgetary appropriations for education and health, and (c) steps to assure adequate supplies of essential drugs in public health facilities and of low-cost generic drugs in private pharmacies. For the longer term, expenditures on laborintensive civil works programs, rural infrastructure. education, and health will be increased, as will special programs (nutrition in particular) that target the poorest groups and that will be implemented by NGOs and community associations.
SPA—phase three. The third phase of the Special Program of Assistance (SPA-3), launched by the program's donors in October
1993,	will cover the three calendar years 1994— 96. Since the CFA Zone countries instituted a parity change in their currency and launched comprehensive economic reforms, two additional countries, Comoros and Cote d'Ivoire, have met SPA eligibility requirements, bringing the total of eligible countries to twenty-nine. The estimated requirements of donor adjustment assistance for these countries is $12 billion over the three-year period. The SPA donors have met twice since the parity change to discuss financing requirements. Total donor
pledges have increased, and some disbursements will be accelerated in response to these needs. In addition to mobilizing additional resources. SPA donors have stressed the need to pursue greater selectivity in allocating resources to ensure that countries with strong reform programs are adequately funded and that scarce resources are used efficiently. As of June 30.
1994.	the donor community had pledged $6.6 billion in quick-disbursing balance-of-payments assistance, and further efforts are continuing to close the remaining gap.
The priorities and objectives of SPA-3 are achieving higher growth rates and alleviating poverty; supplementing policy-reform programs with more investment in human resources and infrastructure; raising the level of domestic savings and private investment; placing greater emphasis on ensuring that the benefits of growth are directed at reducing poverty; and strengthening local economic management and institutional capacity. The SPA's primary objective continues to be to assist countries to strengthen their policy-reform programs and structural reform efforts. However. to accelerate growth, reduce poverty, and realize the full benefits of policy reforms, the efficiency of public investment financing by donors, which still accounts for about 80 percent of total donor financing, must be improved substantially. Discussion is continuing on sec-torwide approaches to donor financing aimed at improving aid coordination and effectiveness. The SPA's role would be to serve as a catalyst to encourage donor support for such integrated sector programs, to monitor outcomes. and promote the harmonization of donor procedures. Mobilization of resources and coordination of specific sector-investment programs will continue at the country level
through mechanisms such as consultative groups, roundtables, and country-based local aid-coordination groups.
Project quality and implementation. Despite the difficulties faced by the region, portfolio performance was relatively stable in 1993. Differences among countries were caused, in part, by variation in macroeconomic performance. Overall. adjusting countries had a better record of project performance than the nonadjusting ones, and operations in the particularly difficult areas of agriculture and adjustment lending improved their implementation records. The most serious general constraints to effective implementation are uncertain borrower ownership and limited local capacity. To increase ownership. the Bank is making a concerted effort to involve stakeholders (governments, beneficiaries. the private sector) in project preparation and implementation. The use of participatory approaches—beneficiary assessments, participatory rural assessments, and participatory workshops—is steadily increasing. In many cases, stakeholders participate not just in project design and preparation but also in economic and sector work (ESW). Several actions are under way to improve project quality at entry such as preparation of “letters of sector policy," avoiding unnecessary complexity in project design (through participatory approaches to project preparation and greater involvement by resident missions in the process, for example), testing new or complex approaches in small pilot operations, and identifying project-monitoring indicators that reflect both output and impact. In fiscal 1993. the most recent year for which numbers are available.
the amount of loan cancellations expected to result from completed or planned restructurings of problem projects totaled about $500 million.
The need for capacity building in Africa cuts across all sectors, and. in all cases the need is urgent and acute. The challenge involves both making greater use of existing local capacity and helping to build such capacity where it does not exist. The Bank’s approach recognizes that capacity-building issues need to be addressed at an early stage in the project cycle and that the effort cannot succeed without improving the performance and productivity of the civil service. This concern has led the Bank to appoint a Capacity Building Committee to make recommendations on the most effective ways to advance toward this goal. The committee's recommendations (which highlight “best practices" to follow and cover a broad spectrum, from ESW and lending to the role of resident missions) have been approved and are being carried out.
Capacity building—as well as dialogue with the intended beneficiaries of development— continued to be the focus of the Bank's work in South Africa during the past year. In that country, the Bank's informal work has dealt with the entire political spectrum, including nongovernmental organizations, the private sector, teachers, and trade unions. Dozens of South Africans have been trained in economics, and relationships have been built up with many of the country's economic and political actors. In April 1994. the Bank opened up a resident mission. following a request from the multiparty South African transitional council.
East Asia and Pacific
Strong economic growth across almost alt countries dominated the development picture in the East Asia and Pacific region in calendar year 1993. In addition to its remarkable poverty reduction in recent years. East Asia and Pacific again led all regions—developing and developed—in posting a 9.2 percent growth rate, up slightly from 8.7 percent in
1992.	Export growth continued to be substantial. registering an increase similar to 1992's 13.6 percent. China, the world's largest developing economy, recorded 13.4 percent growth in gross domestic product (GDP), despite concerns during 1993 about overheating the economy. China also continued to implement fiscal.
monetary, and basic market reforms (see Box 5-3). Indonesia—the region's second-largest economy—maintained a steady 6.6 percent growth rate, with significant increases in industrial production and exports; a large debt burden and environmental issues loomed as challenges to the quality and sustainability of its growth. Other countries with real rates of growth in GDP in excess of 5 percent included the Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR). Malaysia. Thailand. and Viet Nam. A recent study concluded that if economic growth had been randomly distributed among countries, there would have been one chance in 10.000 that it would be so concentrated in a single region (see Box 5-4).
A remarkable feature of the region's economic performance in the past year was the relative evenness of steady high growth rates. The Philippines was the only major country in which the regional average lagged significantly, but recent events (successful completion of the stand-by arrangement with the IMF. completion of a Brady-type of debt agreement, reforms that encourage greater domestic and foreign competition, and efforts to increase the level and efficiency of public investment in infrastructure) gave reason for cautious optimism that better economic times may be ahead.
The small Pacific island economies witnessed a mixed performance in 1993. Fiji, the largest of these, recorded a real GDP growth rate of only 1.7 percent, compared with 3.1 percent in the previous year, as a result of the effects of a severe cyclone that struck in January 1993. The Solomon Islands ai»o recorded a sharp drop in GDP growth to about 2.5 percent—as compared with 8.2 percent in 1992—reHecting a slowdown in logging activity and a declu'c in fatting. Signs of recovery were seen elsewhere, however: Recovering from the effects of two major cyclones, the Western Samoan economy grew by about 5 percent; Vanuatu also saw a slight upturn during the year.
Economic growth in some of the islands benefited from a pick-up in tourism following the recovery from recessionary conditions in major source markets. The Pacific island economies also continued to benefit from substantial
Box 5-3. China: Continuing Reform and Development
During the past year, China's economy, in many ways, experienced the enviable difficulties that arise from significant economic success and bold market reforms. In fiscal 1994. China's tax revenues increased, as did deposits of individuals in the banking system. The nominal exchange rate remained stable after a substantial devaluation resulting from the unification of the official and swap market rates in January. Export growth was healthy, foreign direct investment continued to flow into the country in large volume, and foreign exchange reserves were steady.
The struggle to contain inflation, however, points to structural difficulties in the economy that can no longer be ignored. Ongoing price reforms and relatively large state-owned enterprise (SOE) deficits are the main causes of inflationary pressure in China.
Despite the sense of volatility as the economy continued its strong growth, most recent indicators have shown a welcome improvement and. in some areas, evidence cf stabilization. In particu-
lar. fixed asset investment and industrial output grew at a more reasonable pace than in the first half of the fiscal year, and month-on-month inflation appeared to be subsiding. Tighter credit— one of the most effective monetary instruments available to the central government—caused increased difficulty for SOEs. especially in the northeast of the country and the interior. Growth in output of SOEs was low. even negative, in the northeast and southwest in the second half of the fiscal year, raising the possibility of urban tension as the adjustment to the market progresses.
A Bank report recommends additional measures in key areas to address structural weaknesses in the fiscal and financial system. Provided this overall reform plan is properly implemented, China appears likely to be able to achieve high and sustainable economic growth without the benefits being dissipated in high inflation. In the coming years, however, the risk of accelerating inflation remains high as such reforms arc enacted.
Box 5-4. The East Asian Miracle
A major work in fiscal 1994 was the publication of “The East Asian Miracle: Economic Growth and Public Policy,” the product of a World Bank research team.1 The report stimulated widespread debate on the components of economic policy that underpinned the spectacular performance of the high-performing East Asian countries. Significantly, die report found that there was little that could be described as “miraculous” about the economic performance, even though the chances of such a concentration of growth, assuming it were randomly distributed worldwide, were just one in 10.000. “Fundamentally sound development policy was a major ingredient in achieving rapid growth.’ the report observed. But—and it was this finding that aroused the most active debate—the book also noted that government intervention had played a role. How much of a role was not easy to discern, the researchers concluded.
Previous Bank studies had described these policy interventions—suppressit*s interest rates or promoting favored industries, for example—as always harmful to growth. The study said that “export push." a combination of sound fundamentals and selective interventions, had been crucial to East Asia's success. “Of the many interventions tried in East Asia, those associated
with export push hold the most promise for other developing economies.'’ the study concluded. Even so. it added, developing countries hoping to follow in the footsteps of East Asia should limit policy interventions and focus instead on the fundamentals.
The fundamentals that East Asian economies focused on included:
•	Managing monetary and fiscal policy to ensure low inflation and a competitive exchange rate;
•	Concentrating public investment in education on primary and secondary levels of schooling;
•	Fostering effective and secure financial systems to encourage savings and investment;
•	Limiting protection so that domestic prices are close to international prices; and
•	Supporting agriculture by assisting the adoption of “green revolution" technologies, investing in rural infrastructure, and limiting taxation on agricultural goods.
A summary of the book is available in English. French, Japanese, and Spanish.
1 Worid Bank. 1993. The East AsUm Miracle: Economic Growth and Public Policy. A World Bank Policy Research Report. New York: Oxford University Press.
resource flows and remittances. The combina-	exchangc-rate stability and control over inflation of external resource availability, open-	tion. Emerging fiscal deficits in	some island
ness to trade, and generally sound fiscal and	economies need to be reduced to	ensure mac-
monetary management has ensured relative	roeconomic stability, however.
The Pacific islands continue to face a unique set of development challenges: They are constrained by small domestic markets, a narrow resource and production base, and high unit costs of infrastructure; they are also heavily dependent on external trade and are vulnerable to external shocks and natural disasters. Despite an almost complete absence of absolute poverty, the islands are confronting acute environmental issues which, in some cases, will significantly affect their long-term economic outlook. Deforestation in the Solomon Islands, in particular, is an issue of major economic and environmental importance to the country. Papua New Guinea also faces important issues of deforestation and preservation of ecological diversity. It has recently enjoyed rapid growth fueled by rising mineral and new oil exports, but it must cope with problems of promoting growth in the rest of the economy.
Viet Nam rejoined the Bunk’s list of bom' <»-ers in fiscal year 1994 after a fifteen-y_*ar hiatus, and Cambodia became a first-time borrower (see Box 3-5). By the end of the year.
IDA credits, totaling $324.5 million, had been made to Viet Nam for projects in the education. transportation. and agriculture sectors, while one emergency rehabilitation credit, for $62.7 million, was approved for Cambodia. Both countries are among the poorest in the world, with annual per capita incomes of about $200. but each, for different reasons, offered signs of hope for sustainable economic development.
While overall the region performed impressively. the picture was far from unblemished, and areas of concern highlighted in last year's Annual Report remained as obstacles to sustained development for most, if not all. countries of the region. In particular, serious environmental damage, associated with rapid urbanization, inadequate regulation and planning. and incorrect pricing of resources, continues to impose major costs. Land degradation and deforestation also remained as serious threats to sustained growth. Because the poor suffer disproportionately from the effects of environmental degradation, environmental issues
Box 5-5. Lending to Viet Nam Resumes; Is Initiated in Cambodia
After a fifteen-year hiatus, lending resumed to Viet Nam during fiscal 1994. when two credits totaling about $228 million were approved in October 1993. One credit, for $70 million, will support a primary education project, while the second, for $158.5 million, will support highway repair. A third credit, for $96 million, was approved in January 1994; it supports a program to provide more credit and back-up services to small farmers in Viet Nam. In addition to these three investments, the Bank has been providing technical assistance for the preparation of a public investment program and for improving capacity in core ministries. The assistance is expected to enable the Bank to identify further projects in priority areas such as infrastructure, agriculture, natural resource protection, and the social sectors.
Hie three credits were approved after a support group of donor countries assisted Viet Nam in clearing its arrears to the IMF in October 1993.
In advance of actual lending, the Bank had done a great deal of preparatory work. Analytical work had resumed in 1989. with the result that several economic and sector reports had been completed, and a solid basis for resumption of lending had been established.
An initial donors' group meeting for Viet Nam. sponsored by the Bank and the United Nations Development Programme, was held in Paris in November, and pledges of $1.8 billion in aid were given by multilateral and bilateral donors. It was agreed that, in the future, the World Bank would chair a consultative group meeting each year, as it does for other countries.
During the past year, the Bank extended its first-ever credit to Cambodia, which joined the institution in 1970. The S62.7 million credit was in
support of an emergency rehabilitation project, designed to arrest the deterioration in basic services by financing priority imports.
In addition, a policy framework paper, prepared jointly by the government, the Bank, and the IMF. was agreed upon. The paper provides details of the country's medium-term adjustment and reform program. Over the next three years, the government intends to consolidate the initial restoration of macroeconomic stability, undertake a process of institutional strengthening supported by comprehensive technical assistance, substantially increase public investment in order to address rehabilitation and reconstruction needs, and initiate a process of wide-ranging structural reforms aimed at enhancing savings, investment, and growth over the longer term.
In view of the legacy of war and devastation and the recent political transition, restoring financial stability, strengthening the central institutions of macroeconomic management, and initiating investment for rehabilitation and reconstruction comprise the most immediate tasks. The donor community has pledged its support for Cambodia's recovery. In March 1994. at a meeting of the International Committee on the Reconstruction of Cambodia, donors renewed that support based on an economic report prepared by the Bank: Cambodia, from Rehabilitation to Reconstruction,
Against this background, the government has adopted a medium-term adjustment program for which it is seeking support from the IMF through a three-year arrangement under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility and has begun preparations for a structural adjustment credit and a companion technical assistance project with the World Bank.
are a major concern for the countries in the region and the Bank.
Another serious problem that has been exposed and exacerbated by the region’s high growth rates is the historical inadequacy of infrastructure investment relative to rapidly growing demand. Reflecting this. Bank lending emphasizes effective infrastructure development across the region, with lending for transportation, power, and irrigation again the largest component of the overall program. Because the region's infrastructure needs, however, are sg targe, the Bank alone cannot have more than a marginal effect. The private sector in the countries tuemselves and through foreign direct investment (FDr will have to play an increasingly critical role in developing and modernizing East Asia's infrastructure base.
Despite recent gains, the countries of the region have an average income of about S600 a
year, which is low among developing countries worldwide. About 80 percent of the population is emerging from socialism—more than in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union—while the middle-income countries of Korea. Malaysia, and Thailand comprise just S percent of East Asia's people. The significance of this is that East Asia has sustained rapid growth and far-reaching social and economic reforms at relatively low income levels and when their economies were undergoing major internal reforms. This augurs well and suggests that further inroads may be made in reducing poverty and protecting the environment as the reform process advances, underpinned by larger regional flows of trade and investment.
Progress in Poverty Reduction
Among all regions. East Asia and Pacific stands out as the one that has made the most
impressive gains in poverty reduction, as well as being the fastest growing. Living standards nave quadrupled in a generation, and health and education indicators have posted significant gains. One striking feature of growth in East Asia has been its evenness; it is spread across most of the population and is not confined to a wealthy elite. Absolute poverty has fallen sharply in East Asia, from a third of the population in 1970 to a tenth in 1990. at a time when the overall population was growing.'* In absolute numbers. East Asia's population living in absolute poverty numbered 400 million in 1970 and 180 million in 1990. Not only were 220 million people lifted above the absolute poverty mark, but over the same period, 42S million people were added to the population—also above the poverty level. The most impressive gains have been made in Indonesia, where the percentage share of absolute poverty has fallen from 60 to IS of the total population over the period, and China, where it fell from 33 *o 10 percent. But progress was impressive almost throughout the region, with Korea and Malaysia cutting their proportion of absolute poor from 23 and 18 percent, respectively, to about
S	percent in each country.
Though the gains have been outstanding, the task ahead is even more challenging. The remaining poor live in remote, barren areas and
are the hardest to lift from poverty, even by sustained economic growth. For this reason, the Bank places special emphasis on targeted poverty strategies in its lending program. But there is reason for confidence: Governments in the region have shown themselves determined to invest in basic human needs, such as health care and education—steps that have proven central to an effective fight against poverty.
Obstacles to Sustained Growth
Despite its impressive performance, the region faces a number of obstacles to sustained growth: indeed, some are so formidable that, if unresolved, they could stop or even reverse the progress now being made. These obstacles include:
The environment. Developing countries of the East Asia and Pacific region have paid insufficient attention to protecting and restoring the environment as population growth, rapid urbanization, and the spread of industry have placed sizable demands on air. water, and forest resources. The consequences today are heavy, with unacceptably high pollution levels in air and water throughout much of the
4 Absolute poverty is defined here as incomc insufficient to maintain a subsistence intake of 2.00 calories a day.
region—particularly in major urban centers. Urgent steps are necessary to reverse this trend and to foster a more efficient and “environment friendly” growth in the years ahead. Addressing the region's environmental needs will cost an estimated $24 billion each year by the year 2000. The Bank has prepared environmental assessments for most countries in East Asia and is seeking to focus borrowers* attention on the long-term benefits of sound environmental policies. Environmental screening of projects, and full impact assessment and mitigation of many, is now standard Bank procedure. Reflecting this priority, the Bank emphasizes sustainable environmental practices in all its lending. In calendar year 1993— the most recent period for which complete figures are available—the Bank lent $3.6 billion dollars for projects in the region with specific environmental components. The Bank was also involved in broad-ranging policy analysis, through the publication of “Toward an Environmental Strategy for Asia.”5 and with other initiatives including:
•	the Asia Water Resources Initiative, advocating a comprehensive, river basin approach to water policy:
•	the Asian biodiversity strategy, involving consultation with nongovernmental organizations and specific project preparation in the region in concert with the Global Environment Facility:
•	the Metropolitan Environment Improvement Program, a coordinated approach to urban environmental management in cities such as Beijing. Jakarta, and Manila:
•	Analytical work on deforestation in the vast area covered by Cambodia, the Lao PDR. and Viet Nam:
•	“Rains Asia." a computer analysis of acid
rains, from which national and regional policy on atmospheric emission can be drawn; and
•	increased investment in environmental projects throughout the region.
Infrastructure bottlenecks. Rapid economic expansion has outstripped the capacity of existing infrastructure and has created serious impediments to further investment and rapid growth. Greater electricitv-generation capacity. sufficient telecommunications facilities, better urban and intercity roads, and efficient ports are high on the list of East Asia's infrastructure needs. Bank estimates suggest that, in the 1980s. infrastructure investment in East Asia may have lagged necessary levels by much as 2 percent to 3 percent of GDP. To make up this shortfall, the region will need an estimated SI.5 trillion in infrastructure investment during the 1990s. Fifty-eight percent of Bank lending to East Asia in fiscal 1994 was for infrastructure, with most going to transportation ($1,340 million). Other infrastructure commitments included power generation ($1,049 million), irrigation ($491 million), urban development ($349 million) and telecommunications ($250 million). (See Table 5-5 for details.) The size of the investment shortfall demands that the private sector play an expanding role in infrastructure financing: in tum. governments of the region will need to establish the appropriate regulatory and legal frameworks to attract and secure such investment.
Financial sector reform. Increased flows of trade and FDI to East Asia are placing strains on exisu'ng financial structures, indicating the
' Brandon. C., and R. Ramunkutty. 1993. “Toward an Environmental Strategy for Asia." World Bank Discussion Paper No. 224. Washington. D.C.
need for more flexible and responsive finance systems. The trend is already under way. but it needs to move more quickly and to incorporate building new or stronger banking systems and money markets. The Bank is working with its member countries, at a range of levels, to upgrade and liberalize finance markets and institutions.
State enterprise reform. Large, inefficient state enterprises obstruct and delay economic growth and the transition to a more efficient market economy. Progress is being made in this highly sensitive reform area across much of the region, particularly in China and Viet Nam. Malaysia is pursuing an ambitious privatization program. The Bank is encouraging borrowing countries to create a competitive environment for business growth and to take steps to expose state enterprises to the discipline of the market. At the same time, however, steps must be taken to provide alternative employment, or some social safety net. for those displaced by such reforms.
Trade imbalances. East Asia is currently running substantial trade surpluses with other trading partners, which is neither desirable or sustainable. Although regional levels of protection are currently relatively high, reductions in tariff levels (on a nondiscriminatorv basis), now under way. are projected to increase penetration of foreign products and lower surpluses while boosting the region's growth and welfare. With the region expected to provide about half the incremental growth in world trade to the year 2000, this is a priority reform area. The Bank is advocating that East Asia become a more active participant in global trade discussions, reflecting the region's rise as a major importer and exporter.
Institution building and strengthening. The need for expanding competent management across most areas of development is emerging as a major issue in East Asia. Whether in pollution monitoring and control, design and implementation of monetary and fiscal policies, or traffic-management planning and regulation, effective institutions are essential. The Bank is assisting countries in a range of fields to establish or strengthen such institutions.
Bank Activities in the Region
Past lending. The World Bank has been actively involved in lending and policy guidance in the region since it made its first loans to Thailand (for railways, ports, and irrigation) in 1950. Japan was also an early borrower and now stands as a monument to successful eco-
nomic development worldwide. Cumulative Bank lending to the region is more than $70 billion, with lending to agriculture and rural development ($16.3 billion), transportation ($13.2 billion), and power ($ 11.8 billion) the major categories.
Fiscal year 1994. Today, the Bank deals with twenty countries in East Asia and Pacific, lending $6 billion in fiscal year 1994. China ($3.1 billion). Indonesia ($1.5 billion), and the Philippines ($478 million) were the biggest regional borrowers. Roughly $1.4 billion of the lending program was in the form of IDA credits. After a fifteen-year hiatus, lending resumed to Viet Nam; in Cambodia, the Bank extended its first-ever credit during the past year.
The Bank's mandate in all its borrowing member countries is to support broad-based economic development and the reduction of poverty. Lending, economic and sector work, and associated technical assistance is aimed at realizing this goal. Central to the Bank's overall approach, however, is the reduction of poverty. In fiscal 1994. twelve projects, valued at $1,035 million had specific poverty reduction components and were included in the program of targeted interventions: that amount was up $391 million from last year's total (eight projects worth $644 million). During the year, one poverty assessment was completed, bringing to six the cumulative total foi the region.
Supervision—Next Steps
The Bank, in accordance with the recommendations of the 1992 report of the Task Force on Portfolio Management, is undertaking more regular supervision of all projects to monitor the quality and effectiveness of implementation. In addition, reviews are conducted annually or biennially of country project performance generally. Management of projects has become computerized, and field offices are now taking a more active role in supervising projects. The region expects to supervise some 300 projects a year over the next three years.
Though portfolio performance is strong, extra attention is needed because newer and less experienced member countries—in terms of economic and institutional strength—make up a growing share of the portfolio. The complexity of projects also is increasing, with some having many components (flood control, power generation, irrigation, and complete resettlement packages, for example), and some applying to several provinces in a single country.
South Asia
South Asia is a region full of contrasts. On the one hand, its economic potential is considerable. During the 1980s. the rate of economic growth in the region was 5.2 percent a year, compared with 3.9 percent among all low-income countries (excluding India and China). Its growth was exceeded—albeit significantly so—only by that in East Asia and Pacific. Progress in reducing fertility led to annual growth, in per capita terms, of nearly 3 percent during a period often referred to as the '“lost decade” in many other regions of the world.
On the other hand. South Asia is also characterized by widespread poverty and unacctpt-ably low standards of living for many of its people. While accounting for a fifth of the world's population, South Asia is also home to nearly half the world's poor (estimated at 390 million persons).6 Regional per capita income currently averages $310, and, with the notable exception of Sri Lanka and several states in India, social indicators are poor. Life expectancy is lower than in any other region except Africa; of every ten children born, at least one is expected to die before the age of one. Problems of poor health and high rates of malnutrition are compounded by low levels of literacy—as of 1990, only 45 percent and 31
percent of South Asian men and women, respectively, were literate—and low school enrollments and high drop-outs. Nearly half of the region's children do not complete primary school.
The Challenges of Development
The Gulf crisis of 1990—91, coupled with political upheavals in the former Soviet Union (which sharply diminished traditional export markets), exposed major weaknesses in the development path that countries of the region took in the 1980s. This was demonstrated for India in 1991, when, as a result of the Gulf crisis-induced oil-price shock, a severe balance-of-payments crisis ensued, and gold reserves had to be pledged to avoid a disruption in debt servicing. Pakistan has thus far avoided the same sort of crisis, but its reserve position needs strengthening, and the government has been slow to bring chronic fiscal deficits under control. Other countries remain heavily dependent on concessional funding and are thus vulnerable to external shocks from an environment in which aggregate aid is unlikely to expand and competition for scarce funds is becoming increasingly strong.
While rates of growth in the 1980s were high , they were not sustainable. Progress at reducing poverty was most rapid in the early 1980s. but the pace moderated in the latter part of the decade. in large part the result of the worldwide slowdown in economic growth. The fundamental challenge facing South Asia today is how to continue the high economic performance of the previous decade with concomitant rapid and sustained reductions in poverty and improvements in social indicators. A sustainable growth path for the 1990s must be based on small fiscal deficits, a sustainable balance-of-payments outlook, and improved environmental quality. Countries of the region—be they small, island economies like the Maldives or semi-industrial giants like India—face three
6	As estimated from Chen. Shaohua. Guarav Dan. and Martin Ravallion. "Is Poverty Increasing in the Developing Worid?" (Policy Research Working Paper number 1146. June 1993).
m^jor challenges in ensuring continued progress through the 1990s:
First, to deepen economic reforms in order to attain high growth and greater economic resilience;
Second, to broaden and further accelerate efforts to reduce poverty and improve living conditions—as East Asia has shown can be done; and
Third, to better manage the environment to ensure sustainable development.
Deepening Reforms
Two themes have characterized until recently the development approach of most South Asian economies: a strong economic role for. the state and relatively inward-looking development strategies. The broad consensus in development thinking—borne by the successes and failures of past decades—is that countries do better, both in generating growth and reducing poverty, with more market-friendly policies and outward-looking strategies. While there is general agreement in South Asia about the direction of needed reforms, the
pace has been uneven, typically reflecting broader political economy issues and electoral cycles. Recent progress is most evident in fiscal developments and tax reforms, external policies, and financial reforms.
In the public sector, the primary focus is on structural reforms to underpin medium-term fiscal adjustment, particularly tax reform and expenditure reduction and restructuring. In the area of tax reform, India has made significant progress in removing several tax-induced distortions. Measures set out in the fiscal year
1995	budget continue tax-reform progress by broadening the tax base and reducing the dispersion of tax rates. Excise taxes were streamlined, with many being shifted from specific to ad valorem rates. Taxes on corporate income, as well as on capital gains, were also reduced. Progress continued in Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri L&nka towards moving to a full-fledged value-added tax, and Pakistan made important progress in broadening the tax base by introducing an agricultural income and wealth tax.
On the fiscal side, Pakistan's political transition in 1993 contributed to a deterioration in
the fiscal deficit, which rose to a record high
9.5	percent of gross domestic product (GDP).7 The caretaker government moved rapidly to strengthen the fiscal position, control monetary expansion, and reduce the balance-of-payments deficit. The rupee was devalued, and measures were enacted to contain spending and increase revenue. Fiscal adjustment has continued under Pakistan’s new government, leading to a notable reduction in the fiscal deficit in the second half of 1993. Fiscal stability continued in Bangladesh. Although buoyant revenues helped increase public savings from 2 percent to 2.4 percent of GDP, the expected increase in public investment lagged as a result of continuing delays in project implementation. In Sri Lanka, a reduction in current expenditures led to positive public savings for the first time in many years. In India, however, fiscal slippage occurred: The central government deficit widened from 5.6 percent of GDP in
1992	to more than 7 percent in 1993. Forty percent of the increment in the deficit can be attributed to shortfalls on the revenue side, while 60 percent was the result of an overshooting of spending targets.
Progress was slow in the area of privatization and public enterprise reform. While the privatization of small and medium-scale enterprises continued briskly in Sri Lanka, Pakistan’s political transition slowed the process. In April
1994,	however, the government announced that it intended to privatize fifty-one industries by the end of the calendar year. Over the past year, Nepal either privatized or liquidated seven (out of fifty-one) enterprises earmarked for divestiture.
Developing a leaner and more efficient public sector is only one part of the reform agenda. A dynamic private sector has an important complementary role to play to ensure sustained, high-quality growth. While notable advances have been made in recent years, much still remains to be done to improve the environment for private sector development in the region. In addition to continued public enterprise reform and privatization, infrastructure must be expanded and measures undertaken to improve die overall business environment through deregulation, further reductions in trade barriers, exchange-rate reforms, and financial sector development and integration— all key enabling factors necessary for private sector development.
Countries of the region continued to pursue more outward-looking strategies through trade liberalization and exchange-rate reforms. In
7	The fiscal years of the region’s countries vary widely. Year-spccific numbers in this section, therefore, correspond roughly,'unless otherwise indicated, to calendar, years.	:'
funding has been increasedfar endemic disease-coutrol programs. InSri Lanka, steps have been taken to improve the taigeting of income-transfer and social safety net programs.
The role of local governments is expanding, and a more hospitable environment in which nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) can operate in the regfon is being created. Bangladesh is in tbe midst of implementing a new local government structure, with the objective of increasing grassroots participation inthe design and implementation of programs to develop human resources and local infrastructure. District elections have been held; subdistrict development coordinating committees established; and the entire local government structure is expected to be in place by mid
1994.	Governments* attitudes towards NGOs have become for more positive over the past several years, and the region is host to some of the world’s best-known NGO initiatives, such as Bangladesh’s Grameen Bank, the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee, India's Self-Employed Women’s Association, the Aga Khan Rural Support Project CAKRSP) in Pakistan, and Sri Lanka’s Sarvodaya, as well as a wide range of lesser-known but equally impressive NGO efforts. These diverse programs have great potential for helping to reduce poverty and improve living conditions in the region. Some governments have begun to replicate dements of NGO programs: For example, the government of Pakistan has recently initiated a National Rural Support Program (modeled after theAKRSP), which is designed to promote community-level self-sufficiency and reduce poverty.
Ensuring Environmental Sustainability
South Asia’s current development strategies hold forth the promise of sustained, rapid, and
poverty-reducing economic growth. This growth, superimposed on a rapidly growing and urbanizing population, inevitably will put more pressure on air, water, and land resources. Problems are already apparent in terms of increased levels of air and water pollution, contamination by toxic wastes, soil erosion, land degradation, and deforestation. In addition, the environment is adversely affected in many countries by the presence of incentive regimes that encourage intensive use of high-polluting energy, inefficient use of surface wa^ ter and groundwater, underinvestment in sanitation and waste management, and inadequate protection of soils and forests.
Protecting the natural resources of the region is a complex, and long-term process. Governments face difficult policy dilemmas as they search for ways to accelerate growth and ensure environmental sustainability. Some progress has been made in recent years in addressing these issues. National environmental action plans (NEAPs) were completed and openly debated in Sri Lanka in 1991, and in India, Nepal, and Pakistan in 1993. These documents, together with follow-up workshops in each country, provide a base for prioritizing donor assistance. Parallel to the NEAP process, explicit steps have been taken to strengthen environmental management. For example, newordinances have been passed in Pakistan that mandate higher environmental quality standards, decentralized responsibility for pollution control, and an expansion of the staff of national and provincjal-level environmental institutions. In India, new national pol-ides have been adopted to combat industrial pollution through both increased regulations and some fiscal incentives. In addition, in 1994 the government strengthened regulations governing environmental assessments, requiring,
poverty-reducing economic growth. This growth, superimposed on a rapidly growing and urbanizing population, inevitably will put more pressure on air, water, and land resources. Problems are already apparent in terms of increased levels of air and water pollution, contamination by toxic wastes, soil erosion, land degradation, and deforestation. In addition, the environment is adversely affected in many countries by the presence of incentive regimes that encourage intensive use of high-polluting energy, inefficient use of surface water and groundwater, underinvestment in sanitation and waste management, and made-quate protection of soils and forests.
Protecting the natural resources of the region is a complex and long-tenn process. Governments face difficult policy dilemmas as they search for ways to accelerate growth and ensure environmental sustainability. Some progress has been made in recent years in addressing these issues. National environmental action plans (NEAPs) were completed and openly debated in Sri I-anka in 1991, and in India, Nepal, and Pakistan in 1993. These documents, together with follow-up workshops in each country, provide a base for prioritizing donor assistance. Parallel to the NEAP process, explicit steps have been taken to strengthen environmental management. For example, new ordinances have been passed in Pakistan that mandate higher environmental quality standards, decentralized responsibility for pollution control, and an expansion of the staff of national and provincial-level environmental institutions. In India, new national policies have been adopted to combat industrial pollution through both increased regulations and some fiscal incentives. In addition, in 1994 the government strengthened regulations governing environmental assessments, requiring,
funding has been increased for endemic disease-control programs. In Sri Lanka, steps have been taken to improve the targeting of income-transfer and social safety net programs.
The role of local governments is expanding, and a more hospitable environment in which nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) can operate in the region is being created. Bangladesh is in tbe midst of implementing a new local government structure, with the objective of increasing grassroots participation in the design and implementation of programs to develop human resources and local infrastructure. District elections have been held; subdistrict development coordinating committees established; and the entire local government structure is expected to be in place by mid
1994.	Governments' attitudes towards NGOs have become far more positive over the past several years, and the region is host to some of the world's best-known NGO initiatives, such as Bangladesh’s Grameen Bank, the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee, India's Self-Employed Women's Association, the Aga Khan Rural Support Project (AKRSP) in Pakistan, and Sri Lanka's Sarvodaya, as well as a wide range of lesser-known but equally impressive NGO efforts. These diverse programs have great potential for helping to reduce poverty and improve living conditions in the region. Some governments have begun to replicate elements of NGO programs: For example, the government of Pakistan has recently initiated a National Rural Support Program (modeled after the AKRSP), which is designed to promote community-level self-sufficiency and reduce poverty.
Ensuring Environmental Sustainability
South Asia's current development strategies hold forth the promise of sustained, rapid, and
among other things, broad consultation and public participation. Many Indian states have adopted participatory approaches that utilize economic incentives to protect forests and preserve biodiversity.
The Bank’s Strategy for the Region
The direction of the Bank's lending program in fiscal 1994 and the underlying economic and sector work were guided by the challenges facing countries in South Asia—the need to promote sustained growth, reduce poverty, and improve living conditions. In line with these objectives, a key focus of the economic and sector work program was on the role of fiscal reforms and reforms in the agriculture, infrastructure, and human resources sectors in promoting sustainable growth and reducing poverty. Analysis of factors that encourage private sector development was also central to the work program, and efforts were made to im-' prove dissemination of findings both within the region and more broadly outside.
The South Asia loan portfolio includes 242 projects and commitments totaling $26.6 billion as of June 30,1994. The portfolio consists primarily of investment loans. The principal change has been in sectoral composition, as the share in lending for agriculture has gradually dropped while the share accounted for by the human resources sectors has increased (from an average 5 percent in the period fiscal 1985-89 to 19 percent in fiscal 1994).
Bank lending during the past year totaled $2,370 million, a decrease of $1,046 million over fiscal 1993. The decrease can be attributed to two factors; first, both the Bank and gov-emments are exercising greater care during the project cycle in order to achieve higher quality-at-entry for new projects, particularly in complex sectors dealing with sensitive issues (such as resettlement and the environment); second, a buildup of reserves and an improved balance-of-payments situation in several countries has made adjustment borrowing less necessary, at
least for the present. The past year's lending program had a strong focus on the poor. Five operations (accounting for $741.8 million, or31 percent of new lending) are included in the program of targeted interventions (PTI), while one adjustment operation (accounting for $250 million) had a poverty focus.
During the past year, the region focused on three types of portfolio-implementaticn issues in an attempt to strengthen performance and improve the quality of the Bank's lending portfolio. First, by giving priority to reducing project complexity and ensuring readiness for implementation, the quality of new projects entering the portfolio has been upgraded. Second, actions were taken to strengthen portfolio-management practices to deal expeditiously with problem projects and reduce project gestation time. Problem projects are reviewed on a quarterly basis to ascertain the extent of progress in implementing remedial measures and to recommend and/or endorse restructuring as required. Gestation time is being reduced by focusing on accelerating project start-up, undertaking mid term reviews of projects to provide for early diagnosis and corrective actions, and working to ensure that projects close on time. Third, systemic implementation issues are being tackled through the identification and adoption of measures to improve deficiencies in project funding, procurement, and project management. Country-implementation reviews, sectoral supervision strategies, and vigorous resident-mission support were the principal vehicles for addressing these problems.
Efforts to strengthen performance and improve quality of the portfolio have been successful: Year-to-year average portfolio performance indicators indicate progress in the timely start-up of new operations, in decreasing the number and proportion of problem projects, and in increasing disbursements on investment operations as a percentage of the fiscal year's opening undisbursed balance.
Europe and Central Asia
The process of transition from centrally planned economic systems to market economies has presented difficult challenges for the countries of the Europe and Central Asia region. The economic challenges are complicated by the concurrent political and social transfer-
motion, as well as by the legal and institutional reforms taking place in all of these countries. Successfully addressing these challenges will be critical for completing the transition.
In general, the external environment was adverse during fiscal 1994. Many countries of Central and Eastern Europe, whose economies have been in transition for several years, were attempting to rebound in the face of continued economic slowdown by their major trading partners in Western Europe. Such slowdown contributed in part to a dampening of export expansion for countries such as Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, and Romania.
The states of the former Soviet Union (FSU) continued to face problems stemming from dissolution of the union, including the breakdown of the trade-and-payments system. Trade within the republics of the FSU contracted further during the year. Importers of energy from the FSU faced further terms-of-trade deterioration as energy prices from Russia and elsewhere moved closer to world levels. Terms of trade deteriorated by more than 20 percent in
1993	in Belarus, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Moldova.
Country experiences have become increasingly differentiated. On the one hand, some economies have stabilized and are on the way to a restoration of growth. In 1993, for instance, Poland registered a second consecutive year of expansion, the economy surged in Albania, and output stabilized in Estonia, the Czech Republic, and Romania.	.
On the other hand, some countries have yet to make progress towards sustained stabilization. Since the beginning of 1994, inflation has been reduced in the Russian Federation, largely as a result of tighter credit in the latter part of 1993 that was associated with a build-up in arrears of government wage and other payments. However, maintaining this reduction will require further progress on structural reforms, such as lower fiscal deficits consistent with the new role of the state and further liberalization of the incentive regime and improved allocation of credit, in particular.
In several countries, the transition process is being eased by flows of private capital invest-
ment and technology from abroad: Hungary received more than $1 billion in foreign direct investment (FDI) during 1993; the Czech Republic and Poland were also major recipients; and FDI more than doubled in 1993 compared with 1992 in Kazakhstan, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and the Slovak Republic.
Acceleration of private sector activity appears to have been a key component of any turnaround in growth in most countries. Today, more people work in the private sector than in the public enterprise sector in the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Poland.
Most countries are experiencing rising unemployment associated with the downsizing of public sector enterprises. In Central and Eastern Europe, open unemployment continued to increase in 1993. In the republics of the FSU, open unemployment has emerged more slowly. However, “hidden unemployment” in the form of short hours or unpaid leave at the enterprise level is growing. In Ukraine, for example, it was estimated at 9 percent during
1993.	Although registered unemployment re-
mains at under 2 percent of the labor force in Russia, the real level of unemployment is substantially higher. In many countries, employment and wages in declining industries are being maintained only through significant credits from the banking system.
The introduction of individual currencies, which began in fiscal years 1992 and 1993, accelerated—in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan, for example. Exchange-rate regimes vary across countries, ranging from a fixed exchange rate based on a currency board with full reserve backing in Estonia and Lithuania, to floating regimes in Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Latvia.
In Turkey, the many improvements in economic policies and performance during the 1980s have been undermined by a steady deterioration in public finances in recent years and deterioration of the external position in 1993, culminating in a severe currency crisis in January 1994. In April, the government unveiled an adjustment program focusing on stabiliza-
Box 5-6. Privatization Progress in the Russian Federation
Progress in privatization has been the centerpiece of the government's achievements in structural reform of the economy. The Russian privatization program has privatized a larger number of enterprises than any other program in the world. As of March 1994, more than 60 percent of the industrial workforce was employed in privatized enter. prises. More than 12,000 enterprises were privatized via voucher auction by J une 1994when voucher, privatization was brought to a close.
: Tins will still leave several thousand large and medium enterprises to be privatized through ei-. ther cash auctions, investment tenders, or other special arrangements.	'	r
Small-scale privatization has also kept pace,
’ though) with significant regional variation; currently more than 70 percent of all small-scale re-tall, catering, and service enterprises have been privatized.	•
Many state and collective forms have been technically privatized, though they remain under collective leadership, and most have not been
significantly restructured. Privatization has accelerated, however, with the recent removal of -restrictions on buying and selling of agricultural land. Under a pilot program in the Nizhny Novgorod region currently beingpromoted by the ; International Finance Corporation, the private, sector investment arm of the World Bank, man-bers of collectives can elect to divide their farms and then bid on parcels of land to work individually or in partnership with other owners. By: ; June 30, 1994, some six collective farms'inthe :	region	had: been sold under the program:. In v
:; , March 1994, the government committed itself to expanding the program beyond Nizhny Novgorod, and the IFC is now moving to help the:• country implement the expanded program. : ' Housing privatization began late in l992,::with • more than 1 million units in Moscow and more than 25 percent of eligibleunits nationwide hav-' ing been privatized to date; most have been given to occupants under a nationwide inunework of . providing housing on a giveaway basis.;
the portfolios of commercial banks—a legacy that has undermined the dual objectives of restructuring existing enterprises and providing adequate credit to emerging enterprises. A decentralized approach, relying heavily on bank leadership in restructuring, has been put into place in Poland; it is being complemented by a special support mechanism for handling large or locally sensitive loss-makers. In Hungary, more emphasis has been placed on strengthening and enforcing bankruptcy laws. Elsewhere—in Albania, the Kyigyz Republic, and Romania, for example—more centralized approaches have been introduced, in which a subset of problematic enterprises has been isolated from the rest of the banking system.
The Bank’s Strategic Objectives
The Bank's operations have rapidly evolved to respond to the diverse needs of its borrowing countries. The former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) of Macedonia fulfilled requirements pursuant to resolutions of the Bank's executive board providing for succession to membership of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and became a member of the Bank; a financial workout program was developed under the leadership of the Netherlands that cleared that country's arrears to the institution; and an economic recovery loan to the country was approved in February 1994. Lending operations were also initiated in Belarus, Croatia, Kazakhstan, Slovenia, and Uzbekistan, as well as in the newly formed Czech Republic and Slovakia.
The speed and comprehensiveness with which borrowers have embarked on a reform program vary greatly, as do the initial conditions facing their economies. As a result, the Bank's assistance is tailored to match individual country circumstances. However, some features of the adjustment effort have been common across countries. The start of transition has usually taken place in the midst of strong output declines. At this stage, the Bank has quickly provided balance-of-payments support to help redress such declines. These have been the so-called “rehabilitation" loans. During fiscal year 1994, such rehabilitation operations were approved for Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Moldova; similarly, an economic recovery loan was approved for Slovakia and FYR Macedonia. These operations are complemented by institution-building and technical assistance operations essential for the early development of institutions needed in the development of markets.
The Bank also has helped finance selected critical infrastructure-maintenance investments to avoid deterioration of key infrastructure. In Kazakhstan, a project was approved to restore public transport services, and in Estonia and Russia, programs of highway rehabilitation are being supported. In some cases, output collapse has been compounded by natural disasters to which the Bank has responded, including a drought-recovery loan for Moldova in fiscal year 1993 and an earthquake-rehabilitation credit for Armenia in fiscal year
1994.
Support for privatization and financial sec-	while another project is providing for institu-
tor development. A major focus of Bank sup-	tional strengthening and systems modemiza-
port is the privatization and restructuring of	tion for those banks. The Bank has also
public enterprises and complementary finan-	approved an onlending facility in Romania to
cial sector reform and development. Technical	finance export and industrial investments by
assistance is being provided early in the pro-	the private sector.
cess throughout the region, particularly in the	Public enterprise reforms, including privati-
former Soviet Union. In Kazakhstan, a com-	zation, are also important for the long-run re-
prehensive program was developed with close	duction of public sector deficits and improved
Bank collaboration, with implementation being	efficiency in Turkey. Here, the fiscal year 1994
supported under a technical assistance loan ap-	lending program supported a build up in insti-
proved in fiscal year 1994.	tutional capacity for accelerated preparation
Bank operations were also approved during	and implementation of the government’s priva-
the past year to strengthen financial inftastruc-	tization agenda; this support included a safety
ture in Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan.	net program that will alleviate the impact of
For example, support has been provided for	state-owned enterprise downsizing and dives-
the modernization of the interbank payments	titure on displaced workers and their families,
system, essential for improving the trade and	Injrtistructure, energy, and environment. In
payments situation. Twinning arrangements	countries where structural transformation is
are being financed to strengthen commercial	well advanced and the public finance situation
and savings banks—their success in Poland has	is stable, sectoral lending has intensified to al-
contributed to the ability of the commercial	leviate constraints to the growth of the private
banks to clean up their portfolios. After some	sector. Fiscal 1994 evidenced active support to
progress is made, Bank support has been ex-	the oil and gas, telecommunications, and trans-
panded into sector adjustment lending to	portation sectors.
deepen sectoral reforms in this area. The Bank	During the past year the Bank continued
approved an enterprise and financial sector ad-	work begun in 1992 at the request of the major
justment operation for Slovenia to fiirther de-	industrialized countries (the G-7) to develop
velopment of the private sector. After initial	energy strategies in certain countries of the re-
balance-of-payments support to the Kyrgyz	gion with high-risk. Soviet-designed nuclear re-.
Republic in fiscal 1993, an adjustment opera-	actors. This effort has been carried out in close
tion is now focusing on privatization, reducing	collaboration with the European Bank for Re-
the financial burden stemming from large loss-	construction and Development, the European
making enterprises, and enhancing the envi-	Investment Bank, the International Energy
ronment for private sector development.	Agcncy, the G-7, and the countries themselves.
Under certain circumstances, the Bank has	Regional strategies and country-specific
also provided some financial intermediation	studies—Lithuania and Ukraine this past fiscal
lending. The Russia Enterprise Support Project	year—are being developed to. lay out an inte-
supports initiation of term lending to private	grated approach to power sector development
enterprises from a core of commercial banks,	and nuclear safety. The Bank is playing its part
in support of the necessary policy reforms and the financing of conventional power investments, while working in a coordinated manner with other financing sources for nuclear safety and nuclear power.
National environmental actions plans (NEAPs) were completed in fiscal year 1994 for Belarus and Ukraine—adding to the eight completed earlier—and work began on NEAPs for the Kyrgyz Republic and Moldova. Based on these strategies, Bank assistance can be coordinated with other financing sources to provide financing for conventional power investments while supporting policy reforms critical for cost-effective energy conservation and public safety. The second oil rehabilitation project in Russia includes a component to prevent negative environmental effects from the project and to begin remedial actions to address past damage. In Bulgaria, the Water Companies Restructuring and Modernization Project is financing investments in wastewater treatment that will reduce river pollution as well as contribute to the clean-up of the Danube river and the Black sea. In most of the former socialist countries, actions to establish dear rules on environmental liability have been included in operations supporting privatization. Four Central and Eastern European countries have received assistance from the Global Environment Facility for biodiversity conservation, mainly to improve transboundary protected areas, and good early progress on implementation was made during the fiscal year.
Poverty and social sectors. To promote employment opportunities and reduce cr prevent poverty, recovery of output and job creation are essential. The Bank’s programs, including support for enterprise restructuring, private sector development, and deregulation of prices and marketing channels, are critical in this regard. At the same time, however, social protection must be provided for those unable to take advantage of these opportunities. Improved targeting and rationalization of social services remain crucial. To facilitate targeting of social benefits to the neediest and the development of policies aimed at poverty reduction, the Bank is supporting collection of household survey data and careful in-depth analysis. In fiscal year 1994, a poverty assessment was car-tied out for Poland, and poverty-assessment work was initiated in several countries, including Russia. During fiscal 1994, an operation to improve the social safety net was approved for
Albania. In fiscal year 1994, a Women in Development Fund was established in the Bank’s Europe and Central Asia regional office to support work in new areas of inquiry on gender and transition.
The Bank also is supporting the rationalization of social sector expenditures and prevention of the deterioration in key social services. Work on the health sector in Russia was carried out during the year, laying the groundwork for the development of lending operations. Education projects were approved for Albania and Romania.
Focus on Portfolio Quality
The institutional and economic flux characterizing countries in transition calls for a sharp focus on portfolio quality and effective implementation. Among new member countries, implementation is complicated by the lack of familiarity with Bank procedures. Procurement and disbursement, in particular, present difficulties. The Bank is helping to develop efficient counterpart units and is establishing project accounts and audit procedures. Thus, in Moldova, procurement and disbursements have been accelerated for two projects approved in fiscal 1993. It is also continuing to prepare and translate standardized bidding documents, adapted to local conditions, to promote the reform of public procurement regulations through technical assistance or Institutional Development Fund grants, and to hold pro-, curement and disbursement seminars.
The Bank is also quickly incorporating lessons learned into project design. Efforts are being made to keep project design simple and limit project components. Given the unprecedented situation facing many borrowers in the region, the Bank puts a premium on its ability to be flexible and adaptable. Institutional development is an imperative, and almost all projects have significant institutional development components.
Field offices are playing an increasing role in effective project implementation, in addition to facilitating policy dialogue. Two new resident missions were established during the past year—in Belarus and Kazakhstan—bringing the total in the region to fourteen. The number of field-office staff has grown as well, and higher-level staff—including those who are locally recruited—are increasingly involved in implementation assistance to the borrower, including procurement administration.
Latin America and the Caribbean
The Latin America and the Caribbean panorama in 1993 shows large disparities in growth rates across countries, a definite downward trend in inflation in most countries, continued capital inflows, significant expansion of regional trade, and a growing perception that investment in social and economic infrastructure must be increased.
During 1991-93, the region grew, on average, by 3.2 percent annually, almost double the av-
erage growth that took place, during the postdebt crisis years. Average growth of 3.5 percent in 1993 compares favorably with the 2.8 percent achieved in 1992.	.
The region's growth figures are greatly influenced by Brazil's performance. If Brazil were excluded, the region’s growth record worsened in 1993 with respect to the average of the previous two years, dropping from about 5 percent to 2.8 percent: The fall was due mainly to the poor performance of Mexico and Venezuela. Some Central American countries, however, continued to show strong growth: Panama (7 percent), Costa Rica (5.6 percent), and El Salvador (5 percent). In South America, Argentina, Chile, and Colombia also experienced growth of more than 5 percent.
Until 1993, the Caribbean countries had experienced a dccade marked by high rates of growth (6 percent on average). During 1993, however, growth slowed in some countries (particularly in Jamaica) and was elusive in others—in Haiti, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago, for example. Only Guyana continued to record a high growth rate—7 percent, following 8 percent in 1992 and 6 percent in 1991. The: Dominican Republic was not able to continue at the fast pace of the previous year (7.5 percent), falling to 3.5 percent..
The sluggishness of growth in the Caribbean means that the efforts to improve competitiveness were not sufficient to cope with the rapidly changing external scenario. The key challenges areto find ways to offset the decline in official flows and the erosion of preferential trading arrangements, particularly for bananas and sugar.
The slowdown in the rate of growth in many Latin American countries appears to be mainly cyclical. It is partly the result of the recession in the industrialized world, which reduced demand for the region’s exports. The 4.5 percent fall in the region’s term of trade during 1993 reinforced the effect of this recession. In addition, .some countries that recently adopted reforms are still adjusting to a new set of widely different relative prices. Adjustment takes time, and the costs of resource realignment must be borne before benefits are reaped.
those ofthe'nonindigenous populations. An im-	gentina, Bolivia, Mexico, and Venezuela,
portant correlate of poverty among indigenous	while Mexico has signed agreements with
groups is a lack of education, which is substan-	Costa Rica and Venezuela-Colombia. Guate-
tiaOy below that of the general population.	mala and El Salvador have entered into a re-
The Bank’s commitment to development and	gional free-trade agreement, which wQl also
to poverty reduction go hand in band. In gen-	involve Honduras. Bolivia, Colombia, Ecua-
eral, trends in income inequality appear to have . dor, Peru, and Venezuda have signed a multi-been significantly influenced by trends in per	lateral trade agreement Trade has been opened
capita income; thus, the higher the growth in	up in most CARICOM countries (with the exincome per capita, the lower the inequality. In	ception of Antigua and Barbuda, and Belize),.
Latin America, as elsewhere, die Bank’s ef-	the first stage of a common external tariff has
forts to reduce poverty follow a two-pronged	been implemented, and nontariff trade barriers
approach: promotion of broad-based economic	continue to be reduced. Representatives of
growth and the targeting of assistance to poor	twenty-two countries and several dependent
and vulnerable groups.	territories in the Caribbean basin have con-
Th, Wrir.c -tv.*. intaoTohnn	duded the first round of talks aimed at creating
The Americas: Trade and Integration	a new regional trading bloc.
One of the most significant economic fea-	The NAFTA is one of the world’s most com-
tures of the late 1980s and early 1990s has been	prehensive free-trade pacts (short of bring a
the dramatic increment in intraregional trade.	common market) among regional partners.
This was due, first, to trade liberalization and	Some provisions took place on January 1,1994,
second, to regional/bilateral trade agreements—	the day the agreement went into effect, and
MERCOSUR (Argentina, Brazil. Paraguay,	others will be implemented over a period of
and Uruguay), CARICOM (the Caribbean	five, ten, and fifteen years. Special features inCommon Market) with Colombia and Venezu-	dude: the opening up of service sectors, par-
da, and other initiatives. These initiatives are	ticularly in finance, land transportation, and
likely to be replicated through the North Amer-	telecommunications; the immediate conver-
icanTree Trade Agreement (NAFTA), as well	sion of key agricultural restrictions into tariff-
as through additional bilateral agreements.	rate surcharges (which wQl be phased out in no
Chile has signed bilateral agreements with Ar-	more than fifteen years); the dismantling of tra-
those of the nonindigenous populations. An important correlate of poverty among indigenous groups is a lack of education, which is substantially below that of the general population.
The Bank’s commitment to development and to poverty reduction go hand in hand. In general, trends in income inequality appear to have been significantly influenced by trends in per capita income; thus, the higher the growth in income per capita, the lower the inequality . In Latin America, as elsewhere, the Bank’s efforts to reduce poverty follow a two-pronged approach: promotion of broad-based economic growth and the targeting of assistance to poor and vulnerable groups.
The Americas: Trade and Integration
One of the most significant economic features of the late 1980s and early 1990s has been the dramatic increment in intraregional trade. This was due, first, to trade liberalization and second, to regional/bilateral trade agreements— MERCOSUR (Argentina, Brazil. Paraguay, and Uruguay), CARICOM (the Caribbean Common Market) with Colombia and Venezu-. ela, and other initiatives. These initiatives are likely to be replicated through the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), as well as through additional bilateral agreements. Chile has signed bilateral agreements with Ar-
gentina, Bolivia, Mexico, and Venezuela, while Mexico has signed agreements with Costa Rica and Venezuela-Colombia. Guatemala and El Salvador have entered into a regional free-trade agreement, which will also involve Honduras. Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela have signed a multilateral trade agreement. Trade has been opened up in most CARICOM countries (with the exception of Antigua and Barbuda, and Belize), the first stage of a common external tariff has been implemented, and nontariff trade barriers continue to be reduced. Representatives of twenty-two countries and several dependent territories in the Caribbean basin have con-eluded the first round of talks aimed at creating a new regional trading bloc.
The NAFTA is one of the world’s most comprehensive free-trade pacts (short of being a common market) among regional partners. Some provisions took place on January 1,1994, the day the agreement went into effect, and others will be implemented over a period of five, ten, and fifteen years. Special features include: the opening up of service sectors, particularly in finance, land transportation, and telecommunications; the immediate conversion of key agricultural restrictions into tariff-rate surcharges (which will be phased out in no more than fifteen years); the dismantling of tra-
ditionally high barriers by the.United States and Canada on imported textiles and apparel; the introduction of innovative dispute-settlement procedures; and the establishment of a mechanism to address cross-border environmental issues. The NAFTA's long-term ef-feet on Mexico will have major secondary effects on poverty reduction, the environment, human resources, and rural/urban development.
The most notable increment in intraregional trade has occurred in the MERCOSUR countries. From 1987 to 1993, the share of intramember trade increased from about 22 percent to almost 40 percent in Argentina; 13 percent to 23 percent in Brazil; and from about 30 percent to some 48 percent, in Uruguay. MERCOSUR has also changed the trade patterns of its partners. In 1990, for instance, the Brazilian government ceased providing incen-ti ves to its wheat producers, thus giving a boost to imports of cheaper Argentinian wheat; it is expected that Argentina wQl. eventually fill about 70 percent of Brazil's wheat-import needs. Argentina's substantial exports to Brazil during 1993 helped reduce its bilateral trade deficit from $1.7 billion to $600 million.
Trade between Argentina and Chile has also increased significantly, from about $600 million in 1990 to about $1 billion in 1993. Further economic integration will be boosted by the construction of new transAndean oil and gas pipelines. Moreover, since 1991, Chile has become one of the biggest investors in Argentina, with total investment of about $2.7 billion.
Although the increasing share of intra-regional trade might have involved some diversion of trade from the rest of the world, for many countries there was also significant trade creation: During the period 1987-93, Argentina expanded the value of its trade to GDP from 13 percent to 20 percent, Chile from 36 percent to 73 percent, Colombia from 37 percent to 44 percent, Costa Rica from 64 percent to 92 percent, Mexico from 25 percent to 39 percent, and the Caribbean countries from 67 percent to 78 percent. This aggregate expansion of trade decelerated in 1992, however, and came to a halt in 1993, as the ratio of exports to GDP remained roughly the same for most countries. Only seven countries increased (slightly) their exports during the year.
Overall trade expansion was stalled by two. events. The world demand for regional exports was weakened by recession in the industrial countries, and the exchange rate in many countries of the region appreciated as a result of large capital inflows, thereby reducing the international competitiveness of the region’s exports. These inflows are currently financing
increased domestic expenditures and will pose important challenges if they slow down.9 This slowdown process will require significant relative price adjustments that may be difficult to engineer in countries with fixed or quasi-fixed nominal exchange rates. The possibility exists that a reduction in capital inflows might be answered by increased trade protection, thereby negating the effects of the recent opening up of international trade, which has been the backbone of the region’s reform effort.
The key to the enhancement of the region's competitive edge is increased productivity. This requires further trade liberalization, further deregulation of domestic markets (in particular, labor markets), and improvements in the supervision of the deregulation process. Deeper trade liberalization would increase productivity as economies shift their resources to areas of comparative advantage, and the region absorbs state-of-the-art technology. Further domestic market deregulation would also make economies more efficient and, consequently, more competitive. In Peru, for example, it is estimated that labor productivity in the manufacturing sector has increased by about 21 percent since the beginning of the 1990 reform program, which has emphasized both trade liberalization and domestic market deregulation.
Stabilization and Reform in Brazil
Brazil's economy represents about 40 percent of the region's GDP. During the past few years, the economy has experienced large macroeconomic imbalances and several attempts at “shock" stabilization, among them the 1985 “Cruzado Han" and the 1990 Collor Plan, neither of which reduced long-term inflation.
Despite high rates of inflation in 1993, Brazil's economy experienced a substantial recovery, improving from a 0.9 percent decline in output in 1992 to a positive 4.9 percent rate of growth. At the same time, however, the inflation rate increased dramatically. Despite a significant increase in taxes collected, which changed the operational deficit into a 0.7 percent surplus, inflation jumped from about 400 percent in 1992 to 2,752 percent in 1993, and, by December 1993, it was running at an annual rate of about 5,000 percent. Yet another stabilization program was launched in March 1994. With this effort, Brazil has taken the first steps.
*	Most of these inftows have been received by the five largest Latin American economies—mostly in fixed-income securities. From a modest bond issuance of about $400 million in 1989. the market soared to about S23 billion in 1993. The stock markets in the area also' boomed during 1993 due to their small capitalization base and increased investor confidcnce.
in a long-term program that is designed to re-	crease costs, reduce net wages, and promote
solve its fiscal problems and introduce mone-	the informal economy.	.
tary discipline. A return to high and sustainable	• As regional growth is led by growth in the
growth will require that substantial progress be	private sector, actions to sustain that sector’s
made in the near future on the stabilization	development should continue, and the enabling
front.	environment necessary for private sector
Brazil has made major headway in trade re-	growth nurtured.	.
form. In June 1993, it completed a multiyear	• Public sector activities should be reori-
trade-reform program that reduced average tar-	ented to maximize their efficiency; priority
ifEs to 14 percent in the context of a trade-	should be given to investment in infrastructure,
liberalization program. Exports reached $38.7	which, in many cases, has lagged as a result of
billion (compared with $36.1 billion in 1992),	spending cuts mandated by stabilization pro-
and manufactured exports grew from $20.6 bD-	grams.
lion to S23.8 billion. Overall, its trade surplus in	• Investment in health and education is cru-
1993 was $13 billion. The capital account con-	cial for labor productivity.	The cost-
tinued to show large inflows and, by the end of	effectiveness of governments*	health and
1993,	reserves exceeded $32 billion (up $8 bfl-	education expenditures must be assessed,
lion from the year before). Brazil’s trade sector	Many countries still provide blanket higher-
has ample room to grow; the total value of	education subsidies to students	through retrade to GDP was only 15 percent in 1993.	duced or free tuition; by doing	so, income
disparities are widened, and resources are Hie Road Ahead	spent inefficiently.10
The region's challenges are to reduce pov-	• Public sector decentralization has to be
erty and increase the well-being of its people	carefully implemented because local govem-
through environmentally sustainable develop-	ments are often weaker in their administrative
ment. In this context, outward-oriented	capacities than central governments,
growth, integrated with the world economy, is'	• The judicial system, which has become a
crucial. It is also important to sustain fiscal re-	constraint on productivity, must be simplified
form and increase domestic savings. In this en-	and strengthened, and archaic and cumber-
deavor, a carefully planned and executed	some procedures eliminated,
reform of the social security system in many __ _	,	,	_	.	_..	.
countries of the region could be critical (see	The Bank s Strategic Objectives
Box 5-7). Success will depend on increasing ef-	The Bank has made considerable progress in
ficiency through more rapid growth in produc-	the planned transition in lending from adjust-
tivity. An integrated approach to increased	ment to long-term issues—human resources
productivity requires action in several areas:	development, environmentally sustainable de-
•	Domestic markets need to be more dereg-	velopment, and private-sector development. A
ulated at all levels..	_____________	.
•	Labor markets need to be deregulated and 10 The bottom 40 perccnt of the population in the region re-high payroll taxes reduced. These taxes in- . ccives only 13 percent of total higher-education subsidies.
Box 5-7. Pension Reform in Latin America
During the debt and fiscal crisis of the 1980s, Latin America's pension schemes became seriously underfunded. By the end of the decade, falling pensions (in real terms), large social-security deficits, and depleted reserves hat! irreparably damaged the credibility of traditional pension schemes. As the countries of the region entered the 1980s, the movement to privatize pensions gained momentum, encouraged by the apparent success in Chile.	;
In l9Sl, Chile introduced a fidly funded social-security system with individual accounts. It was a mandatory, defined-contribution system to which workers contributed for old age, survivor, and disability benefits. The funds collected from workers were (and are) managed by thirteen private firms that operate under tight supervision with strict investment limitations. Acommittce selects the stocks in winch the thirteen firms can invest. The government guarantees workers a minimum return of the lesser of (a) the average return on all funds less 2 percent or (b) half the average return onall funds. Workers are free to switch their accumulated funds between the firms, thereby creating intense competition among them. Upon retirement, accumulated funds can be taken in a phased withdrawal and/or may be.used to purchase indexed annuities..
If other governments are not exactly beating the door down in their haste to move toward a sodal-security system, CMean style, it’s because of the fiscal implications involved. In Chile, the transition to the new system meant that the public system lost many contributors (and, therefore, much revenue); at the same time, however; it remained liable for pension payments to retirees and retirees-to-be during the transition. A deficit of the public sodal-security system on the scale of the Chilean refinmwould likely intensify fiscal pressures, thereby making a balanced budget that much more difficult to achieve. Other issues tint
■	countries; have to address include equitable treatment of different generations of workers, potential problems that could arise from implementing a Chilean-style system in the absence of well-
developed financial markets, and the need for a strong regulatory and supervisory system. In . countries with fiscal problems a combination of a pay-as-you-go system that provides a minimum base with a complementary fully funded private system might be warranted.	.
Nonetheless, the move toward the privatiza-tionof sodal-security systems has begun in several countries. It is furthest along m Argentina and Peru. In 1992, both governments proposed changes that effectively privatized a large share > of the pension sector. Peru’s new pension law went into effect in June 1993, while Argentina’s was signed into law in October 1993.	-
Not unexpectedly, the new social-security schemes in the three countries have a number of common features. Argentina and Peru have set	^
schemes for the management of social-security funds that are very similar to the one in Chile; in feet, they largely adopted theChilean regulatory; structure.: -\	*•'	'	.	•	•	>;
But the newest schemes also differ from Chile’s in certain important ways as a result of the countries' differing political dimates and institutions. . For; example, the political power of unions and ; pensioners has led Aigentina to maintain a large public “pillar.” Thus, all eligible workers receive a flat benefit equal to30 percent of average cov-ercd wages fromtfcefirstpillarinaddltion to their - ■ pension from the second pillar. And, in contrast to their counterparts in Chile and Argentina, the privatdy managed investment firms in Peru operate in limited domestic capital markets, which : provide few Investment options. In addition; the 7 ■ absence in Peru of reliable records has forced of-: fidals to accept the “sworn statements” of work. ers to establish their past contributions.;
; The future of pension systems is currently a' matter ofdebate in Bolivia, Brazil, Costa Sica;; Mexico, Uruguay, and Venezuela. While the out-; . comes will vary, general weaknesses in social- • ’ security arrangements in Latin America make it likely that, given the chance;increasing numbersv ofworkersinthisregionwilltradeinpublicprom-ises for private accounts.
comparison of the actual fiscal 1991—93 lending program with the proposed program for fiscal 1994-96 shows a decline in lending for adjustment and debt reduction from 24 percent to 3 percent, an increase in lending for human resources/poverty reduction from 23 percent to 33 percent, and an increase In environment and forestry commitments from 7 percent to 13 percent.
The focus on human resources and poverty issues reflects the region's historically highly stratified social structure and skewed distribution of income. The situation cannot be reversed quickly, but improvements can be made
through economic stabilization supported by targeted safety nets, stronger social sector institutions, long-term investments in health and education, the elimination of hidden subsidies for the rich (such as free higher education) and hidden taxes on the poor (such as inflation and trade barriers). During the past year, the Bank approved social sector and/or social investment fund projects in Ecuador and Peru (for $30 million and $100 million, respectively), both broadly patterned on programs begun earlier in Bolivia, El Salvador, and Mexico.
Much of the Bank's investment lending and technical assistance in the environmental area
is oriented towards improving the environmental management capacity of governments (both national and subnational). This focus on institutional strengthening is taking place within a context of widespread privatization, decentralization, and governmental “downsizing" in many countries. The Bank is working with member governments to ensure that adequate capacity exists for carrying out those environmental functions (particularly legal, regulatory, and planning) that remain the responsibility of governments. At the same time, many projects are promoting the increased use of the private sector (including nongovernmental organizations) for the in-the-field implementation of environmental activities such as delivery of urban services, protected area management, and environmental monitoring.
The Bank has been in the forefront of promoting private-sector development. Private sector assessments, which aim at determining the most important factors hampering the business environment, were completed for several countries of the region during the year. Implicit in this work is the idea that governments have a comparative advantage in certain areas— providing price stability, an efficient legal system, secure property rights, security, education and health services, and infrastructure: the private sector, however, has the advantage in the production of goods and services.
Portfolio Performance and Trends
There was further improvement in the region's portfolio performance during the past
year. Good overall economic performance and years of economic reform in many countries have had a positive effect on portfolio performance. The correlation between economic reform and good project implementation is strong; in addition, the convergence of thinking between the Bank and its borrowers on economic issues has made it easier to resolve outstanding problems. Implementation of some projects has been slowed, however, by (among other reasons) shortages of counterpart funds resulting from austerity drives. This problem is typical of countries that are in the early stages of adjustment. Other projects, however, have benefited as governments, such as those in Jamaica and Mexico, have concentrated resources on priority projects. Some countries have established or reinforced mechanisms for monitoring project implementation.
The Bank’s emphasis on quality at entry and borrower commitment and ownership has been the key to the improved quality of its portfolio. Furthermore, importance has been placed on effective supervision of the portfolio of ongoing projects. The quality at entry concept includes . not only the traditional standards of project quality but also borrower ownership and commitment to a project and to design-for-implementation. Borrower commitment and ownership is developed upstream with the involvement of borrowers and other stakeholders in sector work that eventually leads to sector strategies and identification and preparation of projects.
Middle East and North Africa
In calendar year 1993, the Middle East and North Africa region experienced a continued decline in growth rates and marked variability in performance among countries. Real gross domestic product (GDP) growth in 1993 for the eight countries in which the Bank was most active11 was about 1.5 percent, compared with
4.3	percent in 1992 (see Table 5-17). Rates of GDP growth ranged from —1.7 percent in Algeria to 7 percent in Lebanon.
In the Maghreb, Algeria remains in recession as a result of a further decline in petroleum prices, a heavy debt burden, and drought-related declines in agricultural production. Morocco is coming out of two years of drought, during which GDP declined by a cumulative 4 percent. The underlying macroeconomic in. dicators remain favorable for long-term growth, however, and the outlook for 1994 is good because of improved rainfall. Tunisia's GDP grew at about 2.5 percent.
In Iran, real growth slowed from 5.8 percent in 1992 to 3 percent. Two factors, in particular, contributed to the slowdown. First, an oil-price decline reduced export earnings by 15 percent. Second, arrears on short-term trade credits reduced Iran's access to new credit and contributed to a sharp decline in imports and growth.
Egypt continued to pursue its ambitious program of stabilization and structural reform. Growth of output remained below ] percent in fiscal 1993, with only agriculture and construction showing signs of recovery; overall growth is expected to increase gradually to reach 43 percent in fiscal 1996.12 Elsewhere in the Mash-req, Jordan's high rate of growth in 1992 carried over into 1993; GDP growth exceeded 6 percent. But, in contrast to 1992, when growth was largely concentrated in construction and domestic services, 1993 saw a more broadly based pattern of growth. In addition to construction, nonmineral exports, trade services, transportation, and tourism all recorded gains. Lebanon’s reconstruction, supported by large private capital inflows, resulted in robust (7 percent) growth.
Economic reforms remain high on the agenda of most countries. Governments in
Egypt, Iran, and Jordan continued to implement stabilization policies effectively. Morocco and Tunisia have moved from stabilization to longer-term macroeconomic management and structural reform. Algeria is implementing a stabilization program that is being supported by a one-year, $1 billion standby arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. Virtually all economies reduced their fiscal deficits, most notably in Egypt, where the deficit fell from 22 percent of GDP in fiscal 1991 to about 4.7 percent in fiscal 1993. Inflation was kept in check throughout the region; balance-of-payment deficits were reduced, and (with the exception of Iran) large movements in exchange rates were avoided. There were also encouraging signs that private sector activity is picking up—especially in Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, and Tunisia. Increasing foreign direct investment (FDI) is playing an important role in this resurgence. FDI in 1992 almost doubled 199Fs total due to an improved investment climate and was expected to reach $2 billion in 1993.
The historic signing of the peace accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization was the most significant political event in the region during the past fiscal year. The Bank has been a central player in providing technical assistance and aid coordination in support of the peace process (see Box 5-8).
Beyond the immediate impact of the accord on the Occupied Territories, the peace process— should it widen beyond its current scope— would have a number of important implications for fixture economic development in the region:
•	Greater stability would likely increase trade flows, especially for Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, and the Syrian Arab Republic. Stability will also favor inflows of private capital and private investments.
•	The reduction in geopolitical tensions could allow governments to shift public resources away from military expenditures and place greater emphasis on sustainable economic growth, especially human resources development
•	The scope for regional economic cooperation could increase, especially in the areas of water management, the environment, and infrastructure.
Key Development Challenges
The ability of the region to realize the economic benefits of the evolving peace process will depend fundamentally on its capacity to meet three key development challenges: (a) restoring sustained growth; (b) developing human resources; and (c) managing scarce natural resources, especially water.
Restoring sustained growth. Following relatively good economic performance in the 1960s and 1970s, the 1980s and the first years of the current decade have been host to economic crisis, which has led to a drop in per capita incomes in most countries of the region. The crisis has been characterized by a deteriorating external economic environment, particularly the sharp drop in international oil prices, decreasing efficiency in the use of capital, low levels of private investment, and poor export performance. In many countries, GDP growth remains below the rate of population growth. This, in turn, is reflected in high and increasing rates of unemployment, which range from 15 percent in Tunisia and Morocco to 27 percent in Yemen. The consequences of past population growth will continue to be felt through large increases in the labor force. Levels of poverty are also related to growth and employment, a more equitable distribution of the benefits of economic growth, and targeted social safety net interventions. Countries, on the one hand, such as Morocco, which have achieved relatively high, sustained rates of growth, have also been able to reduce the number of poor (from an estimated 5.7 million people in 1985 to about 3.4 million in 1991). In Jordan, on the other hand, where economic growth has not been as sustained, the number of poor has not decreased.
To prevent further increases in unemployment and poverty, the region's economy must grow at about 5 percent per year and be accompanied by labor-intensive methods of production, including the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises. Growth of that magnitude could be realized if rates of investment were to increase to around 25 percent of GDP (compared with an average of 20 percent now) and if the incremental capital-output ratio (ICOR) could be reduced to five from its current level of ten through increased productivity and labor-intensive production. A private sector-oriented growth strategy offers the best prospects of realizing increases in investment and improvements in the ICOR. Traditionally, countries of the region have relied more than other low-income and middle-income countries on public investment. Although the level of private investment nearly doubled between 1970 and 1990, it is still less than 10 percent of GDP (rates are well above the 15 percent mark in the high-performing countries of the East Asia and Pacific region). Moreover, the declining efficiency of investment is largely associated with the implementation of a public sector-led strategy. In most countries of the region, large but inefficient parastatal enterprises continue to dominate the economy.
Bax 5-8. The Worid Bank and the Occupied Territories
The economies of the West Bank and Gaza (the	bOitation program for Gaza. A separate $35 mil-
Occupied Territories) are in a state of crisis, and	lion trust fund aims to provide technical
. a new course will have to be charted to ensure	assistance and to finance feasibility studies in the
renewed growth and job-creation in the economic	Occupied Territories. ,	_
environment likely to be faced in the 1990s. Sus-	In the wake of the October meeting; the Bank
tainable growth prospects are contingent on de-	has moved ahead on three fronts: donor coordi-
veloping central institutions, rehabilitating and	nation, institution building, and program devel-
expanding infrastructure, attracting private in- opment.	_ .
wslments, and htiilding a financial «ectnr. In ad-	/Jo/iorcoort&tarfon. Following the October do-
dition, the new Palestinian self-governing	nors’ meeting, a consultative group meeting was
authority must also develop a reformed legal sys-	convened in December to discuss and agree on
tem, enforce property rights, and collect taxes.	the proposed emergency assistance to the Occu- ,
The World Bank became involved in the Occu-	pied Territories. When it became apparent that a .
pied Territories in early 1993, when it was invited	significant proportion of assistance would have to
by the European Community, the chair of the	be allocated to urgent recurrent expenditures of a
. Economic Working Group, and other participants	start-up or transitional nature, the Bank, was
to prepare a series of reports on regional devel-	asked to prepare tire groundwork for a second
npment with a spggial rnipharis f»n the Occupied	meeting of the group in January 1994. The meet-
Territories. Developing the Occupied Territories,	ing proved to be an unprecedented success in that
an Investment in Peace' was completed by the	substantial pledges were made for financing retime of the historic handshake between Palestine ''	current transitional and start-up expenditures—.
Liberation Organization Chairman Yasir Arafat	types of expenditures not normally fundedbythe
and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, and it	donor community. Donors were also given the
provided the basis for a meeting in October 1993	opportunity to contribute to a newly created :
. : in Washington, DP of the donor community, at	Holst Peace Fund (named after the late Norwe-
' which $2.1 billion was pledged to rebuild the Oc- ■ . gian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Johan Holst), -. cupied Territories. In that same month, the Bank	which would be administered by the Bank. The ... ■
approved the establishment of two trust, funds	fund, which is short term in nature, (disburse- aimed at providing urgent assistance to the West ,	ments are to be completed by around the end of
Bank and Gaza.	^	calendar 1994), wiU finance items sudi'as; con-
A $50 million trust fund, drawn fromthe sumablc healthand education supplies andsala-
■	IBRD's fiscal: 1992 surplus and administered by ries of l»y Palestinian staff. '	;	>	■■
IDA, is aimed at supporting an emergency reha-	Institutional building. The Palestinian Eco-
Because the discrepancy between domestic	Even in well-performing countries such as Tu-
levels of savings and investments is still large,	nisia and Morocco, the adult illiteracy rate is
external capital flows remain vital to the re-	more than 10 percentage points higher than the
gum. In Egypt, for example, investments equal	average for all middle-income countries. The
about 18 percent of GDP, whereas savings	average infant mortality rate for the region is
amount to a mere 7 percent. Overall, savings	around 60 per 1,000 live births, compared with
for the region average about 18 percent of	38 for all middle-income countries. The aver-
GDP, while investment is about 22 percent. If	age population growth for countries of the Midgovernments were to shift to a private sector-	die East and North Africa is among the highest
led growth strategy, an increasing share of ex-	in the world: During the 1980s, the average an-
ternal flows would be directed to the private	nual rate of 3.2 percent was actually higher
sector. The potential exists in the region to in-	than in the 1970s. Further improvements in so-
crease private capital flows—not only through	cial indicators are key to the region’s long-term
FDI and larger levels of workers* remittances	development prospects. To achieve these im-
but also through the reflow of assets held	provements, additional efforts will be needed
abroad. Improvements in macroeconomic	to expand and improve the quality of basic ser-
management and in the investment climate, as	vices. In most cases this would justify subs tan-
well as progress in privatization, will play cen-	tially increased budgetary allocations. There is
tral roles in this process.	also room to improve the internal efficiency of
Developing human resources. In spite of im-	public social services, mobilize private financ-
pressive gains made in social indicators during	ing, and encourage the private provision of so-
the 1980s, many countries still lag behind other	cial services.
middle-income countries on all the basic indi- Managing natural resources. Natural re-cators of educational achievement and health.	source management is another pressing re-
nomic Council for Development and Reconstmc-tion (PECDAR), organized by the Palestine Liberation Organization with the support of the donor community and the Bank, has been desig-natcd as the agcncy in charge of aid coordination and public investment programming during the peace process. To help support PEDCAR and the emerging Palestinian institutions, a wide-ranging program of technical assistance (about $40 minion over three years) was tabled at the December meeting of the consultative group. This program, winch consists of some 100 activities^ is being coordinated in the context of the $35 million technical assistance trust fund, which has drawn cofinancing commitments fiom nine donors, with the prospects of additional cofinancing from five other donors. ■	'	•	•
Program development. The Bank’s report on developing the Occupied Territories rccom-mended that a majorinvestmcnt program in Gaza and the West Bank be initiated over the next five years. Following agreement in May 1994 on the implementation ofthe Declaration of Principles between the Palestinians and the Israelis, the Bank released areport outlining a three-year $1.2 billion program to assist the Palestinians in die transition to autonomous rule.1 ;	'	:
: The goal of the program is to rebuild the in&a.-structure of the Occupied Territories in order to stimulate economic growth by. attracting private investment opportunities fiom expatriate Palestinians, international investors, and Arab states. The $1-2 billion is the uutial installment , of the
$2.1 biUion pledged overfive years at the October
1993	conference (the pledges subsequently increased to $2.4 billion).
The first tangible result of the program was the approval in May 1994 ofa $30 million Trust Fund for Gaza credit on IDA terms in support of an Emergency Rehabilitation Project, which has attracted $98 million in firm cofinancing commitments from the Arab Fund for Economic and. Social Development ($30 million), the Saudi Fund for Development ($30 million), Denmark ($20 million), the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development. ($10 million), and Switzerland ($8 million). The project is financing the rehabilitation, reconstruction, and/or improvement of priority infrastructural services intheeducation, power, water supply and sewerage, and roads sectors. Technical assistance to help strengthen . the capacities of municipalities in Gaza and the West Bank, to support the operations and development of PEDCAR and. to ensure that the project is efficiently and effectively implemented, will also be provided. Project implementation is being supported by Bank staff through intensive field work in the Occupied Territories and from Washington. - ••' ■ >	.	..	'	.	:	•	.	.
gional issue, especially in the case of water. With a few exceptions, the region is moving toward a water crisis. Rainy seasons are short, and agriculture is heavily dependent on irrigation. Rapid population growth and urbanization have pushed demand for water to the point where withdrawals are exceeding replenishments. Few untapped sources of fresh water remain, and countries are increasingly mining groundwater aquifers. By the year 2000, withdrawals in most countries will exceed total freshwater potential. Competing demands from agriculture, industries, and municipalities dictate the need for appropriate demand-management policies—especially in the area of water pricing. But demand management alone cannot meet the full water requirements of burgeoning populations. Technological innovation and modem on-farm technologies, which, in several countries, have succeeded in halving water use while doubling yields, should complement demand-management policies. Alternative sources of water need to be explored, including desalination, wastewater treatment
and reuse, and water imports. These are much more expensive than traditional sources, and research efforts designed to reduce costs, such as the desalination program recently embarked upon in Oman, need to be stongly suppported. Moreover, because many rivers and some important underground aquifers cross national boundaries, agreements at the national and transnational level will increasingly be required.
The Bank’s Strategy for the Region
The Worid Bank's strategy for the Middle East and North Africa region emphasizes sustained commitment to operations and analytical work to promote employment-led growth, foster Human resources development, and improve natural resource management- Increasing attention was devoted in fiscal 1994 to the important interrelationships among economic growth, human resources development, and poverty. While the thrust of the Bank's assistance strategies is aimed at the needs and constraints of individual economies, efforts to promote re-
gional cooperation in areas such as environmental protection and water-resource management are becoming increasingly important.
Stabilization and structural reform also remain high on the Bank’s agenda for the region. In Morocco and Tunisia—which are well advanced in stabilizing their economies and are continuing to undertake structural reforms— the Bank's focus has shifted from stabilization to long-term development. Agricultural sector loans to the two countries that were approved during the past year are emblematic of this shift. Jordan and Egypt are also steadily proceeding on the path of reform. In Egypt, reform is being advanced by the Bank's support for the second phase of the government's Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program, which provides the framework for continued economic reform, even though it is not asso-dated with a specific lending operation. In Jordan, an $80 million energy-sector loan, approved in fiscal 1994, aims at addressing supply-side constraints to growth.
Improvements in the structure of incentives, the regulatory framework, and protection of property rights are needed in many countries of the region to provide the private sectorwith the environment required for increased levels of job-creating investment. During the past year, the Bank addressed private sector development in a variety of.ways. In Tunisia, for instance, financial sector reforms were supported through a private investment project that uses a number of financial institutions to provide long-term credit at market terms to a broad range of private investors. Private sector assessments, which analyze the structure of, and constraints to, the private sector in given countries and which lay out concrete steps that can be taken to advance private sector development, were carried out for Egypt, Morocco, and Tunisia. The Morocco assessment was the centerpiece of a high-level seminar at which the private and public sectors produced an agenda of recommended actions to promote private sector development. Together with the govem-
ment and the private sector, the Bank is developing an. operation to support this agenda.
Human resources development also features prominently in the Bank's operations and sector work. Strategies are molded to the specific needs of individual countries. For example, basic educational services are being supported through an education project approved during the year in Yemen. The Bank's analytical work is also focusing increasingly on the human resources sectors. In Morocco, for example, issues in education were addressed through a literacy and schooling study and through a review ofthe costs and financing of the education sector, and a nutrition strategy was developed to deal with pertinent health issues. In Tunisia, an analysis of the issues feeing post-basic education and training was preparol on the basis of field work and subsequent analysis carried out by national teams. This joint approach is expected to result in strong country ownership of the study’s conclusions.
Environmental issues are being addressed at both the country and regional levels. At the country level, environmental studies and strategies have been completed for Algeria, Egypt, Iran, and Yemen. Specific operations, such as water-supply projects in Algeria and Morocco, dealt directly with pressing water problems. The Morocco Environment Technical Assistance Project was the Bank’s first stand-alone lending operation in the region to focus primarily on environment planning and management. In Egypt, three projects related to the country’s national environmental action plan, which was jointly prepared and endorsed by ten external donors, are currently in the Bank’s lending program. At the regional level, cooperative action continued in the context of the Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program (METAP), which is jointly sponsored
by the European Commission of the European Union, the European Investment Bank, the United Nations Development Programme, and the World Bank. Under the first phase of this program, more than twenty transnational and country-specific projects have been prepared in the areas of water-resource management, hazardous waste management, marine oil and chemical-pollution prevention and control, and coastal zone management. The program has also helped to create important networks of concerned national institutions.
Poverty was the focus of both analytical work and operations. Three poverty assessments, which provide the bans for a collaborative approach to poverty reduction by country officials and the Bank, illustrate the extent to which economic growth has a noticeable effect on poverty reduction. These assessments, for Egypt, Jordan, and Morocco, are also providing the analytical basis for improving public spending in the social sectors and putting in place more effective social safety nets. The poverty assessment for Egypt served as the basis for ongoing reforms in health, human resources development, as well as for improvements in the social safety net and in the pension scheme. The deficiencies in social indicators highlighted by the poverty assessment for Morocco are being addressed in a series of social priorities projects currently under preparation. Targeted poverty-reduction interventions are critical components in the Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project in Tunisia, as well as in the National Rural Finance Project in Morocco, winch also has a component designed to funnel credit to women.
In infrastructure. Bank lending continues to focus on removing key constraints and creating an enabling environment for private sector participation. The Telecommunications Project in
Jordan, for example, supports the creation of a new sector policy and telecommunications law in addition to providing for service improvements. Supported by an expanded cofinancing
operation, the Bank is helping the Jordan Telecommunications Corporation in raising private funds to commercialize, corporatize, and subsequently privatize its operations.
From Strategy to Implementation
Implementation of the Bank's operational strategy has emphasized the ability to respond quickly to changing economic and political circumstances. Total staff resources in fiscal 1994 increased modestly above the levels of the previous two fiscal years to accommodate the new challenges of work on the Occupied Territories. Within the total, however, a marked redeployment of staff has taken place to improve portfolio implementation, and significant reallocations continued to be made across countries in light of evolving circumstances. Thus, reductions in programs in some countries of the region allowed additional resources to be committed to the work on the Occupied Territories. The Bank has reacted quickly and flexibly to emerging needs: Assistance to the Occupied Territories was characterized by both flexibility and innovation; in Lebanon, the focus of the Bank's assistance strategy was on reconstruction, while the Emergency Desert Locust Control Project in Algeria provided a quick response (it was appraised in October 1993 and approved in early December) to the challenge of incipient natural disaster.
Efforts continued to improve portfolio management and project quality by:
•	Linking the lending program, project design, and portfolio performance explicitly through the conduct of thorough country
portfolio-performance reviews (CPPRs) and re-fleeting the outcome of those reviews in country-assistance strategies;
•	Undertaking additional initiatives to improve project quality at entry by involving the technical department and relevant central vice-presidential units in project design and by explicitly linking project content to well-articulated sectoral strategies;
•	Increasing high-level managerial review of portfolio performance and recognizing excellence in portfolio management;
.	• Simplifying business processes to improve
accountability and encourage initiative; and
•	Increasing supervision efforts. In the case of Egypt, for example, where supervision work is increasingly being delegated to the Bank's resident mission, the direct supervision input per project increased from 14.6 stafiweeks in fiscal 1992 to 16.2 stafiweeks in fiscal 1993.
CPPRs have now been carried out for all major borrowing countries and are on an annual cycle. These efforts to link portfolio performance and country strategy are already having an effect on the volume, structure, and design of lending programs in the region. For example, the country-assistance strategy for Egypt was revised during the year to reflect major changes in project identification and development processes resulting firom agreements with the government reached during the country-portfolio review.
Agriculture
ALGERIA: IBRD—S30 million. Attempts to thwart a locust plague, forecast for late
1993	and early 1994, will be made through truck-and-airplane applications of pesticides, and the country's existing locust surveillance and monitoring systems will be upgraded, thus facilitating planning and implementation of future control programs in situations of both plague and recession. Total cost: $51.2 million.
BELARUS: IBRD—$41.9 million. Forestry resource management will be improved and medium-term strategic resource
management plans developed; the decline in timber harvest will be reduced through the import of spare parts; and the establishment of private sector harvesting, transport, and other services to the sector promoted. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $54.7 million.
Note: Data used in this scction have been compiled from documentation provided at the time of projcct approval. Projects marked by an asterisk (*) are included in the Program of Targeted Interventions, and those marked with a pound sign (#) are poverty-focused adjustment operations. Projects marked by a dagger (t) included the participation of primary stakeholders.
Summaries of Projects Approved 123
t"'BENIN: IDA—$9.7 million. The government will be assisted in ulleviating poverty and improving food security and nutrition standards for vulnerable groups in about twenty areas or the country through a project that helps flnancc community-development initiatives. incomc*generuting activities, micro-infrastructure, nutrition activities, and institution-building assistance. Cofinancing is expected from DAN1DA ($4.9 million) and the WFP ($700,000). Total cost: $19.1 million.
tBHUTAN: IDA—$5.4 million. The government's efforts to develop and implement an approach for sustainable protection, management, and use of its forest resources will be supported through a project that will help finance a comprehensive program of activities for forest-resource development in eastern Bhutan, with maximum participation of forest users. Cofinancing ($2.7 million) is being provided by the SDC. Total cost:
$8.9 million.
BULGARIA: IBRD-S50 million. Access of the private sector to medium-term and long-term credit for investments in primary agriculture and agribusiness will be improved through provision of foreign exchange resources to participating financial intermediaries. Total cost: $63.4 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$460 million. Through the construction of the 154-meter high Xiaolangdi rockfill dam and a power station with an installed capacity of 1,800 mW, flood protection will be provided for 103 million people in the North China plain, sediment accretion in the lower reaches of the Yellow river will be controlled for some twenty years, hydropower will be generated, irrigation water supplied for about 2 million hectares, and a stable water supply furnished for downstream cities and industries. Total cost: $2,294.7 million.
tCHINA: IDA—$205 million. The living standards of more than a half million farm families living in the Songliao plain area of Liaoning and Jilin provinces are expected to increase as a result of a project that will expand irrigation and drainage facilities, develop marginal lands for orchards, develop aquaculture infrastructure, and invest in agroprocessing facilities. Total cost: $382.3 million.
tCHINA: IDA—$200 million. The productivity of forest resources, the efficiency of resource use, and the institutional capacity for sustainable
management in the three major types of forest land in the country—plantations, wutcrshed-protection forests, and nature reserves—will be enhanced. Colinnncing ($18.4 million) is expected from the GEF. Total cost: $356 million.
tCHINA: IDA—$150 million. The per capita incomes of some 67,000 households living in resource-constrained remote upland areas of.Zhejiang, Fujian, and Jiangxi provinces are expcctcd to triple as a result of a second project supporting the integrated development of paddy, upland, and forest areas. Total cost: $296.4 million.
t*CHINA: IDA—$*50 million. Agricultural production will increase on more than
15.000	square kilometers of land in the Loess plateau watershed and incomes raised for the more than 1 million people in the project area by creating sustainable crop production on high-yielding level farmland and replacing areas devoted to crops on erodible slope lands with plantings to a range of trees, shrubs, and grasses for land stabilization and the production of fuel, timber, and fodder. Total cost: $248.7 million.
tCHINA: IDA—$110 million. One hundred fifty-four thousand people directly affected by the construction of the Xiaolangdi dam will be resettled and their livelihoods both restored and improved through the reconstruction of villages and towns, development of agricultural land, relocation of small industries and commercial enterprises, and the establishment of new county, township, and village industries. In addition, income opportunities for about
300.000	people in the host areas receiving the resettlers will be expanded. Total cost: $571.3 million.
t*COLOMBIA: IBRD—$39 million. The first phase of a long-term Natural Resource Management Program—designed to develop policies and mechanisms to help arrest the degradation of natural renewable resources—will be implemented in the Choco region, which has a 90 percent African-Colombian and indigenous population and a high incidence of poverty. The project will thereby generate the policy, institutional, and technical base for future forest management and land-titling investments in the Choco region. Total cost: $65.3 million.
tCOTE D’IVOIRE: IDA—$21.8 million. The first phase of a five-year program designed to support, through improved research and extension, the generation, dissemination, and adoption of environmentally sound
technology required to sustain productivity gains in agriculture, will be supported. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the CFD ($5 million), the AfDB (S2.3 million), IFAD ($1.9 million), the UNDP ($700,000), and the AGCD ($500,000). Total cost: $44.6 million.
COTE D’IVOIRE: IDA—$2.2 million. Through the rehabilitation and development of rural savings and loan cooperatives, rural dwellers will be provided with much needed deposit-safekeeping services and access to short and medium-term financing for productive and social expenses, thereby improving rural incomes and living conditions and reducing poverty. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected from the CFD (S6.5 million). CIDA ($3.5 million), and the FAC ($2 million). Total cost: $15.8 million.
♦ECUADOR: IBRD—$20 million. The government will be assisted in undertaking the process of modernization of the irrigation subsector through the provision of technical assistance (public institutional strengthening and reform, private sector development, and preparation of a public sector irrigation-investment plan). In addition, poor farmers will be helped through pilot irrigation projects. Total cost: $25.5 million.
tEGYPT: IBRD—$54 million; IDA—$67 million. An agriculture-modemization project will be supported through provision of financing and advisory services to farmers and rural entrepreneurs, development of competition in the rural financial market, and the launching of pilot efforts in administrative reform and institutional development. Total cost: $268.8 million.
t*GHANA: IDA—$21.5 million. Through the financing of investments for the benefit of rural communities (small water schemes, rural markets, market-access roads, storage and food-processing facilities) and provision of technical assistance by the local private sector, agricultural production is expected to increase, agricultural marketing made more efficient, rural associations strengthened, and vulnerable groups helped through increased income and food security. Total cost: $25.4 million.
GHANA: IDA—$5.7 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the agriculture-sector adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of $80 million.
GUYANA: IDA—$15 million. By financing a limited capital-investment program, current levels of sugar production at the Guyana Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO) will be ensured and the operation of the country's sugar industry stabilized; at the same time, technical assistance will be provided to help GUYSUCO restructure itself and prepare for eventual privatization. Cofinancing is expected from the CDB ($3 million) and suppliers' credits ($1.9 million). Total cost: $40.5 million. #tHONDURAS: IDA—$60 million. The government's medium-term Agricultural. Sector Modernization and Development Program, designed to improve land use, lay the basis for a sustainable management of the country's rich forest resources, eliminate distortions that affect smallholder fanners, and help improve sector planning and coordination, will be supported. Cofinancing, in the amount of $50 million, is anticipated from the IDB.
HONDURAS: IDA—$27.9 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the agriculture-sector adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1994 in the amount of $60 million (see above), f*INDIA: IDA—$258 million. Through support for the water-resource development program of Haryana state, agricultural productivity will be enhanced and environmental sustainability assured; civil works will also generate employment and increase incomes for the landless poor and marginal farm families. Total cost: $483.4 million. t*INDIA: IDA—$77.4 million. About 700.000 households of fringe forest dwellers and small farmers, including about 150.000 tribal households, are expected to benefit direcdy from a project designed to improve management and protection of nearly
400,000	hectares of land in Andhra Pradesh state and directly or indirectly increase the production, of wood, nontimber forest products, and animal products. In addition, forest-sector policies will be streamlined and strengthened so as to reverse the process of forest degradation. Total cost: $89.1 million. tINDIA: IDA—$47 million. The capacity of national and state institutions to plan and undertake priority forestry research programs, to improve the system of forestry education in research and academic institutions, and to improve the extension of research findings will be strengthened. Total cost: $56.4 million.
tINDONESIA: IBRD—$165.7 million. More than a million larm families are expected to benefit from a project that has been designed to create the framework for integrated water-resources management, increase rice production on Java, and protect existing irrigation infrastructuie from deterioration while relieving the government of responsibility for a large number of small irrigation schemes. Total cost: $304 million.
+*INDONESIA: IBRD—$65 million. About
32.000	poor farm families are to benefit from a project that will further develop twenty reclaimed swampland schemes in Sumatera and Kalimantan. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $ 106 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$55 million. The risk of dam failures will be reduced through the establishment of dam-safety institutions, the provision of basic safety facilities at existing dams where such facilities are lacking, and the implementation of remedial works at dams with safety deficiencies. Total cost: $97.4 million.
t*LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: IDA—$8.7 million. The government will be helped in implementing a new resource-managemeni system, which concentrates on poor forest dwellers, in order to better achieve the sustainable management and conservation of the country's forest resources. Cofinancing is anticipated from FINNIDA ($5.6 million) and the GEF ($5 million). Total cost: $20.3 million.
LATVIA: IBRD—S25 million. Private agricultural development will be supported by providing initial investment credits to new private farmers and for the expansion and technological upgrading of private agroindustries and forest-based industries. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing. totaling $4.9 million, is expected from the PHARE and BITS.
Total cost: $45.1 million.
t*LEBANON: IBRD—$57.2 million. Some
34.000	farm families are expected to benefit from a project that seeks to increase agricultural production and agriculture-based income and employment in previously neglected poor rural areas through the rehabilitation and adequate operation and maintenance of surface-irrigation infrastructure. In addition, basic public support services will be provided. Total cost: $70.5 million.
t*MALAYSIA: IBRD—S70 million. The productivity and incomes of about 150.000
rubber smallholders—the country's largest poverty group—will increase through a project that will help finance the second phase of a rubber-replanting scheme. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $253.2 million.
MALI: IDA—$20 million. Finance will be provided to help implement the first six-year phase of the Institut d'Economte Rurale's strategic plan for national agricultural research, whose principal objective is to ensure that adequate technology will become available to farmers as a means to increase agricultural growth and to reverse the decline in the productive capacity of the natural resource base. Cofinancing is expected from USAID ($23.3 million), the Netherlands ($13.8 million). France ($3.4 million), the UNDP ($250,000). and Switzerland ($234,000). Total cost: $111.7 million. .
^MAURITANIA: IDA—$18.2 million. The first five-year time slice of a long-term national program to upgrade the provision of agricultural services nationwide, focusing on strengthening the linkages among extension, research, and agricultural training, will be supported. Total cost: $19.8 million.
tMEXICO: IBRD—$200 million. Some
42.000	farmers residing in fourteen irrigation districts, whose management responsibility was transferred from the National Water Commission to water-user organizations, will be assisted in completing the transfer process. In addition, minor irrigation-network and on-farm improvements will be financed. Total cost: $568.8 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$121 million. Selected investments in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture will be financed, and reforms designed to improve the efficiency of investments or operations in the sector will be supported. Cofinancing ($113 million) is being provided by. among others. France. Germany, the EU. the AfDB. and IFAD. Total cost: $993 million.
^MOROCCO: IBRD—$100 million. Finance will be provided to support the continued financing of the core activities of the National Agricultural Credit Bank as well as its diversification into a more universal bank, still geared to rural finance (and thereby the poorer population), but with a broader portfolio and resource base. Institution-building measures are included. Cofinancing is expected from the OECF ($95 million), the EIB ($60 million), the AFESD ($60 million). Germany (S34
million), and the CFD ($30 million). Total cost: $1,150 million.
tMOROCCO: IBRD—$25 million. Agricultural production on about 200.000 farms is expected to increase as a result of a project that will provide for technology transfer to farmers in irrigated as well as adjacent rainfed areas, support services, and promotion of farmer organizations. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $34.7 million.
tNICARAGUA: IDA—$44 million. Some
50.000	small and medium-scale farmers are to benefit from a project that seeks to “jump-start’' the agricultural sector by introducing a new demand-driven approach to technology generation and transfer and by supporting the required technological and institutional framework for defining and ensuring property rights to land. Cofinancing ($4.5 million) is expected from the SDC. Total cost: $57.8 million.
POLAND: IBRD—$146 million. The government's program designed to improve forest-management practices will be supported, thereby ensuring the protection and expansion of the country's forest ecological capital, providing for social benefits, and accommodating sustainable forestry. Cofinancing ($15 million) has been secured from the EIB. while $26.9 million is being sought from bilateral agencies. Total cost: $335.4 million.
tRUSSIA: IBRD—$240 million. Critical agricultural support services—focusing on the enabling policy environment for private sector participation in seed and market development, a nationwide market-information system, and farmer information and advisory services—will be created and strengthened. Total cost: $325 million.
RUSSIA: IBRD—$80 million. The implementation of the government's land-reform program will be assisted through the creation and strengthening of infrastructure and institutional capacity for land registration. Total cost: $115 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$15 million. Through development and implementation of a program of institutional reforms, the quality, relevance, and accountability of priority agricultural research programs will be improved. Cofinancing, totaling $113 million, is expected from Canada. France. Germany. Switzerland, the EU. and IFAD. Total cost: $36.5 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$24.5 million. The functions of the Ministry of Agriculture will be rationalized and strengthened, its institutional capacity to formulate and
implement policies built up. and its capacity to produce reliable information on crop and livestock production and productivity, as well as on marketing and trade, will be strengthened, rationalized, and expanded. Total cost: $27.2 million.
+TUNISIA: IBRD—$120 million. Priority investments—in water mobilization and use efficiency, natural resource conservation, animal health and production, and land consolidation—linked to policy reforms through a government-prepared development action plan will be supported. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $211 million.
f TUNISIA: IBRD—$27.5 million. Living conditions of the population of the impoverished mountainous northwest region will be improved by promoting measures to increase farm productivity and off-farm income-supporting activities, implementing watershed and rangeland management measures, and providing basic infrastructure and social services. Institution-building assistance to the executing agency and village committees is included. Total cost: $50.7 million.
tUGANDA: IDA—S14 million. The government’s strategy to revive cotton production and exports through increased competition in cotton processing and marketing and improved supporting services will be assisted. Cofinancing ($12.5 million) is anticipated from IFAD. Total cost: $31.4 million.
tURUGUAY: IBRD—$41 million. A soil and water-management strategy—focused on rehabilitation and development of irrigation/ drainage schemes and related service infrastructure, improvements in the efficiency of surface and groundwater use. establishment of a well-balanced operation and maintenance and capital cost-recovery policy, and support for water and soil management and conservation—will be developed and implemented. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $74 million.
t*VIET NAM: IDA—$96 million. The incomes of some 50.000 smallholder farm families are expected to increase through provision of supervised credit, extension, and plant-protection services supported by research. In addition, the first steps toward encouraging smallholder rubber development will be taken by rehabilitating existing state-owned estates, which will form the nucleus of the program. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $106.7 million.
Education
ALBANIA; IDA—$9.6 million. Damaged and dilapidated primary school facilities will be rehabilitated, and the capacity of the Ministry of Education to stimulate efficient use of fiscal resources and assure quality of learning outcomes strengthened. Total cost: SI 1.3 million.
"BARBADOS: IBRD—$7.8 million. The country's human-capital base will be solidified and the unemployed and less able students helped by strengthening the quality and efficiency of basic education: improving the effectiveness, efficiency, and responsiveness of technical and vocational education: and by reinforcing employment services and labor-market information. Total cost: $15.6 million.
t*BENIN: IDA—$18.1 million. A third education project seeks to increase the access to primary schools, with a specific emphasis on girls' participation at both the primary and secondary levels: improve the quality and internal efficiency of primary and secondary education: and strengthen sector institutional capacity. Total cost: $22.9 million.
♦BRAZIL: IBRD—S206.6 million. The quality of schooling for approximately 3 million children a year in the first four grades of state and municipal primary schools in five northeastern states will be improved, thus contributing to reducing grade repetition, raising student achievement, and increasing attainment. Total cost: $366.9 million.
t*BRAZIL: IBRD—$150 million. The quality of schooling for approximately 3 million primary school children in Minas Gerais state will be improved through a project that will support policy improvements, finance educational inputs, and increase teachers' access to training opportunities. Total cost: $302 million.
t*BRAZIL: IBRD—$96 million. Educational attainment in the state of Parana, as defined by increases in student learning and graduation from primary school, will be improved through the delivery of a package of essential educational inputs to primary schools and improvements in educational management. Total cost:
$198.4 million.
t*COLOMBIA: IBRD—$90 million. Implementation of the government's higher education strategy, which centers on cofinancing educational investments with the departments and municipalities and supporting the municipalization of education by building local capacity for
planning, cofinancing, and project execution, will be supported. In addition, access to secondary education by the poor will be increased through implementation of a voucher program. Total cost: S1S0 million.
COTE D'IVOIRE: IDA—$100 million. Supplementary funds will be provided to help finance the Human Resources Development Program, approved in fiscal 1992. (An amount equivalent to $100 million on an IBRD loan that was approved to help finance the same program has been canceled.)
COTE D'IVOIRE: IDA—$85 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to help supplement the Human Resources Development Program, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of $150 million.
t*COTE DTVOIRE: IDA—$17 million. By supporting governmental efforts in three areas—training, retraining, and apprenticeship: training outreach support: and labor-market monitoring and analysts— and by emphasizing the informal sector and women's enterprises, labor productivity and employability will be enhanced, thereby improving the country's economic competitiveness. Total cost: $19.5 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$58.9 million. The quality of graduate education will be improved through the improved planning and management of graduate education and . university research and support for selected competitive grant and fellowship programs. Total cost: $97.6 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$27.7 million.
Innovative industrial skills-training schemes within private enterprises will be developed and implemented in three provinces (West Java. East Java, and North Sumatera) for possible replication elsewhere, and a special training program for unemployed university graduates in those provinces, as well as in South Sulawesi and Bali, will be supported. Institution-building assistance to the Ministry of Manpower is included. Total cost: S39.7 million.
KENYA: IDA—S42.2 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the education-sector adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of $100 million.
t*KENYA: IDA—$21.8 million. The potential for employment creation in the informal sector will be increased through a project that seeks to diversify and improve public and private sector training capacity, stimulate information exchange and
innovation in product development, and develop a new partnership between the public and private sector guaranteeing the full participation of informal sector entrepreneurs and workers in training and technology policy. Total cost: $24.2 million.
KOREA. REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$190 million. Policy improvements in science and technology education will be implemented, and educational quality in selected private universities and junior technical colleges upgraded through the provision of specialized laboratory and workshop equipment. Total cost: $324.8 million.
t*MEXICO: IBRD—$412 million. Primary school students* academic achievement levels will be improved and high repetition and dropout rates reduced in ten of the country's poorest states through the training of teachers and school administrators, provision of classroom-tested educational materials, and the
. strengthening of the institutional capacity of the education system. Total cost: S616.7 million.
NEPAL: IDA—S20 million. The first phase of Tribhuvan University's ongoing reform process will be supported by helping finance the implementation of a package of policy changes, including the initiation of systemic changes in the university's administrative, financial, and management processes. Total cost:
S23.I million.
t*NlGER: IDA—S4I.4 million. Sector reforms, designed to promote more cost-effective use of public education resources, will be supported, and the access to and quality of primary education will be improved through constructing or rehabilitating classrooms, developing and implementing a program to accelerate girls* education, improving the quality of primary school teachers' training programs, provision of textbooks, and support for a micronutrients program. Cofinancing is expected from Germany (S10.2 million) and Norway ($4.8 million). Total cost:. $76 million.
?•‘PAKISTAN: IDA—5200 million. The country's broad-based Social Action Program, designed to expand and improve primary education, primary health care, family-planning services, and rural water-supply and sanitation investments, will be supported. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AsDB (Si00 million) and the Netherlands (Sl3 million), while other
contributions are being explored. Total cost: $4,020 million.
ROMANIA: IBRD—$50 million. The quality of basic and secondary education will be improved by strengthening curriculum and teacher training, assessment and examinations, and textbook quality. In addition, measures to increase efficiency in the management of public resources for education will be developed and introduced. Total cost: $73.5 million.
t*URUGUAY: IBRD—$31.5 million. The quality, equity, and efficiency of the primary education system will be improved. In addition, the quality of preschool education will be enhanced, as welt as expanded into areas with unsatisfied basic needs. Institution-building measures are included. Total cost: $45 million.
t* VENEZUELA: IBRD—$89.4 million. The government will be assisted in raising the level of student achievement, reducing the incidence of repetition and dropout, and increasing graduation rates of basic education through improvements in the quality of education and administrative efficiency, particularly in rural and poor urban areas. Total cost: $178.9 million.
♦VIETNAM: IDA—$70 million. The Bank's first project in the country since 1978 seeks to improve the quality and relevance of primary education (especially in rural areas and for ethnic minorities), rehabilitate existing infrastructure, extend access through the construction of a limited number of new classrooms, and strengthen the management of primary education at the school, district, provincial, and national levels. Total cost: $78 million.
tYEMEN: IDA—$33 million. Secondary students' learning achievements will be enhanced through reduction of classroom overcrowding, provision of science equipment, and improved teacher performance: female access to secondary education will be increased through provision of school places for 5.000 girls, incentive programs to recruit female headmasters, and specialized home-based learning programs: and two-year postsecondary programs, oriented toward labor-market needs, will be established. Cofinancing is expected from the OPEC Fund for International Development ($8 million). Total cost: $49.7 million.
Environment
CHINA: IBRD—$160 million. An investment program of environmentally oriented
capital works and related institutional strengthening—designed to provide safe drinking water while improving water quality in the Huangpu river—will be financed. Total cost: $456.6 million.
THE GAMBIA: IDA—$2.6 million.
Technical assistance wilt be provided to the National Environment Agency and other relevant agencies to build up the capacity to develop and guide an effective system for environmental planning and management and to ensure that environmental concerns are fully integrated and reflected in the country's social and economic development process. Cofinancing ($13 million) is expected from Germany. Total cost: $4.5 million. t*INDONESIA: IBRD—$56.5 million. Through provision of institutional strengthening measures designed to improve the guidelines and policies of the
•	national ‘"regreening and reforestation" (r&r) program, the introduction of improved fanning systems in a priority watershed in West Java, and investment support for the national r&r program, the living standards of poor, upland fanners will be raised, the productive potential of their resource base restored, watershed environmental quality enhanced, and downstream watershed resources protected. Total cost: $487.8 million. KOREA. REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$90 million. The ability of selected national research institutes to identify and adequately address environmental issues and to undertake environmental research and development activities will be strengthened. Institution-building assistance to the Ministry of Environment is Included. Total cost: $156 million. tMEXICO: $368 million. About fifteen subprojects in five or six cities bordering on the United States in the areas of water treatment and sanitation, solid waste management, and air quality and urban transport will be financed so as to improve environmental quality. Institutional strengthening measures are included. Total cost: $762 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$6 million. The government will be assisted in strengthening its institutional and regulatory framework for managing environmental protection. Total cost: $10.8 million. tPAKISTAN: IDA—$14.7 million. The first phase of a long-term program to improve Balochistan's environmental protection and natural resource management will be supported through institutional
strengthening and investments in natural resource-rehabilitation subprojects. Total cost: $17.8 million.
^PARAGUAY: IBRD—$50 million. This first-phase initiative to alter radically the use of natural resources in agriculture, particularly by small-scale fanners—from extensive expansion to growth through intensification, with emphasis on sustainable resource management and environmental protection—will be supported. Total cost: $79.1 million.
Financial Sector
ARGENTINA: IBRD-$500 million. Capital-market development will be accelerated through the introduction and consolidation of the necessary capital-markets infrastructure, which, along with developing indigenous skills, can produce a sustainable and orderly national market.
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$8.5 milIion. Technical assistance will be provided to help facilitate the implementation of the IBRD-assisted capital-market development project (see above) by supporting the creation of new institutions and the strengthening of others and by ensuring the development of more effective capital-market regulations. Total cost: $10.2 million.
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK: IBRD—$20 million: IDA—$11 million. Funds will be onlent by the CDB to IBRD and IDA-eligible Commonwealth Caribbean countries to finance the types of projects the World Bank would finance. Total cost: $68 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$30 million. Wide-ranging improvements in the management of public finances, from revenue generation to the evaluation of public policies, will be made, thereby increasing public revenues, reestablishing public confidence in government and public administration, and contributing to an overall institutional environment conducive to private-sector initiatives and development. Total cost: $58 million.
COTE D'IVOIRE: IDA—$100 million. Supplementary funds will be provided to help finance the Financial Sector Adjustment Program, approved in fiscal 1992. (An amount equivalent to $100 million on an IBRD loan that was approved to help finance the same program has been canceled.)
COTE D'IVOIRE: IDA—$50 million. Supplementary funds will be provided to help finance the Competitiveness and
Regulatory Reform Adjustment Program, approved in fiscal 1992. (An amount equivalent to $50 million on an IBRD loan that was approved to help finance the same program has been canceled.)
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$100 million. The government's liberalization program in the financial sector—designed to accelerate deregulation of domestic financial markets and increase competition and efficiency of financial intermediation— will be supported by a project that will channel long-term credits to private manufacturing enterprises through three participating financial intermediaries. Training and technical assistance are included. Total cost: $250 million.
#MOZAMBIQUE: IDA—$200 million. The government's economic and social rehabilitation program, whose objectives are to support macroeconomic stabilization through the strengthening of key elements of fiscal and monetary policy while supporting an interlinked program of enterprise and financial sector reform and continuing income transfers to poor households, will be supported.
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA—$9 million. By providing training (a) in key areas of central bank activity, (b) to meet the immediate training needs of commercial bank staff, and (c) to strengthen legal financial capacities, the ability to implement die government's policy and institutional reforms will be enhanced. Institution-building assistance to tbe banking system is included. Cofinancing ($1 million) is anticipated from the SDC. Total cost: $10.5 million.
tRUSSIA: IBRD—$200 million. A financial institutions development project has been designed to improve the quality of banking services, promote banking stability, and contribute to a more efficient allocation of bank credit by building up the capacity of a core group of thirty to forty private commercial banks. Cofinancing is expected from the EBRD ($99 million), the EU ($36 million). Japan ($18.6 million), and USAID ($3.4 million). Total cost: $389.4 million.
+RWANDA: IDA—$12 million. A line of credit will be made available to finance productive private sector investments, and a fund will be set up to finance technical assistance designed to improve the technical and managerial capacity of private sector firms. Institutional strengthening, designed to ensure proper implementation of reform measures, is included. Cofinancing ($1 million) is
expected from Belgium. Tolat cost: $19.3 million.
#SLOVENIA: IBRD—$80 million. The country V efforts to implement effective reform of its enterprise and financial sectors will be supported by a project that seeks to facilitate enterprise privatization and restructuring, accelerate the development of a strong and supportive financial sector, and support more effective labor-market policies and a social safety net for the poor. Technical assistance is included.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$120 million. Financially sound banks and financial leasing companies will be provided access to term resources at market rates to finance viable private investments during the current transitional period of emerging long-term capital markets.
UGANDA: IDA—$1.1 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the financial sector adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1993 in the amount of $100 million.
URUGUAY: IBRD—$35 million. A line of credit will be extended to participating financial intermediaries to finance private investment, associated permanent working capital, and leasing operations (excluding purchase of land and housing) of viable enterprises that have revenues predominantly in United States dollars. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing ($90 million) is being provided by the IDB.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$18 million. Standards of accounting, public sector procurement, and legal services will be improved by strengthening key institutions involved in these three activities through improvements in their human and material resources. Total cost: $19.6 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$10 million. Supplemental funds will be provided to help finance the second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit, approved in June 1993 in the amount of $100 million.
Industry
BANGLADESH: IDA—$247 million. Implementation of a program of reforms designed to restructure the jute-manufacturing industry will be supported.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$3-3 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the jute sector-adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1994 (see above).
♦COMOROS: IDA—$5.1 million. The nascent private sector will be provided
with the means and incentives to engage in productive investments through provision of finance and technical support to small-scale entrepreneurs engaged in laborintensive and/or service activities: implementation of improvements in commercial and labor law. as well as legal and judicial procedures: and a strengthening of investment incentives. Total cost: $7.7 million.
MAURITIUS: IBRD—$7.7 million. Export competitiveness, and thereby prospects for sustainable rapid growth, will be enhanced by facilitating private sector access to know-how for improved productivity, quality, design, and response times, as well as diversification of export production. Total cost: $13.3 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—S40 million. The program to attract private investors to the Subic Bay Freeport—until November 1992 it was the Subic Bay Naval Base—will be supported through provision of infrastructure improvements: maintenance of the freeport's asset base, including protection of the environment: and strengthening the capacity of the freeport's managing authority. Total cost: $54.1 million.
ROMANIA: IBRD—$175 million. Funds will be onlent to private enterprises for investments aimed at improving international competitiveness and/or to expand exports. In addition, partial to full coverage of preshipment finance needs for imported inputs will be provided. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $334 million.
RUSSIA: IBRD—$200 million. Term finance for capital investments and permanent working capital will be made available to commercial banks for onlending to new private and newly privatized entetprises. Cofinancing ($100 million) is expected from ihe EBRD.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$16.8 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the privatization and industrial reform credit, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of $200 million.
Mining/Other Extractive
ECUADOR: IBRD—$14 million. Implementation of the government's new mining sector policy and strategy, designed to attract private mining investment, will be assisted by financing (a) mapping and mining-information and cadastral systems to support increased, yet environmentally sound, mineral production and (b)
measures to arrest and mitigate mining-related environmental degradation, including the upgrading of small-miner technology and management practices. Cofinancing, totaling $8.1 million, is expected from Swtden and the United Kingdom. Total cost: $24 million.
Multisector
BELARUS: IBRD—$120 million. The government’s reform program, designed to promote competition, support the development of the private sector, and provide a financially sustainable and Incentive-compatible social safety net in order to protect vulnerable groups during the transition, will be supported.
BELARUS: IBRD—$8.3 million. The government will be assisted in strengthening the institutional basis for economic reform through provision of technical assistance in four functional areas: resource mobilization and economic
' management, enterprise reform, banking sector reform, and social-sector reform. Total cost: $18 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA—$9.4 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the structural-adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of $40 million.
#tBURKINA FASO: IDA—$25 million. The government's reform efforts following the devaluation of the CFA fninc in January
1994	will be supported.
CAMBODIA: IDA—$62.7. million. Critical imports to enable key sectors of the economy to continue to operate wQl be financed. Cofinancing ($23 million) is expected from SIDA. Total cost: $73.1 million.
#CAMEROON: IDA—$75 million. The government's economic recovery program will be supported by this credit, which will finance the imports needed for economic recovery and growth following the recent devaluation of the CFA franc, while instituting short-term safety net measures to protect the poor.
CAMEROON: IDA—$51 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the structural-adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1994. in the amount of $50 million (see below).
CAMEROON: IDA—$50 million. The government's revised stabilization and adjustment program will be supported. (Concurrently, the third tranche of a $150 million IBRD loan in support of the government's structural-adjustment program was canceled.)
#CHAD: IDA—$20 million. The government’s post-devaluation reform program, designed to restore order to public finances and lay the basis for growth and the alleviation of poverty, white instituting measures to protect the most vulnerable groups, will be supported.
CONGO: IDA—S100 million. The government's reform program, designed to improve public sector efficiency, strengthen the country's production capacity, develop human resources, and reduce poverty, will be supported.
#EL SALVADOR: IBRD—S50 million. The government's structural-adjustment program, designed to lay the analytical framework for public sector modernization: consolidate and deepen reforms supported by a previous structural-adjustment operation: implement a comprehensive poverty-alleviation plan: and strengthen public expenditures, the civil service, and environmental management, will be supported.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—5470.000. Funds from IDA reflows wQl be provided to supplement the structural-adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1993. in the amount of S250 million.
#GABON: IBRD—$30 million. Emergency support will be provided to the government's program of economic recovery that was conceived in the wake of the devaluation of the CFA franc. Public expenditure reallocations towards basic social service areas, as well as policies to eliminate distortions faced by the poor, are included.
GUYANA: IDA—$2.8 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the second structural-adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of S74.6 million.
KAZAKHSTAN: IBRD—S180 million. The government's reform program will be supported by provision of finance for (a) expansion of the country's foreign-exchange auction market, which provides hard currency to enterprises wishing to finance imports through normal commercial practices and (b) essential imports required for the continued operation of essential public services and a recovery in critical productive sectors.
KAZAKHSTAN: IBRD—$38 million. Critically needed technical assistance will be provided to help develop ar d implement key components of the government's reform program, assuring the prompt and concerted development of the essential
components of a market economy. Total cost: $39.5 million.
#MACEDONlA. FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—S40 million:
IDA—$40 million. Key structural reforms, designed to enable the government to achieve sustainable stabilization and restore growth, while protecting vulnerable groups through social safety net reforms, will be supported.
MALAWI: IDA—$4.3 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the entrepreneurship-development and drought-recovery project, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of S120 million.
#MALI: IDA—$25 million. The country's post-devaluation reform program, whose main objectives are private sector-led growth and the reduction of poverty, will be supported.
MOLDOVA: IBRD—$60 million. Imports of essential production inputs and health-care supplies will be financed, foreign exchange will be provided to support the access of enterprises to the foreign-exchange market, and the social safety net system will be strengthened. Technical assistance is included.
MONGOLIA: IDA—$20 million. Imports and technical assistance urgently needed to maintain and develop coal and copper mining production and the transport sector will be financed. Total cost: $25.4 million.
#NIGER: IDA—$25 million. The country’s post-devaluation reform program will be supported, in particular measures aimed at minimizing the negative short-term social impact of the devaluation.
OCCUPIED TERRITORIES: Trust Fund for Gaza—$30 million. Priority infrastructural services in the education, power, water and sewerage, and roads sectors in Gaza will be financed. In addition, technical assistance to help prepare and support implementation of investment activities, provide support for the development of much of the policy framework required to ensure the sustainability of the investment program, and lay the institutional basis for interim self-government will be provided. Cofinancing, which will support components in both Gaza and the West Bank, has been pledged bv the AFESD ($30 million), the SFD ($30 million), the KFAED ($10 million). Denmark ($20 million), and the SDC ($S million).
#SENEGAL: IDA—$25 million. The country's post-devaluation reform program wilt be supported, in particular measures
aimed at minimizing the negative shortterm social impact of the devaluation.
#SIERRA LEONE: IDA—S50 million. Government reforms in the areas of trade and exchange-rate policies, fiscal management, the civit service, the public enterprise sector, and delivery of social f^rvices to the poor will be extended and deepened.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—SI90.000. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the structural-adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1994 in the amount of S50 million {see above).
#SLOVAK REPUBLIC: IBRD—S80 million. The government's ongoing reform program—its central objective is the restoration of growth—will be supported by financing many of the one-time costs associated with restructuring and the breakup of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, including social sector reforms and funding of a social safety net for vulnerable groups.
#UGANDA: IDA—$80 million. The government's economic recovery program, designed to bring about rapid and sustained improvements in living standards through policy changes, which include increased public expenditure allocation toward basic social services, will be supported through a second structural-adjustment loan.
#ZAMBIA: IDA—SI50 million-Implementation of the next phase of the country's structural-adjustment program will be supported through balance-of-payments financing and support for efforts to (a) restore macroeconomic stability, (b) generate a supply response through the removal of bottlenecks to exports and agricultural expansion, and (c) remove structural obstacles to the delivery of social services.
Oil and Gas
tCHINA: IBRD—S255 million. Implementation of the upstream oil and gas-sector restructuring will be supported, and the levels and structure of gas pricing will be rationalized. In addition, gas field development, stimulation, and rehabilitation in Sichuan province will be financed. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing ($10 million) is being provided by the GEF. Total cost: $945.2 million.
ESTONIA: IBRD—$38.4 million. Rehabilitation and improvements in district heating systems will be undertaken in three of the country's five largest cities (Tallin.
Tartu, and Parnu). thereby reducing fuel costs and import requirements and improving environmental conditions in affected areas. Capacity-building assistance is included. Cofinancing will be provided by the BITS ($10 million) and the EIB ($4.4 million), while another $3.8 million is being sought. Total cost: $64.5 million.
tETHIOPIA: IDA—$74.3 million. By increasing the availability of fuel from the Calub natural gas deposit in the country's southeast region. Ethiopia's unbalanced structure of energy supply will be partially righted and the supply of petroleum products needed in the modem sectors of the economy increased. Road rehabilitation, technical assistance, and a poverty-alleviation component—aimed at supporting income diversification among poor urban fuelwood carriers—is included. Cofinancing is expected from the AfDB ($27 million) and has been confirmed by the Netherlands ($4 million). Total cost: $130.8 million.
HUNGARY: IBRD—$100 million. The next investment (construction of a gas-fired combined-cyde cogeneration unit) in the national least-cost power generation-investment program, designed to improve energy efficiency and environmental conditions at one of the country's most important power stations and reduce dependence on fuel imports, will be supported. Institution-building assistance and training are included. Total cost:
$242.5 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$80 million. The financial viability of the power subsector will be restored so as to ensure that it can operate on a commercial basis and finance its investment needs. In addition, the energy sector will be restructured in such a way as to establish an enabling environment for sustainable sector growth and development. Cofinancing ($80 million) is expected from Japan.
KAZAKHSTAN: IBRD—S15.7 million. Technical assistance will be provided to help the government strengthen the capacity of key petroleum subsector agencies to attract foreign investments, promote the efficiency and long-term financial viability of the petroleum industry, and formulate sound investment and organizational strategies for the integration of domestic primary petroleum production, processing, transport, and distribution. Total cost: $19.6 million.
LITHUANIA: IBRD—$26.4 million. Two thermal power plants will be rehabilitated.
and the safety, reliability, and flexibility of the electricity-transmission system improved. Capacity-building assistance is included. Total cost: $32.9 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$51.9 million. Governmental reforms in the petroleum sector, which have introduced a competitive environment and the involvement of the private sector, will be supported, and basic infrastructure investments required to increase operational efficiency and attract private operators and investors will be financed. Institution-building measures are included. Total cost: S79.2 million.
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA—S30 million. All predevelopment work necessary to enable the government and the private sector to make a firm decision to develop the Pande gas field to enable gas to be exported (mainly to South Africa) and used domestically will be undertaken. Interest in cofinancing (S3 million) has been expressed by Norwav. Total cost: S48.7 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD—$11 million. A second project in support of the country's petroleum sector will help strengthen the government's capability in policy formulation, safety regulation, evaluation of development proposals, and monitoring of ongoing sector-development programs, thereby enhancing the attractiveness of the sector to international investors. Total cost: SI2.2 million.
ROMANIA: IBRD—S175.6 million. The government's petroleum-sector restructuring strategy, designed to promote private sector investments, strengthen institutional capabilities, and establish a suitable regulatory framework to facilitate the development of an efficient and commercially oriented petroleum sector, will be supported. Cofinancing is expected from the EIB ($51.2 million) and the EU's PHARE program ($2 million). Total cost: S345.6 million.
RUSSIA: IBRD—$500 million. A second oil-rehabilitation project seeks to slow the rate of oil-production decline in Western Siberia: transfer international technical, environmental, and managerial practice to the operation of oil fields in Western Siberia: and promote a more efficient and environmentally sustainable use of the country's petroleum resources. Total cost: $678 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$30 million. The Tazama pipeline from Dar es Salaam (Tanzania) to Ndola (Zambia) will be rehabilitated, and the oil-products depot at Ndola
modernized. Institutional strengthening and technical assistance, designed to support the petroleum industry's efforts to become more competitive and cost effective, are included. Cofinancing ($15 million) Is expected from the EIB. Total cost: $48 million.
Population. Health, and Nutrition
+* ARGENTINA: IBRD—$100 million. An estimated 500.000 poor mothers and young children are expected to benefit directly from a project that seeks to expand and subsequently maintain coverage of good-quality basic health care, nutrition, and child-development services for the poor. Total cost: $160 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$160 million. It is expected that, based on a conservative model of behavioral change, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections will be reduced by 300.000 cases as a result of a project designed to reduced the incidence and transmission of HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases. Institutional strengthening measures are included. Total cost: $250 million.
t*BURKINA FASO: IDA—$29.2 million. The government's efforts to Improve significantly the quality, coverage, and utilization of basic health services: enhance the nutritional status of the population: and develop a national capacity for achieving sustainable control of endemic parasitic diseases will be supported. Cofinancing is anticipated from Germany ($4.1 million) and UNICEF (S3.6 million). Total cost: S38.9 million.
^BURKINA FASO: IDA—S26.3 million. The government will be assisted in making family-planning services more accessible, particularly in rural areas, while at the same time stimulating the demand for contraceptive services. In addition, the spread of HIV infections will be slowed by promoting behavioral change and treating sexually transmitted diseases. Cofinandng is expected from Denmark and Norway ($3 million each). Total cost: $34.5 million.
t*CHAD: IDA—S 18.5 million. Some 750.000 people, mostly women and children, stand to benefit directly from a project designed to increase the efficiency of the health system with the result that the access to and quality of health, nutrition, and family planning services will be increased and improved. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from UNICEF ($2.3 million) and the UNDP ($1.3 million). Total cost: $25.7 million.
♦CHINA: IDA—$110 million. Through the training (and retraining) of health workers and by improving their working conditions, the quality of service performed by rural health workers will be improved, thereby contributing to better health among the rural population in six provinces. Total cost: $186 million.
t*COMOROS: IDA—$13 million. The development of human resources will be strengthened by increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of basic health services through the establishment of efficient regional health administrations, a social development fund for the poor, and other supportive services. In addition, complementary community-development initiatives will be promoted to develop grassroots participation in small-scale . productive activities. Total cost: $16 million.
♦COSTA RICA: IBRD—$22 million. The government's effort to implement critical policy, institutional, and operational reforms that aim at improving the efficiency, effectiveness, and quality of the delivery of health-care services by the Costa Rican Social Security System— especially to the poorer population—and at improving quality control and surveillance in the health sector, will be supported. Total cost: S32 million.
t*GUINEA: IDA—$24.6 million. The coverage of low-cost health, nutrition, and family-planning services will be expanded, thereby helping improve the health status of the population—in particular, the most vulnerable groups. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $27.3 million.
t*INDIA: IDA—$117.8 million. The quality of cataract surgery will be upgraded, the coverage of the National Program for the Control of Blindness will be expanded to underprivileged areas (with special attention to women, tribal, and other isolated groups), cataract prevalence reduced by more than 50 percent, and blindness incidence cut by more than 30 percent in the states of Maharashtra. Rajasthan. Uttar Pradesh. Andhra Pradesh. Madhya Pradesh. Orissa, and Tamil Nadu. Total cost: $135.7 million.
f*INDIA: IDA—S88.6 million. The family-welfare programs in the states of Assam. Rajasthan, and Karnataka will be strengthened and improved, and the current levels of fertility and maternal and childhood mortality lowered through targeting poor areas and tribal and
migratory communities. Total cost: $103.8 million.
♦MALAYSIA: IBRD—$50 million. Selected high-priority needs for health-sector development, including building and equipping health-care centers in three poor rural areas, strengthening prevention programs to meet emerging environmental and occupation concerns, improving equitable access to primary health care, introduction of appropriate new health technologies, and institutional strengthening, wilt be addressed. Total cost: $101.3 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$26.7 million. Key components of the government's family-planning/matemal and child health program will be financed, thereby providing support to efforts to increase contraceptive prevalence, decrease the total fertility rate, reduce maternal and child morbidity and mortality, and raise life expectancy. Total cost: $39 million.
♦NICARAGUA: IDA—$15 million. Reforms in the health sector, which focus on decentralization of services, enhancement of primary care, strengthening the supply and distribution of drugs, rehabilitation of facilities, and greater cost recovery at the secondary level, will be supported. Cofinancing is anticipated from Norway ($3 million). Total cost: $20.1 million.
t*PERU: IBRD—$34 million. The health and nutritional status of residents (poor women and children in particular) living in three poor regions of the country, as well as one of Lima's poorest districts, is expected to improve through extending access and improving the quality of maternal and child health and nutrition services and through promotion of better health and nutrition practices. Total cost: $44.5 million.
t*UGANDA: IDA—$50 million. Attempts will be made to (a) prevent further sexual transmission of the HIV through promotion of safer sexual behavior, increased condom availability and usage, and provision of care and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases; and (b) mitigate the personal impact of the AIDS epidemic through the financing of drugs, protective supplies, and health-care services. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from Germany ($6.8 million). SID A ($5 million), and the ODA ($4.2 million). Total cost: $73.4 million.
Power
tCHINA: IBRD—$350 million. Through the construction of a coal-fired thermal power
plant, the erection of new transmission lines, and the reinforcement of the existing power-transmission network, the critically needed power-generation capability of Jiangsu province and the East China power grid as a whole will be greatly increased. Technical assistance and training are included. Cofinancing ($120 million) is being provided through an ECO involving the commercial bank market and the Japanese insurance-company market. Total cost: $1,081.4 million.
tINDONESlA: IBRD—$260.5 million.
Efforts to increase private sector participation in electricity generation and to restructure the state electricity company (PLN) and establish it as a commercial entity will be supported. In addition, environmentally sustainable expansion of PLN's electricity-generation and transmission capacity will be financed. Cofinancing ($23.7 million) is anticipated from Austria and Australia and from export credits ($92 million). Total cost: $688.9 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$230 million. The investment program of the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) will be supported, and the stage will be set for a gradual s»nd orderly privatization of the power sector in general and WAPDA in particular. Total cost: $4,470 million.
tPHILIPPINES: IBRD—$227 million. The rapidly increasing demand for power in Luzon will be met through the development of a geothermal energy field in the Eastern Visayas that will expand power plant capacity from 200 mW to 640 mW and the construction of related transmission systems that will interconnect most of the country. Institution-strengthening measures are included. Cofinancing is expected from the JExIm ($170 million), the BITS ($39 million), the GEF ($30 million), and an ECO to support commercial financing of $100 million for the project's high-voltage AC/DC converter stations. Total cost: $1,333.6 million.
tPHILIPPINES: IBRD—$211 million. The rapidly increasing demand for power in Cebu and the Visayas region will be met through the use of indigenous and environmentally superior geothermal energy. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $458.9 million.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD—$90 million. The performance and reliability of the Hwange coal-fired power station, the country's largest generating station, will be increased, thereby minimizing the severity
of the power shortage—caused by the recent drought—and facilitating economic recovery. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $200.3 million.
Public-sector Management
BENIN: IDA—$5.2 million. Economic management capacity in the country will be improved through support to the management of a national training center, technical assistance to the Ministry of Planning and Ministry of Finance, and provision of studies and short-term expertise in support of adjustment implementation. Cofinancing is expected from DANIDA ($4 million) and the ACBF ($2 million). Total cost: $12 million.
CAPE VERDE: IDA—$8.1 million. The government’s broad effort to transform and modernize key institutions, the laws supporting them, and the personnel staffing them will be supported by a project that seeks to modernize the civil service, build local capacity, strengthen economic management capacity, reform and modernize the justice system, and spur public procurement reforms. Total cost: $8.9 million.
EL SALVADOR: IBRD—$2.5 million. The country's adjustment process will be deepened through the provision of technical and financial support to the institutions in charge of the economic reform program. Cofinancing is expected from USAID, the UNDP, and the IDB. Total cost: $6.3 million.
HUNGARY: IBRD—$29 million. Through a program of institutional development, development and implementation of a new information-technology system, and training in the development and use of applications systems, the country's tax administration will be strengthened, thereby maximizing tax revenues in a sustainable way. Total cost: $55.6 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$35 million. Through the design of measures to improve the country's export-support systems and financial sector support for investment and trade finance, the investment and export-development process will be accelerated during the last major phase of trade liberalization in Jamaica, and constraints to local long-term sources of funds will be addressed. Total cost: $52 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$13.2 million. A tax-administration reform project seeks to raise revenues without increasing tax rates through a broadening of the tax base, improving the efficiency and effectiveness
of the lax administration, and encouragement of improved voluntary compliance. Total cost: $42 million.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: IDA—$60 million. Implementation of enterprise privatization and restructuring will be accelerated, and efforts to stimulate private sector development, improve enterprise governance and efllcicncy. and advance banking sector reforms supported.
LEBANON: IBRD—$19.9 million. Government efforts to enhance revenues and strengthen fiscal management will be supported through a project whose main focus is on (a) Filling the immediate gaps in key personnel, skills, equipment, and physical resources: (b) assisting in improving systems, procedures, and data bases: and (c) providing advice on future policy reforms. Cofinancing is expected from the UNDP ($! million) and the IMF ($660,000). Total cost: $23.6 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$11 million. Technical assistance will be supplied in support of the government's privatization and private sector development efforts. Total cost: $12.4 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$22.6 million. Specific systemic management issues that now constitute bottlenecks to efficiency and effectiveness in the civil service will be addressed through the provision of technical assistance and training. Total cost: $25.6 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$1.3 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the public enterprise-sector adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of $40 million.
NICARAGUA: IDA—$60 million. The government's structural-adjustment program, which aims to carry out a major reform of the state, increase the efficiency of financial intermediation, and improve conditions for private sector development, will be supported.
NICARAGUA: IDA—$7.6 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the second economic recovery credit, approved in fiscal 1994 (see above).
#PAKISTAN: IBRD—$150 million: IDA— $100 million. The government's reform program, which aims at building a sound and sustainable macroeconomic framework, privatization of certain public enterprises, a restructuring of the composition of public expenditures, continuation of a program of trade reform, and reallocation of public expenditures in favor of social services, will be supported.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$46.8 million. Physical investments that deal with some of the most urgent environmental and infrastructure problems in Karachi and three interior cities in Sindh province will be financed. Institution-building measures, as well us the preparation of engineering studies Tor future investments, are included. Total cost: $58.6 million.
mj RKEY: IBRD—$100 million. The development of the country's dynamic private sector will be furthered through the provision of assistance for an accelerated privatization process. Measures will also be financed to alleviate the impact of state-owned enterprise downsizing and divestiture on displaced workers and their families. Total cost: $129 million.
UZBEKISTAN: IBRD—$21 million. Institution-building and technical assistance activities in the areas of privatization and public enterprise reform, the legal and regulatory framework, the financial sector, social safety net/employment, and the energy and telecommunications sectors will be financed. Cofinancing is anticipated from the EU ($2.6 million) and Japan ($1 million). Total cost: $25 million.
Social Sector
•ALBANIA: IDA—$5.5 million. The government will be assisted in reforming its systems of social protection of the vulnerable, while, at the same time, configuring them in ways that make them compatible with a market-oriented economy. Total cost: $6.2 million.
•ALBANIA: IDA—$5.4 million. The government's labor market-development program, designed to meet the needs of the unemployed and facilitate their return to employment, will be supported through the provision of technical assistance, fellowships and training, and training materials and equipment. Total cost: $6 million.
+*ECUADOR: IBRD—$30 million. Substantial immediate and longer-term benefits will be generated for the poor through more than 2,700 subprojects expected to be financed by the Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE) that will provide basic social and physical infrastructure, social services, and training. Cofinancing is expected from the IDB ($30 million). USAID ($4.5 million). Spain ($800,000). the UNDP ($100,000). and UNICEF ($100,000), while another $20.7 million is being sought. Total cost: $120 million.
+*LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: IDA—$9.7 million. About
50.000	poor people living in Luang Namtha. one of the country's poorest provinces, wilt benefit from a rural infrastructure project that will provide improved access to markets and schools, as well as better water quality and sanitation services. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $10.2 million.
t*PERU: IBRD—$100 million. Community-based projects in the areas of social assistance, social and economic infrastructure, and credits to small-scale farmers and entrepreneurs—all managed by the National Fund for Social Compensation and Development (FONCODES)—will be supported, thus helping to sustain the government’s poverty-reduction efforts and mitigate the social costs of adjustment. Cofinancing is expected from the IDB ($100 million) and others ($53 millio i), including Germany. Total cost: $495 million.
Telecommunications
CHINA: IBRD—$250 million. Reforms, designed to develop a modem, commercial telecommunications sector that will evolve increasingly toward allocation of resources on the basis of competitive market forces, will be supported. In addition, some investments in modem technology for fiber-optic long distance links and local digital switching in three provinces will be financed. Cofinancing ($1.3 million) is expected from the BITS. Total cost: $623 million.
CZECH REPUBLIC: IBRD—$80 million. International and national long distance telephone networks will be expanded and strengthened so as to relieve congested services and provide modem telecom services to businesses. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected from the EBRD and the EIB ($80 million each) and in the form of export credits. Total cost: $891.5 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$20 million. The capacity of the country's telecommunications system will almost be doubled (to as many as 570.000 lines), and support provided to the government in formulating and implementing reforms leading to sector development and the private provision of services. Cofinancing is anticipated from the EIB ($30 million), the JExIm ($23 million), the ODA ($6 million), the BITS ($4 million), and commercial sources ($50
million), which will be mobilized with the support of the Bank's ECO guarantee.
Total cost: $223 million.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: IDA—$18 million. The government will be assisted in making priority replacement/expansion investments in telecommunications in such as way as to best facilitate the country's economic growth and improve service quality. Institution-buiiding assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected from the EBRD ($8 million). Total cost: $31 million.
SLOVAK REPUBLIC: IBRD—$55 million. International and national long distance telephone networks will be expanded and strengthened so as to relieve congested services and provide modem telecom services to businesses. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected from the EIB ($55.3 million), the EBRD ($55 million), and export credits ($66.2 million). Total cost: $462.3 million.
Tourism
•BELIZE: IBRD—$20 million. The first phase of a seven-year infrastructure-development program for Belize City— representing a minimal critical mass of activities in the street network (including traffic management and control), drainage system (including canals and creeks), and coastal protection works, which will significantly benefit the poorer population— will be financed. Total cost: $28 million.
Transportation
+BANGLADESH: IDA—$200 million. The east and west parts of the country, separated by the Jamuna river, will be connected for the first time by the construction of a 4.8-kilometer-long bridge, thereby stimulating economic growth by facilitating interregional, cross-river transport of passengers, freight, and transmission of electricity more economically and efficiently. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AsDB and the OECF ($200 million each). Total cost: $696 million.
tBANGLADESH: IDA—$146.8 million. The total cost of road transport on the country's most travelled roads will be reduced by improving the road network through more effective planning, design, and construction (including reconstruction) of road investments and more effective programming and implementation of road maintenance. Cofinancing ($8.8 million) is expected from the ODA. Total cost: $252.2 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$220 million. Road-program management in the states of Maranhao. Piauu and Tocantins will be strengthened—with a view to avoiding further deterioration of the important public assets that the paved road networks represent—through more efficient allocation of resources to maintenance and their effective management. Total cost: $602.8 million.
tCHINA: IBRD—$380 million. Transport congestion will be relieved and the integration of interregional commerce improved through the construction of 340 kilometers of the national trunk highway system in the principal north-south corridor. In addition, fourteen provincial highways interconnecting with the national highway will be upgraded, 'technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: S894.7 million.
tCHINA: IBRD—S150 million. A second Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project will help finance construction of about twenty-two kilometers of a four-lane expressway around the city, implementation of traffic-management and traffic-safety measures, and investments in public transport. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $657.1 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$140 million. The continued development of road infrastructure in Fujian province will be supported, and an action plan for the strengthening of the provincial road-construction industry developed. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $528.8 million.
ESTONIA: IBRD—$12 million. A two-year program of urgently needed highway-maintenance work will be financed.
•	thereby avoiding costly rehabilitation or reconstruction at a later date. In addition, the efficiency of the country’s road-maintenance operations will be improved. Cofinancing, totaling $2 million, is expected from Denmark. Finland, and Sweden. Total cost: $25 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$94 million. An enabling environment for container transport will be established, and the capacity and efficiency of long-haul transport of high-value general cargo increased. Cofinancing ($4 million) is expected from the Netherlands. Total cost: $151 million.
tINDONESIA: IBRD—$350 million. Problems caused by the rapid growth in road traffic will be eased and road-transport system costs reduced by improving the service quality of national
and provincial roads and by expanding the capacity of the road network. Institutional strengthening measures are included. Total cost: $680.5 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$101.5 million. Access to commercial markets for the agriculture-dependent rural population will be improved by enhancing the capacity of government agencies that manage the development of rural-district roads and by improving the quality and capacity of the road network in selected rural districts. Total cost: $206.8 million.
KAZAKHSTAN: IBRD—$40 million. Public transport service in the country's three main cities will be restored to adequate levels of service quality, and key improvements in urban public transport-sector policies and institutions will be implemented. Technical assistance and . training are included. Cofinancing ($600,000) is expected from the EU. Total cost: $42.4 million.
LAO PEOPLE S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: IDA—$30 million. The efficiency of the country's road network will be increased through specific road improvements and through strengthening of institutional capabilities to plan, manage, and maintain the national highway network. Total cost: $33.7 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$13.1 million. Facilities damaged by two cyclones in early 1994. including several major roads that represent lifelines to the poorer regions, will be rebuilt, and measures to minimize potential damage from future cyclones will be strengthened. Total cost: $28.8 million.	1
tMALI: IDA—$65 million. The government will be supported in its efforts to strengthen transport-sector management and performance, restructure transport-sector parastatals. modify the regulatory and institutional framework to promote increased private sector involvement in the provision of services and the execution of works, and rehabilitate and maintain a priority network of transport infrastructure. Cofinancing is expected from the IsDB ($53.6 million), the EDF ($50 million). Germany ($19.8 million). France ($17.9 million), the ADF ($14.3 million). BOAD ($10.7 million). Canada ($7.1 million), and the OPEC Fund for International Development (amount to be determined). Total cost: $305.7 million.
MONGOLIA: IDA—$30 million. Key constraints in the transport sector will be addressed, in particular, by reversing the
decline of the quality and quantity of transport services in railways, urban transport, trucking, and roads. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $36.7 million.
+*MOZAMBlQUE: IDA—SI88 million. Road transport will be improved, selected past road investments protected, and employment opportunities for the rural poor created through civil works programs to rehabilitate priority roads and eliminate the huge backlog of periodic maintenance. Capacity-building assistance is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the EU (S97.9 million), the AfDB ($83.4 million). USAID ($25 million), the CFD/South Africa ($17 million). BADEA (S14.9 million), the KFAED ($14 million), and Germany ($9 million). Total cost: $814.6 million.
+NEPAL: IDA—$50.5 million. Through a program of road maintenance and rehabilitation, vehicle-operating costs and delays associated with a deteriorated road system will be reduced, and much-needed rural employment will be generated. Institutional strengthening assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected from the ODA (SI2.4 million), the SDC ($2.8 million), and the UNDP (SI million). Total cost: $81.1 million.
PANAMA: IBRD—$60 million. Transport efficiency will be improved and transport costs reduced throughout the country as a result of a roads-rehabilitation project that will finance a four-year time-slice of the government's publicly financed road program. Cofinancing (Si SO million) is being provided by the IDB. Total cost: $406 million.
tPARAGUAY: IBRD—$65 million. Almost 200 kilometers of roads will be either improved or rehabilitated, and. through provision of institution-building assistance, the capacity of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications to deliver a good-quality. well-managed road network will be improved. Total cost: $90 million.
PERU: IBRD—$150 million. The rehabilitation of 725 kilometers of main highways, as well as of railway facilities, will be supported, and new initiatives in the areas of road maintenance, traffic safety, and nonmotorized transport will be undertaken. In addition, the process of railway privatization will be accelerated. Cofinancing is anticipated from Germany ($38 million) and the OPEC Fund for International Development ($5 million). Total cost: $242 million.
RUSSIA: IBRD—$300 million. About 1.500 kilometers of priority federal roads will be rehabilitated, maintenance and roud-safety improvements will be carried out on about 9.500 kilometers of federal roads and 500 kilometers of regional roads, and the commercialization and privatization of the road-construction industry will be promoted. Technical assistance, training, and studies are included. Cofinancing ($5 million) is expected from the United States Federal Highway Administration. Total cost: $340 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$3.7 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the transport-sector adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1991 in the amount of $65 million.
tTANZANIA: IDA—$170.2 million. Support will be provided for policy and institutional reforms to improve transport-sector administration, organization, and management: upgrading, rehabilitation, and backlog periodic maintenance of high-priority roads: measures to rehabilitate and. improve rural transport infrastructure: and minimum civil aviation investments to ensure safety and continued service. Cofinancing is anticipated from the EU ($178.1 million), the AfDB (S 108.9 million). NORAD ($41.7 million), the OPEC Fund for International Development (S38.3 million), the OECF ($19.8 million), the KFAED (S14.9 million). FINN IDA ($5.4 million), and the SDC (S5.1 million). Total cost: $650.3 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$75 million. The government's economic recovery program will be supported by improving the basic road infrastructure and by ensuring that it. along with the rail/ferry infrastructure, will be well maintained and efficiently managed. Cofinancing ($4.6 million) is anticipated from the NDF. Total cost: S99 million.
tVENEZUELA: IBRD—$100 million. By improving and strengthening national and local institutions engaged in the planning, financing, design, and operation of urban transport systems, the quality and efficiency of urban transport in Venezuelan cities will be improved. Total cost: $200 million.
tVIET NAM: IDA—$158.5 million. Two critical segments (totaling 430 kilometers) of the country's main highway will be rehabilitated, ferry operations improved at two Mekong delta crossings, and highway-maintenance capacity strengthened through the provision of technical assistance and equipment. Total cost: $176 million.
Urban Development
ALBANIA: IDA—$15 million. To help develop critical first steps in developing a market-based housing sector, the completion of construction of 4.500 apartments—originally intended as public rental units but which will now be sold to individual households under mortgage and condominium arrangements—will be financed. Cofinancing (St.5 million) is expected from bilateral agencies. USAID in particular. Total cost: $40 million.
t*ARMENIA: IDA—S2S million. Funds will be provided to help finance reconstruction of housing, infrastructure, and factory shells in the area destroyed by the 19SS earthquake: a plan for the further reconstruction of the earthquake zone will be developed: and reform of housing-sector policies designed to promote the transition to a market-oriented economy will be supported. Vulnerable groups will be given priority in the allocation of apartments. Cofinancing ($400,000) is being provided by Japan. Total cost: $46 million.
^BOLIVIA: IDA—S42 million. The government's efforts to strengthen municipal management and improve the delivery of urban services will be supported through a project that aims at enhancing the capabilities of municipalities, local utilities, and service enterprises: strengthening financial intermediation in the sector: and encouraging the financing of municipal infrastructure in unserviced peri-urban areas. Total cost: S5S million.
^BRAZIL: IBRD—S150 million. Municipal financial management in Minas Gerais state will be strengthened through technical assistance and training, while environmental management will be improved through the development of a coherent state strategy for local provision of water and sewerage services, investment in priority basic sanitation infrastructure, and technical assistance and training. Total cost: S333.1 million.
**CHAD: IDA—SI7.4 million. Existing infrastructure will be protected from further decay through a maintenance and rehabilitation program, and additional urgently needed social infrastructure, identified and maintained by the beneficiaries, will be developed. In addition. labor-intensive public service schemes will generate employment opportunities, and training and technical support will be provided to small and medium-sized enterprises and beneficiaries. Cofinancing ($2 million) is being sought
from the OPEC Fund for International Development and the EDF. Total cost: S20.4 million.
CHILE: IBRD—SI0 million. Reforms that will increase the resources and responsibilities being transferred to municipalities and regions will be supported through a pilot project that seeks to increase the institutional and technical capacity of municipal governments to assume greater responsibilities and to improve the national government's capacity to accomplish its main macroeconomic goals at the municipal level. Total cost: S20 million.
CROATIA: IBRD—$128 million. Some of the conditions necessary for restoring productivity following war-related destruction will be reestablished through reconstruction of basic infrastructure, the replacement of vital agricultural assets, and by removing a major constraint to the resumption of normal tourism levels. In addition, a return of displaced households to their communities will be made possible through the reconstruction of housing and provision of supporting infrastructure.
Total cost: S205.3 million.
;*THE GAMBIA: IDA—$11 million. Unemployment will be reduced by creating temporary jobs for unskilled workers in the public works and construction sectors, thereby maintaining infrastructure assets that might disappear for lack of maintenance due to financial constraints. Local capacity building, furnished through provision of training and technical support for small and medium-sized firms, is included. Cofinancing, in the amount of $2 million, is beine explored with DANIDA. the EDF. the JICA. the UNDP, and USAID. Total cost: $14.5 million.
GHANA: IDA—S38.5 million. Infrastructure and services—roads, drainage, sanitation, garbage collection and disposal, bus parks, and public markets—will be improved in eleven secondary cities, thus improving living conditions for their more than 500.000 residents. Institutional strengthening of the eleven local governments involved is included, thereby furthering the government's decentralization efforts. Cofinancing ($8.3 million) is expected from Germany. Total cost: $55.5 million.
+INDIA: IDA—S246 million. The government of Maharashtra's rehabilitation program for the victims of the September 1993 earthquake, which killed an estimated
S.OOO	people and destroyed or damaged more than 130.000 homes, will be
supported. Cofinancing is expected from the United Kingdom (£10 million) and the AsDB (S600.000). Total cost: $328 million.
^INDONESIA: IBRD—S175 million. Services and the quality of life for about
600.000	of Surabaya's inhabitants— especially those living in the poorer areas— will improve through a project that will provide water-supply, sanitation, and drainage improvements: and construction of access roads and paths. The implementation of a [and-management program and provision of technical assistance is included. Cofinancing ($174.8 million) is anticipated from the OECrT. Total cost: S6I7.6 million.
■^♦INDONESIA: IBRD—S174 million. The inhabitants of Semarang and Surakarta, and disproportionately the poorer inhabitants, will benefit directly from improvements to the quality, reliability, and accessibility of urban infrastructure services. In addition, technical assistance will be provided for implementation support and a strengthening of institutional capacity. Total cost: $320.8 million.
^MADAGASCAR: IDA—$18.3 million. A tested model for the efficient contracting-out of infrastructure maintenance will be created for. and implemented in. Antananarivo, resulting in the rehabilitation of about 300 kilometers of essential urban roads and creating about 70.000 manmonths of jobs. In addition, domestic small and medium-sized construction and engineering enterprises will be developed. Cofinancing ($200,000) is anticipated from the FAC. Total cost: $20.1 million.
tMEXICO: IBRD—$200 million. Solid waste services will be improved for an estimated 11 million people in the twenty-three cities that are expected to participate on a first-come, first-served basis. Institution-strengthening measures—at the federal and local government levels and for operating agencies—are included. Total cost: $415.5 million.
t*TOGO: IDA—S26.2 million. Implementation of the government's emerging urban development policy will be supported through the execution of priority urban works through labor-intensive schemes that focus on poor areas, the promotion of small contractors in the construction sector, and the active participation of local residents, community groups, and NGOs in neighborhood environmental improvement activities. Capacity-building assistance is included. Total cost: S29 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
ALBANIA: IDA—$11.6 million. Water shortages :ind associated health risks to the papulation in the district of Durres will be eliminated, and a strong local institutional framework for the provision of water supply and sewerage services established, thereby ensuring that the improvements will be sustainable. Total cost: $19.5 million.
ALGERIA: IBRD—SI 10 million. Water-supply systems in ten cities and twenty-four sewage-treatment plants located throughout the country will be rehabilitated. In addition, the institutional arrangements in the urban water sector .‘ill be rationalized with a view to achieving full cost recovery by autonomous, selffinancing utilities. Total cost: S170 million.
^BENIN: IDA—$9.8 million. Rural water-supply and sanitation facilities will be built in smaller and poorer communities, hygiene education provided to communities interested in improving their water supply and sanitation facilities, and capacity building provided to all actors in the sector who will need to acquire new skills in promoting, planning, constructing, managing, and monitoring rural water supply and sanitation facilities. Cofinancing ($4 million) is anticipated from Denmark. Total cost: $15 million.
t*BRAZIL: IBRD—$154 million. The quality of life for about 1.2 million urban inhabitants of Espirito Santo state (and especially for some of the poorest inhabitants) will be improved, the incidence of waterborne disease reduced, and the quality of water for human consumption and recreational uses improved through a project that will help finance the state water company's 1994-99 investment program. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $30S million.
BULGARIA: IBRD—S9S million. The autonomy and commercial orientation of the country's twenty-nine regional water and sewerage companies will be increased, and their management made more accountable to local authorities. In addition, selected water and sewerage facilities will be rehabilitated and upgraded. Total cost: S131 million.
?*GHANA: IDA—$22 million. Basic water and sanitation infrastructure will be provided to communities, schools, and health clinics, while health and the environment will be enhanced through the improvement of drinking-water quality.
personal hygiene, and excreta disposal. Institution building—with a Focus on poverty reduction and women's participation—is included. Cofinancing (Si .7 million) is expected from Canada. Total cost: $27 million.
GUYANA: IDA—$17.5 million. The quality and reliability of potable water in selected regions of the country will be improved through the upgrading of water-supply facilities, and the efficiency of water-sector institutions will be enhanced through establishment of procedures and methods for ensuring proper system operations and maintenance. Cofinancing is anticipated from the CDB ($6.5 million) and the ODA ($6 million). Total cost: $33 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$350 million. A second water supply and sanitation sector project is expected to benefit 10 million people directly by helping control cholera and reducing significantly other gastrointestinal diseases. Technical assistance to strengthen federal agencies, as well as local
water utilities, is included. Total cost: $770 million.
•"MOROCCO: IBRD—$160 million. Urban water-supply systems operated by six of the country's sixteen municipally owned water-distribution facilities (regies) will either be rehabilitated or expanded, thus providing access to safe water for some 9.6 million people. Rural water-supply facilities will also be rehabilitated and expanded, especially in poor areas of the country, directly benefiting 3 million people. Institution-building assistance is included. Cofinancing, totaling $84 million, is expected from the OECF and the AfDB. Total cost: $353.6 million.
+*UGANDA: IDA—$42.3 million. By extending the rehabilitation and expansion of water supply and sanitation facilities in eleven small (and two larger) towns, health conditions will be improved, poverty reduced, the lot of women improved, and environmental degradation reduced. Total cost: $48 million.
Section Six Other World Bank Group Services and Activities
Operations Evaluation
Operations evaluation in the Bank provides a systematic, comprehensive, and independent assessment, of Bank operations and activities. Its principal goals are to account for the outcome of Bank-supported projects and programs and to use the lessons from that experience to improve the design and conduct of future operations.
The director general, operations evaluation, has overall responsibility for evaluation. He reports directly to the Bank's executive board, with an administrative link to the president, and is supported by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The constitutional inde-nendence of evaluation in the Bank encourages evaluation staff to report candidly and allows them access to all relevant information and to select any topic for analysis.
The Joint Audit Committee of the executive board oversees the work of the OED. In fiscal
1994	the findings and recommendations of the committee were reviewed by the full board, as were the fiscal 1993 annual report of the director general, the annual review of evaluation results for 1992, and the evaluation work program for fiscal 1995.
Evaluation work program. The year's work in evaluation saw the realization of initiatives taken in response to the recommendations, made in 1993, of the Task Force on Portfolio Management. The task force recommended that the Bank strengthen its independent evaluation work—and the application of evaluation results to the Bank's current operations and policy development—as part of efforts to improve the performance and developmental impact of the Bank’s lending operations.
The Bank's evaluation work program includes completion reports by operational staff; performance audit reports and impact evaluation reports on individual operations by the OED; and evaluation studies by the OED, including country and sector lending studies and reviews of Bank policies and processes.
Completion reports are prepared by the Bank's operational staff on all lending operations at the time the Bank completes disburse-
ments. Staff of borrower agencies contribute to these reports. The reports allow the Bank's staff to discern and internalize the lessons of experience specific to the country and sector in which they work. The OED reviews all completion reports to assess their quality, record data, and facilitate the transfer of experience to new operations. The reports are sent to the board with an evaluative note from the director general.
Performance audits validate and augment the information provided in completion reports and examine topics of special interest so as to provide inputs for the OED's evaluation-studies program. The OED structures its audit work program (with regard to choice of projects, topics to be analyzed, and analytical approaches to be used) to provide inputs for comparative studies, as well as to meet requirements fur accountability. .
In fiscal 1994 the OED audited 80 percent of adjustment lending operations and at least 40 percent of the Bank's investment operations. The OED reviewed 266 completion reports in fiscal 1994 and audited 122 of them, of which ninety-nine were for investment projects and twenty-three for adjustment operations. The cumulative total of Bank operations subjected to ex-post evaluation reached 3,590 at the end of the fiscal year.
In its impact evaluation work, the OED, assisted by agencies in borrower countries, takes a second look at projects five to eight years after the close of disbursements. These reports focus on evaluating project impact, including intended and unintended effects. They are a powerful tool for assessing social and environmental impacts and economic worth, and offer valuable insights into what makes development sustainable. In fiscal 1994 seven impact evaluations were issued on projects in agriculture, treecrops, transmigration, and petrochemicals.
Evaluation studies are designed to examine particular programs, policies, or issues in a context broader than individual lending operations. The OED designs its studies program to investigate issues revealed by its audit work and to respond to current concerns of the Bank's
board, management, and staff. In fiscal 1994, the OED sent eleven studies to the board.
Country-assistance reviews, introduced in fiscal 1994, assess the suitability of the Bank's assistance strategy in particular countries and the effectiveness of the instruments chosen. A review of Bank-Mexico relations was completed and work began on country-assistance reviews for Argentina, the Caribbean states, and Ghana. These reviews are geared to assessments of lending and nonlending services, and they offer lessons and recommendations for the Bank's regional staff to feed into country-portfolio performance reviews and the design of country-assistance strategies.
Process reviews examine how well the Bank applies its policies and assess the efficiency and effectiveness of business practices in reaching their intended development goals. In fiscal 1994 the OED issued a study of monitoring and evaluation in Bank-supported projects.
Sector reviews feed into the Bank's renews of its sector-lending policies. Often these studies compare experience across countries; ethers are in-depth reviews of particular sectors in individual countries. Sector studies issued in fiscal 1994 covered urban development, agricultural extension, telecommunications, rural electrification in Asia, transport corridors in Africa, transmigration in Indonesia, gender issues in the Bank's lending, and industrial reorientation in East Africa. Topics of ongoing studies include the social impact of adjustment programs, irrigation, experience in lending for education, industrial restructuring, electric power in Africa, and the Bank's assistance for public sector management.
Dissemination and feedback. For some years the Bank’s operational guidelines have required staff to seek out evaluation findings and apply them in new operations. To reinforce the actions the Bank is taking to strengthen portfolio management and the quality of new operations, the OED collaborated in fiscal 1994 with the Bank's central vice presidencies on the design of better methods for appraising projects and rating their progress. These efforts included:	.
•	The introduction of selective dissemination of lessons learned in connection with proposals for new lending operations.
•	Evaluation by the OED of the processes the Bank uses to review the progress of the
: portfolio under implementation. The OED recommended a revision of the rating system that the Bank uses for gauging the performance of projects in progress (see Box 4-4 on page 77); it is now collaborating with the Operations Policy Department to produce more reliable indicators of projects’ expected development impact.
•	The introduction of a “policy ledger,” recording the responses of Bank management to the recommendations of OED studies, for reference by Bank staff.
In fiscal 1994 OED published Human Resource Development in Sub-Saharan Africa; Evaluation Results for1992, including analyses of the Bank’s assistance in agriculture and in institutional development; and a booklet, Assessing Development Effectiveness: Evaluation in the World Bank and International Finance Corporation. With the United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Environment Programme, it published The Global Environment Facility: Independent Evaluation of the Pilot Phase.
Recognizing the need to take a more active role in disseminating lessons of experience to practitioners outside the Bank, the OED expanded the distribution of its “Pr&is” series and began a new series, “Lessons & Practices.”
Twenty OED "Pr&cis" were published. This series highlights findings and recommendations from evaluation studies and audits; it is issued in English, French, and Spanish.
Three issues of “Lessons & Practices” were published, covering railways, area development, and adjustment lending. This series synthesizes lessons and recommendations arising from the Bank's development experience.
The OED presented the results of its audits and studies at seminars within and outside the Bank, including some organized by borrower countries.
Support for evaluation in borrower countries. A growing number of the Bank's borrowing members have asked for help in establishing or strengthening evaluation agencies. Changing views on the role of the state, together with increasing scarcity of resources, are focusing attention on the effectiveness, efficiency, and accountability of public institutions as well as of public policies and programs.
OED support begins after a country makes a commitment to develop the evaluation function. During fiscal 1994 the OED attended to requests for advice on evaluation capacity development from Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka. Activities included designing diagnostic studies on evaluation capacity; organizing training and workshops; organizing the participation of country staff in OED's evaluation missions; and promoting borrower participation in the Bank's evaluation processes.
In response to a recommendation of the portfolio management task force, another task force made recommendations to the Bank's board of executive directors and management on future policy, for assisting borrower coun-
tries to develop evaluation capacity in the public sector.
Other activities. OED participated as an observer in meetings of the OECD's DAC (Development Assistance Committee) Expert Group. Evaluation staff participated in training activities and attended workshops and seminars with evaluators from other international organizations and donor countries. They continued to participate as “resource persons" in seminars of the Economic Development Institute.
Internal Auditing
The Internal Auditing Department (IAD) acts as an independent appraiser that reviews and evaluates Bank operations and activities. It is headed by an auditor general who reports functionally to the president of the Bank and, since December 1991, administratively to the vice president and controller.
In response to requests from Bank management during the year, the IAD conducted a number of special reviews, including those of the S30 million technical assistance program to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (established in August 1991), the Africa Capacity Building Facility, the main complex rehabilitation project, and a number of field offices. These reviews were in addition to the regular work program, which, while covering all aspects of the Bank’s administration, continued to emphasize the Bank's operations and focus on traditional topics such as the procurement of goods, works, and services; the disbursement process; and evaluation of procedures used to ensure proper accountability of borrowers during project implementation.
Staff from IAD also provided technical assistance as part of an implementation mission to Russia by carrying out an evaluation of developments in auditing and locally established audit firms.
A Bankwide review of time-recording systems currently in use was completed, and new, comprehensive audits were undertaken on loan processing in the East Asia and Pacific and Africa regions. A Bankwide review of internal controls was also initiated. The department's work program of regular audits of the Bank's financial and accounting systems and procedures was closely coordinated with reviews undertaken by the Bank's external auditors to avoid duplication of effort and maximize the audit coverage.
The Bank relies on information technology to support its business functions. In recognition of this reliance, the department conducted a series of technical audits addressing management, security, and control issues pertaining to
the three principal computing environments in the Bank. The IAD also undertook computer-application reviews and system-development audits focusing on the efficiency, effectiveness, arid control of critical applications. In order to position itself for an expanded program of audits in this increasingly important information-resource management area, the IAD added a significant contingent of staff with relevant experience.
In order to satisfy the professional standards of internal auditing, an external Quality Assurance Review of the department's policies and procedures was also commissioned during the past fiscal year.
Economic Development Institute
In fiscal 1994, a five-year strategic plan for the Economic Development Institute (EDI), designed to respond to the needs, challenges, and possibilities of the times, was developed. A key component of the plan, the mission statement, stresses the institute's commitment to investing in people and ideas as the most powerful means of development—a concept that distinguishes EDFs role from that of the operational arm of the World Bank, which invests much of its resources in physical infrastructure. At the same time, however, the plan is committed to undertake activities that center on the Bank's objectives of reducing poverty and promoting sustainable and equitable development.
Training. During the past year, the EDI conducted 140 training activities (see Table 6-1). A notable expansion in activities took place in the Europe and Central Asia region, where some fifty activities were carried out, an increase of seven over the previous year. Despite the high demand for EDI's assistance in that region, the institute nevertheless also increased the size of its program in Africa. The training program in Africa included an effort to increase the effectiveness of educational reforms through a seminar that brought together twenty-three education experts from The Gambia, Malawi.
Nigeria, Tanzania, and Zambia with Bank staff responsible for education projects in those countries. The seminar was felt to have been highly successful in creating a forum for the open exchange of ideas between the Bank and its borrowers, thereby helping to reshape both the governments* perspectives as well as the Bank's lending operations in those countries.
Although the total number of activities conducted remained about the same as in the previous year, the number of participants trained increased from 4,469 to 4,900.
The increase in the number of participants reflects a change in the “mix" of activities: fewer small seminars for senior officials and more courses in economic and sector management and “training of trainers"—courses that usually have a larger number of participants.
Program in the former Soviet Union (FSU). In response to the growing demand for assistance in the republics of the FSU, the EDI worked closely with local universities—the Tashkent State University of Economics, the Kazakh State Academy of Management, and the Economics State University of Kiev, for example—in designing seminars, recruiting trainers, and.preparing teaching materials in local languages. The enterprise-management program in the FSU is a good example of a training-of-trainers program in which EDI first trains local trainers and then uses the local trainers to train practitioners. During fiscal 1994, 2,200 participants were directly or indirectly trained in this highly successful program.
Training materials and publications. EDI prepares most of its own training materials in the form of manuals, books, case studies, and collections of analytical papers and distributes them through itscourses and seminars and, on request, to partner training institutions and senior officials and policymakers worldwide. The content of these materials often derives from Worid Bank experience, including country and sector studies, research reports, case studies of Bank projects, and Operations Evaluation Department findings. In fiscal 1994, EDI published eighty titles for use in its courses and seminars.
While most of EDI's materials are published in English, a certain number are issued in other languages, as well. In addition to five Russian titles published during the year, materials were also translated into French, Spanish, Chinese, and Arabic.
Scholarship and fellowship programs. The Worid Bank Graduate Scholarship Program, funded by the government of Japan, saw a class of twenty-five students graduate with a master's degree in Economic Policy Management from Columbia University. In a!!, the core pro-
gram of the program, which supports students at universities of their choice worldwide, awarded ninety-four scholarships in fiscal 1994.
Changes were made in the Robert S. McNamara Fellowships Program that, beginning in fiscal I99S, would enable it to become a program of developing country research, with smaller fellowships and larger numbers of fellows. Through fiscal 1994, research had to be conducted outside a fellow's home country.
Initiatives undertaken. In adjusting to changes in its environment, the EDI introduced several initiatives to its core program:
•	A program for the Occupied Territories was launched. The program, which began in June 1994, emphasizes efficient management of external assistance through training in topics such as project assessment, project management and procurement, restructuring of the regulatory framework in the housing sector, and development of policies that support economic development.
•	In response to the 1993 report of the Task Force on Portfolio Management, the EDI began a program in portfolio management that is being supported by a series of training manuals and case studies that, in particular, deals with the economic analysis of projects, procurement, and project management. Initial implementation of this work began in fiscal 1994 in the FSU; the program is slated to be extended into China, Viet Nam, and the Occupied Territories.
•	The EDFs program on environmentally sustainable development was expanded to include training to improve policies and practices in the involuntary resettlement of persons displaced by the effects of development projects. This expanded program was carried out during the year in China, India, and Turkey. In addition, a new program in environmental analysis and valuation to help governments deal with industrial pollution was designed in collaboration with the Foundation for Advanced Studier in International Development (Tokyo). This program, funded by the government of Japan, includes techniques for assessing, prioritizing, and managing environmental problems in the transitional economies of Central and Eastern Europe.
•	Many of the EDI's teaching materials now include computer-based components and multimedia techniques. In addition to publishing a large number of its training materials on CD-ROM, the EDI has begun to use teleconferencing to bring together developing country officials and Bank staff. For example, as part of a seminar held in Cameroon in early 1994, journalists from French-speaking Africa were
briefed by senior managers from the World Bank on important concepts that underlie economic reform. The United States Information Agency’s Worldnet not only linked the journalists (in Yaounde) with Bank officials (in Washington) but also broadcast the teleconference throughout Africa.
Joint Vienna Institute. The Joint Vienna Institute, which was established in collaboration with four other agencies—the International Monetary Fund, the Bank for International Settlements, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development—continues to conduct and host courses in market economics for officials from transitional economies. In its first year— September 1992 through August 1993—the institute organized forty-four seminars, totaling 108 training weeks, and involving more than 1,130 officials and managers from about thirty economies in transition. In fiscal 1994, the institute, which had been functioning under interim and informal arrangements, was established as an international organization under a board of directors composed of representatives of the sponsoring oiganizations.
EDI's Moscow office. The great demand for courses in the Europe and Central Asia region led the EDI to establish its first overseas office, in Moscow. The office is currently staffed by fifteen locally recruited trainers who coordinate and conduct training activities in the FSU (including those related to the Joint Vienna Institute) in collaboration with EDI’s Washington-based staff.
Research at the World Bank
The Bank's contribution to a more comprehensive understanding of the processes of growth and development relies to a great extent on the research it conducts. That research is intended to provide information to enhance policy making of government officials who face rapidly changing domestic and global circumstances. It also answers questions that arise in designing and adapting the Bank's lending program to the needs of its members.
The major objectives of the Bank’s current programs are poverty reduction and human resources development, enhancement of the role of women in development, private sector development, environmentally sustainable development, and economic management. Bank research is focused on those areas where critical policy questions remain unanswered.
Poverty reduction and human resources development. Poverty and human resources issues continue to dominate the Bank's research agenda, with a focus on the links between pol-
icy and poverty reduction. One ongoing project is studying the effect of price liberalization on the rural poor in China; another is exploring how macroeconomic and sectoral policies affected consumption in India during 1951-90. Analysis of a panel data set constructed from rural household surveys in China is expected to lead to better understanding of the ways families rise out of poverty in rural China, and research on improving the productivity of women will examine the sustainability of three credit programs for the rural poor in Bangladesh.
Analysis of issues relating to economic growth and poverty reduction has been confounded by the scarcity of data and reliable measures that are comparable across countries. A cross-country data base for 1981-91, using uniform poverty measures and purchasing power parities, presents a disturbing picture: Nearly one out of three people in the world lives in poverty, and the number of poor has been growing commensurate with increases in the population.
Research on economic success and concomitant reduction in poverty in several Asian countries has prominently cited education as a critical factor in that success. A study conducted during fiscal 1994 analyzed the role of secondary education in raising labor productivity and in facilitating economic transition from agriculture to more capital-intensive services in newly industrializing Asian developing economies. Further study is now under way on ways to improve educational systems in developing countries. A major interagency project concluded during the year found that govem-ment subsidies for basic education yield important benefits and that public expenditures on higher education in poorer countries undermine equity and efficiency. Evidence on educational achievement and the cost-effectiveness of schooling inputs, analyzed in a fiscal 1994 study, has yielded recommendations for actions to improve educational outcomes. When families are willing to invest in the health and education of their members, the quality and availability of local social services critically influence the outcomes of their investments; Bank research completed during the year indicates the relative payoffs to different service programs and strategies across many countries and years.
An interagency study of contraceptive use suggests that policies to limit population growth must be tailored to a country’s socioeconomic development. Three countries in different stages of the fertility transition demonstrated wide variations in response to different variables such as income, education, and access to contraceptive services.
Improvement of health programs is the objective of a study that is measuring the effect of higher user fees on the use of primary health services in Indonesia. Another Is resurveying health and education indicators and facilities in Morocco to provide the basis for analyzing a crucial set of issues in the area of government expenditures on social services. Using an unusual longitudinal data set for Africa, one project Is trying to identify the link between health and labor productivity.
Research on the impact of unions and policy interventions in the labor market on short-term adjustment and long-term economic performance wiU help to assess the appropriateness of the Bank's focus on product market reforms in the 1980s. It will also analyze the extent to which the private sector in developing countries has been able to circumvent government interventions in the labor market during the past two decades. A three-year study examined critical labor market policies and strategies to minimize the social costs of wage and labor reforms by improving the competitive operation of labor markets and increasing the efficiency of public and private spending on education and training. The goal was to identify “best practices” to Improve labor market performances that have a bearing on the condition of the poor. The results of another labor market study, which will be published as a handbook on labor market policy, is designed to contribute to the policy dialogue between the Bank and member governments.
Environmentally sustainable development. The creation of the Environmentally Sustainable Development vice presidency has centralized resources for analysis of common and global environmental issues. Simultaneously, environmental research has been initiated in different units of the Bank to address local or regional environmental concerns. During fiscal 1994 the Bank investigated land use, conservation of biodiversity, and development in the Amazon ftoodplain; coastal zone management in the tropical areas of Latin America; and sustainable resettlement in areas of Western Africa from which people had migrated because of riverblindness infestation and to which they are now returning following the eradication of the black fly. Research of global significance includes analysis of the relationships among population growth, environmental degradation, and economic growth and a preliminary investigation into whether Iumberwood plantations can help recover degraded pastureland and whether they can act as havens for the rehabilitation of indigenous species.
Private sector development. For many developing and transitional economies, private
sector growth is constrained by high local transaction costs, uncompetitive currencies, and government interventions and restrictions that raise costs and limit opportunities to take advantage of otherwise competitive factor prices. In many countries the legacy of past problems is a moribund industrial sector for which bankruptcy and restructuring are the only answers; a research project developing recommendations for bankruptcy law is investigating what might be the most appropriate legal and regulatory framework.
In other cases, public sector infrastructure failures are so pervasive and costs so high that it is necessary to commercialize infrastructure services for the private sector to grow. The determinants of service contracting are being investigated to develop recommendations for commercialization of infrastructure. Transport systems are similarly overburdened and underfunded. and a set of performance indicators is bang developed to help policymakers focus on priority areas for maintenance, upgrading, and investment.
Despite these problems, firms emerge and grow, and research is examining how they do. In Russia, determinants of private sector success are being analyzed; the study is also examining the potential usefulness of business service centers to provide information, credit, and advice to new entrepreneurs. The difficult process of commercialization and transfer of firms from the public to private sector in Poland has been relatively successful, and Bank research has uncovered lessons that other countries, both transitional and developing, can learn from that experience.
For many developing countries, the agricultural sector is the largest potential source of growth and development, and research is under way on a range of issues in agricultural development. In the former Soviet Union, land reform and farm restructuring is needed before farmers mil respond to improved incentives, and a Bank project is investigating constraints to, and ways to enhance, that process. Alternative agricultural policies in Poland are being analyzed for their implications for other postsocialist countries, and a broader study is examining the transition of socialist agriculture in Europe and Asia.
Macroeconomic issues and economic management. Adjustment of fiscal and external balances, reduction of the role of government in production, and relieving constraints on the private sector have been the focus of economic reform in Africa for more than a decade. But growth continues to be elusive, and the reasons why are not readily apparent. A study of adjustment in twenty-nine African countries.
completed in fiscal 1994. uncovered some answers: budget deficits and inflation remain high, and overvalued currencies make African products uncompetitive in international markets. The study found that those countries adopting reforms have grown; those only beginning the reform process still have a long way to go: and those not adopting reforms are experiencing alarming economic declines.
The catalyst for growth in many countries has been expansion of production for export. While the means and benefits of liberalizing trade policies have been well documented, drawn-out multilateral negotiations in the Uni-guay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade have generated renewed interest in groupings to promote regional trade. Research was conducted on regional arrangements and their advantages and costs relative to international agreements in order to advise developing country officials on the strategies that would be of greatest benefit.
Progress in the generation of government revenues continues to be highly variable across countries, and research on ways to mobilize resources for public services has been a staple of Bank research for years. The focus of public economics research shifted in fiscal 1994, however. toward public expenditures and fiscal decentralization. New projects are investigating expenditure equalization among provincial and local governments, are examining instruments for allocating expenditure responsibilities and revenues from central to local governments, and are studying the effects of fiscal decentralization on various measures of performance.
The Bank's sixth annual conference on development economics surveyed five topics: the transition in socialist economies: new institutional economics; economic geography—the dynamics of disparate regional development: pressures driving international migration; and labor markets under systemic change. The presentation of eleven papers on these topics was supplemented by a keynote speech on current development issues by the Bank's vice president. Development Economics and Chief Economist, and a roundtable discussion on employment and development (it was the initial forum on the theme of World Development Report 1995). The papers, with discussant comments. the keynote speech, and a summary of the roundtable discussion, will be published as Proceedings of the World Bank Annual Conference on Development Economics, 1994.
The Administrative Budget and Bank Administration
The Bank's administrative budget for fiscal 1994. as approved by the executive directors in
fiscal 1993. was $1,388-7 million. Late in fiscal 1994. the directors approved an administrative budget for fiscal 1995 of $1,420.3 million, an increase of 2.4 percent in nominal terms (see Table 6-2).
The fiscal 1995 budget was designed to enable units to implement priority objectives with increased attention to project quality at entry and supervision. Special attention will be given to four key issues.
•	Poverty reduction will be reflected in all components of country-assistance strategies involving greater staff intensity per operation.
•	Portfolio-management activities will receive further emphasis to improve project implementation so as to enhance the developmental impact of Bank operations.
•	Country dialogue on policy reform will be strengthened, and efforts to develop investment-lending opportunities increased, particularly in the newer members and in those moving out of adjustment lending.
•	Collaboration with other multilateral and nongovernmental organizations and the private sector will be increased to make maximum use of the capacities of others.
World Bank regular and fixed-term staff on board at the end of fiscal year 1994 totaled 6.338. of whom 4.145 were higher-level staff from 123 nations. The number of staff increased 2.3 percent from the previous year; higher-level staff grew by 3.5 percent. Of the higher-level staff. 59 percent were from industrialized countries; the remaining 41 percent were from developing countries.
At the end of the year, 1.166 higher-level, long-term consultants (those with contracts with a duration of six months or more) were working for the Bank, an increase of 27.7 percent over fiscal year 1993. and 508 regular and fixed-term staff were in special positions.
Women employed as higher-level staff by the Bank increased from 28.4 percent of the total to 30.0 percent during fiscal 1994. The Bank recruited 257 new higher-level staff in fiscal 1994, of whom 32.7 percent were from developing countries and 39.3 percent were women. Forty-two of the Bank's recruits were selected through the Young Professionals Program: thirty were from developing countries, and eighteen were women. As an experiment, the Young Professionals Program hired ten technical specialists, rather than economists or finan-cia! specialists. The experiment proved to be a success, and the program will be expanded to hire more technical specialists and fewer economists and financial analysts in fiscal 1995. A special skills-mix recruitment strategy was set in motion to hire staff in seven skills areas greatly in need in the Bank. One hundred
twenty-two staff in those skills areas were hired, and the recruitment strategy will be continued in fiscal year 1995.
Improvement of skills is also being carried out through training that is offered in a wide range of new courses—environmental issues, health management, women in development, poverty, private sector development, and public sector management—to enhance technical and professional skills of staff. In response to the recommendations of the Task Force on Portfolio Management and the “next steps” action program, an integrated training curriculum on portfolio management and lending operations has been developed. The content addresses several major themes of portfolio management and lending operations developed from analyses of reports on portfolio management, business and institutional priorities, and staff training needs.
Occupancy of the Phase 1 building of the new main complex by Bank staff began in the first quarter of fiscal 1994. Work preparatory to the further demolition of buildings started in October 1993, demolition was completed in May 1994, and excavation and construction of the foundations for the Phase 2 building started in the same month. Completion of the Phase 2 building is scheduled for late fiscal 1996.
In December 1993, a new department, the Headquarters Construction Department, was formed to manage the main complex rebuilding project. It is managed and staffed by personnel experienced in construction.
The second Quadrennial Benefits Survey was conducted by the Bank and the International Monetary Fund in 1993. The survey revealed that the value of staff benefits (net of staff contributions) was at an intermediate position in relation to those of 109 comparator organizations in the United States, France, and Germany. European comparators were found to have more generous leave and subsidy provisions. The review concluded that the Bank's overall benefits envelope was reasonably related to those of comparators.
On January. 1, 1994 the Bank adopted a worldwide business class travel policy. Since the Bank moved toward changes in its operational travel policy in 1993, the cost of airfares from headquarters has decreased by about 25 percent. The fiscal year also marked the first full year of operations of the dual-contractor arrangements for travel service and food services, contracted for through a competitive bidding process.
Results of the fifth Attitude Survey, made available in September, showed that despite improvements on some institutional indices, work group responses deteriorated in several
respects. Staff indicated that they are generally satisfied with their work, pay, and benefits, identify with the institution's goals, and feel that their managers are doing good jobs; nonetheless, they feel ambivalent towards the institution itself. Dissatisfaction with career development, internal communications, and the personnel function were cited as contributing causes of ambivalence; stress is also greater now than in 1990. Managers were directed to work with their staff and to take action on local issues.
Problems encountered by staff (particularly expatriates or those who must travel frequently) in balancing the demands of work and their family obligations frequently contribute to stress. As a result, adjustments to policy and new programs complementing existing benefits were introduced. They include enhanced provisions for emergency and family leave, greater flexibility in working hours and schedules, counselling for family members on seeking employment in the Washington area, and assistance in identifying appropriate child and elder care arrangements. It is anticipated that these measures wQl improve the Bank's ability to attract the diversified and highly stalled staff required to carry out its mission.
Following a review by the Health Services Department into the possible causes and remedies of stress, a stress clinic was established. Bank Staff running the program provide individual stress-management consultations, distribute educational materials, hold monthly health-promotion talks on stress, and are currently developing a training course in stress management.
Standardized occupational streams were developed to assist staff and managers in achieving greater mobility across the institution. The streams, which cover more than 85 percent of all nonmanagerial jobs, clarify the requirements for entry and growth within various job families and are used for staffing and career counselling, as well as for job-grading and promotion decisions.
Substantial changes, designed to create a better, more balanced dialogue between supervisors and staff about performance effectiveness and skill development, were made in the Bank's performance-management process for headquarters-based staff. A key element is the use of job-family competencies to enhance the specificity and usefulness of performance feedback. The competencies are integrated into the annual performance review using streamlined forms and procedures that focus attention on dialogue rather than on text. The outcome is a joint staff/manager plan for increasing the staff member's effectiveness.
In January 1994 the Personnel and Administration vice presidency was reorganized and became the Management and Personnel Services vice presidency. The reorganization was designed to make the vice presidency, which is a service arm to the rest of the Bank, become more responsive to the needs of its clients, perform to a higher standard of service, and im-' prove the effectiveness of the Bank's business processes, both within its own areas of responsibility and without, by helping other areas of the Bank improve business processes. A new department—Organization and Business Practices—was created by merging the Organization Planning Group and units of the Information Technology and Facilities Department. The new department wall bring the power of information technology and systems to the design of new work processes and organization structures. Its primary responsibility is to improve existing business practices, processes, and procedures. At the same time, the facilities units of the Information Technology and Facilities Department were merged with the General Services Department.
The management team of the new vice presidency, in collaboration with its clients, established a set of business objectives and plans for fiscal years 1994 and 199S that wQl lead to reduced costs and improved quality of services, with particular focus on the Organization and Business Practices, General Services, and the Personnel Management departments. The plans address the need to support the efforts of other vice presidencies to redesign their business processes and service delivery. Two vice presidencies—the East Asia and Pacific Region and Development Economics—have launched redesign efforts. One department in each vice presidency, with the support of Management and Personnel Services, has undertaken a comprehensive redesign of its core work processes. These redesign efforts were initiated because many of the work processes have become too cumbersome and costly and lack client participation. The redesign work will be completed in the fall of 1994, with implementation scheduled to take place in 1995. Once the redesign work is finished it will be evaluated and then expanded to other departments and regions.
Information technology initiatives currently being implemented on a Bankwide basis indude centrally managed and supported technology service that allows voice, video, graphic, image, text, and numeric data to be shared easily throughout the institution and with external entities. Initiatives at early stages of development include a new desktop electronic mail service that is better integrated with standard software such as word processors and
spreadsheets and an Electronic Document Management System that provides new capabilities of electronically capturing, storing, and managing information from the desktop. Accomplishments in the information-management field include the establishment of a new Field Office Information Services Unit; the development of policies, guidelines, and procedures for managing Bank records; and the conversion from microfiche to optical storage of internal Bank reports.
International finance Corporation
The International Finance Corporation (IFQ, a member of the World Bank Group, promotes private enterprise in its developing member countries. It does this by financing sound private sector projects, mobilizing debt and equity financing in the international markets for private companies, and providing technical assistance and advisory services to businesses and governments.
The growth of the IFC’s operations in fiscal 1994 was strong. Financing approved for IFC's own account was S2.5 billion for 231 projects, compared with $2.1 billion for 185 projects in fiscal 1993. It was also a good year for the IFC's resource-mobilization activities. The corporation approved $1.8 billion in financing to be mobilized through loan syndications and the underwriting of securities issues and investment funds. Projects approved by the IFC had total investment costs of $15.8 billion; this means that other investors and lenders will provide a total of $5.43 for every dollar approved by the IFC.
The corporation approved projects in sixty-five countries, compared with fifty-four countries in fiscal 1993, as well as a number of projects with a regional or international scope. Approvals increased in most regions. IFC's approvals in Central Asia, the Middle East, and North Africa increased by 42 percent, to $383 million; in Asia, by 16 percent, to $605 million; in Latin America and the Caribbean, by 15 percent, to $815 million; and in Europe, by 6 percent, to $443 million. In sub-Saharan Africa, the number of projects approved increased from forty-five to fifty-seven, but the volume of financing decreased to $157 million, as more than half of the projects involved small and medium-sized enterprises.
The IFC was active in many sectors, including capital markets, power, telecommunications, agribusiness, tourism, manufacturing, oil and gas, mining, and petrochemicals, among others. Capital markets activities—for example, investments in banks and nonbank financial institutions and various funds, credit lines for intermediaries, and securities under-
writing—accounted for 24 percent of the dollar . volume approved. A new product launched by the IFC in fiscal 1994, the State Street Bank & Trust Company/IFC Emerging Markets Index Common Trust Fund, will invest in twenty-three stock markets covered by the IFC Invest-able Composite Index, a series launched in fiscal 1993.
The IFC approved a number of projects in sectors such as telecommunications, power, transport, and water supply, and made a $50 million investment in a global fund that will provide mezzanine financing for power projects throughout the developing worid, as well as a $1 million investment in the fund management company.
New commitments signed during the year reached S1.8 billion, up from $1.4 billion in fiscal 1993. Disbursements were also up; they reached $1.5 billion, compared with $1.2 billion last year. The IFC’s disbursed portfolio grew by 14 percent during the fiscal year, to reach $6.2 billion at June 30,1994.
The Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS), which is supervised by a committee consisting of representatives of the IFC, MIGA (until July 1,1994), and the Bank, provides advice on matters related to foreign direct investment. In fiscal 1994, FIAS completed twenty-eight advisory assignments in twenty-five countries.
The IFC's financial performance was strong during the year, with record net income of $258 million, a return of 8.8 percent on IFC’s net worth, which reached S3.2 billion at June 30, 1994. The IFC borrowed $1-5 billion in the international markets and $180 million from the IBRD and issued bonds in six currencies, including its first in the drachma market. The IFC's largest borrowing to date was a Eurodollar 500 million issue made in fiscal 1994.
In fiscal 1994 the IFC’s board approved a revision of the corporation's leverage and capital-adequacy policies. Under the revised policies, the corporation would maintain at all times a level of capital (including paid-in capital, retained earnings, and general loss reserves) equal to at least 30 percent of risk-weighted assets and would borrow no more than four times the amount of its net worth (the total of subscribed capital and retained earnings). At June 30,1994, IFC’s capital adequacy stood at 43 percent, well above the policy minimum of 30 percent, while IFC’s leverage stood at 1.7:1, well within the permitted maximum. Those ratios convey the strong level of the corporation’s capital and reserves in relation to its risk exposures and borrowings and should permit the IFC, provided that profitability remains satisfactory, to maintain its current
growth rate of 12 percent to 13 percent annually in new investment approvals for the foreseeable future.
During the year the corporation’s membership increased to 161 countries. The IFC welcomed five new members—Estonia, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.
Because of the growth of its operations and staff during the past decade, the corporation has outgrown its present office space, which is leased from the World Bank. After careful consideration, IFC management decided to buy a site near World Bank headquarters in downtown Washington, D.C. and construct new headquarters. The site was purchased in 1992, and excavation began in fiscal 1994. The IFC expects to move into its new headquarters in fiscal 1997.
Details of the IFC’s fiscal year can be found in its Annual Report, published separately.
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) has as its mandate to increase the flow of productive investments to developing member countries by providing services that are client-oriented, cost-efficient, and complementary to those of other relevant public and private activities. It achieves this by (a) guaranteeing (or insuring) investments in developing countries made by private investors against specific noncommercial risks; and (b) advising and assisting these countries* efforts to attract and retain such investment.
During fiscal 1994, MIGA’s board of directors reviewed and approved changes in the agency’s operational regulations; reviewed the agency's operations during its first five years of activities; agreed to sever the relationship with the Bank Group’s Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS) as of July 1,1994 so as to conserve the agency’s resources and build up reserves; approved an increase in the risk-to-asset ratio to allow for further growth in the guarantees program; and concurred with the president’s decision on thirty-six insurance projects conveyed to it.
The number of countries paying their capital subscription in full and becoming members of the agency increased from 107 to 121.
Guarantee program. In fiscal 1994, MIGA’s guarantee program exceeded fiscal 1993 outputs in nearly every respect. Increases took place in the number of contracts executed (38 as compared with 27), income earned from premiums and commitment fees ($9.9 million as opposed to $5.8 million), and commitments of potential coverage ($140 million in contrast with $105 million).
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes	165
The thirty-eight contracts issued in fiscal 1994 involved an associated total direct investment of some $1.3 billion and created 7,800 jobs directly in fourteen host countries—a fivefold increase in job creation over the previous fiscal year. In fiscal 1994, investments were assisted in Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Chile, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Peru, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, and Uzbekistan.
Several milestones in the evolution of MIGA’s guarantees program were reached in fiscal 1994. MIGA signed its 100th contract of guarantee; total contingent liabilities exceeded the $1 billion mark; the 1,500th preliminary application for coverage was received; and the agency was formally admitted as a member of the International Union of Credit and Investment Insurers (the Berne Union).
Technical assistance activities. MIGA furnishes a variety of technical assistance services to assist efforts to stimulate foreign direct investment in the developing world and the transitional economies (collectively referred to by MIGA as Category Two countries). Through the end of fiscal 1994, these services were furnished both directly and through the FIAS. Technical assistance is now focused primarily on investment promotion and information dissemination on investment opportunities in Category Two countries and the related capacity building of those countries' investment-promodon agencies.
During fiscal 1994, and in collaboration with other agencies, MIGA conducted two major multicountry promotional events and related activities—the first for the tourism sector of South America and the second for the mining sector of sub-Saharan Africa.
Other promotion activities carried out during the year included strategy workshops designed to help member countries in capacity building for marketing, workshops to strengthen investor services and linkages, and assistance in launching investment-promotion missions.
Reflecting MIGA's new emphasis to assist member countries in information dissemination on investment opportunities, work began on some major initiatives during fiscal year 1994. The most important was preparation for the launching of a global investment-promotion agency to be supported by a planned global electronic information exchange (IPAnet). The IPAnet will link official investment-promotion agencies, business associations, financial and other intermediaries, and ultimately, investors.
MIGA will provide the secretariat for the network, which will primarily enable members to meet and exchange information and experiences.
In compliance with its mandate, MIGA, directly or with FIAS, provided advice to a number of member countries on their foreign investment legislation. MIGA also actively promoted the conclusion of bilateral investment treaties among several members and encouraged the amiable settlement of a number of investment disputes.
Details of MIGA's activities in fiscal 1994ap-pear in the MIGA Annua! Report for fiscal 1994, which is published separately.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) is a separate international organization established under the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States (the Convention), which was opened for signature in 1965 and entered into force the following year.
ICSID seeks tc encourage greater flows of international investment by providing facilities for the conciliation and arbitration of disputes between governments and foreign investors. In addition, ICSID undertakes advisory, research, and publications activities in thearea of foreign investment law.
During the past fiscal year, ICSID's membership continued to grow with the ratification of the Convention by Peru, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, and Zimbabwe. As of June 30,
1994,	IB countries had become members of ICSID; an additional seventeen countries had signed but not yet ratified the Convention.
During the same period, two new requests, one for arbitration and one for conciliation, were registered, and two awards were rendered. As of June 30, 1994, three cases were pending before the centre.
ICSID’s publications include a semiannual law journal, “ICSID Review—Foreign Investment Law Journal,” and multivolume collections of Investment Laws of the World and Investment Treaties. Two issues of the law journal and four releases of the investment laws and treaties collections were published in fiscal 1994.	.
Details of ICSID’s activities during fiscal 1994 appear in its Annual Report, which is published separately.
Section Seven World Bank Finances
The IBRD currently has 177 members. These members have subscribed about 1.41 million shares of the Bank's capital stock valued at $170 billion. The subscription price of the IBRD's shares is divided into a paid-in portion (currently 3 percent) and a larger callable portion. The former is payable to the IBRD at the time of subscription; the latter nay be called only when required to meet IBRD obligations arising out of its borrowings or loan guarantees. The paid-in portion is divided in turn into a portion payable in gold or United States dollars and another payable in a member's own currency. The amount payable in a member’s own currency is to be maintained in terms of its value against the standard value of the Bank's capital, which is expressed in United States dollars.
The IBRD’s Articles of Agreement, as applied, require that the total amount outstanding of disbursed loans, participations in loans, and callable guarantees not exceed the total value of subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus. This defines the IBRD's statutory lending limit. The difference between that limit and the actual total of disbursed loans, participations, and callable guarantees is known as “headroom.” Under current policy, the adequacy of the IBRD's capital is reviewed every three years, or more often if necessary.
Capital increases are the subject of negotiation and agreement among EBRD members. Two indicators are used to determine when and how large a capital increase may be required. One indicator is the amount of available headroom and the date by which it can reasonably be expected to be exhausted. Another is the “sustainable level of lending.” This indicator is a useful planning tool since it identifies the level of lending that can be sustained indefinitely, under certain assumptions, without an increase in capital. The IBRD's current sustainable level of lending stands at about $27 billion, compared with a commitment level for fiscal 1994 of $14.2 billion.
The objective of the IBRD's financial policies is to provide the capacity to be an efficient intermediary of long-term funds borrowed from international capital markets to support
development in the IBRD’s borrowing countries. The maintenance of a strong AAA rating or its equivalent from the bond-rating services is critical to all shareholders, since it reflects the IBRD’s outstanding financial strength and permits the institution to provide loans at lowest cost and to ensure continued access to capital markets. _
The IBRD’s AAA rating is underpinned by three factors: shareholder support for capital increases and access to their capital markets, the preferred-creditor status granted the IBRD by its borrowers, and the IBRD’s prudent financial policies that keep risks well contained.
The IBRD accepts and manages the risk of lending to its developing member countries. That risk is assessed and managed at the country level and in aggregate. At the country level, the IBRD's lending levels arc related explicitly to country creditworthiness and IBRD exposure. Creditworthiness is assessed in relation to a country’s current and expected future ability to repay IBRD loans. At the aggregate level, the IBRD's overall country-portfolio risk is regularly reviewed by Bank staff, management, and the executive directors. The overall assessment of aggregate and country risk and their expected evolution are important factors in determining annual IBRD lending allocations and longer-term country-assistance strategies. They also help determine what levels of loan-loss provisions and reserves are required.
Market risks—currency, interest, and funding risk—are kept limited and are shared with borrowers.
Currency risk is limited by the IBRD's Articles of Agreement. The IBRD does not take currency risk on its borrowings; assets are held in the same currencies to match these liabilities. In addition, the IBRD's reserves and surplus are kept in die same currency composition as its outstanding loans. Interest risk is passed on to borrowers through the variable rate loans the IBRD makes. Funding risk (that is, the inability to gain access to sufficient funds to meet obligations at a particular time) is managed by borrowing medium term to long term and by carrying liquidity sufficient to meet 45 percent of the next three years' cash needs.
The lending rate on IBRD loans is based on the IBRD's own cost of borrowings. A spread of fifty basis points is added to this cost basis. This spread may be reduced by waivers that are annually decided by the executive directors in light of available net income.
The IBRD's net income is calculated net of expenses, which include loan-loss provisions. The IBRD's objective is to optimize, not maximize, net income so that reserves are adequate, while at the same time loan charges are kept low. Reserves are maintained to enable the IBRD to absorb potentially large but low-probabQity risks, such as a sizable unexpected increase in loan arrears, without resorting to a call on capital. A portion of net income is allocated annually in an amount sufficient to maintain the target level of reserves, currently set at a range of 13 percent to 14 percent of loans.
IBRD Financial Highlights
Financial highlights of the fiscal year ending Jnne30, 1994 included:
•	disbursements to countries of $10.4 billion;
•	borrowing the equivalent of $8.9 billion in twelve currencies, four after swaps; and
•	net income of $1,OS I million, well within
the range that satisfies the IBRD's financial objectives.	.
In the first quarter of fiscal 1994, net income earned during fiscal 1993 was allocated as follows:
•	$675 million to the general reserve, which, together with $1,090 million transferred from surplus to the general reserve, was intended to increase the IBRD's reserves-to-loan ratio at the end of fiscal 1994 to a minimum of 13 percent, excluding amounts allocated for prefunding of interest waivers;
•	$215 million to the general reserve for prefunding of interest waivers to be granted in fiscal 1994;
•	$100 million to the Debt-reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries; and
•	$140 million to IDA.
Other funds transferred'from surplus during the year included $325 million transferred to IDA and $50 million (from fiscal 1992 net income) to establish a trust fund for Gaza.
Financial Policies
Single-currency loans. During fiscal 1993, the IBRD began a $3 billion, two-year pilot program to offer eligible borrowers a choice of currencies as an alternative to the existing standard loan product, the targeted currency-pool loan. The IBRD offers single-currency loans in United States dollars, yen, deutsche
mark, French francs, and pounds stcrling, with an interest rate tied to six-month LIBOR in each loan currency (PIBOR in the case of French francs). By the end of fiscal 1994, a total of $1,715 million had been approved, involving nine loans to as many countries. Of that amount, $845 million was approved in fiscal 1994, involving five loans. All of these were United States dollar loans. At June 30,
1994.	disbursements had begun on four single-currency loans. The IBRD will review the results of the pilot program during fiscal
1995.
Review of currency-pool targets. During fiscal 1994, the executive directors undertook an interim review of the target ratios for the composition of the currency pool that were estab-Iished in January 1989. The objective of the 1989 policy was to achieve better predictability, balance, and understandability for borrowers by targeting the composition of their loan obligations within narrow tolerances. The executive directors affirmed that it is the intention of the IBRD to maintain at least 90 percent of the United States dollar equivalent value of the pool in targeted ratios of 1 United States dollar: 125 yen: 2 deutsche mark equivalent (comprised of deutsche mark, Swiss francs, and/or Netherlands guilders) until at least June
1996.	At the end of the year, 97.7 percent of cturency-pool loans were in the targeted cur-rencics.
Accumulated provisions for loan losses. The level of loan-loss provisions is based on an assessment of the collectibility of loans in nonaccrual status, together with an evaluation of collectibility risks in the remainder of the portfolio. For fiscal year 1994, loan-loss provisions V'ere maintained at a level equal to 3 percent of total loans disbursed and outstanding plus the present value of guarantees for an amount equivalent to $3,324 million at the end of the fiscal year.
Loans
Disbursements. Gross disbursements by the IBRD to countries during fiscal 1994 were $10,447 million, down $2,495 million from fiscal 1993's total of $12,942 million. Net disbursements were negative, at —$731 million, down from $2,331 million in fiscal 1993. The decline in net disbursements is the result of . the lower level of gross disbursements combined with a high level of prepayments, at $970 million, in fiscal 1994. Excluding prepayments, net disbursements declined $2,557 million to $239 million.
Lending rate. Under the IBRD's current semiannual variable lending-rate system, the interest rale was 7.43 percent for the first se-
mester and 7.27 percent for the second semester of fiscal 1994. By comparison, the other variable lending rate—applicable to loans for which invitations to negotiate were sent before May 18,1989, and not converted by borrowers to the new system—was 7.42 percent and 7.25 percent for the first and second semesters, respectively, of fiscal 1994. The difference between the rates is due to differences in allocations of borrowings to lending and/or to investments and to the weights applied to currency-specific costs.
The single-currency lending rates applicable in the second semester of 1994 (based on the IBRD's cost of six-month LIBOR-based funding in each loan currency (PIBOR in the case of French francs)) were 3.66 percent in United States dollars, 2.41 percent in yen, 5.91 percent in deutsche mark, 6.28 percent in French francs, and 5.72 percent in pounds sterling.
Interest waivers.During fiscal 1994, the IBRD waived twenty-five basis points of the semester interest rate on loans to all borrowers that had made all loan-service payments within thirty days of their due date. (Approximately 83 percent of the IBRD’s total volume of outstanding loans is currently eligible for the interest-spread waiver.) This waiver was in addition to the continuation during the year of a waiver on part of the IBRD's commitment fee on undisbursed balances that resulted in a reduction of that fee from seventy-five to twenty-five basis points.
Loans in nonaccrual status. At the end of fiscal 1994, five member countries (Iraq, Liberia, Sudan, Syria, and Zaire), as well as two successor republics of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and Bosnia-Herzegovina) were in nonaccrual status. Sudan and Zaire were new entrants to nonaccrual stotus in fiscal 1994, while the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Congo cleared all arrears on February 14,1994and on June 29,1994, respectively. Moreover, Syria has been making periodic debt-service payments to the IBRD.
Liquid-assets Management
At the end of fiscal 1994, the IBRD's liquidity totaled $19 billion, or about 45 percent of anticipated net cash requirements over the next three fiscal years. At the end of fiscal 1993, liquidity amounted to $18.5 billion. The IBRD's primary objective in holding such liquidity is to ensure flexibility in its borrowings decisions should borrowing be adversely affected by temporary conditions in the capital markets.
The IBRD's liquid assets are invested exclusively i n fixed-inccme markets and are actively
traded. The attendant portfolio-management activities are fully supported by comprehensive risk-management and monitoring procedures covering both credit risk and interest-rate risk. Trading perfonraince is measured daily against detailed benchmark portfolios.
Areas of continued enhancements in the management of the IBRD's liquid assets ineluded the following areas: development of multiple trading approaches; integration of computer systems across trading, accounting, and control functions; and improvements in performance-measurement and risk-monitoring systems.
During fiscal 1994, the IBRD’s financial return on its portfolio was 3.53 percent. The financial return on investments in fiscal 1993 was 6.07 percent. The portfolio continues to be managed in relation to a benchmark strategy of one-year duration. The low returns in fiscal 1994 reflect the combination of the absolute low level of short-term interest rates and capital losses due to the increase In rates since the middle of the year.
Borrowings and Liability Management
The objectives of the IBRD's borrowing and liability-management strategy are to ensure the long-term availability of funds to the IBRD for lending and liquidity and to minimize the costs of funds for the IBRD and its borrowers. The IBRD seeks to ensure the availability of funds by developing borrowing capacity in markets in advance of need and by diversifying its borrowings by currency, source, and maturity to provide maximum flexibility in funding. It also seeks to strengthen the continuing appeal of its securities by offering features that are tailored to satisfy investors' asset preferences and by positioning its securities advantageously in each capital market (for example, from a regulatory-tax and investment-classification perspective).	:
Within the framework of the currency composition of borrowings required to fund its lending products, the IBRD seeks to minimize the cost of borrowed funds by using, among other things, currency swaps to obtain cost savings compared with the cost of direct borrowings in target currencies; structured financings converted to conventional liabilities using over-the-counter financial derivatives; the use of short-term and variable rate instruments; and prepayments, market repurchases, and refinancings of higher-cost borrowings.
Medium-term and long-term (MU) funding. During fiscal year 1994, the IBRD raised $8.9 billion through MLT borrowings in twelve currencies. including $7.8 billion of fixed rate borrowings and $1.1 billion of variable rate
borrowings (see Table 7-1). After$l.l billion of currency swaps and a notional par volume of $2.5 billion of interest-rate swaps, all of the year's borrowings, except for $193 million raised in United States dollars to fund singlecurrency loans and minor residuals in vehicle currencies, were fixed rate liabilities denomi-
noted in United States dollars, yen, deutsche mark, and Swiss francs. The average maturity of all this funding was 7.4 years, and the afterswap cost was 5.03 percent (see Table 7-2).
Noteworthy among the transactions in the IBRD’s core currencies during the past year was the IBRD's first deutsche mark, global
The three-year period of IDA’s ninth replenishment (IDA-9)—July I, 1990 to June 30. 1993— was marked by a dfflGcult international economic environment characterized by a slowdown in the growth of world trade, recession in the industrialized world, a plunge in real prices for nonoil commodities, and a stagnation in flows of official development assistance.
Dramatic political changes also took place. The end of the Cold War saw new IDA borrowers, such as AIbania, Belarus, and Mongolia, all bringing with them far-reaching agendas for transformation of their countries into maifcet economies. Movement toward political democracy gave impetus to reform in several countries but distracted attention from reform programs in others. The economic impact of the l991 Gulf War, although shorter and less severe than initially feared, called for (and subsequently received) a response from the association that could not have been anticipated at the replenishment's outset.
During the three-year period, the association provided funding to sixty countries. Lending commitments totaled SDR13.7 billion, an increase of 20 percent in nominal terms over the previous three-year period.*
African countries received 46 percent of total IDA-9 commitments, as did the countries of South Asia and East Asia together. Adjustment lending accounted for about 22 percent of total lending, while lending for education; population, health, and nutrition; and water supply and san-
itation Increased sharply, from 20 percent of tbc total in IDA-8 to 31 percent.
At the time of the agreement, reached on December 14, 1989, chi a ninth replenishment of IDA's resources, donor-country negotiators (IDA deputies) identified three program areas deserving of the highest priority during the ninth replenishment period: poverty reduction, support for sound macroeconomic and sectoral policies, and the environment-The deputies also requested that IDA’s executive directors review on an annual basis how wdl those priorities were being pursued. According to the final review of IDA'S operations and policies during the IDA-9 period, a subject of discussion by the executive board in fiscal 1994, substantial progress was made m each program area.	•	•'’ •
New and refined instruments for directly reaching the poor—poverty assessments that analyze country poverty issues and focus the policy dialogue on po v erty-reducdon strategies; poverty-focused actions in adjustment lending; and poverty-taigeted investment credits—were either initiated during the IDA-9 period: or were in an early phase of implementation. By the end.of the three-year period in question; formal poverty assessments lad been completed for sixteen IDA countries.. adjustment operations increasingly contained measures to mitigate poverty, and 40 percent of the association’s investment commit-meats during the final two years of the replenishment period were targeted directlyat thepoor.
bond for DM3 billion. The IBRD raised $2.1 billion through structured financing transactions and vehicle-currency bond issues, including $61 million through the IBRD's first issue in Greek drachma.
During the past fiscal year, the IBRD called an aggregate volume of $1.0 billion of borrowings for prepayment, including borrowings in yen, deutsche mark, European Currency Units, Belgian francs, and Luxembourg francs. In addition, it redeemed S0.2 billion of United States dollar and yen borrowings through market repurchases.
At the end of the fiscal year, MLT borrowings outstanding amounted to $95.6 billion, or 97 percent of total debt outstanding. As of June 30, 1994, the average maturity of total MLT debt was 6.0 years, and its average cost, after swaps, was 6.72 percent.
Short-term funding. As of June 30, 1994, short-term borrowings outstanding were $3.3 bQlion, down $0.5 billion compared with the level of June 30, 1993. Short-term borrowings outstanding at June 30 comprised S2.6 billion from official sources through the IBRD's central bank facility and $0.7 billion from market borrowings in United States dollars and yen.
including $151 million raised through shortterm structured financings. The cost of these borrowings was 4.95 percent compared with 3 J8 percent at the end of fiscal 1993.
On June 30, 1994. short-term and variable rate funding aggregated $3.5 billion equivalent, representing about 3 percent of total outstanding debt.
Capital
On June 30,1994, the total subscribed capital of the IBRD was $170.0 billion, or 92 percent of authorized capital of $184 billion. During fiscal year 1994, subscriptions to the $74.8 billion general capital increase (GCI). approved in April 1988, continued on schedule. Eighteen countries subscribed an aggregate $4.4 billion. A total of555,328 GCI shares ($67 billion, or 84 percent of total allocations, including addi-ttonal GCI shares allocated to new members that joined the IBRD after April 1988) have been subscribed. At the end of fiscal 1994, the permissible increase of net disbursements (“headroom") was $79.9 billion, or 42.2 percent of the IBRD's lending limit.
In 1988, the executive directors agreed to review the adequacy of the IBRD's capital every
More emphasis was placed on key groups and services. The role of women was given significantly greater recognition, and gender issues were incorporated more frequently into project design. About half of all IDA-supported projects during fiscal 1991—93 included components that addressed the specific needs of women. Greater efforts were also made to encourage the participation of beneficiaries in project design and im-piementation. Support for the provision of basic social services, including basic education, health, and family planning, increased substantially.
Inthe second program area—support for sound macroeconomic and sectoral policies—progress was made in most adjusting countries, notwithstanding the difficulties involved. Among some seventeen countries that continued to receive ad- ; justment assistance in the IDA-9 period, reforms focused increasingly rationalizing the public sector (by bringing government expenditures in line with available resources and capacities, streamlining the civil service, and restructuring public enterprises) and on enabling the private sector to respond to improved incentives. Nearly 120 credits during the IDA-9 period contained components aimed at improving the business climate, while a quarter of all investment tending supported infrastructural development. New reform programs were supported in an additional ten countries.	,	.
To help protect the environment, the foundation was laid during IDA-9 for comprehensive
support for environmentally sustainable development in all countries. National environmental action plans (NEAPs)—the most important tool for developing a country’s environmental strategy— were completed bv twenty-two IDA recipient governments aid, by the end of the replenishment period, were wdl under way for almost all of the other active iDAborrowers. Once completed,the findings of a NEAP are factored into country priorities and the plans oflDA and other donors for projects, sector studies, and the policy dialogue.
IDA's policies in environmentally sensitive sectors, such as forestry and agriculture, energy, and water-resource management, were revamped to ensure that they promote environmental objectives in IDA's policy dialogue with governments and in the design of IDA's lending program. In addition, new environmental-assessment proce-dtires were introduced to ensure that the views of people affected by the impact of projects on the environment would.be taken into account. Greater emphasis was also placed on active participation at the national and community levels in both the preparation and implementation of environmental plans and programs.
1 IDA gross disbursements during the period fiscal 1991—93 from the total universe of IDA credits—not just those approved during the IDA-9 period—totaled S 14.261 million (of which S6.196 million was directed towards the Africa region and S5.008 million towards the countries of South Asia).
three years. In the second triennial review (June 1994). they agreed with the conclusions of a management report—that the IBRD's capital is expected to remain adequate to support the projected range of iending programs for the test of the decade. They also agreed that the IBRD’s current repayment options—first endorsed in March 1991—continue, unchanged, thereby providing borrowing member countries greater flexibility in choosing repayment terms that best serve their particular country or project needs.
Reserves. On June 30. 1994, reserves amounted to $14.8 billion, and the reserves-to-loan ratio stood at 13.9 percent.
IDA Finances
In October 1993. the executive directors discussed a report on the use of resources during the IDA-9 period—fiscal years 1991-93—took note of it, and expressed their satisfaction with the use of resources during the period (see Box 7-1 for details).
IDA’s commitment authority. On December 17, 1993, the tenth replenishment resolution (IDA-10) became effective. As of June 30, 1994. the association had received notifications of participation from Australia, Austria. Brazil, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark. Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland. Ireland, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sweden. Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
During the course of the year, the requests of Spain and Portugal to change their membership status in the association from Part II to Part I members were approved. In addition to technical differences between Part I and Part n memberships. Part I members are expected to make significant contributions to each EDA replenishment, commensurate with their economic standing.
The commitment period for IDA-10 began on July 1,1993. As of June 30,1994, available contributions to IDA-10 totaled SDR3,700 million. In addition, the executive directors approved advance commitment authority from future reflows amounting to SDR800 million annually for the period fiscal 1994-96 and further annual allocations in fiscal 1994 of SDR190 million for the “Fifth Dimension" program.1 Other resources that were made available during the fiscal year included the transfer from the IBRD's surplus account totaling SDR333 million and additional resources amounting to SDR200 million as a result of a change in IDA's liquidity policy. The total available resources for the IDA-10 period during fiscal 1994 amounted, therefore, to SDRS,223 million.
Against these resources, the association made IDA-10 commitments of SDR4,734 million. Of this amount, 41 percent went to Africa, 21 percent to East Asia and the Pacific, 29 percent to South Asia, 3 percent to Europe and Central Asia, 2 percent to the Middle East and North Africa, and 5 percent to Latin America and the Caribbean. The fiscal 1994 lending program also reflected the approval of SDR4S0 million in additional lending to the countries of the CFA Zone.
IDA’s commitment fee. For each fiscal year, the level of commitment fee is set by the executive directors based on an annual review of IDA's financial position. The commitment fee for fiscal 1995 was set at 0 percent for all IDA credits. IDA's commitment fee was 0 percent from fiscal 1989 through fiscal 1994.
1 The "‘Fifth Dimension” program provides supplementary IDA resources to those IDA-only countries that have outstanding debt to the IBRD, arc current in their debt-service payments to both the IBRD and IDA. and have m place IDA-supported adjustment operations. Such supplementary resources, therefore, take into account debt impact arising from IBRD interest payments.
Notes to Financial Statements
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
The IBRD’s financial statements are prepared in contormity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United SBtes and with International Accounting Standards.
Translation of Currencies
The IBRD's finance statements are expressed in lenns ot U.S. dol lars solely for the purpose ot summarizing the IBRD's financial position and the results of its operations lor the convenience of its rentes and other interested parties. .
The IBRD is art international organization which conducts its opertions in the currencies of all of its members. The IBRD's resources are derived tram its capital, borrowings. and accumulated earnings in those various cur renews. The IBRD tiasa number of general polities aimed at minimizing exchange-rate risk in a multicutteiK? environment The IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (alter swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles ol Agreement primarily by holding or lending the proceeds of its Hammings in the same currencies in which Ihey are borrowed. In addition, he IBRD periodically under&kes currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its retained earnings with those ot the outstanding loans. With respect to its other resources, the IBRD does not convert one currency into aiother except for smalt amounts required to meet cerbin obligations and operational needs.
Assets artd liabilities are translated at marlcet exchange rates at the end ot the period Income and expenses are translated at the market exchange rate at the dates on which they are recogreod or at average market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments, with the exception at those relating to capital subscriptions described in Note A. are charged or credited to Equity.
Valuation of Capital Stock
In the Articles at Agreement the capital stock of the IBRDis expressed in terms of *US. dollars of the weight ant fineness in effect on July t.1944" (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator ol the mone&iy system and the repeal ol the prevision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U& dollar in tenns of gold, the pre-existing basis tar translatmri 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared The Executive Directors of the IBRD have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles ot Agreement are amended, that the words U.S. dollars of the Might and fineness in effect on July 1.1944 * to Article n. Section 2(a) ot the Articles at Agreement of the IBRD are interpreted to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method ol valuing theSORon July 1.1974. such value being S120535 for one SDR.
Retained Earnings
Retained earnings consists of allocated amounts (Special reserve: General reserve, and Surplus) and Unallocated ret income. The IBRD has not declared or paid any dividends to its members. .
The Special reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV. SecGon 6. of the Articles of Agreement which are to be held in liquid assets. These assets may be used only lor the purpose of meeting liabilities ot the IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event ot defaults on loans made, participated in. or guaranteed by the IBRD. The Special reserve assets are included under Investments, comprising obligations of the United St** Government its agencies; and other official entries. The allocation ol such commissians to the Special reserve was
discontinued m 1964 with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it
The General reserve consists ol earnings tram prior fiscal years which, in the judgment ol the Executive Directors, snould be retained in the IBRD's business.
Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are retained by the IBRD until a further decision is made on their disposition or 1he conditions of transfer tor specified uses have neen met.
Unallocated net income consists of earnings in Die current fiscal year. Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the Unallocated net income has been allocated to the General reserve. Additionally, upon approval ot the Beard of Governors, transfers have been made out of Unallocated net income to the International Development Association (IDA) (or facilities administered by IDA), the Global Environment Trust Fund, the Technical Assistance Trust Fund for the Union ol Soviet Socialist Republics, and Surplus.
Loans
AR of the IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans to the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The majority of the IBRD's loans have repayment obligations in various currencies determined on the basis ol a currency pooling system, which is designed to equalise excharge-late risks among borrowers. Single currency loans are being ottered on a pilot basis. Except tor certain loots which were converted to the currency pooiing system, loans negotiated prior to July 1980 and all single currency loans are repayable in the axrencies disbursed. Interest on all loans is accrued in the currencies disbused and outstanding.
Incremental direct costs associated with originating loans are expensed as incurred as such amounts are considered immaterial.
The IBRD does not reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. In exceptional cases, however, such as when implementation ol a financed project has been delayed, the loan amortization schedule mar be modified to avoid substantial repayments prior to project completion. It is the policy of the IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loss made to or guaranteed by a member ot the IBRD if principal, interest or other charges *3h respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless the I3RD management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future In addition, it development credits by IDA to a member government replaced in nonaccrual status, all loans to that member gov* emment will also be placed in nonaccrual status by the IBRD. On the date a member’s loans are placed in nonaccrual status, unpaid interest and other charge accrued on loans outstanding to ttre member are deducted trom the income of the current period. Interest and other charges on nonacauing loans are included in income only to the extent that payments have aduaty been received by the IBRD. On the date a member pays in tull all overdue amount;:, is loans emerge (ran nonaccrual ■sni* its eligibility tor new loans is restored, and all its overdue interest and other charges including those from prior years are recognized as income in the current period.
The IBRD determines the accumulated provision tor loan lasses based on an assessment of collectibility risk in the total loan portfolio, including loans in nonaccrual status. The accumulated provision is periodically adjusted based ona review of the prevailing circumstances and would be used to meet actual lasses on loans Should such losses occur in amounts in excess of the accumulated provision (and of the amount ol the Special reserve), the excess would be included in the determination ot net income. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or credit to income.
Investments
The IBRO carries its investment securities at maket value. Both realized ami unrealized gains aid losses ate included in income bom investments. From time to lime. the IBRD enters into toward contracts lor the sale or purchase ot investment securities; these transactions ate recorded at the lime ot commitment.
Due to the nature ol the investments held by the IBRD and its policies governing the (eve! and use ot sucti investments, the IBRO classifies the investment portfolio as an element ot liquidity in the Statement ot Cash Flows.
The IBRO cam'ES its investments at market value: tair values of other financial instruments are rat recorded in the accounted the IB 1. hut am disclosed in Note C as additional information.
The tair value ot financial instruments that ate short-term approximates their carrying yatai.
Financial instruments tor which market quotations are available have teen valued at the prevailing maket value. Financial instruments lor which market quotations are no: readily available have been va’ued using methodologies and assumptions that necessarily require the use ot subjective judgments. Accordingly, the actual value at which such financial instruments could b-r exchanged in a current transaction or whether they are actually eatengeable is not determinable.
Reclassifications .
Certain reclassifications ol the prior year's information have been made to conform to the current year’s presentation.
Note A—Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies, Maintenance of Value, and Membership
Capital Stock: At June 30. 1994. the IBRD's capital comprised 1.525248 {1.525.659—June 30. 1993) authorized shares, ol which 1.409.235 (1.372.648—June 30,1993) shares had been subscribed. Each share has a par value of.0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of SI .20635 per 1974 SDIL Of the subscribed capital. S10.E65 million (510.531 million—Jure 30. 1933} has been paid in. and the remaining SI59.338 million (S155.058 million—June 30,1993) is subject to Call only when required to meet the obligations of the IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing Icsns. As to SI36.002 million (SI32.471 million—June 30. 1933) the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement and as to S23.336 million (S22.587 irillion-^une 30,1993). by resolutions at the Board of Governors.
Restricted Currencies: The portion of capital subscriptions paid in to the IBRD is dhri&d into two parts: (1) SI.067 million (S1.053 million— June 30.1993) initially pad in gold or U.S. dollars and (2) S9.598 million (S9.478 million—June 30.1993) paid in cash or noninterest-bearing demand obligations denominated either in the currencies al he respective members or in U.S. dollars. The arcuunts mentioned in (1) above; and (i) S779 million (S656 million—June 30.1993) which were repurchased by members with U.S. dollars, and (H) S2M million (S208 mOlion—June 30. 1993) which were the proceeds from encashments of U.S.-dollar-denominated notes wbich are included in tt“ amounts mentioned in (2) above, are treely usable by the IBRD in any ottts operations. The portion ot the amounts paid in US-doflar-denomir'Sed notes are encashed by the IBRO in accordance with the schedules ' jrt d between the membeis and the IBRD. The remaining amounts paid In He currencies d the members, te-lened to as restricted currencies. are usable by the IBRD in its lendng
operations only with the consent ot the respective members. and tor administrative expenses The equivalent al S5.444 million (S5.197 million— June 30. 1993) has been used tor .ending purposes, with such consent.
Maintenance of Value: Article It. Section 9 at the Articles ol Agreement provides tar maintenance at value. as at the lime of subscription, al such restricted currencies, requiring (1) the member to make additional payments to tie IBRO in the event that the par value at its cutrency is reduced or the foreign exchange value ot its currency has, in the opinion ol
the IBRD, depredated to a significant edent in its territories and (2) the IBRD to reimburse the member ^ the event that the par value ol its currency is increased.	.	■
Since currencies no longer have par values, maintenance-ol-value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value at a member's currency against the standard ot value of the IBRD capital based on the 1974 SOR. Members are required to make payments to the IBRO it their currencies depredate significantly relative to the standard ot value. Furtherin''. the Executive Directors decided to adopt a policv of revnbursir^ r.(embers whose cunendes appreciate significantly in terms al the standau ot value.
With respect to restricted cunendes out on loan, maintenancc-of-value obligations become eCective only as such currencies are recovered by the IBRD. The maintenance-of-value amounts relating to restricted cunendes out on loan ate included in Amounts requited to maintain value at currency holdings—amounts deferred!	.
Membership: On February 25. 1993. the IBRD's Executive Directors derided that Hie Socialist Federal Republic ot Yugoslavia (SFRY) had ceased to beamemberol the IBRD and that Ihe Republic ot Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the farmer Yugoslav Republic ot Macedonia, the Republic ot Slovenia and the Federal Republic at Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) ate authorized to succeed to the SFHVs membership when certain requirements are met Three ot the five successor Republics—the Republics at Croatia and Slovenia and He turner Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia—have since become members d the IBRD. The pad-in portion of the SFRY's subscribed capital allocated to the other successor Republics (the Republic ot Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)) is included under Payments oh account of pending subscriptions.
. Note B—Loans, Cofinancing and Guarantees
Loans: On August % 1993, the IBRD's Executive Directors approved a one-year intr'st waiver of 25 basis po'-is an disbufsed and outstanding loans for all parment periods commenc1:.. in the fiscal year ending June 30. 1994 tor all <Hi(lible borrowers. For the fiscal year ended June 30.1993. the interest waiver approved was 35 basis points. On August 3. 1993. the Executive Directors also extended the one-year commitment tee waiver al 50 basis points on undtsbursed loans to all borrowers for an additional period of year.
On February 25.1993, the IBRD's Executive Directors decided that the Socialist Federal Republic ot Yugoslavia (SFRY) had ceased to be a member d the IBRD and that tbe Republic ol Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic d Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic d Slovenia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (FRY) were authorized to succeed to the SFRY’s membership when certain requirements were met. including entering into a final agreement with the IBRD on the IBRD’s toans mad: to or guaranteed by the SFRY which the particular successor Republic assumed.
Three d the five successor Republics—(he Republics d Croatia and Slovenia and the lormer Yugoslav Republic ol Macedonia—lave since become members d the IBRD. With respect to the FRY. in February 1993 the IBRD reached an agreement with that Republic lor the apportionment and service d debt due to the IBRD ait loans made to or guaranteed by the SFRY and
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
assumed by the FRY. which confirmed a February 1992 interim agreement between the SFRY (then consisting ol the Republics of Bosnia ant Hercegovina, Macedonia. Montenegro and Serbia) and the IBRD pertaining, among other things, to such loans. As ol the date hereof, no debt service payments have been received by the IBRD tram the FRY. With respect to the Republic ot Bosnia and Herzegovina, a preliminary understanding was reached in June 1993 on the loans made to or guaranteed by the SFRY to be assumed by that Republic Until an agreement is reached, loans bene-rating that Republic are included with the loans assumed by the FRY in accordance with the IBRD's above-mentioned agreement with the FRY. (Also see Nate A).
Al June 30.1994. no loans payable to the IBRD other than those referred to in the following paragraphs were overdue by more than three months.
At June 30,1994. the loans made to or guaranteed by certain member countries and two other countries—the FRY and the Republic ot Bosnia and Herzegovina—with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of S2.363 million (S2.497 million—June 30. 1993). of which $1,009 million (S772 million—June 30,1993) was overdue, were in nonaccrual status. As ot such date, overdue interest and other charges in respect ot these loans totaled SG28 million (S5G9 million—June 30.1993). It these loans had not been in no. xaual status, income Iram loans tor the fiscal year ended June 30. 1994 would have been higher by S149 million ($244 million—June 30. 1993). A summary of member countries and republics with loans or guarantees in nonaccrual status follows:
During the fiscal year ended June30.1994. Congo and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia paid ott all of their arreare and therefore loans to them came out ot noraccrtia! status. As a result, income tram loans for tt*e fiscal year ended June 30.1994 increased by SS2 million corresponding to income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years. For the fiscal year ended June 30.1993. the increase in loan income front loans to countries coming out ot nonaccrual status during mat liscal year was S407 minion.
An analysis ofTje changes to Die accumulated provision tor loan losses appears below;
Cofinancing and Guarantee: The IBRD has entered into agreements tor loans syndicated by other financial Institutions either by a direct parttdpatkm in. ora partial guarantee ol. loans tor the benefit ol member countries or a partial guarantee of securities issued by an entity eligible lor IBRO loans. The IBRD's ditect participations in syndicated loans are included In reported loan balances.
Guarantees ot SI .181 minion at June 30.1994 (51.134 million—June 30. 1993) were not Included in reported loan balances. S173 million of these guarantees were subject to call at June 30.1994 (S150 million—June 30. 1993).
The IBRD has partially guaranteed the timely payment ot interest amounts on certain loans that have been sold. At June 30. 1994. these guarantees, approximating $4 million ($5 million—June30.1993). were subject to can.
Statutory Lending Urn It: Under the Articles of Agreement the total amount outstanding of guarantees, participations in loans, and direct loans made bythe IBRD may not be Increased to an amount exceeding 100 percent of the sum ol subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus. On me IBRD's Balance Sheet reserves aid surplus correspond to items labelled Retained earnings. Cumulative translation adjustment and Accumulated provision for loan losses. The IBRD's Executive Directors have issued guidelines pursuant to wtiich all guarantees issued by the IBRD wilt be courted towards this liinit at the time they first become callable, irrespective ol the likelihood of an actual calL At June 30. 1994. such total amount was SI09 billion or 5B percent (57 percent—June 30.1993) of the Statutory lending limit.
Note C—Hnancial Instruments
Investments
The IBRO caries its investment securities, including corresponding derivative instruments, at market value. Accordingly. Hie carrying amount represents the lair value ot the portlolio. These fair values are based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted market prices are not available. Ur values are based on quoted markid prices of comparable instruments..
For both on-and off-balance sheet securities. the IBRO limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit limits have been established tar each counterparty by type of instrument and maturity categoiy.
The annualized rate of return on average investments, net ot agreements to repurchase and cash collateral received, held during the fiscal year ended June 30.1994. including both realized and unnatized gains and losses, was 356 percent (6.09 percent—June 30.1993).
to part of its overall portfolio management strategy, the IBRD invests in government obligations and time deposits. These categories also include financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, including futures, forward contracts, covered lomard contracts, options, and short sales.
Government Obligations: Government obligations include marketable securities, bonds, notes, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments ot countries or other official entities including the agencies and instrumentalities of the government ot a country or by multilateral organizations.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates at deposit time deposits. bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
Futures and Forwards: Futures and foiwaid contracts are contracts for delayed delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery « a specified future dale of a specified instrument, at a sped tied price or yield Covered forwards are agreements
in which cash in one currency is converted into a different currency and. simultaneously, a loiward exchange agreement is executed provtdrg lor a future exchange at the two cunendes m order to recover Die currency converted.	■
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of Ihe option to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a sped Red price and within a specified period al time from the seller or to the purchaser of the option. As a seller of options, tie IBRD receives a premium at Die outset and then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price at the financial instrument underlying Ihe option.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the IBRD's portfolio at the time of the sale. The IBRD must purchase the security al a later date and bears the risk that Ihe market value ol the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and Die time the security must tie delivered.
A summary of Ihe currency cormnsitian of Investments. (ncfucfing securities purchased under resale agreements, at June 30.1994 and June 30.1993 is as fallows:	.
All of the IBRD's loans jre made to or guaranteed by countries that are timbers of the IBRD, except fcr those loans mads to the IFC. The IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor is thereaTOrketot loans comparable to those made by the IBRD. The IBRD has never sufteitd a toss on any ol its loans, although (ram time to time certain borrowers have tcmd it difficult to make timely payments lor protracted periods, resulting in trar loans bang placed in nonaccrual status. Several borrowers have emaged tram nonaccrual status alter a period of time by brining up-to-dae all principal payments and all interest payments, including interest and other charges on overdue principal payments. In an attempt to recognize the risi inherent in these overdue payments, the IBRD maintains a provision lor loan losses. The balance of the Accumulated provision far loan losses at June 3ft. 1994 was . S3.324 miffion (S3.159 million—June 30. 1993).
Fixed rote loans: On loans negotiated prior lo July 1982. the IBRD Charges interest at fixed rates. The estimated fair value 01 these loans is
based on discounted future cash flows using the rate at which ihe IBRO could undertake borrowings ol comparable maturities at June 30.1994 plus a SO basis point spread.
Variable rate loans: In 1982. Ihe IBRD mitigated its interest rate risk by moving from fixed rate to variable iate lending. The me charged an variable rale loans is based on the IBRD's own cost of oualilied borrowings plus a 50 basis point spread, resulting in a pass-through of its average borrowing costs to those members that benefit from IBRD loans. Since tie interest rale for variable rate loans is based on the interest rate of the qualified borrowings. Ihe lair value ol variable rale loans has been estimated based on the relationship ol the lair value to the carrying value of the underlying borrowings.
Single currency loans: In 1993. Ihe IBRD introduced single currency loans on a pilot basis. The rates charged on single currency loans are equal to the six-numth reference interbank altered rate lor the applicable currency prevailing on the semiannual reset date, plus a cost margin equal to the IBRD's weighted average margin relative to Ihe six-month London Interbank Ottered Rate on its borrowings funding single currency loans, calculded lor the previous semester and averaged across currencies, plus an interest spread at 50 basis points. 9nce the interest rates far single currency loans are based on the interest rate of qualified borrowings. Hie lair value ol single currency loans has ber '^fimaled based on the relationship ot the fair value to the carrying ulus - .'iderlying borrowings.
The estimated fair values are based on quoted market prices where such pricesare available. Where no quoted market price is available, the fairvatue is esftntfed based on the cost at which the IBRD could currently undertake borrowings with similar termsand remaning maturities, using the secondary market yield curve. The tair value of swaps represent the estimated cost ol replacing these contracts an that date.
Providing liquidity and minimizing the cost of funds are key objectives to the IBRD's overall borrowing strategy. The IBRO uses swaps in its borrowing strategy to lower the overall cost ol its borrowings for those membeis who benefit from IBRD loans. The IBRD undertakes swap transactions with a 1st of authorized counterparties. Credit and maturity limits have been established lor each counterparty.
The average cost of borrowings outstanding, indudmg short-term borrowings. during the liscal year ended June 30.1994 was 6.74 percent (7.01
percent—June 3a 1993). reflecting a reduction In interest expense ol $234 million (S367 million-June 30.1993) as a result ot swaps.
Cuirency swaps: The IBRD has entered Into currency swaps in which proceeds ol a borrowing arc converted Into a dilTerent currency and, simultaneously. a forward exchange agreement is executed providing lor a schedule ol future exchanges of the two cunendes in order to recover the currency converted. The combination ot a borrowing and a currency swap produces the financial equivalent ot substituting a borrowing in the currency obtained in the initial conversion tor the original borrowing.
Interest rate swaps: The IBRD undertakes interest rate swaps, which transform a Rxed rate payment obligation in a particular currency into a floating rate obligation in that currency and vice-versa.
Note D—Risk Exposure of Financial Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet Risks
In the normal course id business, the IBRD is a party to a variety ol off-balance sheet financial instruments to manage its exposure to market risks. These financial instruments involve elements dcedit and market risks in excess of ttieamount recorded on the balance sheet Credit risk represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contrail Market risk represents the potential loss due to the decrease in the value ot an off-balance sheet financial instrument caused primarily by changes In interest rates or currency exchange rates. The risk exposure of ftiancfal Instruments with alf-balance sheet risks as at June 30.1994 and June 30.1993 is given below. .	;
On August 3.1993. the Executive Directors allocated S890 million ol the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30.1993 to the General reserve. On September30.1993. the Board ot Governors approved a transfer at $100 million to the Debt Reduction Facility administered by IDA. and a transfer to IDA. by way ol grant, ol St40 million In an equivalent amount in SDR* out of the net income earned in the liscal year ended June 30.1993. On the same day. the Board of Governors also approved a transfer ot S1.090 million to the General reserve from Surplus. On September 24.1992. as amended on November 11.1993. the Board ot Governors approved a transfer of S325 motion In an equivalent amount in SORs bom Surplus as a gait to IDA. when the tenth replenishment of IDA's resources would become effective, which occurred on December 17.1993. On November 11.1993. the Board of Governors apprc.wl a transfer, by way of grant, ot S50 million from Surplus to the Trust Fund lor Gaa, to be admiruslered by IDA.
Transfers to International Development Association: The
Board of Governors approved transfers to IDA totaling S3.80B million from Unallocated net income lor the fiscal years ended June 30.1964 through June 30.19BT. and June 30.1909 through June 30.1993. On Septembir 30.1993. the Board of Governors approved a tianster to IDA, by way Of grant ot S140 million in an equivalent amount in SORs. In addition on September 24. 1992. as amended on November 11. 1993. the Board at Guvemois approved a transfer of S325 million to IDA. when the tenth replenishment ol IOA‘s resources would become effective, which occurred on December 17,
1993.	Transfer of SI H3 million remained payable at June 30.1994 ($960 million—June 30.1993).
Transfers to Debt Reduction Facility tor IDA-Only Countries: The Board of Governors approved transfers to the Debt Reduction Facility lor lOA-Only Countries totaling S100 million through June30,1993. On September 30.1993. the Board of Governors approved a turtber transfer ot S100 million to the Debt Reduction Facility tor IDA-Only Countries. At June 30.1994. ST3I minion remained payable (SS3 million—June 30, 1993).
Transfer to theTrust Fund tor Gaza: On November 11.1993, the Board of Governors approved a transfer to the Trust Fund tor Gaza, by way ol gram, of $50 million. At June 30.1994. S50 million remained payable.
Note F—Expenses
Administrative expenses are net ot the management lee ot S54S minion (S467 million—June 30. 1993) Charged to IDA and S107 million (595 million—June 30.1993) charged to reimbursable pragramr. Included in the amounts charged to reimbursable programs are allocated charges ot S21 million (S20 million—June 30.1903) charged to IFC and SI million (SI million—June 30.1993) charged to the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (M.I.GA).	.	.
Contributions to special programs represent grants tor agricultural research, the control at onchocerciasis, and other developmental activities.
As of June 30.1994. the IBRD has provided lor liabilities associated with Ihe estimated costs at benefits provided to tanner or inactive employees alter employment but belore retirement The effect is not material to the financial statements.
Note G—Staff Retirement Plan
The IBRD has a defined benefit retirement plan covering substantially all at its stall. The Plan also cavers substantially all the stall ot IFC and M.I.G A Under the Plan, benefits are based on BievTts of contributory service and the highest three-year average ot pensionable remuneration as defined in the Plan, with the staff contributing a fixed percentage ot pensionable remuneration. and the IBRO contributing the remainder ol the actually determined cost ol future Plan benefits- The IBRD uses the aggreg^e method tor determining its contribution to the Plan. The amount at tat contrfcution approximates the net periodic pension cost as detailed below. All contributions to the Plan and all other asseb and income held for ihe purposes ot the Plan are held by the IBRD separately from the otherassets and income ot the IBRD. IDA. IFC and M.I.GA and cart be used only lor the benefit ol the participants in the Plan and their beneficiaries, until all liabilities to them have been paid or provided lor. Plan assets consist primarily of equity and find income securities, with smaller holdings of cash, real estate and after investments.
Net periodic pension cost lor IBRD participants lor the fiscal years ended June 30.1994 and June 30.1993. consisted ot the tallowing components:
The weighted-average discount rate used In determining the actuarial present value ot the projected benefit obligation was 925 percent (7.5 percent— June 30.1993). The effect of projected compensation levels ms calculated based on a scale that provides lor a decreasing nte at salary increase depending wage, beginning with 13.0 percental age 20 and decreasing to 65 percent at age 64. The expected long-term rate al return on assets was
9	percent (9 percent—June JO. 1993).
Note H—Retired Staff Benefits Plan
The IBRD has a Retired Salt Benefits Plan (RSBP) that provides certain health care and life insurance benefits to retirees. All staff who are enrolled in the insurance programs while in active service and who meet certain requirements are eligible tor benefits when they reach early or normal retirement age while working lor the IBRD. The RSBP also covers the stall ol IFC and M.I.G A
Retirees contribute a level amount toward life insurance based on the amount of coverage. Retiiee contributions toward health care are based on length ol service and age at retirement The BRD annually contributes the remainder al the actuariatly determined cost lor future benefits. All contributions to the RSBP and all olher assets and income held for purposes of the RSBP are held by the IBRD separately from the other assets and income of the IBRD. IDA, IFC. and MIGA and can be used only tor the benefit d the participants in the RSBP and Iheir beneficiaries until all liabilities to them have been paid or provided tor. RSBP assets consist primarily al fixed income and equity securities.
During the fiscal year ended JuneSO. 1993. the IBRD reviewed and modified certain assumptions used in calculating its accumulated pastrelirement benefit obligation (AP80) to reflect actual experience. These modifications resuited in an increase in the APBO. and a special one-time contribution ol $343 million was made to tend this increase. The IBRD's share of this contribution was S315 million. The remainder was contributed by IFC and MIGA
Net periodic postrefirement benefits cost for IBRD participants lor Die fiscal years ended June 30.1994 and June 30.1993 consisted at Die following components:	;
The portion al this cost that relates to the IBRD and is included in Administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30.1994 is S21 million ($15 million—June30.1993). The balance has been included in the management tee charged to IDA.
Of Ihe S338 million prepaid as ol June 30.1994, S311 million Is attributable to the IBRD and is included in Miscellaneous assets on the Balance ‘tfieel. The remainder has been attributed to IFC and MIGA.
For June 30.1994, the APBO was determined using health care cast bend rates of 12.2 to 16.4 percent, decreasing gradually to 5.8 percent In 2010 and thereafter. The health caie cost bend rale used for June 30.1993. was 115 to 162 percent decreasing gradually to 5.0 percent in 2010 and thereafter.
The;______. jre cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the
amounts reported. To illustrate, increasing the assumed health care cost trend rates by one percentage point would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as ol June 30.1994 by S132 million and the net periodic postretnement benefit cost for the fiscal year then ended by SIB million. . .
The weighted average discount rate used in determining the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation ws 825 percent (7.5 percent—June 30. 1993) The expected long-term rale of return on plan assets was 8.25 percent (7.5 percent—June 30.1993).
July 27, 1994
President and Board of Governors International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
In our opinion, the financial statements appearing on pages 174 through 193 of this Report present fairly, in all material respects, in terms of United States dollars, the financial position of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development at June 30,1994and 1993, and the results ofits operations and its cashflows for the years then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and with International Accounting Standards. These financial statements are the responsibility of management of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including International Standards on Auditing, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
IDA's financial statements are prepared in conloimlty with the accounting principles generally accepted In the United States and with International Accounting Standards.
Organization and Operations
IDA: IDA was established on September 24.1960 to promote economic development increase productivity, and raise the standard ol living of ils developing country members.
Special Fund: On October 2G. 1962. IDA established the Spedal Fund constituted by lunds to be contributed by members ol IDA and administered by IDA. to supplement the regular resources available for lending by IDA. The arrangements governing the Special Fund may be amended or terminated by IDA’S Executive Directors subject to the agreement ot a qualified majority ot the contributors to the Special Fund. The resources of the Special Fund are kept separate from the resources of IDA.
Translation of Currencies
IDA'S financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely lor the purpose of summarizing IDA's financial position and the results ol its operations for the convenience n* its members and other interested parties.
IDA: IDA is an international organization which conduct its operations in the currencies of all ol its members. Assets ana liabilities are translated al market rates of exchange at Ihe end ol the accounting period. Subscriptions and contributions are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are hanslated at the market rales of exchange at the dales an which they are recognized or at an average ol the market tales ol exchange in effect during each month. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation at development credits denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) are charged or credited to Cumulative translation adjustment an development credits. Other translation adjustments are charged or credited to the Accumulated surplus.
Special Fund: Assets of the Special Fund are translated at market rates ol exchange at the end of the period. Contributions are translated in Ihe manner described below. Income is translated al market rates of exchange on dates of recognition of income. Translation adjustments are charged or credited to Ihe Accumulated surplus.
Valuation of Subscriptions and Contributions
IDA: The subscriptions and contributions provided through the third replenishment are expressed in terms ot "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1.1960" (1960 dollars). Following the abolition ol gold as a common denominator ot the monetary system and the repeat ol the provision ol Ihe U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms ol gold, the pre-existing basis lor translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors ol IDA have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions at the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect an January 1.1960“ in Article II. Section 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method ol valuing the SDR on July 1,1974. such value being equal to S1.20635 for one SDR (Ihe 1974 SDR), and have also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors.
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the third replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of
the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis ol the SDH at the current market value of the SDR.
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the fourth replenishment and thereafter are expressed In members' currencies or SDRs and are payable In members' currencies. Beginning July 1.19B6. subscriptions and contributions made available lor disbursement in ash to IDA are translated al maiket rales of exchange on the dates they were made available. Prior to that dale, subscriptions and contributions which had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market rates of exchange on dates ol disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market rales of exchange at the end at the accounting period.
Spedal Fund: Beginning April 1,19B9, subscriptions and contributions received but not yet disbursed, as well as subscriptions and contributions disbursed or converted into other currencies, are translated al market rates of exchange on the dates they were made available for disbursement in cash to Ihe Special Fund. Prior lo that date, subscriptions and contributions which had been disbursed or convened into other currencies were translated at market rates of exchange on dates ol disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions receivable are translated at market rales ot exchange at the end of the accounting period.
Development Credits
All development credits are made to member governments c to the government ol a territory of a member (except for development credits which have been made to regional development banks for the benefit ol members or territories ol members ol IDA). It is the policy al IDA to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such development credit are overdue by mare than six months, unless IDA management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, it loans by the IBRD to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IDA On the date a member's development credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued on development credits outstanding to the member which remained unpaid are deducted trom the income ol the current period. Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. On the date a member pays in lull all overdue amounts. Ihe member's credits emerge from nonaccrual status, ils eligibility for new credits is restored, and all overdue charges (including those from prior years) are recognized as income in the current period.
In projecting the repayments of principal which would be available lor new commitments, IDA lakes into consideration any collectibility risks that may exist in principal receivable from development credits. No provision has been established for credit losses. Should losses occur arising trom principal receivable from development credits, they would be charged against IDA’s Development Resources. To date: IDA has not suffered any tosses on receivables from development credits, nor are any losses anticipated.
IDA: The repayment obligations of IDA's development credits funded from resources through the fifth replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms at 1960 dollars. In June 1987, Ihe Executive Directors decided to value those development credits at the rale ot S1.20635 per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis. Development credits funded from resources provided under the sixth replenishment and thereafter are denominated in SORs: the principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are lo be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SIMs disbursed.
Special Fund: Special Fund development credits are denominated In SDRs. The principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are lo be repaid In currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed
Special Fund development credits are made on Ihe same terms as regular IDA development credits except that the proceeds ol Special Fund development credits may be used only lo finance expenditures for goods or services Irom (a) Pad II members ol IDA: (b) Pad I members contributing lo the Special Fund; and (c) Part I members contributing to Ihe regular resources ot IDA through IDA'S FYB4 Account who have notified IDA that such contributions are to be treated in the same manner as contributions lo the Special Fund lor purposes ol any future adjustment ot the voting rights ol the members of IDA.
Investments
IDA carries ils investment securities al market value. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in income Irom investments.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications of the prior year's information have been made to conform to Ihe current year's presentation.
Note A—Investments
A summary ol the currency composition of Ihe Investments at June 30.1994 and June 30,1993 is as follows:
As part of its overall portfolio management strategy. IDA is party to financial instruments with ofl-balance sheet risk, including Futures, covered forward contracts, options, and short sales. Futures are contracts tor delayed delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument, al a specified price or yield. At June 30.1994 the total contact value ol futures contracts was $1,161 million (S211 million—June 30.1993) and IDA’s exposure to credit loss on futures contracts due to potential ncnperformance of counterparties was SI million [S7 million—June 30.1993).
Covered forwards are agreements in which cash in one currency is converted into a different cunency and. simultaneously, a forward exchange agreement is executed providing for a future exchange of Ihe two currencies in order to recover the currency converted. At June 30,1994. IDA had gross receivables from covered forward agreements of S323 million [S119 million— June 30. 1993) and gross payables from covered forward agreements of
S317 million ($125 million—June 30, 1993). At Juno 30, 1994, IDA'S exposure lo credit loss on covered forwards due to potential nonperformance by counterparties was $6 million (nil—June 30,1993).
Options are contracts that allow the holder ot the option to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price and wllhln a specified period ol lime Irom Ihe seller or to the purchaser ol the option. As a seller ol options, IDA receives a premium at Ihe outset and then bears Ihe risk ol an unla-vorable change in the price of the tinaricial instrument underlying Ihe option. The total conlract value ol options sold al June 30.1994 was $216 million (S29 million—June 30.1993).
Short sales ate sales of securities not held in IDA’S portfolio at Ihe time ol Ihe sale. IDA must puichase Ihe security at a later date and bears Hie risk that the market value ol the security will move adversely between the lime ol Ihe sale and the time the security must be delivered. The total contract amount ol short sales at June 30.1994 was S13 million ($7 million—June 30.1993). This amount is included in Net payable on investment security transactions.
Note B—Cash and Investments Not Immediately Available for Disbursement
Under the Articles ol Agreement and the arrangements governing replen ishmenls. IDA must take appropriate steps to ensure that, over a reasonable period ol lime, the resources provided by donors lor lending by IDA are used on an approximately pro rata basis. Donors sometimes contribute resources substantially ahead of their pro rata share. Unless otherwise agreed. IDA does not disburse these funds ahead of donors' pro rata shares. Cash and investments not immediately available lor disbursement represents the difference between the amount contributed and the amount available lor disbursements on a pro rata basis.
Note C—Member Subscriptions and Contributions
Restricted Assets and Subscriptions: For the purposes of its financial resources, Ihe membership ol IDA is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which make payments ot subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations ana {2) most Part II members, which make payments of ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies, and the remaining ninety percent of their initial subscriptions. and ali additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II members provide a portion of their subscriptions and contributions in the same manner as mentioned in (1) above IDA's Articles ot Agreement and subsequent repfenishmenl agreements provide that Ihe currency ol any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA and located outside the territories ol the member except by agreement between the member and IDA.
Maintenance of Value: Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) ot IDA’S Articles of Agreement provides for mairttenance-of-value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member's currency or its foreign exchange value has. in the opinion ot IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the members' territories, so long as and lo the extent that such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged tor the currency ot another member. The provisions of Article IV. Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the third replenishment, but are not applicable to those ol the fourth and subsequent replenishments.
The Executive Directors decided on June 3D, 1987. that settlements of maintenance-of-value obligations, which would result from the lesofution of
Ida valuation Issue on ihe basis ol lira 1974 SDR, would ba deterred until Du Executive Directors decide lo resume such selllanwnls.
Tenth Replenishment: On March 31,1993. Iho Board ol Governors ol IDA adopted a resolution authorizing Ihe tenth replenishment ol IDA'S resources. The tenth replenishment provides IDA with resources lo lund credits committed during the period July 1.1993 to June 30.1996. The amount ol the replenishment. Including supplementary contributions provided by certain members. Is equivalent to SDR 13,000 million (at ihe exchango rales determined pursuant to a formula agreed by IDA and contributing donors). The tenth replenishment became effective on December 17,1993.
Subscriptions and Contributions Not Yet Due: Al June 30,1994, unrestricted subscriptions and contributions not yet due will become due as lollaws:
Contributions to Spedal Fund: Member contributions to the Special Fund totaling S596 million at June 30.1394. (S596 million—June 30.1993) are reflected as Member subscriptions and contributions in the Statement of Development Resources. At June 30,1994, the Special Fund total is reflected net of $389 million (S378 million—June 30.1993), which represents development credit disbursements that are repayable to and included in Member subscriptions and contributions ol IDA.
Membership: On February 25.1993, the IBRD's Executive Directors decided that the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) had ceased to bea member of the IBRD and that the Republic of Bosnia dnd Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Slovenia and Ihe Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are authorized to succeed to the membership of the SFRY in the IBRD when certain requirements are met. In accordance with the Articles of Agreement ol the Association, on February 25.1993. the SFRY ceased lo be a member ol IDA due to the cessation of its membership in IBRO. Three of the live successor Republics—the Republics ol Croatia and Slovenia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia—have since become members of IDA. As ol June 30.1994, the subscription and contributions allocated lo the other successor Republics (the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)) are included under Payments on account of pending membership.
On May 29.1992, Switzerland became a member ol IDA. Before that dale, Switzerland had contributed to IDA an equivalent of S51 million. As agreed between the Swiss Confederation and IDA. these grant contributions were converted to an IDA subscription. Further, during the commitment periods between Ihe fourth and the ninth replenishments of Ihe IDA resources, Switzerland had cofinanced projects ty making available lo IDA borrowers untied grants in Ihe aggregate amount of Swiss francs 1.055 million (historical U.S. dollar amount ol $580 million). On July 7.1992, as agreed between the Swiss Confederation and IDA. these grant contributions were converted to an IDA subscription and contribution when Switzerland contributed a further 568 million, representing the present value of future reflows of Ihe cofinancing giants il they had been made through IDA on IDA's repayment terms. At June 30.1994. S512 million (S512 million—June 30. 1993). representing the difference between the total cofinancing grants ol £580 million and the present value of future reflows ol $68 million, have not been included in Ihe Member subscriptions and contributions in the Statements of Development Resources.
Note D—Transfers from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
IDA: The IBRD's Board ol Govwnois approved transfers lo IDA totaling $3,808 million through June 30,1993.01 the total amount. $80 million has been disbursed lor grants lor agricultural research. Ihe control of onchocerciasis. and other developmental activities, On September 30, 1993, the IBRD's Board ol Governors approved a transfer of (140 million to IDA by nay ol grant. On Sopttmber 24.1992, as amended on November 1 f, 1993, Ihe IBRD's Board ol Governors authorized a transfer ol an amount equivalent
lo	$325 million by vray ol a grant to IDA when Ihe liinlh replenishment would become effective, which occurred on December 17,1993.
Note E—Development Credits
Special Fund development credits disbursed and outstanding ot $457 million al June 3D. 1994 ($431 million—June 30.1993) are Included in Ihe Statements of Development Resources ol IDA since principal repayments on these development credits will become part ol the general resources ol IDA, unless otherwise provided In a decision ot IDA'S Executive Directors lo terminate administration at the Special Fund by IDA.
t
At June 3D, 1994, principal installments ol SD.6 million and charges ol $0.5 million payable to IDA on development credits were overdue by more than three months. Al June 30.1994. the aggregate principal amounts outstanding on all development credits to any bortewer, other than those referred lo in the following paragraph, with any development credit overdue by more than three months was $474 million.
At June 30,1994, the development credits made to or guaranteed by certain member countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding ol $3,533 million ($1,046 million—June 30. 1993), of which $42 million ($18 million—-June 30.1993) was overdue, were In nonaccrual status. As ol such date, overdue charges In respect of these development credits totaled $46 million (S21 million—June 30.1993). It these development credits had not been in nonaccrual status, Income from development credits for Ihe year ended June 30,1994 would have been higher by $31 million ($7 million— June 30,1993), which is net of charges received Irom such members during Ihe year. A summary of member countries with credits or guarantees in nonaccrual status follows:
During the fiscal year ended June 30,1994, Congo paid off all ol its arrears and therefore credits lo it came out ol nonaccrual status. As a result, income from credits for the fiscal year ended June 30.1994 increased by $2 million corresponding to income that would have been accrued in previous liscal years. For the liscal year ended June 30.1993. no credits came out of nonaccrual status.
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
Note F—Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Investments: Since IDA carries ils investments al market value, the carrying amount represents the lair value ol the portfolio. Thee tair values are based on quoted market prices, where available II quoted market prices are not available, lair values are based on quoted market prices ot comparable instruments. The lair value ol linanciat instruments that are short term approximate their cany value.
Credits: All at IDA's credits are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members ot IDA. These credits are made to provide concessional assistance lo low-income developing countries. While the principal amount is fully repayable, no interest is charged to th e borrower. A service lee ol 0.75%
ol the disbursed and outstanding balance is charged, however, to cover the costs ol administering the credits. Due to the concessional nature ot these credits, it is not meaningful to calculate a tair value lor outstanding credits.
Note G—Income and Expenses
IDA: IDA pays a management lee to Ihe IBRD representing its share ot the administrative expenses incurred by the IBRD.
Special Fund: The service and commitment charges payable by borrowers under Special Fund development credits are paid directly to IDA to compensate it for services a s admini strator o f the Special Fund. Income horn investments ol the Spedal Fund becomes part ot the resources ot the Special Fund.
July 27. 1994
President and Board of Governors International Development Association and the
Spedal Fund Administered by the International Development Association
In our opinion, the financial statements appearing on pages 196 through 208 of this Report present fairly, in all material respects, in terms of United States dollars, the financial position of the International Development Association and the Special Fund Administered by the International Development Association at June 30.
1994	and 1993. and the changes in their accumulated surplus and their cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and with International Accounting Standards. These financial statements are the responsibility of management: our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including International Standards on Auditing, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements arc free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above. .
Forty-seventh meeting, Washington, September 27, 1993
1.	The 47th meeting of the Development Committee was held in Washington DC on September 27, 1993 under the chairmanship of Mr. Rudolf Hommes, Minister of Finance and Public Credit of Colombia.1 The Committee extended its thanks to the retiring Chairman, Mr. Ricardo Hausmann of Venezuela.
2.	GAZA AND THE WEST BANK. The Committee welcomed the outstanding contribution to the Middle East Peace Process made by the World Bank in preparing the ground for a coordinated program of financial support for Gaza and the West Bank.
3.	WORLD ECONOMY. The Committee reviewed the impact on developing countries of recent trends in the world economy. It renewed its call for a fresh impetus to growth in the industrial countries, and for a successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round by the end of 1993 on the basis of a comprehensive and balanced agreement; this is crucial to the growth prospects for industrial and developing countries alike. It therefore welcomed the joint statement by Mr. Sutherland, Mr. Preston, and Mr. Camdessus, issued on the morning of its meeting.
4.	ADJUSTMENT EXPERIENCE OF LOW-INCOME COUNTRIES AND THEIR FINANCING NEEDS. The Committee recognizes that many low-income countries have found it hard to make the economic adjustment necessary to achieve economic and social progress. There' are several reasons: the main ones are poor initial conditions; lack of domestic savings; lack of adequate institutional and administrative capacity; inappropriate policies which take time to correct; and an unfavorable external environment. Progress in most directions has been slower than among the middle-income countries, but the preliminary evidence suggests that countries which sustain strong adjustment policies do better than the rest. In these countries there has been significant progress with macro-economic stabilization and outwardly orientated policies, and in decontrolling domestic prices, particularly in agriculture. But even there, financial-sector and public-enterprise reforms have lagged behind, and private investment has responded only with a considerable lag. As a result, improvements have not yet led to a sustained increase
in income per capita, and success in reducing poverty and in protecting the environment has been uneven.
5.	The Committee welcomes the broadening political consensus on adjustment strategies which stress stabilization and market-friendly measures, combined with human resource development and poverty alleviation. It believes such strategies will succeed over time, if implemented consistently and backed up by structural reforms consistent with long-term sustainable development. It therefore urges countries which have not yet embarked on the adjustment process to formulate and implement their own programs accordingly. The design of adjustment programs and of external assistance needs to reflect the socio-political background and institutional capacity of the countries concerned. It follows that the best programs are those which are home-grown. The Bank and the Fund (as appropriate) in their relations with the borrowing countries, will do more to address the impact of macro-economic and adjustment measures and their sequencing on poverty, employment, investment and the environment. Some of the lessons of the East-Asian experience may be relevant to today's low-income countries, particularly those of macro-economic policy, export orientation, human resource development and the training of a professional civQ service.
6.	In many cases, low-income countries will need to supplement domestic savings with foreign investment and with substantial and timely concessional financial support, together with necessary and appropriate relief of bilateral debt. To sustain the required levels of external support and investment, they will have to maintain their commitment to economic reform, poverty alleviation, environmental soundness, public participation and good governance. Donors should focus concessional assistance on the low-income adjusting countries. They should complete ratification of IDA-10 as early as possible, agree to the broad-
1 Mr. Lewis T. Preston, President of the World Bank. Mr. Michel Camdessus, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund. Mr. Peter Sutherland. Director-General of the GAIT, Mr. Mohammed Imady, Minister or Economy and Foreign Trade of Syria and Chairman of the Group of 24. and Mr. Peter Mountfield. Exccutivc Secretary, took part in the meeting. Observers from a number of international and regional organizations also attended.
est possible spectrum of contributors to the ESAF successor, work for its rapid implementation, and make significant bilateral contributions to the SPA.
7.	SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM AND SOCIAL SAFETY NETS. The Committee looked at the continued need for social support, both to meet life hazards an d to help those hurt by necessary adjustment measures. Many existing insurance structures have created unsustainable burdens on the government budget and the competitiveness of the formal sector, while foiling to cover important groups of the population. Existing entitlements may now have to be reviewed. In many countries, including economies in transition, a system combining elements of public and private provision will be appropriate, but the mix will vary frcn case to case. The international institutions can help by continuing to provide technical assistance and policy advice.
8.	In addition to these classical social security systems, countries engaged in adjustment or systemic transformation may require well-designed extra social safety nets, integrated into their poverty-reduction strategy, involving schemes such as labor-intensive public works, nutrition programs, targeted food subsidies, retraining of dismissed workers, and “social funds." But governments should avoid creating new long-term entitlements which might build up future budgetary problems. The appropriate mix of measures depends on data availability, administrative capacity, and financial resources. Budget outlays should where necessary be reallocated to provide financial resources, both for safety nets and for other pro-poor social spending. The poorest among them may require continued technical and financial support for such schemes from the World Bank and from donors. The Committee welcomes the constructive part played by the Bank and the Fund in their respective roles, in supporting social security system reforms and establishing and financing safety nets as part of their adjustment lending.
9.	WORLD BANK WOMEN-IN-DEVEL-OPMENT STRATEGY- The Committee welcomed a report on the World Bank's attempts to integrate gender issues into its overall development strategy. It commends the progress made, and welcomes the President's commitment to a further strengthening of the Bank's
operations in this area. It notes that the Bank’s Executive Board will be reviewing the strategy in the Spring of 1994.	.
10.	THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF AID. The Committee believes it is more than ever important to enhance the effectiveness of development assistance, welcomes recent steps taken by the World Bank in this context, and proposes to address this matter next year. In order to provide maximum help to recipients, donor agencies and multilateral institutions need to maintain and improve their cost-effectiveness.
11.	NEXT MEETING. The Committee will meet again in Washington DC on April 26, 1994, when it will discuss population and migration issues.
Forty-eighth meeting, Washington,
April 26,1994
1.	The 48th meeting of the Development Committee was held in Washington DC on April 26,1994, under the chairmanship of Mr. Rudolf Hommes, Minister of Finance and Public Credit of Colombia.1
2.	RESOURCE FLOWS. Ministers welcome the increased flows of resources to developing countries; 1993 was another record year. Particularly noteworthy was the sustained growth in private flows, which went mainly to the faster-growing and outwardly oriented countries which have implemented successful reforms. Similarly, much of the increase in official flows has been concentrated on nonconcessional loans to middle-income countries. Much of the concessional official development assistance has been targeted on poorer countries, although its total increased only modestly in 1993 and the outlook continues to be unfavorable. In that connection, Ministers welcome the progress made and the increased amounts pledged at last week's meeting on the Special Program of Assistance for Africa, and the recent extension and enlargement of the IMF*s Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility.
1 Mr. Lewis T. Preston. President of the Worid Bank. Mr. MIchcl Camdessus. Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund. Mr. Willy W. Zapata. President of the Banco de Guatemala and Chairman of the Group of 24. and Mr. Peter Mountficld. Executive Secretary, took part in the meeting. Observers from a number of international and regional organizations also attended.
3.	POPULATION. The Committee reviewed some of the issues which will be raised at the forthcoming United Nations Conference on Population and Development to be held in Cairo in September 1994. They welcomed the Secretary-General of the Conference, Dr. Nafis Sadik, who addressed their meeting.
4.	Trends. The world’s population has grown by 1.7 billion in the past two decades. Almost all the increase was in the developing countries. The total population now stands at nearly
5.7	billion, about a billion of whom still live in poverty. Although the rate of growth is now slowing down, another 2.8 billion will be added to the total by 2025, on the current United Nations “most likely” projections. On this basis, world population will probably double in less than 50 years. Ministers agree that the massive economic, social, political and environmental consequences of these changes cannot be ignored.
5.	Policies. Ministers believe that an integrated population policy in developing countries must recognize the links between economic growth, population, poverty reduction, health, investment in human resources and environmental degradation. All couples and individuals have the right to decide freely and responsibly on the number and spacing of their children. Family planning is only one of the available instruments and needs to be seen in the broader context of changing social patterns and the increased awareness of women's role. Population programs are therefore becoming increasingly diverse, depending on the stage of the demographic transition in each country. Moreover, experience demonstrates that improved education and employment prospects (particularly for girls), improved health, and increased income all tend to reduce the birth rate. Institutional arrangements for the delivery of services may need to be strengthened, and must be tailored to local conditions and needs, taking full advantage of available nongovernmental and private sector organizations. They must pay full regard to the social and cultural traditions of each country.
6.	Priorities. Ministers note that the Cairo Conference will seek to establishdear and realistic objectives for future population policy. Without prejudging the outcome of the Conference, they agree that three objectives in particular deserve special attention:
First, improvements in the primary school enrollment rate in low-income countries to achieve universal primary education;
Second, improving access to family planning and related health services, estimated by UNFPA to require a doubling of investments by the year 2000;
Third, reductions in maternal and child mortality in developing countries.
7.	Developing countries. In general, the resource requirements are affordable, compared with other major expenditure programs. Many developing economies can meet the costs. In some cases costs are already covered by user fees. But for the poorest people, continued public support wQl be essential, and is justified by the benefits. Ministers agreed that developing countries should consider giving these three objectives priority within total budgets.
8.	Donors. The poorest countries will still need help from donors. Bilateral and multilateral donors currently contribute about $1 billion a year to population programs in developing countries. Ministers hope that many individual bilateral donors will be able to improve the present average 1.25% share of existing aid budgets allocated to population programs, as well as their support for health and education.
9.	The World Bank. At the multilateral level. Ministers welcome the increasing share of the World Bank's social sector programs which have risen from 6% to 16% of the total portfolio in the past five years. Within this program, about $1.8 billion annually is currently allocated to population, health and nutrition, and $1.9 billion to education. Much of this affects the demand for population services indirectly. There are currently ten or more projects a year with significant direct population components, costing $200 million, concentrated mainly in the poorest developing countries. Ministers welcome the Bank's readiness to respond rapidly to requests for more assistance in this field. Ministers recognize that the Bank is not the principal organization concerned with population, but that its policy dialogue and wider operations give it a unique opportunity to promote population policies. They therefore call on the Bank, other donors, the other multilaterals such as UNFPA, and the borrowing gov-emments to collaborate fully in operations and in mobilizing the institutional and financial re-
sources needed; and re-evaluate their efforts following the Cairo Conference.
10.	Migration. Ministers discussed the related issue of international migration, and its social, political and financial consequences for importing and exporting countries alike. They note that relatively little is known about the nature of these issues. Ministers noted the need for policies addressing these issues. They call for more policy-oriented research on migration and closer collaboration between the different international agencies concerned.
11.	TRADE. Ministers greatly welcome the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the agreements reached at Marrakesh and call for their rapid ratification and full implementation. These agreements reduce the risk of a relapse into protectionism, which would have greatly damaged many developing countries and countries in transition. They open up the prospect of faster economic growth for the world as a whole. All countries stand to gain. For countries to reap the full benefits from the Round, it is essential that they maintain stable macroeconomic environments and intensify their structural reform programs and trade liberalization, while improving their access to world markets.
12.	Ministers note that some developing countries may be adversely affected in the transition to the new world trading system, by the loss of preferences or by higher prices for food imports, although these effects will only be felt gradually, leaving time for adjustment. They urge the Bank and the Fund to take account of these possible adverse effects in designing country assistance strategies and operational support for the affected countries.
13.	Ministers welcome the creation of the new World Trade Organization. They urge the WTO, the Bank and the Fund to cooperate fully and, within their own areas of responsibility, to help developing countries and countries in transition to take advantage of the new market opportunities. They also hope that all developing countries and countries in transition will soon join, so as to increase market access for their exports. They note that both Bank and Fund are engaged in fuller study of the impact of the Round, of future trade policy, and of their own future activities in the trade area. Ministers will resume discussion of these questions at their next meeting.
14.	Commodities. Ministers also reviewed recent work in the Bank and the Fund on commodity prices. They agree that despite signs of a modest recovery in the short term, prices are unlikely to return to the levels of the 1970s and early 1980s. Given these uncertainties. Ministers agree it would be prudent not to assume an improvement in the long term, and wise to err on the side of caution.
15.	Ministers agree that if price shocks are expected to be only temporary, then provision of compensatory finance may be appropriate. But if the fall in prices is expected to be permanent, then an adjustment-oriented response should not be deferred in the hope of a recovery. Ministers therefore believe that developing country governments should continue to diversify their economies. They will need the ongoing support of the World Bank, the Fund and the donor community. Ministers call on the Bank to explore additional measures in its investment work in this area. The continuing volatility of prices also requires the maintenance of contingency measures to safeguard programs supported by the Fund.
16.	Ministers note that few international commodity agreements have maintained price levels in the face of falling demand, increased production, and lower costs. Government price stabilization schemes do not generally work well when commodity prices are expected to fall further or remain low; they tend to create distortions and place considerable strain on government budgets. For many countries and products, hedging instruments in commercial futures markets now permit private agents to protect themselves against price fluctuations, although there remain a number of legal, financial and technical barriers. Ministers welcome the technical assistance being given by UNCTAD, the World Bank and other agencies, to help smaller producers overcome these obstacles and take advantage of such markets. They welcome the studies being undertaken by the Bank of new guarantee mechanisms which would permit these poorer and less creditworthy countries to undertake market-based hedging operations.
17.	DEVELOPMENT BANKS. The Committee agreed in principle to establish a small Task Force to review the development role being played by the Multilateral Development Banks, including the World Bank, and the four
main regional banks . This Task Force, whose Chairman, terms of reference, and composition will be agreed after consultation with the governments, will aim to complete its work by October 1995.
18.	CHAIRMAN. The Committee selected Mr. M’Hamed Sagou of Morocco to be its next Chairman in succession to Mr. Rudolf Horn-mes of Colombia. The Committee expressed its
warmest thanks to Mr. Hommes at the end of his period in the Chair.
19.	NEXT MEETING. The Committee agreed to meet again in Madrid, Spain, on October 3, 1994, when it will discuss the question of Aid Effectiveness and the work of the World Bank and IMF in the light of the Uruguay Round.