This Annual Report, which covers the period July 1, 1994, to June 30, 1995, has been prepared by the executive directors of both the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (ibrd) and the International Development Association (ida) in accordance with the respective by-laws of the two institutions. James D. Wolfensohn, president of the IBRD and ida and chairman of the boards of executive directors, has submitted this Report, together with accompanying administrative budgets and audited financial statements, to the board of governors.
The executive directors would like to take this opportunity to render tribute to Lewis T. Preston and express appreciation for the outstanding leadership he provided to the World Bank Group from September 1, 1991 until his untimely death on May 4, 1995. During that period the Bank's membership became nearly universal, and the challenges facing the Bank Group were greater than ever. They acknowledge in particular Mr. Preston's role in reemphasizing the reduction of poverty in the developing world as the Bank’s central objective, in promoting investment in people, in enhancing the quality of the Bank Group’s assistance to its member countries, in developing partnerships with the public and private sectors, and in making the Bank a more open, flexible institution, better equipped to respond to the vast challenges its diverse membership will face in the years to come.
Annual reports for the International Finance Corporation (ifc), the Multilateral Guarantee Agency (miga), and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (icsid) are published separately.
The World Bank, which consists of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (ibrd) and the International Development Association (ida), has one central purpose: to promote economic and social progress in developing nations by helping raise productivity so that their people may live a better and fuller life. This is also the aim of the International Finance Corporation—which works closely with private investors from around the world and invests in commercial enterprises in developing countries—and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (miga)—which was established to encourage direct foreign investment in developing countries by protecting investors from noncommercial risk. Collectively, the World Bank, the ifc, and miga are known as the World Bank Group.
Of the four institutions, the ibrd, established in 1945, is the oldest and largest. The ibrd is owned by the governments of 178 countries that have subscribed to its capital. Under its Articles of Agreement, only countries that are members of the International Monetary Fund (imf) can be considered for membership in the ibrd. Subscriptions by member countries to the capital stock of the ibrd are related
to each member's quota in the imf, which is designed to reflect the country’s relative economic strength.
The ibrd makes loans only to creditworthy borrowers. Assistance is provided only to those projects that promise high real rates of economic return to the country. As a matter of policy, the ibrd does not reschedule payments, and it has suffered no losses on the loans it has made. It has earned a net income every year since 1948.
The ibrd obtains most of its funds through medium and long-term borrowings in the capital markets of Europe, Japan, and the United States.
It also borrows funds at market-based rates from central banks and other government institutions. The ibrd’s solid standing in the markets is based upon the combination of conservative lending policies, strong financial backing by its members, and prudent financial management.
Apart from borrowings, significant amounts also come from the IBRD’s paid-in capital, from its retained earnings, and from the flow of repayments on its loans.
The International Development Association was established in 1960 to provide assistance to the poorer developing countries on terms that would bear less heavily on
their balance ot payments than ibrd loans, ida’s assistance is concentrated on the very poor countries—mainly those with an annual per capita gross national product of less than $696 (in 1993 U.S. dollars]. By this criterion, about sixty countries are eligible.
Membership in ida is open to all members of the ibrd, and 1 58 have joined. The funds lent by ida come mostly in the form of contributions from its richer members, although some developing countries contribute to ida, as well, ida’s resources have also been augmented by frequent transfers from the net earnings of the ibrd.
ida credits are made only to governments. They have to be repaid over a period of thirty-five to forty years. They carry no interest, but there is an annual service charge of 0.5 percent on the disbursed amount of each credit. Although ida is legally and financially distinct from the ibrd, it shares the same staff, and the projects it assists have to meet the same criteria as do projects supported by the ibrd.
The success of the Bank's operations depends upon the trust it has established with borrowers, and this trust is based on the experience and technical skills the Bank has demonstrated over the years
The World Bank, which consists of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (ibrd) and the International Development Association (ida), has one central purpose: to promote economic and social progress in developing nations by helping raise productivity so that their people may live a better and fuller life. This is also the aim of the International Finance Corporation—which works closely with private investors from around the world and invests in commercial enterprises in developing countries—and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (miga)—which was established to encourage direct foreign investment in developing countries by protecting investors from noncommercial risk. Collectively, the World Bank, the ifc, and miga are known as the World Bank Group.
Of the four institutions, the ibrd, established in 1945, is the oldest and largest. The ibrd is owned by the governments of 178 countries that have subscribed to its capital. Under its Articles of Agreement, only countries that are members of the International Monetary Fund (imf) can be considered for membership in the ibrd. Subscriptions by member countries to the capital stock of the ibrd are related
to each member’s quota in the IMF, which is designed to reflect the country’s relative economic strength.
The ibrd makes loans only to creditworthy borrowers. Assistance is provided only to those projects that promise high real rates of economic return to the country. As a matter of policy, the ibrd does not reschedule payments, and it has suffered no losses on the loans it has made. It has earned a net income every year since 1948.
The IBRD obtains most of its funds through medium and long-term borrowings in the capital markets of Europe, Japan, and the United States.
It also borrows funds at market-based rates from central banks and other government institutions. The IBRD’s solid standing in the markets is based upon the combination of conservative lending policies, strong financial backing by its members, and prudent financial management.
Apart from borrowings, significant amounts also come from the IBRD's paid-in capital, from its retained earnings, and from the flow of repayments on its loans.
The International Development Association was established in 1960 to provide assistance to the poorer developing countries on terms that would bear less heavily on
their balance of payments than ibrd loans, ida’s assistance is concentrated on the very poor countries—mainly those with an annual per capita gross national product of less than $696 (in 1993 U.S. dollars). By this criterion, about sixty countries are eligible.
Membership in ida is open to all members of the ibrd, and 158 have joined. The funds lent by ida come mostly in the form of contributions from its richer members, although some developing countries contribute to ida, as well, ida’s resources have also been augmented by frequent transfers from the net earnings of the ibrd.
IDA credits are made only to governments. They have to be repaid over a period of thirty-five to forty years. They carry no interest, but there is an annual service charge of 0.5 percent on the disbursed amount of each credit. Although ida is legally and financially distinct from the ibrd, it shares the same staff, and the projects it assists have to meet the same criteria as do projects supported by the ibrd.
The success of the Bank’s operations depends upon the trust it has established with borrowers, and this trust is based on the experience and technical skills the Bank has demonstrated over the years
4 The World Bank Annual Report 1995
GUIDING PRINCIPLES IN A CHANGING WORLD
The Bank Group can continue to serve its members effectively in a rapidly changing world only if it becomes more flexible, cost-conscious, and efficient, Bank president Lewis Preston told the institution's governors in October 1994 during the annual meetings of the Bretton Woods institutions.
The need for the Bank to be flexible was abo on the minds of most of the thirty-four speakers at a Madrid conference—"Fifty Years after Bretton Woods: The Future of the imf and the World Bank"—which was held on the eve of the annual meetings, and which brought together financial officials, academics, think tank experts, as well as staff from the Bank and the imf. A remark by Manmohan Singh, India’s minister of finance, was typical: "Institutions must necessarily adapt to changing circumstances, and the Bretton Woods institutions are no exception to this rule.”
In his address to the Bank’s governors, Mr. Preston said that six principles would guide the Bank’s response to a changing world: greater selectivity ("a more sensible sharing of tasks within the international system is required"); increased collaboration with all the Bank’s partners, from the private sector to nongovernmental institutions; deepening client relationships (“country ownership of policies and projects is crucial”); measuring success by results; cost effectiveness; and excellent financial management.
The unfinished development agenda remains enormous—and so, too, is the need for an institution that has fifty years of development experience, a close relationship with virtually every developing country, and a committed staff of development professionals. And that was perhaps the clearest message to emerge from the meetings: The need for a flexible, efficient Bank Group is greater today than ever before.
1.	During fiscal 1995, a .special task force was created by the Development Committee to assess the implications of economic change on the development priorities, instruments, operations, and management of five multilateral development hanks and to consider whether improvements could strengthen their impact on the development process. The five hanks are the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Rank, the Inter-American Development Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
The Task Force on the Role of the Multilateral Development Banks, as it is called, will also evaluate procedures and practices for coordination among the multilaterals and other members of the development community, and consider whether it is possible to make any improvements on a regional, country, or sectoral basis.
The task force, which is headed by Abdlatif Yousef Al-Hamad, director general and chairman of the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, is expected to present its report to the Development Committee toward the end of calendar 1995.
flows into developing countries in 1994 are estimated at $80 billion, an increase of 13 percent over 1993. As in the past, a few countries received the bulk of the flows, with China accounting for almost 38 percent of the total. Direct investment often comes in tandem with transfers of know-how', market access for products and services, and other development ingredients.
As well as adapting to the new means by which development is being financed, the Bank also faces serious questions in the minds of the publics and their parliaments in its member countries. There are budgetary pressures that have impacted official aid flows, forcing difficult choices between bilateral and multilateral priorities. Furthermore, part of the conceptual foundation upon which the case for assistance flows has long rested is eroding: Some doubt the purpose of assistance in the wake of the Cold War's end; others doubt that large multilateral lenders can ever be effective.1
The case for development is compelling, however. Over the past five decades, average per capita incomes in developing countries have more than doubled. The gdps of some economies have quintupled. Life expectancy has increased by more than 50 percent. There has been a "green revolution" in South Asia, an
"economic miracle” in East Asia, Latin America has largely overcome its debt crisis, and substantial gains in health and literacy have taken place in Africa.
Within this diversified global context, it is vitally important that the Bank be a cost-effective, responsive, and flexible institution able to deliver timely, high quality advice, supported by financing for the implementation of programs and projects.
In this respect, the support received from the Bank's board of governors at the October 1994 annual meetings in Madrid was highly encouraging. All shareholders expressed strong interest in the future direction of the Bank Group and strong appreciation for its services.
The first exploratory meeting on the eleventh replenishment of ida resources (ida-ii), held in Madrid in October 1994, was very constructive. The IDA Deputies reaffirmed their strong support for a multilateral approach to assisting the world's poorest countries. Three subsequent meetings of Deputies were held in the first half of 1995 (see accompanying box). Clearly, however, the fiscal constraints that a number of donors are experiencing make it essential that efforts be redoubled to conclude a significant replenishment of ida resources.
The steady growth of the ifc has also continued to receive the strong endorsement from the Bank Group’s shareholders. Requests for ifc support are growing rapidly—and this is likely
to continue as more and more member countries move to strengthen their private sectors.
Encouraging support was also received for the institutional changes that the Bank has undertaken over the past several years under the leadership of the Bank’s late president, Lewis T. Preston, and with the guidance and advice of the Bank’s executive board. Those changes include the increasing country and client focus of the Bank’s work, the changing composition of the lending program, the stress on ownership and participation by project stakeholders, the emphasis on implementation and results on the ground, and the strengthening of the Bank’s skills mix.
Shareholders also noted with approval how much the Bank has changed. For example, it is now among the world’s largest investors in areas such as education, health care, family planning, and environmental protection in the developing world. It is one of the largest investors in private sector development. It is also among the
DISCUSSIONS BEGUN ON THE IDA-11 REPLENISHMENT
The four ida replenishment meetings in fiscal 1995 took place in an environment of budgetary pressure for some donors and, therefore, of gmunng uncertainty about the likely adequacy of the replenishment. Nevertheless, IDA Deputies were in agreement that poverty reduction remains ida’s central goal and that labor-intensive growth and environmental sustainability are important supporting goals. They noted that Ida's borrowers have urgent and substantial needs for financing to achieve these goals. Although they expressed serious concern about the funding outlook, they intend to continue discussions in the coming months to seek a significant replenishment level.
Deputies discussed several aspects of ida’s lending activities and programs. They endorsed the existing strong linkage between a country's ida lending level and its performance on economic policy and project implementation. They agreed that the country-assistance strategy fcAs) is an important means of ensuring that ida's principal goal of poverty reduction is pursued effectively and that it is tailored to specific country conditions. Deputies urged that C4S papers draw more explicitly on Ida's analytical work, especially poverty assessments and public expenditure reviews.
The issue of debt sustainability for heavily indebted poor countries gained increasing prominence during the year. IDA Deputies discussed possible expansions to ida’s menu of options to assist these countries and encouraged ida management to propose to the board of executive directors, in the course of fiscal 1996, specific additional measures for countries facing debt-sustainability problems and a significant burden of multilateral debt. Throughout the year ida monitored the situation of these countries. As agreed with the executive board, cas papers for these countries are now to include an enhanced treatment of their long-term financial prospects and of their debt sustainability.
Deputies discussed how ida can further encourage the growth of private sector economic activities in its borrowing countries and they noted the importance of overall economic policies in this context.
Deputies also discussed lending projections for the ida-u period (fiscal 1997-99), noting these projections are anchored in the assistance strategy for each country. They anticipate continued discussions later in the year of the lending projections, the overall size of the replenishment, and the burden-sharing among donors.
C)\ i:uvik\v or Would Bank Activities 11
most "open'1 and accountable development institutions in the world through expansion of its disclosure of information and establishment of an independent Inspection Panel.
Governors were particularly supportive of the steps taken to make the Bank Group more flexible, leaner, and cost-conscious. Steps include being more selective in what it does—despite the increasing demands placed upon it by member countries—and doing more to maximize the strengths of its partners; enhancing budget discipline and cost-consciousness; and improving transparency so that problems can be identified—and rectified—as early as possible.
Against this background, the Bank posted a strong record of performance in fiscal 1995. Commitments by the ibrd amounted to $16.9 billion, up $2.6 billion over the fiscal 1994 total. A major increase was posted in the Europe and Central Asia region, which saw commitments rise from $3.7 billion for forty-two projects to $4.5 billion for fifty-eight projects. ipa commitments, of $5.7 billion, fell by $923 million from the previous year, mostly the result of a downturn in commitments to the Africa and South Asia regions.
The Bank demonstrated its flexibility and responsiveness to diverse client needs in a number of dramatic ways during the year: through approval of $1 billion in finance to support financial sector reform in Mexico; emergency assistance to Russia to contain and clean up a massive oil spill
1,000	miles northeast of Moscow near the Arctic circle; financing of emergency recovery programs in Burundi and Rwanda; and provision of emergency assistance to Haiti to halt that country's economic and social deterioration.
Assistance to the poorest countries—those with a per capita gross national product of $695 or less (in terms of 1993 United States dollars) totaled $8,485 million—$3,770 million from the ibrd and $4,715 million from ida (see accompanying figttre).
Gross disbursements by the IBRD of $12.7 billion were substantially higher than in the previous year, ida disbursements amounted to $5.7 billion, an increase of $171 million over the total for fiscal 1 994.
On the financial side, the IBRD borrowed the equivalent of $9,026 million in the world's financial markets. Its net income was $1,354 million. In addition, late in the fiscal year, the executive directors of the Bank, moving to respond to the expressed needs of the Bank's clients, agreed to expand the single currency loan program beyond its tvvo-vear pilot phase. The addition of the single currency loan option allows borrowers to select any currency or composite currency for which there is sufficient borrower demand and in which the ibrd can efficiently borrow from the market.
F.fforts continued to reduce the debt burden of severely indebted poor countries through support tor policy reform, provision of ida credits, extraordinary ida allocation for countries engaged in debt workouts, "Fifth Dimension" allocations, funding from the Debt-reduc-tion Facility tor iDA-only Countries to reduce commercial debt, and technical assistance for debt management.
Th rough the Fifth Dimension program, which is financed out of ida reflows, additional IDA allocations are provided to IDA-only countries that have outstanding ibrd debt, are current in their debt service to the IBRD and IDA, and have an iDA-supported adjustment program. These allocations are in proportion to the IBRD interest due in that year. In fiscal 1995, the program provided supplemental IDA allocations totaling $185.8 million to fourteen countries.
The Debt-reduction Facility provides low-income countries with grant funds to reduce their commercial debt that is public, external, noncollateralized, and unguaranteed. The facility is financed through contributions from the
IBRD’s net income and from donors. Eight operations have been completed (tor Bolivia, Guyana, Mozambique, Niger, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Uganda, and Zambia); they utilized $79.6 million in ibrd resources trom the facility and $74.3 million in cofinancing to extinguish about $1 billion in principal. Eight additional operations—in Albania, Ethiopia, Guinea, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Senegal, Tanzania, and Viet Nam—are currently under preparation.
While twenty-five countries have "graduated" or phased out their reliance on World Bank lending, the Republic of Korea became the first country ever to progress from being a purely concessional borrower from ida to being an ida donor and an ibrd graduate. Korea reached the milestone with the signing on March 3, 1995, of its two final loan agreements with the ibrd.
Eritrea joined the ibrd on July 6, 1994, bringing the total membership ot the ibrd to 1 78. At the end of the fiscal year, action was pending on membership in the ibrd for Bosnia-Herzegovina, Brunei Darussalam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro).
Eritrea and the Azerbaijan Republic became members of ida on July 6, 1994 and March 31, 1995, respectively, increasing ida's membership to 158. At June 30, 1995, action was pending on membership in ida tor Bosnia-Herzegovina, Brunei Darussalam, Ukraine, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro).
S i : ci i <) ,\j C ) ,v i-.
The board of executive directors is responsible for the conduct of the general operations of the Bank and performs its duties under powers delegated to it by the board of governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement, five of the twenty-four executive directors are appointed by the five member governments having the largest number of shares; the rest of the board is elected by the other member governments, who form constituencies in the election process every two years.
The executive directors consider and decide on the ibrd loan and IDA credit proposals made by the president and they decide policy issues that guide the general operations of the Bank and its direction. The executive directors are also responsible for presentation to the board of governors at its annual meetings of an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and the Annual Report on the operations and policies of the Bank, as well as any other matters that, in their judgment, require submission to the board of governors.
During fiscal 1995, the executive directors met 131 times in formal board meetings and another 67 times in seminars, informal sessions, and as the Committee of the Whole. In addition, most of the executive directors serve on one or more of five standing committees: Audit Committee, Committee on Development Effectiveness, Budget
Tm: Exkci tivh Boai-M)
Committee, Personnel Committee, and Committee on Executive Directors’ Administrative Matters. The executive directors’ Steering Committee, an informal advisory body, also meets regularly.
In addition to the meetings and committee work, groups of executive directors at times travel to borrowing countries in order to learn firsthand— through talks with government officials and inspection of Bank-supported projects— about country circumstances and special problems. In fiscal 1995, a group visited several transitional states in Eastern and Central Europe—Albania, former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, and Ukraine.
Shaping Policy
The board of executive directors has an oversight role that covers virtually all Bank policy. It considers initiatives proposed by the president, so its role cannot be separated from most of the Bank activities covered in this report.
However, the executive directors also exercise an important role in shaping Bank policy and its evolution as they work for changes in direction, emphasis, and/or improvements in Bank results. It is in this role that the directors represent shareholder governments and their changing perspectives of the Bank. These policy initiatives normally reflect needs perceived by shareholders and involve a process of consensus building, both among directors and with Bank management.
Many of the changes in Bank policy that grow from initiatives by the executive directors occur gradually over a period of years, such as the increasing emphasis on environmental issues, governance, institution building, and the role of the private sector in development; the discussion by the board of Bank country-assistance strategies (cass); the opening up of Bank disclosure policy; and the renewed interest in lending for both infrastructure and human-resource development.
Other initiatives by the executive directors occur more rapidly, such as the creation in
1994	of the independent Inspection Panel that reports to the board. And in fiscal 1995, for example, as a result of the shock effects of the Mexico peso crisis, many directors pressed for considerably more lending to strengthen financial institutions in countries affected by the crisis. The directors were also active in discussions of how to ease the debt burden of low-income countries.
Accountability and Development Effectiveness
For some years the executive directors have been encouraging the Bank to become more efficient and show more accountability as an institution while encouraging more accountability by staff and management within. Both areas of concern moved forward considerably under President Lewis Preston, who appointed the Task Force on Portfolio Management upon taking
Section One The Executive Board 15
office. The task force report (the "YVapenhans Report”) resulted in a major policy shift for the institution toward results-oriented supervision and implementation in the field, along with an increased emphasis on the quality of projects and operations. The “cultural change” process is still not complete, and the executive directors are active informally and in hoard committees in helping to shape an appropriate personnel policy, as well as a new field office policy, to complement the implementation focus.
The executive directors are involved in the budget process of the institution at various points. They discuss planning directions informally with management, which cover both planned expenditures and areas of policy and operational emphasis. The directors' Budget Committee discusses various aspects of the budget over the course of the year. The streamlining of the Bank to reduce its administrative costs, as well as improve other efficiency matters, had been stressed for some time. In fiscal 1995, President Preston announced an initiative to reduce the administrativ e budget by 1(1 percent to 12 percent over two years.
The executive directors concern for accountability was further reinforced in fiscal 1995 by their review of recommendations of the Ad Hoc Committee on Board Procedures, which had been approved two years earlier by the board. The revised board procedures were an attempt to define more explicitly the accountability of the board for policy and operational oversight and set standards for the c as papers prepared by management. The Bank's lending strategy for most borrowing countries is discussed by the board every two years, and that for the largest borrowers is discussed every year. In the 1995 review, the directors made it clear that the quality and comprehensiveness of the ( AS papers still needed improvement, particularly regarding coverage of social and poverty concerns and countries' potential problems and opportunities related to the external environment. Directors also made it clear that they would continue to monitor closely the quality of Bank projects.
In another move to improve Bank accountability, the directors created the Committee on Development Effectiveness (ronr), which
became a reality in fiscal 1995. The new committee's mandate combines oversight of the work of the Operations Evaluation Department (oi:o), formerly a function of the Audit Committee, with a new directive to deal with issues related to the effectiveness of on-the-ground results of Bank operations.
The roni: also oversees the responses of Bank management to om's findings and recommendations. In fiscal 1995, the coiih's findings and recommendations were reviewed by the full board, as w ere the fiscal 1994 annual report of the director general (ih;o), Operations Evaluation, the annual review of evaluation results, and the evaluation work program for fiscal
1996.1
The Inspection Panel complements the Bank’s existing systems for quality control in project preparation and implementation. As such, it helps the executive board in its governance of the Bank. In fiscal 1995, the executive directors discussed the panel's procedures in the context of its first requests for inspection.
The executive directors have spearheaded the Bank's focus on beneficiary participation, which was giv en a boost by the Wapenhans Report's finding that beneficiary participation in the design and implementation of projec ts greatly enhanced projects’ chances of success. The directors more recently have led the way in defining participation as direct beneficiary participation, rather than accepting nongovernmental organizations (Nr.os) as proxies for beneficiaries since their interests are not necessarily the same. (It is recognized that nc;os may have a role to play in helping the direct beneficiaries organize themselves.)
The Private Sector
Again, the private sector focus has grown out of several years of consensus building by the executive directors. It aims for development driven by the private sector, with an appropriate public sector role in the guidance and regulation of the private sector. The private sector is now a recognized area of emphasis for the Bank,
1.	Fnr <jeuuk on the iK'tivitie^ of the Operjtions Kvaliution PepiU'tim nt. see pa.i;es 44—IS.
although there is not yet a formal, comprehensive policy other than the view that the Bank should complement, not displace or compete with, the private sector. Efficiency and accountability themes permeate this policy area also, particularly since the ikc still has the most private sector experience in the Bank Group. Closer coordination and information-sharing among the Bank, the ihc, and miga have been outgrowths of the emphasis on the private sector.
Another outgrowth of both the private sector emphasis and the desire for more efficiency was the decision to mainstream Bank guarantees as an operational tool. Again, several years of experience with a pilot program helped achieve consensus among the executive directors on a dramatic departure from what had been Bank policy for half a century. Although the Articles of Agreement mention guarantees, they have been used only sporadically and have never found a widespread role in Bank operations. In fiscal 1995, however, the board agreed that the Bank's guarantee could be used much more, given a number of conditions, to attract private capital and the private sector, particularly to large infrastructure projects. Since the ifc and miga are also involved in guarantees, directors stressed the need for careful coordination and collaboration among the parts of the Bank Group, as well as with bilateral export credit agencies.
Appointing a New President
In March 1 995 the executive directors unanimously appointed James D. Wolfensohn to become the Bank’s ninth president. He was appointed for a term of five years that began on June 1, 1995.
Slot ion Tun	Maior	World	B	a	x	k	P	roc	rams
Fisc: a i. Y i: a r 1995
Human Resources Development
Evidence that human capital development—the focus of the Bank's vice presidency of Human Resources Development and Operations Policy (hro)—is critical for overall economic and social development is not new. What is new is that the awareness of its importance has gone beyond the confines of academic scholars and social reformers and has entered into the thinking of mainstream decisionmakers.
There is a growing demand from developing countries for Bank support in the area of human-resources development; both lending and nonlending services have grown rapidly during the first half of the 1990s.
The past fifty years have witnessed the Bank’s evolution from an organization created for the reconstruction of postwar Europe into a modern institution seeking partnership with its clients in expanding markets and strengthening economies to improve the quality of life for people everywhere, especially the poorest. And while the Bank’s fundamental objectives remain the same, its approach to development has evolved over time as new challenges have emerged and lessons have been learned.
Bank lending for human-resource development has increased sharply from an average of about 5 percent of the total in the 1980s to 15 per-
cent in the period fiscal 199395. The Bank is now the single largest source of external finance for investment in human capital in developing countries—with support increasingly going to the provision of effective primary services in education and health, where the impact on poverty reduction and growth is the greatest.
Bank lending for education has exceeded $2 billion in each of the past three fiscal years; since 1986, the Bank has lent more than $800 million to fifty-one hiv/aids projects in nearly forty countries; and in the past two fiscal years, the Bank has lent almost $1 billion in support of population and reproductive health objectives.
The core issues at the World Summit on Social Development (Copenhagen, March 1995) were consistent with current Bank priorities and lending directions, including the expansion of social sector lending and more systematic attention to safety nets and social impacts in the design of economic reform programs. At the summit, the Bank announced plans to increase social spending by 50 percent over the next three years. At a time when foreign aid flows are contracting, it committed itself to providing $15 billion for basic social needs and a further $5 billion for water-supply and sanitation programs. Lending for basic social needs during fiscal 1995 alone
amounted to $3,907 million: $2,097 million for education-sector projects; $1,162 million for projects and components in the population, health, and nutrition sector; and $648 million for projects in the social sector.
Despite this shift in the pattern of lending, the task ahead remains large. The Bank’s long-term vision in the area of human-capital formation is to help developing countries reach the point where inadequate investments in people no longer hold back growth or keep people in poverty. However, it remains a challenge to persuade some countries that the social sectors are not "soft." In fact, they are "hard," and there is no doubt that early and substantial investment in people allows economic growth to benefit a larger share of the population, thus effectively reducing both poverty and inequality.1
The challenge of development in the broadest sense is to improve the quality of life in the poorer countries of the world. Although a better quality of life generally calls for higher incomes, it involves much more than that: It involves quality education, higher standards of health and
]. The rate of return to primary education investment in developing countries is 18 percent—a much higher return than from most investments in the industry and infrastructure sectors.
nutrition, a cleaner environment, and more economic opportunities.
Experience shows that this improvement in the quality of life results by moving simultaneously on two parallel tracks: economic reforms, to provide stability and an enabling environment tor growth, and investments in people—education, health, nutrition, family planning. The two reinforce each other, and together, they can form a “virtuous circle” of development.
Successful countries, in fact, have moved on both these tracks. There is no—and can be no— delinking of economic reforms and effective social policy. Economic growth is crucial. No country has achieved sustained improvements in living standards without it. But investing in people to create human capital—which is the main attribute that people draw on in order to live more productive lives—is equally critical to raising living standards.
The HRO vice presidency was established in
1993	to address the full range of issues related to human-resources development, poverty reduction, and operations policy. Within the vice presidency, two sector departments—Education and Health, and Poverty and Social Policy—address social sector issues. Each department has a team-based management structure, and the work programs of each are organized into eight thematic areas. The first four are along the conventional sectoral lines: education and training, health, population and reproductive health, and nutrition. The other four deal with cross-cutting interlocking issues: poverty and social safety nets; social security and labor markets,-’ gender analysis and policy,’’ and early childhood development.
The vice presidency's third department, the Operations Policy Department, is unique in that it has a perspective over the entire operational complex. It is responsible for portfolio-management functions, issuance of operational directives, procurement activities, technical assistance oversight, Bank relations with nongovernmental organizations (ngos), participatory development, work related to the Development Committee, Bank/uN relations, public sector management and governance, and computer information services.
Poverty-reduction activities. In the area of poverty and social assistance, the Bank's annual report on its poverty-reduction activities’1 found that 25 percent of total Bank investment lending in fiscal 1994 (43 percent of total ida investment lending) was directly targeted to the poor; these investments supported activities to increase the productivity and economic opportunities for the poor, to develop their human resources, and to provide social safety nets. The evaluation noted further that the quality of country-assistance strategy (gas) statements also improved, while the Bank continued to extend and improve its use of participatory techniques in its analysis and lending. Eleven poverty assessments were completed during the period under review, and much additional economic and sector work supported poverty-reduction efforts at the country level.
The report went on to say, however, that a fundamental constraint exists to evaluating the effectiveness of the Bank's efforts at reducing poverty. Experience has shown that it is virtually impossible to disentangle the aggregate “on-the-ground" impact of the various actions taken in a given country by any one donor from those taken by other donors or by the government. It is possible (but difficult), nonetheless, to assess the aggregate effect of all factors and of specific projects. Monitoring poverty levels in many countries is constrained, however, by a lack of reliable data. The report recommended, there-
2.	A 1994 policy research report, Ai'erting the Old Age Crisis: Policies to Protect the Old <uid Promote Growth. makes a strong case for reforming existing pension systems and designing new ones in ways that both protect the old and encourage economic growth. The iiro vice presidency is working with the Bank's six operational regions to help countries design affordable, administratively feasible soual securitv and social insurance programs that would not have an adverse effect on work incentives or labor demand.
3.	In late 1994, a two-da\ conference, cosponsored by the Rank and the Inter-American Development Bank, v\as held to update staff of the two institutions 011 recent research into gender issues. Leading academics were invited to share their findings as a wav to sensitize stafl to consider economic and poverty issues from a more gender viewpoint, to make staff aware of the cutting edge research on gender issues now being carried out bv academics, and to build a bridge on gender work between donor institutions and the academic community
4.	World Bank. 1995. Porrrfv Rt’riwcfwfi and the World Bank: Progress in tisciil 1994. Washington, D.C.
tore, that the Bank and other donors expand their assistance to build capacity tor poverty-monitoring, tor only by systematically capturing data can the on-the-ground impact ot government and donor-supported efforts to reduce poverty be assessed.
In the context of the tenth agreement to replenish ida resources (ida-iu), the Bank committed itself to increase steadily the share of both social sector and poverty-targeted investment lending during the three-year ida-in period relative to ida-" (fiscal 1991-93), where justified by the country-assistance strategy; to include specific poverty-reduction measures in the design of adjustment operations whenever feasible; and to complete poverty assessments for all major ida recipients by December 1994.
Lending during fiscal 1995 for projects in the Bank’s program of targeted interventions (i'Ti) was 32 percent of total investment lending (see Table 2-1). ilia commitments for the pi i, as a share of ida investment lending, amounted to 54 percent. Projects are included in the p i I if they include a specific mechanism for targeting the poor or it the proportion ot the poor among project beneficiaries significantly exceeds their proportion in the overall population.'
Of the twenty-seven adjustment operations approved during fiscal 1995 (not including three clebt-reduction loans), fourteen, or 52 percent, were poverty focused.1.
By June 30, 1995, poverty assessments had been completed for thirty-three iDA-recipient countries out of sixty-nine countries that have recently received IDA credits. Assessments are under way in another twenty-six ida countries. Despite the fact that the ida-ki agreement did not define what was meant by "major IDA recipients," poverty assessments were undertaken during the year in ten countries that are both large and active IDA borrowers—Albania, Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire, Kyrgyz Republic, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Tanzania, Togo, and Yemen.
Population, health, and tiutrition. Intensified efforts during the past two years in activities related to population and reproductive health culminated in the publication in fiscal 1995 ot two
reports on population and women's health that were widely disseminated at the International Conference on Population and Development (September 1994, Cairo).
Speaking at the conference, the late World Bank president Lewis Preston noted that if the development community does not deal with rapid population growth, poverty will not be reduced and development will not be sustainable.
During fiscal 1995, the Bank published an i IRQ-authored report, Enriching Lives: Overcoming Vitamin and Mineral Malnutrition in Developing Countries,s which reported that millions of lives around the world could be saved and the quality of life of hundreds ot millions markedly improved—very inexpensively—by eradicating three vitamin and mineral deficiencies in people's diets.
The three vitamins and minerals are vitamin A, iodine, and iron—so-called micronutrients. More than 2 billion people are at risk from micronutrient deficiencies, and more than 1 billion are actually ill or disabled by them, causing mental retardation, learning disabilities, low work capacity, and blindness. It costs little to correct these deficiencies through fortification of food and water supplies. In a country of 50 million people, this would cost about $25 million a year. That $25 million would yield a fortyfold return on investment.
The Bank is involved in micronutrient projects in thirty countries. Micronutrient investments by the Bank in fiscal 1995 amounted to an estimated $71 million.
5. A description ot each project in ihe iti that was approved dunm; fiscal I91'5 can he found in the project summaries in Section Four of this Annual Report. The iti projects are marked by | § |.
i>. A description ('I each povertY-locused adjustment operation that was approved during fiscal 1995 can he found in the project summaries in Section Four of this Annual Report. These operations are marked bv [t],
/ World Bank. l'>94. Population and Development: Implications ]or the W orld Bank. Development in Practice Series. Washington, DC.; World Bank. 1994. ,4 New Agenda jar	Health and Nutrition. Development in
Practice Series. Washington, D.C.
S.	World Bank. 1994. Enriching Lines: Overcoming Vitamin and Minen11 Malnutrition in Developing (Countries Development in Practice Series. Washington, D C.
Health-sector reform is at the center of the Bank's project and sector work in most middle-income countries and in an increasing number of low-income countries, as well. World Development Report 1993, Better Health for Africa: Experience and Lessons Learned, and other major studies provide the basic framework tor health-sector reform efforts. Because borrowers and donors alike look to the Bank tor leadership in this field, substantial additional resources during the past fiscal year were devoted to health-sector reform activities.
One critical area of growing attention in Bank-supported projects is the nurturing and development of the next generation: the children of the developing world.
Three million children in developing countries die every year because of lack of clean water; 12 million children under the age ot five die of various other causes; and 130 million children do not have access to primary education. More than a million children are blind because they do not get enough Y'itamin A. Another 50 million arc seriously impaired, both mentally and physically, because their diets lack iodine.
In low-income countries, more than half ot young children are anemic, leading to a vicious circle of poverty: Malnourished mothers give birth to low-birthweight babies, who become
the most likely candidates to perpetuate poverty.
Evidence confirms that health, nutrition, and educational interventions early in childrens' lives yield high returns. The Bank is one ot the leading international financiers in the field of early childhood development: Since 1990, lending in support ot early childhood development has involved fourteen projects or project components in sixteen countries.
Support to education. The Bank today accounts for about a quarter ot all external support to the education sector. Since its first education project was approved in 1962,the institution has continuously expanded its financing of education projects, in both absolute and relative terms, as part of its mission to reduce poverty. Cumulative lending for education amounts to $21,579 million through more than 500 projects in more than 100 countries.
This volume ot finance gives the Bank a leadership role among donors. Compared with spending on education by low- and middle-in-come country governments and peoples, however, external financing plays a minor role. A conservative estimate of public spending at 4 percent of gnp and private spending at 2 percent yields a total annual education expenditure ot $270 billion for all low- and middle-income countries. All external finance together, how-
ever, amounts to only 2.2 percent of this total, and World Bank financing to only about 0.8 percent. This low share means that the Bank's principal contribution must be to provide advice designed to help governments develop education policies suitable for the circumstances of their countries.
A report—Priorities and Strategies for Education: A World Bank Sector Review—synthesizes the Bank's work on education since the 1980 publication of its education-sector policy paper and considers options for the Bank’s borrowers. The report was discussed by the executive board late in the fiscal year and was amended after taking into account directors' comments.
It concludes that reforming education financing and management of education means redefining the role of government in six key ways, with appropriate priorities depending on country circumstances. They are: a higher priority for education in general: greater attention to the linkages between learning and labor market outcomes; focusing public investment on basic education, coupled with more reliance on private financing for higher education; increased attention to equity issues; greater involvement at the household level to improve the accountability of educational systems; and more autonomous institutions.
These six key areas of education-system reform will be supported by World Bank projects in the context of the principles that the Bank adopted in 1994 at the time of its Fiftieth Anniversary to guide its future operations: greater selectivity, partnership, client orientation, results orientation, cost effectiveness, and financial integrity.
Participatory development. The Bank continues to encourage governments to support participatory development approaches. The participation of directly affected stakeholders in Bank-supported projects—that is, those people, particularly the poor and marginalized, who may be expected to benefit or lose from Bank-supported operations—is increasing. A preliminary review of fiscal 1995 operations reveals that eighty-six out of a total of 242 new projects included influential forms ot participation by directly affected stakeholders.
Evidence of the positive effects of participation is growing. A recent study of people's participation in environmental assessments in Latin America found several instances where important environmental effects and mitigation measures were only identified through broad public consultation and discussion. Similarly, a review of economic and sector work (fsw) in Africa found that “by far” the most striking and generalized attribute to successful tsvv had been the increasing involvement of the government, local consultants, and stakeholders in its preparation and discussion.
Following the executive directors' endorsement of a plan of action to mainstream participation, several initiatives were undertaken during fiscal 1995. A Senior Managers’ Oversight Committee was established to oversee the mainstreaming of participation in Bank operations. One of the first tasks ot the committee was to review Participation Action Plans prepared by each operational region. These plans specify procedures and plans for integrating participatory approaches in lending operations and F.SVV.
The first in a series ot Bankwide training courses in stakeholder participation took place during the year. The regions have also undertaken several staff-training initiatives: The India Department has developed a course on stakeholder participation, and the Africa region has held a training and information seminar on systematic client consultation.
The $2 million Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development (fiahsJ, set up late in fiscal 1994, enabled the regions to strengthen their capacity to use participatory approaches and social assessment methods by hiring thirteen social scientists to provide technical support in these areas. The fi ai is also provided support for the use of participatory approaches or social assessments in forty-eight projects and in esw. The fund’s resources, which were exhausted before the end of the year, will be replenished in fiscal 1996.
Bank relations with ngos. In fiscal 1995, 41 percent of projects approved by the Bank plan to involve ngos (see Table 2-2). Two trends evident during the past year were increased ngo involvement at an earlier stage in the project
cycle, especially in the assessment of potential environmental and social impacts ot Bank-financed activities, and increased ngo involvement in f.svv. For example, ngos have played an active role in assisting many governments in preparing participatory poverty assessments and national environmental action plans (nfai's). These ngo inputs contribute valuable alternative perspectives and provide a vehicle for further government-NGO collaboration.
Throughout the year, the Bank organized a number of workshops with ngos and government representatives on the Bank’s project cycle and the various procedures that take place within each segment of the cycle. These workshops help improve ngos' understanding of the Bank's activities and encourage their active par-
ticipation in the Bank’s operations. At the same time, a task force, composed of ngo representatives and Bank staff, was established to find ways to identify—and overcome—obstacles to Bank-NG.o collaboration at the operational and policy level. On the Bank's side, to assist task managers in better understanding the benefits and challenges of working with ngos, the Operations Policy Department published a practical guide, “Working with ngos,’’ which identifies key issues for successful collaboration.
Policy dialogue with ngos during fiscal 1995 focused on issues related to the ongoing negotiations over the eleventh replenishment ot ida resources (ida-i i). The World Bank-NGO Committee organized three regional NGO meetings—
BOX 2-1. A CONSULTATIVE GROUP TO ASSIST THE POOREST
In March 1995, the Bank was authorized by its executive board to participate in a consultative group that has been designed to increase the resources available to the very poor.
Financing for the group, to be called the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (ccap) is to be anchored by a Bank contribution of 30 percent (up to $30 million); contributions from other donors are expected to total $70 million.
The aims of the ccap are threefold: to expand the level of resources reaching the poorest of the economically active poor, initially through microfinance programs; to improve donor coordination for systematic financing of such programs; and to provide governments and donors with a vehicle for structured learning and dissemination of best practices for delivering financial services to the very poor.
Programs operating in various parts of the world that deliver financial and related services to the very poor have proved to be effective in reducing poverty and hunger. The cgap, therefore, would not deliver services directly to the ultimate beneficiaries; rather, it would seek to strengthen the capacities of those institutions that, among other things, have proven track records of reaching large numbers of the poor, sound financial policies and high cost-recovery and
loan-repayment rates, and a demonstrated ability to mobilize matching funds, preferably from nontradi-tional donor sources.
A small secretariat, to be housed within the Bank, will solicit proposals from participating institutions and donors. It would screen, evaluate, and approve funding within the framework established by the ccap.
The ccap was formally constituted in late June 1995, with participation from Canada, France, the Netherlands, the United States, the Asian Development Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Capital Development Fund, and the World Bank.
The next meeting of the consultative group is scheduled for January 1996. In the interim, the secretariat will carry out its work plan, which was approved by ccap members at their June meeting. Activities will include developing (a) a standard donor format for the appraisal of microfinance institutions, (b) monitoring and evaluation guidelines, (c) a format for handling funding proposals from participating donor governments and institutions, and (d) a strategy for the dissemination of lessons learned.
in Colombia, Ethiopia, and India—at which participants stressed the need tor a full ida replenishment. In April 1995, representatives trom a diverse group of ngos met with IDA Deputies and conveyed their strong support for ida. They also asked that ida assistance be more carefully targeted on efforts to reduce poverty and that increased emphasis be placed on removing constraints that prevent the poor from benefiting from economic policy reforms. ngos also strongly supported the establishment of the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest, through which the Bank will directly finance ngos working in the microfinance field (see Box 2-1).
Numerous consultations with ngos were held throughout the year in preparation for the World Summit on Social Development in Copenhagen and the forthcoming World Women's Conference in Beijing.
The Bank’s Economic Development Institute (edi) is forming a network of trainers, consisting in large part ot ngo staff, to work with grassroots entrepreneurs in developing countries. The program enhances their organizations’ capacity to train microentrepreneurs, monitor and evaluate projects, and deliver gender and social analysis training. The German-based ngo, Transparency International (ri), has been instrumental in edi s work on governance issues, ti and edi are working closely together in South Africa and Uganda to train senior government officials (and inform the general public and journalists) on issues relating to governance.
Environmentally Sustainable Development
The establishment in January 1993 of a central vice presidency for environmentally sustainable development (esd) explicitly recognized that development could be achieved and sustained only
through the integration of economic, social, technical, and ecological dimensions.
In the intervening thirty months, csn has played a major role in promoting integrative approaches to development. Challenges have included (a) reconciling the objective of longterm sustainability with that of medium- and short-term cost effectiveness and (b) defining sector-by-sector and topic-by-topic Bank policies and practices that are consistent with the objective of sustainable development. In carrying out its mandate, r.sn has promoted best practice, provided quality guidance, facilitated innovation, and disseminated information. Awareness that the relationships among sectors are complex stimulated fsd to give greater emphasis during fiscal 1995 to cross-sectoral linkages and institutional partnerships.
Advancing environmentally sustainable development by breaking barriers between disciplines and sectors is a unique challenge. Four dimensions to this challenge are: natural resources and ecosystem management, food security, urbanization, and infrastructure.
Natural resources and ecosystem management. Population growth continues to strain natural resources, natural habitats, and ecosystems.
Food security. Access to, and availability of, food are major problems in many areas ot the developing world. Given the limited possibilities tor expansion of agricultural areas, increasing food security requires that the efficiency ot food production within a sustainable biological and institutional framework be increased. Efficiency increases, in turn, require promoting the development and adoption of new technologies and farming systems that increase productivity, conserve or enhance the resource base, and are accessible to poor producers.
Urbanization. Ninety percent ot the population growth that will take place over the next twenty-five years will be generated in urban areas. Rapidly growing cities pose formidable challenges for urban management, investment policy, and institutions. Building on the lessons learned from past successes and failures in urban management, special efforts are needed to
mobilize a combination ot private and public sector initiatives to provide affordable housing, efficient municipal services, and a healthy urban environment.
Institutional and physical infrastructure. New partnerships between public and private sectors must be developed to provide adequate infrastructure services.
fsd has taken up these tour challenges by contributing to well-formulated Bank projects through its support to the six operational regions, by formulating policies and disseminating best practices, training staff, and building partnerships.
Support to operations, f.so provides direct operational support through its (a) participation in "cutting edge” operations in new fields;
(b) production and dissemination of best practice papers, which are highly effective in supporting operational work; and (c) review of sector work and best practices prepared elsewhere in the Bank.
F.sn, for example, chaired a task force that recommended an operational strategy' for Argentina’s provinces that promotes a clearer and more efficient match of expenditure responsibilities and revenue authority; greater accountability of public authorities to their constituents; and sustainable financing of investments, including participation of private capital markets. Support was also provided tor the formulation and implementation of Bank strategy- in areas such as the expanding role of local government and private sector participation in infrastructure and its financing in Brazil, India, Mexico, Peru, South Africa, Uganda, and Uzbekistan.
Assistance was also given in implementing the Water Project for Municipalities in Low-income Areas in Brazil; technical and institutional solutions in the areas of service levels, delivery systems, and targets were tested. Preliminary lessons indicate that water and sanitation infrastructure can be more cost effective if stakeholders are involved at the various stages of the project cycle. The project is financing about $100 million in water supply and sewerage investments in eleven cities in different regions ot Brazil.
During the past year a new study analyzed the difficulties encountered in the transition in Ukraine from collective farming to other types of organizations in the wake of that country's land-retorm and farm-restructuring program. Several constraints were identified, including insufficient capital, inadequate market supply of farm inputs, and legal and political uncertainty. Given the importance of farm privatization and agricultural reform elsewhere in the former Soviet Union, similar studies will be carried out in other countries.
f.sd helped develop an early warning flood-protection component in the Yangtze Water Basin Project in China. It also played an active role in the appraisal ot the recently approved Liepaja Environment Project in Latvia and the Klaipeda Environment Project in Lithuania and provided similar support to the Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays Environment Project in Estonia. These three projects, all of which involve pollution control and environmental management, constitute the Bank's first investments in support of the Baltic Sea Environment Program. In the Aral sea region, support is being given in the areas of water-resources management, the environment, and water supply and sanitation.
Reviews of cas documents are a major priority. In reviewing the documents, esd strives to help Bank operational staff better understand the linkages between poverty and the environment and to view social, environmental, cultural, and agricultural concerns as more interrelated. Direct contact with country departments is established in the formative stages of preparing the various cas documents, and specific recommendations on the treatment of environmental, agricultural, and infrastructure issues are made at that time. To maximize its contribution to the formulation of cas documents, esd focused its efforts on fourteen countries where its experience and knowledge were deepest and where there was the most potential impact from its contribution.
Policy and best practice. Policy and best practice papers are written with practical application to operations in mind and incorporate lessons learned from previous policy and best practices work. The recently completed Municipal Development Sector Review, for example,
examined the Bank’s efforts to improve the efficiency and responsiveness of urban service delivery in developing countries. The study concluded that three elements are crucial to the reform of urban service delivery: a clear division of responsibilities among levels of government; revenue reform (which means, generally speaking, that local governments need more financial autonomy to carry out their assigned tasks); and balancing central regulation and local accountability. These conclusions point to the need for the Bank to go beyond a focus on the internal administration of particular cities; it should also emphasize reforms in the relationship between the central government and local jurisdictions as part of institutional reforms designed to improve service delivery.
The Forest Policy Implementation Review reported on changes in analytical work and in lending operations in the three years following the adoption of the Bank's new forest policy. It recommended only minor shifts in emphasis in the Bank’s work on forests and forest policy.
The review suggested that (a) forest resources have to be better targeted to reduce poverty,
(b) forest conservation and utilization have to be reconciled, and (c) policy and institutional reform are needed to set the stage for private investment consistent with poverty reduction and environmental protection.
The paper, “Economvwide Policies and the FInvironment," analyzed the specific links between economywide policies and environmental issues and argued that there are significant payoffs tor both the Bank and its borrowers in attempting to better understand the links and act on them. The report concluded that removal of price distortions and promotion ot market incentives and other features of adjustment-related reforms generally contribute to both economic and environmental gains.
"National Environmental Strategies and Action Plans: Key Elements and Best Practice," distributed to the Bank’s executive directors in April 1995, was written to assist governments in preparing, revising, and updating their neaps by suggesting a variety of analytical methods and best practices. This paper reflected international consultation involving country representatives and ngos in London in November 1994.
By the end of fiscal 1995, fifty -seven active ida borrowers had completed nfaps or equivalent documents, and neaps for sixteen ibrd borrowers had either been completed or were in advanced stages of preparation, nf.aps provide a basis for the Bank's dialogue with borrowers on environmental issues, describe a country’s major environmental concerns and problems, and formulate policies and actions to address whatever problems are identified. The borrower is responsible for preparing and implementing its NRAP.
The latest annual report on the environment— published in early fiscal 1996—provides a “green accounting” of the Bank’s lending portfolio in the three years following the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992. It documents the lessons learned in implementing the rapidly growing portfolio of environmental loans and the progress being made in assuring that the Bank’s lending is environmentally sustainable. Almost 10 percent—or some $6.5 billion—ot the Bank’s cumulative portfolio during that period has been devoted to projects with environmental objectives.
As an agency that finances infrastructure projects and promotes market-based economic development, the Bank has been a target ot criticism from a number of environmental groups. The Bank listens to such criticism and, over the past tew years, has built up strong interactions with environmental specialists and activists. Consultations are now mandatory tor all environmental assessments, and the Bank has benefited from inputs trom qualified environmental groups during the preparation of most of its policy papers. The vice president, fsd, has consulted with environmental ngos on a bimonthly basis for the past two years.
esd also expanded its focus on social aspects of development by helping to mainstream attention to social concerns and participatory approaches to development, providing technical support on social issues, and exploring additional areas ot social analysis. One significant development in this area was the publication of the “World Bank Sourcebook on Participation.” The sourcebook was written to help mainstream participatory approaches into Bank
work; as such, its primary audience is Bank task managers and other Bank staff.
The sourcebook, which draws on the experience, talent, and contributions of more than 200 Bank staff shares the experiences of selected Bank task managers who have used participatory approaches in Bank operations. It explores what it means to use participatory processes to plan and decide upon implementable and sustainable activities and attempts to answer questions task managers have about using participatory planning and decisionmaking. Copies ot the sourcebook were presented to more than 750 development practitioners in Bangladesh, Denmark, Germany, India, Italy, the Philippines, and the United Kingdom.
Other areas of the fiscal 1995 work program included (aj completion of a review of integrated approaches to river-basin planning, development, and management and (b) preparation ot “Energy Use in the Transport Sector,” which deals with the concept of energy intensity of transport modes and the role energy policies play in affecting demand for transport.
Progress was also made in incorporating more fully the environmental costs and benefits in the economic analysis of projects through
(a)	development of a training program,
(b)	mainstreaming environmental externalities and economywide dimensions into a selected number ot projects that were in the early stages of the project cycle, (c) collaborating with other Bank units in writing or revising operational directives that deal with environmental matters, and (d) publication of “Monitoring Environmental Progress,’’ a data-rich publication that aims to promote a participatory process in determining how indicators of environmentally sustainable development are compiled and used.
Global Environment Facility. The Global Environment Facility (gf.f) is a financial mechanism that provides grant and concessional funds to developing countries for projects and activities that aim to protect the global environment and thereby promote environmentally sound and sustainable development, gff resources are available for projects and other activities that address climate change, biological diversity, international waters, and depletion of the ozone
layer. Activities addressing land degradation, primarily desertification and deforestation, as they relate to the tour focal areas, are also eligible for funding.
The gf.f was established in 1991 as a pilot program. In March 1994, seventy-three participating governments (“participants") concluded negotiations to restructure the facility and replenish its Core Fund with more than $2 billion for a three-year period. The governance structure of the gff consists of a council, assembly, and an independent secretariat headed by a chief executive officer.
The Bank has three principal roles in the gff: It (a) is the trustee ot the GEF Trust Fund;
(b)	acts as an implementing agency; and
(c)	provides administrative support tor the gff secretariat.
As trustee, the Bank is expected to mobilize resources for the fund, manage fund financial resources, maintain appropriate financial records and accounts, provide tor their audit, and monitor the application of budgetary and project funds. As one of three implementing agencies (the Bank, the United Nations Development Programme (i ndi>), and the United Nations Environment Programme (unfi>)), the Bank is expected to "draw upon its investment experience in eligible countries to promote investment opportunities and to mobilize private sector resources that are consistent with gff objectives and national sustainable development strategies."
One of the objectives of the Bank in meeting its responsibilities as implementing agency is streamlining and mainstreaming the project cycle of Bank-implemented gff projects with regular Bank project processing. Efforts were made during the year toward achieving this objective. First, the Bank’s executive board is now reviewing and approving Bank-implemented gi-:f projects in the same manner as it does Bank projects. Second, GF.F processing procedures are now aligned closely with Bank investment-processing procedures. In addition, operational directives have been adjusted to ensure that global environmental externalities are identified and quantified (wherever feasible) and that global environmental concerns are addressed in cass (wherever appropriate). To this end, a start
has been made on a longer-term program to integrate the global environment dimension with the Bank's sector work. Third, Bank-implemented gf;f operations will be equally subject to the Bank’s annual portfolio-performance review.
Through the end of fiscal 1995, 148 projects worth S869 million had been endorsed by the gff participants and the new council. Of this total, sixty-three projects for $558 million were allocated for World Bank GEF investment projects. The allocation ot the Bank's GEF project resources, by focal area, is 50 percent tor biodiversity, 30 percent for climate change,
1 2 percent for international waters, 7 percent for the reduction of ozone-depleting substances, and I percent for multiple thematic areas.
Strengthening agricultural research. During fiscal 1995, the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (cgiar) vigorously pursued its program of renewal and rededication that had been launched at its 1994 mid term meeting in New Delhi. The program seeks to clarify the vision of the cgiar, reform its research agenda, reform its governance and operations, and secure stable financial support for its mission.
At a ministerial-level meeting of cgiar members, held in Lucerne, Switzerland, on February 9-10, 1995, new orientation, governance, and financing arrangements tor the cgiar were endorsed. The cgiar is an informal association of forty-three governments, international organizations, and private foundations supporting an international research system for agriculture, forestry, fisheries, and natural resource management in developing countries. It is jointly sponsored by the Bank, the undp, and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the i n (fad). During the past year, unfp was invited to become a fourth sponsoring member.
Cote d’Ivoire, Egypt, Iran, and Kenya joined the cgiar at the Lucerne meeting. With Colombia, which joined a tew months earlier, total developing country membership in the group is now fourteen. Members hailed the broadening membership as an important step towards equitable North-South ownership ot the research system. The delegates also supported efforts to render the system more open and to strengthen its links to national research systems in both de-
veloped and developing countries. Global and regional fora of farmers' groups, universities, ngos, and other groups will be held to ensure that the system’s research agenda reflects the needs of its member countries.
A program launched in mid 1994 under the Bank's leadership to stabilize the ggiar’s finances in both 1994 and 1995 attracted additional donor support, thereby ensuring full funding for the group's core research agenda— approximately $270 million in each of the two years.
Training, workshops, and seminars. Staff training plays an important role in esd's delivery of services to support Bank activities. Sixty-nine separate training courses were conducted during the year, covering the full range ot ksii activities. Environment-related courses included economic analysis of environmental valuation, participation and social assessment, economywide policies and the environment, and environmental management and planning. Agricultural seminars in areas such as water resources, agricultural and rural development, food production and integrated pest management, and rural finance were organized. Infrastructure-related training included courses on private sector participation, enabling strategies for housing policies, urban services delivery, and municipal management.
Building partnerships. Efforts to build partnerships with others, both inside and outside the Bank, were supported by a wide range ot activities during the past year, including participation in the Cairo Conference on Water Resources (November 1994), organization ot the Second Annual Environmentally Sustainable Development Conference (September 1994), and frequent instances of technical cooperation with other donor agencies and governments. Agricultural partnerships were firmed up by strengthening links with the i inlip, the kao, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the agricultural departments of regional development banks, international agricultural research centers, and key ngos.
Speakers at the Second Annual ESD Conference (whose theme was the "Human Face of
the Urban Environment") called for new approaches to meet today’s urban challenges of economic development, poverty reduction, and environmental protection.
The 900 environmentalists, development practitioners, and policymakers attending the th ree-day conference heard the late World Bank president Lewis Preston confirm the institution's dedication to reducing urban poverty, which is an essential precondition for reducing urban environmental degradation.
Private Sector Development
Developing countries increasingly recognize the critical role of the private sector in development and the need to create the conditions for business to prosper. They are transforming their economies from state-dominated to competition-oriented markets. This transformation includes cutting out public sector investment better suited to the private sector and stepping up financial sector reform. And they are doing more to facilitate private funding of infrastructure projects; such investment is crucial for promoting growth and reducing poverty. All this requires a more favorable and competitive business environment, based on thorough legal, regulatory, and institutional reforms.
The Bank Group is unique in its capacity to work with developing country governments and the private sector to promote investment, jobs, growth, and so, to reduce poverty. It has the credibility to act as an honest broker between government and business. Its global reach enables it to gather and disseminate cross-country experience. It has access to the highest levels of government almost anywhere. And its advice is frequently backed by substantial investment— through its readiness to play a catalytic role, it helps attract investment from a variety of official and private sources to countries and projects that otherwise would be regarded as too risky.
In fiscal 1995, the Bank Group's efforts in private sector development were focused on helping countries create a more favorable environment for private business, catalyzing funding
for private enterprises (especially in support of long-term investments in infrastructure), as well as directly supporting private sector development and helping developing countries to reform and strengthen their financial sectors.1 Specifically, privatization remained a central focus of the Group's assistance, as did hanking reform. At the same time, the Bank worked with governments, local institutions, and communities (as well as with the private sector) to forge partnerships to sustain reforms and manage economic development more effectively. The year also saw extensive Bank Group involvement in helping some Latin American countries deal with immediate crises in their hanking sectors.
The Bank Group supports about S25 billion ot private-sector finance a year, or 10 percent ot all inv estment by private enterprise in developing countries. The Bank's financial intermediation loans of close to $2 billion a year support $4 billion in private investment.
The lie—through its loans, equity investments, and credit lines, provides $2.9 billion a year, and with a much bigger multiplier of about 6 to 1, supports roughly $18 billion worth ot investment. mica’s guarantees are currently running at more than $600 million a year, supporting
about $2.5 billion in private sector investments. In addition, World Bank adjustment loans and credits ot $5.3 billion help create a competitive and attractive business climate and promote financial sector reform.
Catalyzing infrastructure finance: World Bank guarantees. Developing countries currently spend an estimated $200 billion a year on infrastructure—a figure beyond the means ot governments and multilateral agencies. East Asia alone may have to spend more than $1 trillion on infrastructure between now and the end of the decade. Such large-scale, long-term funding requires increasing reliance on private developers, operators, and financiers. Through various measures and instruments, such as guarantees, the World Bank helps governments and entrepreneurs tap international and local capital markets tor long-term infrastructure funding.
c'.The Bank Croup s private ■sector development activities are carried out in the three maior institutions of the Ci roup—tin1 World Bank, the n ; , and mu . Priv a to sector development work is a maior component ot the work programs ot many World Rank units—notably, the Finance and Private Sector Development vke presidency, the (/otinainin^ and Financial Ad\isorv Services vice presi-dencv, the Development Hconomus and Chiet Economist vice presidency, and the si\ operational regions.
BOX 2-2. INTO THE GUARANTEE MAINSTREAM
The Bank's guiding principle in providing guarantees is to cover the minimum risk possible to make a project financeable. To this end, mainstreaming established two types of guarantees—the partial risk guarantee and the partial credit guarantee.
Partial risk guarantees are used mainly for limited recourse project finance, where lenders attach more importance to the revenues and assets of a project that the sponsor's credit. Most build, own, and operate (boo) projects are financed under these arrangements. In these cases, guarantees can cover risks associated with government contractual commitments to a project, for example, the stability of the regulatory regime, tariff formulas, and risk of nonpayment by a publicly owned utility.
Partial credit guarantees allocate risks differently. The World Bank guarantees repayment, but only for a part of the term of the financing. The purpose is to improve borrowing terms through a length-
ening of maturity, and hence, the guarantees generally apply to later repayments. They can also apply to a limited number of interest payments, or a combination of both.
Government counterguarantees are required from the host government when the Bank provides its guarantees. Though the counterguarantee adds an additional layer of processing, it reinforces the government’s commitment to the project. The counterguarantee indemnifies the Bank for any payment it makes under its guarantee.
Guarantees carry fees. The standby fee, covering the period of the guarantee when it is not callable, is 25 basis points yearly on the outstanding amount guaranteed. When the guarantee is callable, the fee is set between 40 and 100 basis points, depending on the risk coverage. All fees above 25 basis points are paid to the government, so that the net cost for a Bank loan or guarantee is the same.
The ability ot entrepreneurs to obtain debt financing is often constrained by lenders' concerns over the risks to project cash flow necessary to service the debt. These concerns are also linked to regulatory and legal issues, such as setting tariffs, the convertibility of revenues to service foreign currency debt, and the contractual performance ot public sector utilities or energy suppliers. Much of the Bank's policy and sector work has thus aimed at improving the business environment and reducing these risks, but until reforms take root, private financial markets are reluctant to provide sufficient credit without official and multilateral guarantees. For that reason the Bank moved in fiscal 1995 to mainstream its guarantee operations.
The World Bank's guarantee instrument was revitalized and amended to catalyze the flow of private capital to infrastructure projects when the executiv e directors approved a proposal, “Mainstreaming ot Guarantees as an Operational Tool of the World Bank." The new guarantee initiative replaces the Expanded Cofinancing Operations (f.co) Program by broadening country eligibility to any Bank borrower, modifying fees, and simplifying procedures. Though large pools of equity capital are potentially available for investment in private sector infrastructure projects, debt financing has been constrained because private lenders are unwilling to assume certain sovereign risks. A World Bank partial risk guarantee helps address this constraint by protecting lenders from these risks (see Box 2-2).
Bank partial credit guarantees can also enhance borrowing terms, as well as increase flexibility in terms ot currencies and markets. In China, for instance, partial credit guarantees for the public sector Yangzhou and Zhejiang power projects drew in private financing with much longer maturities and lower costs than would have been possible without the guarantee.
Other completed operations include a partial risk guarantee for Pakistan's Hub Power Project, one of the largest private sector projects in the developing world; a partial credit guarantee for the Leyte-Luzon Power Project in the Philippines; and a contingent loan with characteristics ot a guarantee tor the financing ot the private
sector Rockfort Power Project in Jamaica, with miga providing political risk insurance. Several guarantees are currently in the pipeline, covering all regions. And from an initial focus on power projects, sector coverage of guarantees has expanded to include water and toll road projects. Most of those in the pipeline cover private sector projects.
As part of the mainstreaming effort, an information and education campaign was launched.
A brochure on Bank guarantees was distributed widely, and seminars were held outside and inside the Bank. Country missions explained the potential ot guarantees to policymakers and representatives of both public and private sectors. An internal training program on project finance techniques and Bank guarantees was also set up.
Financial sector reform and innovative lending for private sector development. To meet the growing range ot demands for support of private sector investment, the Bank continued in fiscal 1995 to deliver innov ative operations to support local financial institutions and markets. Financial sector adjustment loans totaled $1.2 billion, and financial intermediation loans amounted to $1.8 billion. The adjustment loans help create a competitive financial sector, and the intermediation loans feed it. Such operations provide support to a wide range of financial intermediaries strong enough to access growing private capital.
There has been a steady change in the complexity ot the Bank's financial sector loans. A tew years ago, most addressed policy issues, such as interest rate and credit policy. Today, the issues are more institutional, such as strengthening banking supervision, regulations, and accounting.
This shift is well illustrated by the banking components in the sequence of financial sector operations in Mexico. The $500 million Financial Sector Adjustment loan, approved in June 1989, focused mainly on interest-rate policy, while the $23.6 million Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project, approved in fiscal 1995, supported the improvement of ofl-site supervision. Meanwhile, the $1,00(1 million Financial Sector Restructuring Program, approved in June 1995, inv olves the definition of comprehensive
bank-failure resolution mechanisms and is much more detailed in specifying how the accounting, auditing, and supervision functions are to be upgraded.
The Bank is also moving into new areas—payments systems and capital markets, for instance. Current and future operations—in China, Mauritius, Russia, and Viet Nam—include financial and technical assistance to help modernize payments systems to reduce delays and risks in transferring funds and to link these systems to those used for clearing and settling securities transactions.
Innovative operations in support of local financial institutions and markets were also approved. The hallmark of these operations is the provision ot support to a wide range ot financial intermediaries strong enough to access growing private capital—except where systemic risks cannot easily be overcome. In India, highly rated banks are now authorized to take foreign currency deposits from Indian sources. With assurance from a Bank-funded backstop facility that rollover funding can be obtained even during times of market distress, those domestic banks can extend foreign currency credits to exporters whose growth demands such investment.
In Moldolva, enterprises can now obtain preexport finance from private financial intermediaries and trading companies with the benefit of a Bank-financed local guarantee unit that provides insurance against changes in export regulations and other specified political events.
Much of the future growth (and poverty reduction) in low-income developing countries will be generated by small businesses that now have little or no access to financing. The Bank, therefore, has started to work with institutions that have a track record in lending to rural and urban microenterprises and whose operations are sustainable, replicable, and based on strong resource mobilization.
Microtinance programs that succeed in reaching large numbers of poor and female entrepreneurs have tour characteristics:
•	their financial services are tailored to the needs ot poor entrepreneurs;
•	their operations are streamlined to reduce unit costs;
•	their clients are strongly motivated to repay their loans through the use of peer group guarantees and other incentives; and
•	their interest rates and fees reflect the full cost of service delivery.
The Bank allocated (in fiscal 1994) $2 million from iRRLi net income to the Grameen Bank of Bangladesh—whose highly successful program lends primarily to poor women—to assist similar credit programs in other countries. It is also in the process of establishing a microfinance program under the aegis of the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest under which up to $30 million of ibrd income transfers will be made available to successful microfinance programs during the next two to three years.
Making the business environment attractive. In itself, private ownership is not enough. It is real competition among private owners that creates benefits for all. That requires mobility of capital, labor, and knowledge, and increasingly, access to technology. Governments can foster this with simple, transparent, and uniformly applied incentives, laws, and regulations—so-called second-generation reforms. In fiscal 1995, Bank support for these reforms continued broadly in tour areas:
•	establishing a legal environment that defines and enforces property rights and allows property to be freely traded;
•	reforming public institutions so that rules tor businesses are administered in a predictable and open way and at least cost;
•	reforming regulatory regimes so that product, capital, and labor markets are better aligned with the needs of a competitive, outward-oriented economy; and
•	improving the efficiency and customer responsiveness of various service providers (utility companies, for example).
In Senegal the $40 million Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit has been designed to improve the investment climate and facilitate and enhance the private sector supply response to a new, favorable exchange rate through a liberalized and more competitive en-
BOX 2-3. FIAS: FOSTERING FOREIGN FUNDING
The Foreign Investment Advisory Service (fias) advises governments that want to attract more and better foreign direct investment. The advice is on policies, programs, and institutions that governments use to regulate their relationships with private direct investors. In its advice, fias tries both to promote investor-friendly environments and the development interests of the host country.
Over the years, fias has seen its advice adopted in most of the eighty-five countries where it has worked. During the year just completed, this advice included ways for The Gambia to restructure its foreign investment policies, a strategy for Zimbabwe's invest-ment-promotion agency, suggestions for structuring investment-promotion agencies in Bolivia and Peru, and an evaluation of Kazakhstan's foreign investment laws. New initiatives included advice on policies governing foreign investment in China’s infra-
vironment, improved conditions tor increased export opportunities, and increased competitiveness through lower costs ot production and ot maritime transport. And in Bolivia, the Bank supported regulatory reforms that eased the way for private entry into the infrastructure sector.
Private sector assessments for thirty-four countries were either carried out or were in progress by the end of fiscal 1995. These assessments describe the structure ot the priv ate sector in a country, identity constraints to its development, and suggest economically efficient ways of overcoming hurdles. In several cases (in Colombia, Cote d'Ivoire, Egypt, Hungary, Morocco, the Philippines, and Sri Lanka), assessment findings have been systematically discussed with the governments and a variety ot private sector participants in order to toster a self-sustaining dialogue between the two.
Complementing the Bank’s work in private sector development, the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (fias), run jointly by the Bank and the ifc, continued to help developing countries shape policies and institutions conducive to foreign direct investment (see Box 2-3).
Enterprise reform and privatization. More than twenty of the Bank’s private sector development loans approved in fiscal 1 995 had
structure sectors, policies to promote linkages between foreign investors and domestic firms in Indonesia and the Philippines, and a diagnosis of both policy and institutional constraints to foreign direct investment in the West Bank and Gaza. Altogether, fias completed twenty-six advisory projects during the year.
The sendees of fias are likely to continue to be in great demand. An increasing number of developing countries want to tap the booming pool of international direct investment flows. /4s countries make basic improvements in their investment laws and institutions, they find that more complex issues and new opportunities call for continuing policy and institutional changes, fias has been able to help with both the basic, as well as with the more complex, policy and institutional issues.
privatization as a key component, as governments seek to strengthen market forces, encourage investment, and ease budget deficits. In the past decade, the value of medium-sized and large enterprises privatized around the world exceeded $300 billion. In Russia alone, more than 15,000 businesses, employing 15 million workers, have been transferred into private hands, creating 40 million shareholders. Today, more than half the output of the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Poland is produced by private businesses. China's town and village enterprises (which are essentially private) have shown that small and medium-sized firms can be dynamic forces tor economic growth.
In Bolivia, the Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance Project, approved in fiscal 1995, and a Capital Adjustment Credit, currently under preparation, will help the government to privatize firms in six major sectors—telecommunications, electricity, oil and gas, railways, aviation, and mining—through a unique process ot capitalization. Shares worth about $2 billion are being distributed to pension accounts for all Bolivian adults, stimulating savings and the savings ethic. Another $2 billion of new funds are available for investment by the privatized Bolivian companies—allowing them
Sr<Tio\T\VM Maior Wori n Bank Programs 33
to leverage $6 billion or so of debt, if they need it. Lessons from these and other groundbreaking operations, as well as from the emerging problems ot postprivatization assistance, are being rapidly disseminated and incorporated into the design of future operations.
The Bank was also active in providing direct technical assistance to help governments organize and implement their privatization plans.
For larger activities requiring a sustained effort, such assistance was carried out by large teams with substantial field presence, focusing on detailed design and implementation. The development of this new type of service marks an effort to respond more flexibly and promptly to government needs and is provided as a complement to Bank operations and the overall Bank-government dialogue. In some of the more complex cases, budgetary funds were leveraged with cofinancing grants of various types.
Dissemination and partnerships. During fiscal 1995, a study was completed on the special problems ot private sector development and privatization—and on measures that might be taken to address them—in lower-income countries. The report, “Private Sector Development in IDA Countries," concluded that the central challenge was tor government to cut risk and minimize transaction costs and instill confidence in the private sector. Its recommendations: Cut the debilitating losses of the state enterprise sector, equip the banking sector to function effectively and provide needed financing to deserving enterprises, and reduce barriers to competition and undertake regulatory reform.
As part of the supervision of a privatization-assistance loan to Russia, a Bank investigation of the privatization process was published in fiscal 1995.lllThe study concluded that Russia’s mass privatization program was successful in rapidly transferring ownership but that there was an acute need for other reforms—in the areas of law, land, corporate governance, shareholder protection, creditor rights, and the social safety net. All of these are being tackled in one way or another, but most urgent is the development of capital and securities markets.
Private sector development and privatization mean little unless there is widespread support for reform within a country. The Bank has thus been supporting private-public partnerships with a view to building consensus on reforms and changing attitudes towards entrepreneurship and profit-making. Private-public partnerships are also being used to identify constraints to reform and to generate solutions. In Egypt, for example, local business associations and other groups participated in discussions to develop consensus within the country on specific reforms.
In fiscal 1995, the Bank intensified its efforts to establish networks and close relationships with a wide variety of partners involved in private sector development, especially in developing local capabilities and fostering entrepreneurship. The $70 million Private Sector Adjustment Credit in Ghana is helping the government develop and use local accounting and investment-banking expertise in privatizations. In Congo, staff from the Bank’s Private Sector Development Department are providing training and advice to the newly formed Privatization Committee on how to build consensus on privatization, prepare privatization packages, and evaluate tender offers. The Bank is also encouraging learning-by-doing and is helping local firms gain access to international expertise.
Thus, in Kazakhstan, it is funding a pilot project that supports study-tour training so that enterprise managers can learn from the experiences of successful firms in the United States and elsewhere.
Over the years, the role of the Bank in infrastructure has shifted from one that exclusively involved financing to one that also encourages reform, private provision, and private investment. This is especially true for telecommunications, the sector moving fastest from public ownership to private provision and investment. As Bank lending to the sector has
10. Libennan, Ira. and John Nellis, eds. 1995. Russia: Creating Private E)iterprises and Efficient Markets. Studies ot Economies in Transformation Series. Number 15. Washington, D C: World Bank.
fallen off, there has been a large increase in nonlending advisory and other services. In addition, there has been a commensurate increase in the Bank’s lending for informatics, which totaled on the order of $1 billion in fiscal 1995. Many Bank projects today have an informatics component.
Increasingly, private sector development calls for closer cooperation with outside agencies. In energy, for instance, a framework memorandum of understanding was reached between the Bank and the United States-based Electric Power Research Institute to cooperate in areas such as clean power technology and renewable energy. Similar memoranda were agreed to with the International Energy Administration on energy efficiency and conservation and with the U.S. Renewable Energy Laboratory. Links with ngos continued to be strengthened: Meetings in London, the Hague, and Washington covered energy and the environment and rural and renewable energy.
In industry and mining, the Bank cosponsored—with the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the International Council on Metals and the Environment, and i'nrp—an international conference on Development, Mining, and the Environment. The conference provided a forum for nearly 300 participants from a broad range of stakeholders to share ideas, perspectives, experiences, and solutions for sustainable mining sector development. The conference proceedings and results were summarized on video for wide distribution.
Links are being forged with Keidanren, the Japanese industrial association. Links of this type, which are also being developed elsewhere in the world, will help the Bank reach a broader group of business leaders, managers, and professionals and so inform them about the Bank Group's involvement in private sector development. Possible joint activities include thematic seminars with broad international coverage and country-focused discussions on private investment issues.
The Bank has also teamed up with the U.S. National Research Council. The first fruits of this partnership came out of a November 1994
symposium, “Marshalling Technology for Development,'1 which highlighted the leapfrogging opportunities and pitfalls of the technology revolution for developing countries. The symposium provided a unique opportunity for the council and the Bank to share their complementary expertise in technology and development.
A similar partnership is being planned with European technology experts, with the help of the European LInion.
The Bank itself has begun to use technology more strategically in disseminating private sector development best practices—for example, through a recent teleconference on competitiveness policy, which reached several thousand participants in El Salvador, India, Mozambique, and Senegal.
Suction Two Maior World Ba\k Programs 35
I I ■> n \ X I. C ) I' I i: \ [ I < > \'s l:i s' !. Y i. \ I’ 1 l)<) 5
Commitments
World Bank commitments (ibrd and ida combined) amounted to $22,522 million in fiscal 1995, an increase of $1,686 million (8 percent) over fiscal 1994 's total (see Table 3-1). Commitments by the ibrd were $16,853 million, while ida commitments totaled $5,669 million equivalent (SDR3,829 million).
The biggest increase in commitments was in the Latin America and the Caribbean region, where fifty-two projects were approved for a total of $6.1 billion. Comparable figures for the previous year were forty-eight projects for $4.7 billion. Lending volume also in-
creased greatly in the Europe and Central Asia region: Fifty-eight projects, totaling $4.5 billion, were approved—a $772 million increase over the previous year.
Adjustment lending amounted to 24 percent of Bank commitments, up from the previous year's 12 percent. The fiscal 1995 adjustment totals include $1,395 million in rehabilitation-import loans and $375 million in debt-reduction loans. If these amounts had been excluded, adjustment lending would have been 16 percent of the total. Adjustment lending was particularly low in fiscal 1994,
because country conditions caused delays in adjustment operations in the Europe and Central Asia region.
The largest borrower of ibrd funds was Mexico ($2,387 million for six projects), followed by China ($2,370 million for thirteen projects, including five “blend” projects) and Russia ($1,741 million for nine projects). The three largest borrowers of ida credits were India ($945 million for six projects, plus one “blend” project), followed by China ($630 million for three projects, plus five “blend” projects) and Viet Nam ($415 million for three projects).
One project, for $20 million, in the West Bank and Gaza was approved. The project, financed bv the S50 million Trust Fund tor Gaza, is financing the immediate needs of the education and health sectors and addresses institutional development objectives in the two sectors.
Disbursements
Gross disbursements by the ir.KH to countries totaled $12,672 million, an increase of 21 percent over fiscal 1994's $10,447 mill ion amount. Disbursement performance was higher than originally expected in the Europe and Central Asia region (mostly due to adjustment operations) and in the Latin America and the Caribbean and East Asia and Pacific regions, where, although the adjustment portfolio is declining, disbursements for investment projects are accelerating. in.A disbursements amounted to $5,703 million, up $171 million from the previous year. The increase was particularly noteworthy in the South Asia region.
Disbursements, by source of supply. Projects financed by the World Bank require procurement from foreign and local sources to achieve
project goals. Disbursements are made primarily to cover specific costs tor foreign procurement and some local expenditures.
The procurement rules and procedures to be followed in the execution of each project depends on individual circumstances. Three considerations generally guide the Bank's requirements: the need for economy and efficiency in the execution ot a project; the Bank's interest, as a cooperative institution, in giving all eligible bidders from developing countries and developed countries an opportunity to compete in providing goods and works financed by the Bank; and the Bank's interest, as a development institution, in encouraging the development of local contractors and manufacturers in borrowing countries. In most cases, international competitive bidding is the most efficient method of procurement. The Bank prescribes conditions under which preferences may be given to domestic or regional manufacturers and, where appropriate, to domestic contractors.
Table 3-2 shows consolidated foreign and local disbursements tor the iukp and ida through the end ot fiscal 1990 and for the period fiscal
1991	thi'ough fiscal 1995. Advance disbursements consist of payments made into special accounts of borrowers, from which funds are paid to specific suppliers as expenditures are incurred. Because balances in these accounts cannot be attributed to any specific supplying country until expenditures have been reported to the Bank, these are shown as a separate category.
Table 3-3 provides details for foreign disbursements by of.co and non-OF.CD countries for the ibro and ioa separately.
Appendix 7 shows disbursements made in fiscal 1995 by the ibro and ioa for local procurement by current borrowing countries and disbursements made for goods, works, and services procured from them by other Bank borrowers (foreign procurement) for projects funded by the Bank.
Appendix 8 shows the amounts disbursed from the ibro and ioa separately for foreign procurement of goods, works, and services from selected member countries in fiscal 1995 and cumulatively through fiscal 1995.
Appendix 9 shows the proportion of foreign disbursements from the irrd and ioa for specific categories of goods and services provided by selected member countries in fiscal 1995.
Appendix 10 provides a summary listing of the amounts paid to oeco and non-()ECO country suppliers in each fiscal year from 1993 to 1995 under investment projects. Amounts disbursed are compared with respect to significant categories of goods procured from foreign suppliers. The extent to which oecd and non-OEcn countries participated in supplying these major categories of goods in each of the past three fiscal years is also compared.
In all these tables and appendixes, ibrd figures exclude disbursements for loans to the ifc and "B" loans, ioa figures include Special Fund and Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa credits. Disbursements for Project Preparation Facility advances are excluded for both the ibro and ioa.
Technical Assistance
Technical assistance is a vital ingredient in the transfer of technology and build-up of capacity among the Bank’s borrowing member countries. Most technical assistance is provided through the Bank’s lending operations; however, a significant volume is generated through other special programs, financed mainly by grants and trust funds.
Loan-financed technical assistance in calendar year 1994 amounted to $2.6 billion. Of this
amount, $2.2 billion funded components, while $400 million was accounted for by nineteen freestanding projects.
Fifty-two percent of technical assistance components were intended for capacity building (including training). The remainder went for implementation support (41 percent) and policy support (7 percent).
The Latin America and the Caribbean region used the most technical assistance ($695 million), followed by East Asia and Pacific ($591 million) and Europe and Central Asia ($246 million).
Indonesia was the single largest user of technical assistance ($300 million), followed by Mexico ($293 million) and Russia ($213 million).
The Bank's Project Preparation Facility provides advance funding to borrowers to prepare projects that may be financed by the Bank. In 1994, the Bank made 118 advances under the facility for a total of $80 million. Fifty-eight percent of the advances, accounting for 45 percent of the total volume, went to the Africa region.
In December 1994, the executive directors agreed to raise the facility's commitment authority from $220 million to $250 million.
The Institutional Development Fund provides grants to member countries to undertake innovative actions in institutional development/ capacity building. In 1994, the Bank awarded ninety such grants, amounting to $22.8 million, to fifty-four countries.
Technical assistance “quality at entry.” During the past year, the Bank undertook an assessment of the quality at entry of those technical assistance operations that had been approved in fiscal 1994.
The assessment was mostly positive, although shortcomings were also noted.
Significant improvement was found in incorporating lessons of experience from completed (and some ongoing) operations. Further, project design was found to be less complex in the newer projects, and improvements were noted in projects' readiness to be implemented.
Notable progress had also taken place with regard to the use of performance indicators for judging implementation progress (a Bankwide
exercise is under way to help staff in developing performance indicators for all operations, including technical assistance). More work is needed in the specific area of monitoring outcomes rather than inputs. Considerable variation was found in the quality of supervision planning, thereby raising a question about prompt and effective intervention with respect to lagging projects. The assessment also found that while strong efforts were being made to enhance borrower involvement in project objectives and design, many operations did not provide clear evidence of borrower commitment.
The Bank and the United Nations Development Programme (undp). The year showed a continued, sharp decline of new funding by the undp for Bank-executed projects. This decline will likely continue, as the undp’s executive board now prefers national execution.
The Bank and the undp held several meetings during the year on ways to enhance their collaboration in areas such as technical cooperation, aid coordination, the environment, and capacity building. Together with the Development Assistance Committee (dac) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (oecd), the Bank and the undp organized a high-level seminar, at which it was decided to establish a network to follow up on specific issues of technical cooperation. It was also agreed that the three institutions would jointly publish a semiannual journal whose target audience is practitioners and researchers in the field of international technical cooperation. The first issue of “International Journal of Technical Cooperation” is scheduled for the summer of 1995.
Cofinancing
During fiscal 1995, the vice presidency tor Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services (cfs) continued to play a catalytic role in facilitating the flow of financial resources to developing countries by carrying out various activities related to cofinancing, project finance and guarantees, private sector development, and technical assistance financing.
These activities consisted of operational support and technical assistance financing to the Bank’s country departments and to borrowing
member countries. i_Ts also coordinated cofinancing efforts among donor governments, official development aid agencies, and export credit agencies.
The volume ot cofinancing anticipated in support of World Bank-assisted operations in fiscal 1995 declined marginally to S8.2 billion from the S8.7 billion that had been mobilized in the previous year (jw Table 3-4). Not reflected in the cofinancing volumes, however, is the better
understanding between the Bank and donors that emerges through cofinancing operations in respect of country and sector objectives and strategies. Ultimately, this improves the overall efficiency and effectiveness of aid flows and strengthens the Bank's partnerships with some of its most important supporters.
I . cis nativities related to pri\ ate sector development, ine111eljnthe nKnnsti e^imin^ of ;uj;ii';}ntec>, ore described on p;i.ue 30 ot this Annmil Report.
Official cofinancing flows of $6.6 billion increased by $381 million and still accounted for the largest source of anticipated cofinancing support. The volume of export credits and private cofinancing fell from levels realized in fiscal 1994.- The South Asia and Europe and Central Asia regions both realized an increase in the flow of private sector financing. In terms of lending instruments, investment loans attracted the largest volume of cofinancing support, followed by structural adjustment and financial intermediation loans.
Japan continued to be the major source of bilateral cofinancing. The cofinancing activities of its Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (oecf) and Export-Import Bank (JExIm) accounted for the largest percentage of bilateral support to all Bank-assisted operations, reaching a total of $1.2 billion for seventeen projects approved during the year, or 46 percent of all bilateral cofinancing. To facilitate and expedite the processing of smaller cofinancing operations (cofinancing amounts below $50 million), the Bank and the JExIm agreed on a streamlined set of processing procedures. During the year, two operations were cofinanced following the streamlined procedures. Six more projects were identified as potential candidates tor the near future. A similar agreement with the olck is under discussion.
Other large bilateral cofinancing support came from Germany [$289 million equivalent), France ($264 million equivalent), the United Kingdom ($184 million equivalent), and the United States ($148 million).
Total cofinancing expected from multilateral financial institutions amounted to S3.9 billion. The Inter-American Development Bank, with $2.5 billion of planned cofinancing, continued to be the largest multilateral cofinancier and accounted for 63 percent ot the total. Other substantive cofinancing support came from the Asian Development Bank, the European Investment Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
As in previous years, the power sector attracted the largest amount of cofinancing ($1.5 billion as compared with $2.1 billion in tiscal 1994), followed by multisector operations ($1.1
billion as compared with $437 million in the previous year) and financial intermediation loans ($987 million, compared with $416 million in fiscal 1994).
During fiscal 1995, the Bank made a special effort to update existing cofinancing framework agreements to simplify processing procedures. It also sought to improve the consultation process with its major cofinancing partners. The main objective ot this exercise was to make the consultation process more efficient by better matching the cofinancing requirements ot Bank-assisted projects with the cofinancing interests and capacities ot donors. During the year, the Bank held eighteen formal cofinancing consultations with representatives of fifteen donor agencies.
Since tiscal 1988, donors have been supporting the Bank-led Special Program ot Assistance (spa), which mobilizes quick-disbursing bal-ance-ot-pavments support tor economic reform programs in the low-income, debt-distressed countries of sub-Saharan Africa. To date, under phase three of the program, seventeen donors have pledged $6.7 billion in support of economic reform programs.1
To improve the effectiveness of technical assistance activities financed with trust-fund resources, the Bank introduced some important policy changes during the year. They included:
•	To give recipients full ownership of activities financed with trust funds, recipient implementation of country-specific technical assistance will become the norm over a two- to three-year period.
•	To return to the principle that trust-fund resources are not to be used to cover expenses that have been funded traditionally by the Bank's administrative budget, such resources
2.	Cofinancing figures, which represent planned cofinancing—not actual commitments hy cofinanciers—are captured at the time (it presentation to the executive directors of each ii'.Rh and ip a operation. The amounts of official cofinancing, in most cases, are firm commitments hv that stage; export credits and private cofinancing, however, are generally only estimates, since such cofinancing is actually arranged as required for project implementation and gets firmed up a year or two after board approval.
3.	For details, see page 55.
will no longer he used to finance core Bank activities.
•	To facilitate the use of trust funds, negotiations will be carried out with donors to simplify the procedures tor their use, including untying and loosening the restrictions on the use ot trust funds to the e.\tent possible.
During the year, cfs carried out detailed discussions with major donors on the Bank's efforts to improve the management of trust funds. Donors expressed broad support for the revised policies.
Despite constraints on national aid budgets, donors continued to increase their funding in support of technical assistance trust-fund programs. During the year, the two main programs, the Policy and Human Resource Development (curd) Fund—financed by Japan—and the Consultant Trust Funds (ctf)—provided by many donors—expanded their activities.
The l’HRP program provided grant assistance to a broad range of project-related activities, with special emphasis on project preparation. In tiscal 1995, the fund approved 270 grants amounting to $1 77 million, as compared with 223 grants for $141 million in the previous year, for the preparation ot projects that are expected to be financed by the Bank. As a part of an effort to intensity the monitoring of phkh-tunded activities, its issued the first annual report on the activities of the fund.
The t”TT program, which consists of forty-seven consultant trust funds supported by twenty-six donors, financed consultancy services to support the Bank’s operational and technical assistance work. During the year, the program financed a total of $64 million in new allocations, a 22 percent increase over fiscal
1994.	The increase resulted mainly from a higher demand for consultancy services in the transitional economies, particularly in Europe and Central Asia. Major donors demonstrated the ir support for the program by replenishing depleted trust funds and by providing additional specific contributions for specific operations requested by the Bank and its borrowing member countries.
The CFS vice presidency also continued to maintain contacts with export credit agencies
during the year, pursuing closer coordination with these agencies and with the Berne Union to develop greater participation in Bank projects. Efforts are continuing to improve coordination with export credit agencies, with special emphasis on project-finance transactions.
Portfolio Performance and Management
Early in fiscal year 1994, the executive directors ot the World Bank endorsed a detailed plan ot action designed to make the Bank more effective in obtaining results on the ground in borrowing countries.
The various initiatives set in motion to improve portfolio performance represented an important shift in the Bank’s business practices—from what was perceived to be an excessive preoccupation with lending targets and volumes to an overriding concern with the development results in the field ot Bank-supported operations.
A review of the first year's experience in implementing those initiatives found that significant progress had been made. It also concluded that progress had been made in strengthening the country focus of the Bank's development assistance and that steps had been taken to enhance the quality ot the projects as they entered into the portfolio.
The review cautioned, however, that further work needed to be done to improve and sustain the Bank's internal environment so that it emphasizes and reinforces development impact. Creating an environment more supportive of effective country-portfolio management is one of the more important aspects of the portfolio-improvement program.
More recently, the “Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (ari’p]" for fiscal 1994—discussed by the executive directors in April 1995—found that “problem" projects constituted 15.2 percent of the total Bankvvide portfolio of 1,762 operations under implementation in 134 countries, slightly higher than the 13.9 percent registered in the year before.
Performance was assessed for the first time using an enhanced rating methodology that emphasizes the likelihood of achieving development objectives (do) as the key performance
criterion, with implementation progress (ip) serving as a secondary criterion. This improved rating methodology was developed to increase the realism and transparency of performance ratings, as well as the quality and intensity of the review process. The methodology used until the current year had been strongly oriented towards physical and financial inputs, and although a rating on the likelihood of achieving development objectives was also assigned, it was subsumed under the rating for overall implementation status. However, the change in rating methodology increased the difficulty in coming up with a trend analysis. In principle, the changes should lead to more projects being rated as unsatisfactory or highly unsatisfactory than otherwise would be the case. In practice, however, it is not possible to disentangle this effect from that of other factors.
The review found that of the 134 country portfolios, those in only twenty-one countries, including thirteen countries in nonaccrual or civil conflict, had a very low likelihood of achieving project nos, while seventy-two had a high likelihood of achieving development objectives.
According to the report, the Bank further intensified its efforts to promote a strong implementation culture during the year under review. Supervision intensity per project increased by 8 percent, and all six operational regions are now assigning high priority to implementation and obtaining results on the ground.
At the regional level, a number of steps were taken to enhance quality at entry of new operations. They included (a) requiring up-front actions that are critical to project success before the project is presented to the board; (b) avoiding excessive complexity in the design of new operations; (c) strengthening borrower ownership and beneficiary participation; and (d) using pilots to test new approaches and determine what projects should be followed-up on a larger scale.
The regions also continued to strengthen portfolio-management practices through various measures, including involving borrowers more closely in every aspect of portfolio management
and using mid term-review and supervision-mission findings to pursue mid course corrections (project restructurings, for example) to increase the likelihood that projects will achieve their dos.
An independent assessment of experience with the Bank’s main portfolio-management tools—country-portfolio performance reviews, mid term reviews of operations in progress, and project restructuring—was provided by the Operations Evaluation Department’s second annual review of the arpp. It recommended that the Bank pay particular attention to the extent of coverage and targeting of such tools. It also recommended that future reviews by operational staff of regional and country portfolios enhance their strategic focus and include monitorable goals for improving portfolio management and performance.
The otn review found that operational staff had made good progress in installing the more transparent system for rating operational performance, while piloting further enhancements. Although the new system had quite pronounced effects in some regions, its aggregate effect on the realism of performance ratings still appeared quite small; a substantial gap remained between ratings of projects under implementation and ratings of the same projects at their completion. Following deliberations by the executive directors' Committee on Development Effectiveness, a streamlined management process, reflecting of.d recommendations, has been put in place to address the problem.
At the conclusion in fiscal 1994 of the Bankwide review of projects involving involuntary resettlement, the Bank's management agreed to continue monitoring the status of the resettlement portfolio through the preparation of a special annex in the fiscal 1995 arpp. The annex placed special emphasis on new projects with resettlement added during fiscal 1994, on new initiatives being taken with borrowers and within the Bank to improve capacity and performance on resettlement, and on the status ot implementation of the entire resettlement portfolio during fiscal 1994.
It found that all the new fiscal 1994 projects met the basic planning requirements tor re-
settlement. Specialist supervision was at a high level. Bank country departments, especially those with the largest resettlement portfolios, began to elaborate strategic approaches to the issues involved. More dialogue on borrower policy was held. Training courses were expanded in several borrower countries.
Considerable progress was made at the “front end" ot projects, the annex concluded. It noted that implementation still presents significant challenges and that, because implementation is the borrower’s responsibility', resettlement policy dialogue, in-country’ capacity building, and creative financing ot resettlement will remain the critical points for improved implementation.
Operations Evaluation
Operations evaluation at the World Bank has a threefold mandate: to measure how far and howr effectively the Bank’s activities are achieving their desired results; to draw and disseminate lessons for application in policies, operations, and processes; and to help Bank units and member countries to improve their own evaluation capabilities.
The Bank’s independent evaluation unit, the oed, reports to the Bank's executive directors through the director general, operations evaluation (Dt;o).The of.d rates the development effectiveness ot the Bank's activities according to their [a] relevance to specific country- and sectoral assistance strategies and to the Bank's overall goals; (b) efficacy in meeting planned objectives; and (c) efficiency in using resources. Its work program evolves in response to changes in the development agenda and the concerns of the Bank. Results and recommendations are reported to the executive directors and ted back into the design and implementation of policies and lending operations.
Comprehensiveness and rigor. All lending operations are evaluated on completion by the regional offices responsible for them; borrower agencies contribute to these completion reports. The of.d reviews all completion reports and produces performance audits for a representative sample of completed operations. Every completed lending operation is rated tor its overall outcome, sustainability, impact on the
borrower’s institutional development, borrower performance, and Bank performance. The of.d also evaluates countrv-assistance programs and the Bank’s policies and processes. Evaluation findings are maintained in a development-per-formance data base, built up over twenty years, which now covers more than 4,000 operations.
In fiscal 1995 oed reviewed 275 completion reports and audited 123 completed operations. The cumulative total ot Bank operations subjected to ex post evaluation reached 3,888 at the end ot the fiscal year.
In impact evaluations, the oed, assisted by agencies in borrower countries, analyzes projects five to eight years after the close of loan disbursements. These evaluations assess the economic W'orth ot projects and the longterm effects—intended and unintended—on people and the environment. The oep produced eighteen impact evaluations in fiscal f 995.
Portfolio management. The oed continued to strengthen its activities in support of improved portfolio management, outlined in last year’s Annual Report of the World Bank. New initiatives in fiscal 1995 included:
•	Country-assistance reviews. To support the Bank’s focus on the country as the unit of account tor the design and management of its assistance, the oed began a series of country-assistance reviews. These reviews assess the relevance and efficacy of the Bank's overall country-assistance strategy and the effectiveness of the various instruments of assistance. They make recommendations for future policies and actions.
•	“Quality at entry": Economic Analysis Task Force. The 1992 Task Force on Portfolio Management pointed out that the Bank tended to be overoptimistic about projects at the appraisal stage. Following up, a joint task force of the old and the Operations Policy Department helped to design an action program to improve the economic analysis of projects.
Evaluation studies. The orn’s evaluation studies examine Bank processes and broader development issues, including policies and experience in countries, regions, and sectors. In fiscal
1995,	oed sent ten studies to the board. Topics included experience with irrigation; poverty
assessments; industrial restructuring; lending tor electric power in Africa; conditionality in lending for forestry; and the social impact of adjustment.
Disclosure and outreach. Growing public concern with development effectiveness has led to demands for the evaluation function to be more transparent. In November 1994 the Bank's executive directors further expanded the Bank’s disclosure policy to include country and sector-evaluation studies and impact-evaluation reports.
Responding to a request from the executive directors’ Committee on Development Effectiveness, the oed began expanding its publications program. In fiscal 1995 it published Evaluation Results for 1993 and five book-length studies. For decisionmakers and development practitioners, it published three "Lessons & Practices" and twenty editions ot "Precis.”
The oed gave seminars within and outside the Bank to discuss evaluation design and results, and issues raised by evaluation findings for the management ot ongoing programs. Evaluation and the work of the oed were systematically featured in training programs for new Bank staff.
The oed organized the first international conference on development evaluation, with contributions by distinguished evaluators, academics, and development practitioners from a broad span of countries and types of organizations.
The papers are being published in a professional journal.
The or.D participated as an observer in meetings ot the DAC Expert Group, and evaluation staff attended workshops and seminars with evaluators from other international organizations and donor countries.
Support for evaluation in borrower countries. The Bank s executive directors and management adopted recommendations by a Bankwide Task Force on Evaluation Capacity Development in the public sector ot borrowing countries. For the Bank, the recommendations entail taking a more proactive approach to supporting evaluation-capacity development, regarding evaluation-capacity development as an
integral part of the Bank’s country portfolio-management work and of its support tor public s e c t o r- m a n a g e m e n t r e f o r m.
The oed responded to requests for advice on evaluation capacity development from Argentina, China, Colombia, Indonesia, Morocco, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, and Zimbabwe.
Implementation of the Bank’s Disclosure Policy
In August 1993, the Bank took a number of steps to increase the range and depth of information available to the public. The revisions to the more restrictive policies ot the past were undertaken in the belief that the sharing of information is essential for effective and sustainable development. Sharing stimulates debate and broadens understanding of development issues and facilitates coordination among the many parties involved in development. It also serves to strengthen public support for efforts to improve the lives of people in developing countries.
Experience with implementing the disclosure policy shows that the Bank has made substantial progress and that it is now clearly a more open organization than it had been. After initial startup problems, Bank staff have responded well to the demands of the new policy; government officials have worked closely and constructively with operations staff to ensure its implementation, contrary to earlier predictions that borrower governments would find it difficult to adapt to the new' policy; and the number of complaints from the nongovernmental organization (ngo) community about Bank unresponsiveness has lessened to such an extent that they are now very infrequent.
To meet the Bank’s commitment to the principle of global accessibility to Bank information, a Public Information Center (ric) was opened at the Bank’s headquarters in January 1994, and ric field offices were subsequently opened in the Bank's London, Paris, and Tokyo offices.
Each office has a public reading room equipped with a workstation connected to the Internet.
To reach clients without access to the Internet, a catalogue of available document titles is distributed by mail and is updated monthly by fax.
Sr.moNTnRKk World Bank Operations 45
World Bank resident missions are an important component of the pic network and are critical in ensuring that relevant documents are available to affected people and local organizations in borrowing countries. Each resident mission stocks a full set of publicly available documents for its country (available free ot charge) and provides a point of access to any of the other information available throughout the Bank.
As of December 31, 1994, the pic offices had received a total of almost 17,000 requests—an understatement of the true number because
(a)	visitor registration at a pic is voluntary,
(b)	many requests are addressed to and handled directly by country departments and resident missions, and (c) data on requests serviced by resident missions are not available. During calendar 1994, a total of 1,928 documents were made available to the public. Their number included 674 Project Information Documents, which provide details on every project in the Bank’s pipeline, and 601 Environmental Data Sheets, which are prepared and updated quarterly for all projects in the lending program.
The greatest demand for information came from the business community. Public agencies constituted the second largest group of requesters. Only 2 percent of visitor and telephone requests came from the ngo community, which has apparently more frequently satisfied its needs directly from the Internet, resident missions, or direct contact with country departments.
The Bank is currently intensifying its disclosure efforts by preparing a formal training module for new Bank staff that explains the rationale for the disclosure policy, its implications for operational work, and the procedures involved in carrying out the policy.
The Inspection Panel Becomes Operational
An independent Inspection Panel was established in fiscal 1994 to receive and investigate complaints that the Bank had not followed its own policies and procedures with respect to the design, appraisal, and/or implementation of a development project that it supports.
The panel complements the Bank's existing systems for quality control in project preparation and implementation. As such, it helps the Bank's executive board in its governance of the Bank and does not affect the president’s accountability to the executive directors tor the management of the Bank’s operations. The functionally independent panel, which opened for business in the first week of September 1 994, reports directly to the Bank’s executive board.
On the first request presented to it—one that concerns the planned Arun III Hydroelectric Project in Nepal—the three-member panel unanimously found that apparent violations of ida policy existed and recommended further investigation in three areas: environmental assessment, involuntary resettlement, and treatment of indigenous peoples. The Bank’s executive directors subsequently authorized the panel to conduct the investigation.
The Inspection Panel completed its investigation in June 1995 and sent its report to the executive directors and to the president of the Bank on June 21. The panel’s report took into account the remedial measures proposed by the Bank in the three areas where the investigation was authorized by the executive directors.
In April 1995, the panel informed the executive directors that a second request for inspection had been made. The panel subsequently rejected the request. Two additional requests for inspection—related to the Power VI Project in Tanzania and the Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project in Brazil—were registered in June 1995. After receiving a response by Bank management to the claims made in the request, the panel will make a recommendation in August 1995 to the Bank’s executive directors on whether or not the claims should be investigated.
Inaugural meeting of boards of governors of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund is held at Savannah, Georgia. Bylaws are adopted, executive directors are elected, and Washington, D.C. is chosen as the site of the two new institutions. The Bank’s subscribed capital stands at $7.67 billion.
The first meeting of the executive directors is held, with the director representing the United States acting as temporary chairman. He continues to do so until the election of a president.
Eugene Meyer takes office as the first president of the Bank.
The World Bank formally begins operations.
First annual meeting of the board of governors of the World Bank is held in Washington. The Bank has thirty-eight member nations, and its staff totals seventy-two.
John J. McClov becomes the second president of the Bank.
Executive directors approve the Bank’s first loan agreement, with France, in the amount of $250 million, for reconstruction purposes. In real terms, it remains the largest loan ever made by the Bank.
The ibrd makes its first bond offer on the U.S. market in the amount of $250 million. The offering is substantially oversubscribed, and the bonds immediately sell at a premium over the public offering price.
Executive directors approve the first loan agreement with a developing country—an operation in Chile, in the amount of $13.5 million for hydroelectric development.
Eugene R. Black, who had been the executive director for the United States since March 1947, becomes the third president of the Bank.
The Bank launches its first comprehensive economic survey—of Colombia's economic resources and needs—with a view to indicating the most promising lines of development, the principal obstacles in the way, and the means by which they might be surmounted.
The ibrd's first public offering outside the United States is placed: a £5 million issue offered on the London market.
Japan and the Federal Republic of Germany become members of the Bank, bringing the Bank's membership to fifty-three.
The first reorganization ot the Bank is carried out. Three geographical Departments of Operations (Asia and Middle East; Europe, Africa, and Australasia; and Western Hemisphere) and a Department of Technical Operations are created.
The first three loans to Japan, totaling $40.2 million, are approved. The loans to the Japan Development Bank are relent tor power development.
The Economic Development Institute, serving as the Bank’s staff college, is set up, with financial support from the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations. The first course is attended by fourteen officials from as many member countries.
The number ot Bank staff at the end of tiscal year 195b swells to 51 1.
The International Finance Corporation is established as an affiliate ot the Bank, with an authorized capital of $100 million.
In the wake ot a deterioration in India’s balance ot payments, the first meeting of the India aid consortium takes place in Washington, with attendance by representatives of the governments of Canada, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Fii-ty Yfars or OhR.-vnoNAi. Hk;hi ights 49
The Bank's authorized capital is increased from $10 billion to $25.3 billion.
On the occasion of the annual meetings, the United States puts forth a proposal— subsequently adopted by the board of governors—to establish the International Development Association (ida) as an affiliate of the Bank.
The Indus Waters Treaty is signed by Pakistan, India, and the World Bank in Karachi, thus opening the way to the use and development of water resources on which depends the livelihood of some 50 million people in the two countries.
ioa is established as an affiliate ot the Bank. Initial subscriptions total $912 million.
September 19, 1960.The Indus Waters Treaty is signed. From left to right, Jawaharlal Nehru, prime minister of lndia;Ayub Khan, president of Pakistan; and Sir William lliff of the World Bank.
Photo: World Bank.
The first replenishment of ilia resources becomes effective, as eighteen governments agree to provide $753 million.
World Bank commitments for the fiscal year ending on June 30, 1965 exceed $1 billion for the first time.
The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes is established.
Robert S. McNamara becomes the fifth president of the Bank.
The ibrd's first borrowing from Japan (equivalent to $100 million) takes place. One month later, the ibrd borrows another $100 million equivalent from Japan.
First loan agreement for population planning, with Jamaica, is approved. The $2 million loan helps finance the development of a postpartum family-planning program.
World Bank commitments for the 1970 fiscal year exceed $2 billion for the first time.
An operations evaluation unit, whose responsibility it is to evaluate the contribution of World Bank Group operations to the development of member countries, is established by the president and is placed in the Programming and Budgeting Department.
First loan agreement ($15 million) for pollution control (river pollution in Sao Paulo) is signed.
The newly founded Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research convenes in Washington. By the end of the fiscal year (June 30), the group has nineteen members.
World Bank lending tor the fiscal year ending June 30 crosses the $3 billion mark for the first time.
The second major reorganization of the Bank takes place. Five regional offices are created, incorporating seven former "area" or geographical departments and eight projects departments.
The executive directors approve a proposal that a director general be instituted as manager ot the evaluation function, and that it should have links to the executive board, as well as the president’s office.
The Project Preparation Facility, under which the Bank advances funds to prospective borrowers to meet gaps in project preparation and for institution building, is created.
The Intermediate Financing Facility, or "Third Window,'' which enables the Bank to provide finance on terms intermediate between those of the ibrd and ida, becomes effective, when pledges of $100 million in contributions to the special Interest Subsidy Fund—enough to fund about $600 million of loans—are received.
World Bank lending for the fiscal year ending June 30 crosses the $10 billion mark for the first time.
The ibrd’s authorized capital stock increases by $44 billion to $85 billion.
The first structural adjustment loan, to Turkey in the amount of $200 million, is approved.
The executive directors decide that the People’s Republic of China represents China in the Bank.
A currency pooling scheme, designed to equalize exchange rate risks among the ibrd's borrowers, becomes operational.
A.YV. Clausen becomes the sixth president of the Bank.
ida donors, other than the United States, agree to provide special contributions in an amount, in general, equal to one third of their total contributions to ida's sixth replenishment through either an "FY84 Account" or a "Special Fund.”The special contributions are necessitated by legislative delays in the United States and a subsequent reduction in its appropriations for ida-u.
A new set of cofinancing instruments ("BToan"], designed to help the Bank’s borrowers increase and stabilize flows of private capital by linking part of commercial-bank flows to ibrd operations, is authorized by the executive directors.
The Special Action Program, a two-year program intended to accelerate disbursements to countries during a period of adverse external circumstances so as to ensure timely implementation of high-priority projects, is created.
The Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa, created to support, over a three-year period, reform programs undertaken by African governments, begins its operations.
Barber Conable becomes the seventh president of the Bank.
The Bank is reorganized into four senior vice presidential complexes: Operations; Policy, Planning, and Research; Finance; and Administration. Within the regions, country departments are created, combining the functions formerly divided between programs and projects departments. In addition, the central Environment Department is established in the senior vice presidency for Policy, Planning, and Research.
Donors agree to establish the Special Program of Assistance to provide quick-disbursing aid to reforming low-income African countries with debt problems.
The international convention establishing the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency takes effect.
The resolutions authorizing a general capital increase in the irrd's authorized capital are adopted by the board of governors, bringing the ibrd's total authorized capital to SI 7 1.4 billion.
Fifty Yfars or Oplrationai Highlights S3
The Debt-reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries, designed to ease the burden on those countries of external commercial debt, is established.
The biggest-ever irkp loan (in nominal terms)—$1,260 million—to Mexico in support of that country’s debt-reduction program, is approved.
Lending for education during the fiscal year ending June 30 crosses the $1 billion mark for the first time.
World Development Report 1990, which outlines a strategy tor reducing poverty based on experiences from developing countries around the world, is published. The Global Environment Facility, jointly administered by the Bank, the United Nations Development Programme, and the United Nations Environment Programme, is launched.
Lewis T. Preston becomes the eighth president of the Bank.
Sw itzerland joins the Bank.
The Russian Federation becomes a member of the irrp and ipa.
Twelve republics of the former Soviet Union become members of the IBRD.
The report ot the Task Force on Portfolio Management—the "Wapenhans Report"—is transmitted to the executive directors.
Three thematic vice presidencies—dealing with environment, human resources, and the priv ate sector—are established.
The independent Inspection Panel, which receives and investigates complaints that the Bank has not followed its own policies and procedures with respect to the design, appraisal, and/or implementation ot a development project that it supports, is established.
The Public Information Center at the Bank's headquarters is opened.
The Bank unveils a three-vear, $1.2 billion program to assist Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza in the transition to autonomous ride.
Executive directors approve recommendations to mainstream guarantees as an operational tool of the World Bank.
James D. Wolfensohn becomes the ninth president of the Bank.
Section Four
1995	Regional Perspectives
AFRICA
In fiscal 1995, the Africa Region vice presidency of the : Bank presented to-the executive directors for discussion ai document whose title, “A Continent in Transition," refleets the state of sub-Saharan Africa in the mid 1990s: one of transition from one-party systems to multiparty democracies, from centrally managed to market-oriented economies, and from economic stagnation or decline to per capita income growth in many countries (see Box 4-1). Indeed, the region's gross domestic product (gdp), excluding South Africa and Nigeria, grew by 1.2 percent in 1994 and is projected to grow more than three times faster in 1995 as the steep decline of growth in countries such as Malawi and Zambia is reversed, and as , countries such as Cote i&'jiyoire, Ethiopia, Ghana,
; r ifienya1, Mali, Senegal, and
•	TJganda significantly accelerate gj. thf growth of their economies, jjl Although the recovery has I? been assisted by good weather [ji conditions and an improve-■K';Aent in the global economic lL: .£nvironment, it also reflects ’ changes that augur well for the future, especially a big jump in the region’s gross domestic investment.
There were variations among Countries, as usual, es-pcciaHy linked to economic policies. Nowhere is this cleared than in the countries of the cfa zone, which signifi-
cantly realigned their common currency in early 1994. Evidence indicates that the historic decision of January 12,
1994 on realignment, along with economic reforms, has been effective in getting most economies back on the growth path. Growth of gdp turned around by 2.1 percentage points on average for the thirteen countries of the zone (excluding Comoros] in 1994, compared with 1991-93, and became positive for the first time in this decade—specifically, growth was positive in ten of the thirteen countries. Agriculture clearly responded, but so, too, did industry, which grew by 6.7 percent in Cote d’Ivoire. Although export growth accelerated, it remains relatively low, because producers still need time to respond to new opportunities. There was dramatic improvement in some activities in
1994	(Sahelian livestock, rice, canned fish, tourism, textiles, and other manufacturing); cotton production in 1994/95 is up by 50 percent in Burkina Faso and Togo and by more than 25 percent in Mali; and groundnut production is 40 percent larger than the year before in Senegal. At the same time, liquidity of banks improved. While prices rose sharply in all countries in 1994, for the zone as a whole inflation was kept below the level anticipated on the basis
of the magnitude of the devaluation.
Elsewhere, while a few countries experienced declines in real gdp (Burundi, Malawi, and Zaire, in particular), or nearstagnation (Nigeria), production was generally up. Several countries registered GDP growth of between 4 percent and 6 percent (Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique,Tanzania,Uganda, and Zimbabwe); for some, growth in this range was for the second, third, or fourth year in a row.
“A Continent in Transition” points out that twenty-one countries achieved positive per capita income growth during 1988-93. This trend continued and spread in 1994, especially in countries implementing economic reform programs. These countries' efforts deserve to be supported by the donor community.
Coordination and selectivity of assistance. Since 1987, Africa's partners in development have responded to African reform initiatives with quick-disbursing balance-of-payments support under the Special Program of Assistance (spa), which constitutes the most important aid coordination and cofinancing mechanism in Africa, The third three-year phase of the spa began in 1994. In October 1994, with the addition of Eritrea and Congo, the total number of SPA-eligible countries grew to thirty-one. To date, under
I
Section Four Africa 55
BOX 4-1. A CONTINENT IN TRANSITION
“A Continent in Transition: Sub-Saharan Africa in the Mid-1990s,” asks, "What happened to the landscape of African political economy in the past five years, and what are the characteristics of the situation on the ground now? What has been learned about the development process, and how is the development agenda unfolding as Africa looks to the next decade ? What are the respective roles of the partners in African development?"
The study concludes that an important part of the changing landscape is the beginning of a political transition, with significant movement towards democratization and political liberalization. This transition, although still partial and fragile, nevertheless represents a break from expectations of only five years ago. The past five years have also seen notable progress on key items of macroeconomic reform such as exchange rates and price control; progress in other areas such as fiscal balance has been slower. Although there has been relatively less progress overall on the deeper structural elements of the development agenda, successful examples can be pointed to. Twenty-one countries achieved positive per capita income growth during 1988-93. About half, representing nearly 30 percent of the region's income and nearly 40 percent of total population, attained or exceeded growth rates of between 4 percent and 5 percent annually.
Against this backdrop it is impossible to speak of sub-Saharan Africa as an undifferentiated whole. At one end are countries mired in ciml strife and social unrest; at the other are countries that have made
significant progress on macroeconomic reform and that are beginning to reap the benefits. These advances, as well as examples elsewhere of innovation and progress on the structural agenda, confirm that African success stories do exist. The task now is to spread the success more widely through systematic, country-specific pursuit of the development agenda.
Elements of the agenda, in addition to maintaining macroeconomic stability, include continuing progress in education, health, and population; sustaining agriculture and the environment; reducing gender inequities; developing the private sector; building infrastructure; and supporting capacity building. Only through progress in these areas can sustainable poverty reduction—the goal of development—take place. Implementation of this structural agenda should be aided by the process of political liberalization, which facilitates open discussion and debate.
Relative success in macroeconomic reforms has been supported by donor coordination provided through the Special Program of Assistance. Without governmental and national commitment to the developmental agenda, however, larger or improved external assistance will not help. For this reason, the study concludes, there should be greater selectivity in the allocation of scarce aid resources towards governments that show such commitment. The contents of the overall envelope of resources can then be divided among debt relief, balance-of-payments support, and investment assistance based on country-specific circumstances.
SFA-\ seventeen donors have pledged $6.7 billion in balance-of-payments support to eligible countries.
Although providing resources in support of reform remains the primary purpose of the forum, si'A meetings and special working groups have been effective in coordinating policies and procedures on broader issues. Priorities under si’A-3 include integrating poverty-reduction measures into reform programs and public expenditure allocations, and strengthening local management and institutional capacity. Working groups are developing recommendations in these areas; they will also he considering ways to incorporate women's issues more systematically into economic reform programs.
The criteria of performance shaped the evolution of assistance to the t fa zone. Donors responded massively to the currency realignment. Adjustment programs in the cfa zone were assisted by more than $2.5 billion in balance-of-pavments support in 1994; in addition, more than $5 billion in debt relief was provided. Multilateral institutions made the largest contribution, and the Bank's share of new funds, which went to all countries except Equatorial Guinea, was nearly 40 percent. In the calendar year following the devaluation, the Bank approved the release of thirteen tranches of ongoing adjustment operations, ten new adjustment credits, and three supplements under the "Fifth Dimension" program. The Bank's response primarily to
need—as opposed to need and performance—in fiscal 1995 is illustrated by the emergency assistance provided to Burundi and Rwanda (see Box 4-2).
Portfolio performance and capacity building.
Portfolio performance is key to getting results on the ground. The Africa Region's portfolio performance continued to improve, whether measured by the development-objective (do) rating, the implementation-progress (ip) rating, or the disbursement ratio. For example, the proportion of problem projects, based on the do rating (which rates projects on the extent to which project development objectives are expected to be met), fell from 21 percent in fiscal
1992	to 19 percent in fiscal 1994. Based on the IP rating, the figure fell from 25 percent to 20 percent. The improved portfolio performance is partly the result of improvements in the political and economic environment. The improvement has also been helped by the restructuring of the portfolio, improved financial management of projects (through, for example, systematic preparation of audit reports and strengthened accounting capacity), and more effective supervision.
Such actions, which led to improved implementation of the Region's portfolio, also help to improve the effectiveness of assistance from other donors and to improve broader-level economic management in the countries concerned. For these additional reasons, the Bank has implemented a strong program of portfolio-management actions. These include the strengthening ot the links between macroeconomic and sector-specific policies, programs, and activities, which is key to good project design; reaching early agreement with local stakeholders; enhancing donor dialogue leading to, among other things, common implementation arrangements; encouraging local capacity building and utilization through well-focused training (on procurement and disbursement issues, for example); and continuing emphasis on supervision.
Civil service reform is key to the successful implementation of projects, programs, and policies; it is, therefore, a priority of the Bank. Attention in this area extends beyond the narrow
tiscal aspects and tocuses, rather, on the performance ot core government functions and service delivery. Reforms in this latter area are off to a good start, for example, in Malawi under the Second Institutional Development Project, which became effective in December 1994. The project aims to strengthen the capacities of the Ministry of Finance and the Department of Human Resources Management and Development. These efforts are expected to help enhance efficiency and effectiveness through improved performance ot personnel and better budgetary and financial management functions.
Si-:i"no\ Foi 'K
BOX 4-2. EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE: THE CASES OF BURUNDI AND RWANDA
The tragic events of 1993 and 1994 in Burundi and Rwanda tested the creative capacity of the Bank to respond to unprecedented challenges and help reverse the damage done to these countries’ economies, institutions, and social fabric.
In 1994, in the wake of the political crisis,
Burundi experienced a sharp drop in food production, a breakdown in the delivery of social services, destruction of business property and public infrastructure, and the collapse of key institutions. Gross domestic product declined by 9 percent, and food production plummeted by 22 percent. Rwanda's postwar economic situation was grimmer: More than a third of the population were refugees, more than half the country's agriculture and industrial output was lost, and most Rwandan enterprises were not operational. The country’s institutional memory and project-implementation capacity were severely handicapped by the disappearance and killing of personnel, destruction of files, and theft of computers and equipment. As a result, the central administrative capacity was quasi-paralyzed.
In Burundi, the Bank helped prepare and finance the Emergency Recovery Program (erp), which addresses priority needs in health, primary and secondary education, agriculture, infrastructure, and the private sector. A donor consortium committed $53 million (including $14.6 million in ida funds) towards the cost of the erp. Consistent with the longer-term emphasis on equity and human-resources development, almost 70 percent of the funds have been allocated to basic health and education so as to
overcome the erosion during the past two years of social standards and capacities.
In Rwanda, responding to an appeal from the United Nations, the Bank approved in August 1994 an emergency grant of $20 million, which helped finance activities of the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the U.N., and the World Health Organization. The grant money financed activities such as providing tools and seeds for returning farmers, the establishment of a seed-multiplication program, the repair of water-supply facilities, purchase of textbooks, and institutional strengthening of public health activities. The Bank subsequently helped prepare the $200 million Emergency Recovery Program, which identified the priority needs for one year in health, education, infrastructure, agriculture, and the private sector and outlined technical assistance for institutional capacity building. A $50 million ida credit supporting the program was approved in January 1995.
Donor collaboration was instrumental in putting together rapidly the two recovery programs. At the same time, in both countries, the Bank has been restructuring its portfolio to be able to respond to new priorities and to reflect the true absorptive capacity of the countries and the activities of other donors. However, a durable solution to these countries' problems lies in actions within the countries themselves. If the people of Burundi and Rwanda do not find sufficient common ground to resolve their differences, sustainable development will not be achievable.
A special feature ot the Malawi project is the reliance on considerable local participation through workshops involving a significant number of middle- and senior-level civil servants. There is also strong support for the project at the higher echelons of government. Before the project was approved by the Bank’s executive board, the government of Malawi demonstrated its commitment by promulgating the Public Service Act, which contains provisions for fostering predictability, transparency, and accountability in the conduct of government business.
Broad sector approach. The broad sector approach to investment lending is a more comprehensive way of approaching lending operations
in Africa. It stems from dissatisfaction with some of the results achieved by traditional investment operations financed project-by-project and donor-by-donor. The unsatisfactory results reflect insufficient government grasp and ownership of projects; inadequate allocation of recurrent resources to sustain the project; the pursuit of conflicting strategies resulting from a lack of donor coordination; and the diffusion of the limited national implementation capacity.
The broad sector approach tries to address these problems by bringing the government and donors together into a collaborative framework:
•	The local stakeholders are in the driver’s seat of the program from the start to ensure
local ownership and sustainability. This requires a transfer of project-preparation responsibilities from donors to local stakeholders.
•	The program is sectorwide in scope, covering all policies and projects, and addressing aggregate current expenditures in the sector.
•	The interventions implement a coherent sector policy framework—developed in close collaboration with the country's private sector, nongovernmental organizations (ngos), and project beneficiaries.
•	Donors locate their assistance within the government s defined program, rather than promoting their own approaches.
•	Efforts are made to establish common implementation arrangements lor all operations within the sector.
•	Long-term external technical assistance is minimized, with a focus, instead, on capacity building.
Three such operations were approved during the past eighteen months (Mozambique Second
Shrm'N Four Ahrica 59
Roads and Coastal Shipping Project, Zambia Health Sector Support Project, and Zambia Agriculture Sector Investment Program). Each incorporated features of the broad sector approach and all were carefully developed over several years. With a growing focus on impact and with an increasing understanding of this collaborative framework, the number ot broad sector operations is expected to rise to about 20 percent of total lending in the next three years. Most of these operations will be in the social sectors, agriculture, and roads, because these sectors attract a multiplicity ot donors in Africa and because broad government ownership is most critical if results are to be sustained.
Participatory initiatives. The Bank made strides this past fiscal year tow-ards institutionalizing participation in order to enhance both the quality of work and the chances of getting the desired results on the ground. Participation, a broad and inclusive term, is defined as a process through which stakeholders influence and share control over the development initiatives, decisions, and resources that affect them. Participation may incorporate a wide range of techniques such as consultation (through borrower forums, for example) or joint assessments. Consultation is the form of participation that has recently been the most prominent in the Bank's Africa Region. The preparation and discussion of the
strategy document, "A Continent in Transition," involved consultations in about thirty African and donor countries. Systematic borrower consultation in the form of client-feedback surveys, which assess the attitudes ot borrower-govern-ment officials tow-ard Bank services, has been undertaken in nine countries (Cote d'Ivoire, Mali, Guinea, Madagascar, Malawi, Mozambique, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe). Participatory and consultative methods are now being used increasingly in economic and sector work, especially in the preparation ot poverty assessments.
On the operational side, too, the use of techniques such as participatory rural appraisals and beneficiary assessments has increased over the past two years. In Angola, tor example, a beneficiary assessment on urban water and sanitation involved consultation with the primary users in urban communities to determine attitudes, preferences, and perceptions towards water and sanitation services, as well as options for community-managed water and sanitation projects.
To support such participatory activities, the Africa Region established in fiscal 1995 special Systematic Client Consultation Funds in each department. At the same time, the Africa Region vice presidency has been a major user of the Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development, established in late fiscal 1994, which supports participation, consul-
tation, and social assessment in operations through capacity building and operational support. The Region has set fiscal 1998 as the target date tor building beneficiary consultation into all its major lending and nonlending activities.
Private sector development. Improving the supply response in the wake ot adjustment remains the driving force ot private sector development efforts in the Africa region. During the past year, efforts continued to help client countries improve their business environment, accelerate public enterprise reform and privatization, and restructure and diversify the financial sector. In addition, efforts continue to be made to enhance private sector competitiveness through measures aimed at internal liberalization—the abolition of monopolies, the promotion ot competition in domestic trade, and the rationalization of investment-incentive schemes. An example of this multipronged approach is evident in the Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit for Senegal approved in the past fiscal year.
Attention is also being paid to increasing private sector participation and investment in infrastructure. At present, the competitiveness ot African firms is undermined by the high cost and low quality of infrastructure services. Performance-based management contracts have been used to encourage private participation.
A landmark project in Cote d'Ivoire, approved in fiscal 1995, supports the first privately owned and operated independent power generating plant in Africa. Early experience with private sector participation has led the government of Cote d’Ivoire to redouble its efforts to encourage additional private participation in the power sector.
In nearly every country there has been an increased emphasis on dialogue with the private sector and on supporting channels of communication between client governments and the private sector. Support to the local chamber of commerce, as planned in the Mauritania Capacity Building Project for the Development of the Private Sector, can help such organizations become better interlocutors for private sector interests. Roundtables with the business community and surveys that monitor firm-level
conditions on a continuing basis are being used to understand better the constraints faced by enterprises. In December 1994, the Africa Region vice presidency, in conjunction with the Finance and Private Sector Development vice presidency, organized a two-day seminar in Nairobi on “The Resumption of Private Sector Growth in Africa.” The seminar brought together senior Bank officials and more than fifty private sector representatives from ten African countries. It confirmed the existence of large untapped potential in the African private sector, highlighted some of the problems that entrepreneurs face, and suggested ways in which the Bank could channel support to the business community more directly.
Social priorities. Fluman-resource development and poverty reduction, in particular, are at the forefront of the Bank’s objectives in Africa. These central objectives were pursued during the year in various ways, both directly and indirectly. Many ot the projects approved that support long-term growth have focused on creating the necessary environment for increased employment opportunities, improving the efficiency of markets, and redirecting the allocation of public expenditures more toward the poor. Other projects are designed to provide broadly or narrowly targeted assistance for the poor in areas that range from health to adult literacy and food security. Poverty-targeted interventions have involved diverse measures such as raising productivity in agriculture, human-re-source development or improving living conditions, provision of safety nets, and better national resource management. The projects through which such objectives have been pursued have been similarly varied; the most innovative among them during the past year were the Zambia Agricultural Sector Investment Program and the Chad Population and AIDS Control Project, both ot which were prepared in highly collaborative ways involving beneficiaries, official donors, and nc;os.
The best illustration ot innovative, indirect, yet effective, interventions to improve social conditions has been the demobilization program in Uganda, which the government continued to implement during the year and which aims at reallocating public expenditures away from
military interests in favor of the social sectors. The program was prompted by a public expenditure review in 1992 that revealed an expenditure pattern in which detense spending amounted to about 40 percent of the annual recurrent budget, crowding out investments in the social sectors. Given the need to design, finance, and implement a large-scale reduction in military torce, the government requested that the Bank become the lead agency in putting together and mobilizing resources for such a program. As time was of the essence, the Bank, at the request ot the government, restructured an ongoing IDA credit to include a component for assisting the socioeconomic reintegration ot demobilized soldiers and their dependents into a productive civilian life. The program was targeted at about 50,000 veterans and their dependents (about a 50 percent reduction in torce) over a three-year period.
The program provides veterans with a tresh set of civilian clothing; transportation to their home districts, a transitional safety net of cash and in-kind payments (agricultural tools, building materials tor a house, for example) over a six-month readjustment period; job training; and enhanced health benefits, especially tor the disabled and chronically ill. Primary school tees are also paid tor veterans' children tor one year. The average cost ot this package is about $1,000 per veteran.
Under the program, to date, about 33,000 veterans and more than 100,000 dependents have been successfully integrated into their home communities. About $35 million has been mobilized through a Bank-coordinated, multidonor effort to achieve this result. A final-phase demobilization ot 12,500 veterans is under implementation and is expected to be completed by December 1995. As a direct result of the program, over the 1992-94 period, defense expenditure was reduced from 38 percent to 22 percent of overall recurrent expenditure, making room for substantial increases in social expenditures.
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
The East Asia and Pacific region again recorded the most rapid aggregate growth rate among regions in the world: 9.6 percent in 1994, up slightly from the 9.4 percent posted in 1993. Nearly all countries in the region participated. For example, growth in China eased slightly to 11.8 percent, compared with 13.9 percent in
1993,	as the government experienced some success in cooling the economy, and the Philippines recorded a satisfying increase in its growth rate to 5.1 percent. Other countries in the region were able to maintain growth in the 5 percent-to-8 percent range, with the exception of the Pacific islands and Mongolia. In the Pacific islands, aggregate growth was close to 2 percent—an improvement over the recent past; Mongolia, which succeeded in reversing past declines, also registered growth of about 2 percent.
Impressive as this overall picture is, it is important to recognize that a large development agenda remains. The region is diverse: It contains the largest and the smallest Bank member countries, as well as countries that number among the Bank’s most prosperous and poorest borrowers. The maturing middle-income countries, with an established reputation for economic performance, constitute only 7,2 percent of the population, and their share in Bank operations is declining. The Republic of Korea received its last two loans from the Bank in fiscal year 1995, and it is graduat-
ing—following the precedents of Australia (1962), Japan (1967), New Zealand (1972), and Singapore (1975). The vast majority ot the people in developing East Asia, some 1.3 billion, live in low-income member countries, including the six economies in transition (Cambodia, China, the Eao People’s Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Myanmar, and Viet Nam). In addition, such large borrowers as Indonesia and the Philippines have annual per capita incomes of under $1,000, and, despite rapid progress, continue to face difficult development problems. At the other end of the spectrum, the small Pacific island member states are struggling to attain higher growth rates and participate in the dynamic-economic expansion of the Pacific Rim, The primary challenge facing all these countries is, of course, reducing poverty. The economies in transition face particular problems in moving to a market-oriented system based on more private-sector activity. The region is still largely rural and will undergo rapid urbanization in the coming decades, adding to the already large backlog of demand for infrastructure. Moreover, the region’s growth has placed a heavy burden on its natural resources and environmental quality, which will require major remedial and preventive action.
A look at the record. The East Asian countries have been quite effective in translating their high rates of growth into
a reduction of poverty. The number of people living in absolute poverty has declined to about 180 million (11 percent of the total population), down from an estimated 330 million in 1980. This represents about 17 percent of the poor in all developing countries. In addition to the income figures, other social indicators in the region have shown remarkable improvement: Life expectancy has risen to 68 years (compared with 64 years for all developing countries), primary education is essentially universal, and secondary enrollments are 53 percent (compared with 45 percent), while infant mortality is only 39 per 1,000 (compared with 65 per 1,000 for all developing countries). There is, of course, significant variation among individual countries.
The bulk of the resources needed to sustain this performance has been generated domestically. Savings rates have been above 30 percent of gross domestic product (gdp) for most countries, and rates are rising toward that level in the others. Much investment has been made in education and training, even in the low-income countries. Furthermore, these countries are following outward-looking development strategies. Strong export growth has been a mainstay of their rapid expansion, including countries whose economies are in transition. The past year has witnessed a further liberalization of trade throughout the re-
gion. East Asian countries’ integration into world markets is remarkable. These developing countries currently account lor over one third of developing country trade (10 percent ol total world trade]. It is estimated that over one third of the increment to world trade between now and the end of the decade will be generated from developing East Asia.
Integration into world markets, along with strong economic performance and stable policy,
has made East Asia the predominant destination of private international capital flows, both directly and in portfolio investment. The region received an estimated $90 billion in foreign capital flows in 1994, of which $82 billion was from private sources and $43 billion was direct investment. Rising interest rates in the United States dampened international investment flows in 1994, compared with the previous year, but
East Asian countries wore ahlo to maintain their access to markets better than most. Furthermore. they have been able to use the foreign savings effectively: Recipients ot large flows have raised domestic investment rates bv several percentage points of Gin’ as they absorbed the foreign capital. The combination ot effective use ot foreign investment, sound macroeconomic policies, and high export growth was an important reason why these economies were largely spared from the disruptions in currcncv markets and investment flows that have been affecting developing countries since the end of 1994.
Challenges ahead. Despite outstanding growth performance in recent years, reducing poverty is still the most critical issue facing the low-income countries. In addition to the 180 million living in absolute poverty, 280 million more live just above the poverty line, with incomes barely one third above that ot the poorest, and almost 400 million more people get by on incomes no more than double that ot the pov erty line. Analysis of poverty issues and recommendations on poverty reduction are core elements of Bank work in these countries: A major poverty analysis, in cooperation with the
government ol Viet Nam, \va' completed in 1994; a similar study (and a subsequent conference held to discuss its findings) in C hina was followed bv that government's lirst comprehensive plan to fight poverty (the 7-8 Plan);1 a large part ot the Hank's agriculture and almost all of its social sector operations in China have shifted to the poorer provinces; and the poverty study tor Indonesia, completed in li.scal 1994, has led to greater pov erty focus in projects in that country.
Most ill the low-income countries in the region are economies in transition. Success in sustaining high rates of growth depends critically on their completing the necessary legal, budgetary, and governance reforms that market economies require. While these countries hav e been open to change and have undertaken substantial reforms already, the process is tar from complete. China unified its exchange rate in January
1994	and moved to open its capital market further. The Bank is currently w orking with the government on state-owned enterprise and financial sector reform. A structural adjustment credit was prepared and approved for Viet Nam
I.	So calk'd because it> target K to eliminate poverty amonj* the Kll million people China o»n>klers poor in seven years (bv the war 2()0uj.
Sr< tion Fi m 'k East Asia and Pacific 67
in fiscal 1995, and an emergency rehabilitation credit was approved for Cambodia to assist in its transition.
The surging demand for infrastructure in the region is related both to its rapid rate of growth and its accelerating urbanization. Nearly all the countries in the region are experiencing bottlenecks, and investment demands for infrastructure have been estimated at SI.5 trillion between now and the end of the decade. The Bank is increasing its financing of vital infrastructure—transport, power, water, sanitation, and telecommunications—in East Asia, which rose to $2.7 billion in fiscal 1995. The share of Bank commitments in support of infrastructure investments is expected to continue its climb, but the demand is greater than public sources are likely to be able to meet, and more private financing must be encouraged. The Philippines has led the way by sponsoring more than thirty hot (build-operate-transler) investments in power supply, effectively using private financing to solve its most pressing infrastructure bottleneck.- China, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand are also encouraging private financing of infrastructure, and other countries in the region are investigating the potential. The Bank has advised countries on the necessary regulatory and legal structure for promoting such investments while protecting public interests. Several billions of dollars of private equity funds have been raised for infrastructure investment in the region.
Protecting the environment and assuring the effective use of natural resources is increasingly being recognized by the authorities in these countries as vital to sustaining their continued prosperity. In the past two years, the Bank has completed or initiated comprehensive environmental studies in most of the countries. Governments have begun to take stronger actions on both natural resources conservation and environmental pollution. Controlling industrial pollution is an area that has received widespread attention. The high investment rates and rapid growth in the region imply that most of the industry that will be in place twenty years from now hasn’t been built yet. Priority is being placed on ensuring that new installations
are properly located and use clean technology. Regional approaches are also being considered, for example, to develop coordinated policies on logging and offshore fishing in the Pacific islands.
The Bank's activities. The remaining development agenda is more than enough to severely tax any likely amount of resources available from the Bank or other international institutions. High domestic savings in these countries will properly and necessarily provide the bulk of the resources for development, and that will be supplemented by foreign investment. The Bank’s contribution is, nevertheless, significant. Commitments in fiscal
1995	were $5.7 billion, leading to gross disbursements of $4.5 billion and net disbursements of $1.6 billion; net transfers, taking account of interest as well as principal repayments, were a negative $634 million (see Table 4-5). Within these overall figures, it is important to note major shifts in the allocation of resources. The mature borrowers, Korea, Malaysia, and Thailand, are net repayers, and their share ot new lending from the Bank is stable or declining. They do, however, continue to rely on the Bank for special studies and projects in innovative areas. Some countries, most recently Indonesia, have taken advantage of favorable reserve positions to prepay some of their Bank loans. These factors partially mask the large positive net transfers going to the low-income countries of the region. Net transfers to China, tor example, amounted to some $1.4 billion.
The Bank is becoming more focused and selective in its activities, concentrating on areas of high priority agreed with its clients. These correspond to the priorities noted earlier, w'ith varying emphasis by country according to specific situations. In the more mature economies, economic and sector work (lsvv) tasks have been developed in close cooperation with the clients to address specific topics—the environment, poverty/income-distribution issues, and
2.	Typically in a isu'i. a private part\ (or consortium) agrees to finance, construct, operate, and maintain a facility for a specified period (supplying power, m thi* case, to the national distribution t»rid) and iben transfer the facility to a government or other public authority.
social security reform in Thailand; transport issues in Korea; the labor market in Malaysia.
Elsewhere, the Bank is concentrating on priority areas where it has greater comparative advantage. In Indonesia, it has reduced its activities in traditional irrigation and power projects and shifted more toward improving the quality of human-resource development, urban management, and development in the (poorer) outer islands. In the Philippines, the Bank has helped the government attract private financing for power and other traditional infrastructure and is shifting its support to activities that support development in rural areas and help protect the environment. Bank support for industry projects in China has been reduced, and more attention is being directed in its operations to incorporating environmental issues and addressing urban problems. China has made effective use of ida resources to advance its poverty-reduction program and has drawn on ida resources for human-resource development. The Bank's program in the Indochinese states has concentrated on issues of transition and ot facilitating aid flows from interested donors. The latter issue has been supported through donor meetings chaired by the Bank in Viet Nam, aid groups supported by the Bank in Cambodia and Lao PDR, and through extensive technical assistance. In Viet Nam, the lending program, aided
by a substantial body ot f.sw and a close dialogue with the government, has expanded rapidly since lending activities resumed in fiscal
1994.	The Bank’s operations there give priority to rural devlopment, human-resource activities, and the rehabilitation of infrastructure.
The Bank also chairs consultative groups for Indonesia, Mongolia, Papua New Guinea, and the Philippines.
In all countries a major objective of Bank activity has been to facilitate greater private involvement in the development process. Given the wide diversity ot countries, this has taken different forms in different countries. But the overwhelming lesson from the successful countries in the region is that harnessing the energies of the private sector can add greatly to the prospects tor growth, and, if managed properly, as has generally been the case in East Asia, can also reduce poverty. High domestic private savings rates are a key factor when they are accompanied by sound and stable domestic policy. But beyond this, there is ample evidence that the establishment of appropriate legal and regulatory systems, particularly in economies in transition, is vital to promoting strong domestic private sectors and attracting stable foreign investment. The regional vice presidency has made the development or strengthening of market infrastructure a central point of its activities.
Sm ti< >n Hi u 'k East Asia am i Pacific 69
Provision of economic infrastructure is also vital to private sector development, and that has figured prominently in the Bank's lending activities. Although the Bank does not lend directly to the private sector, it is exploring ways to help governments promote necessary longer-term financing for privately financed infrastructure.
Dissemination of the results and recommendations of the Bank’s i:sw is as important as the results themselves, and the Bank is being more active in assuring the wide distribution of its work in order to enlarge the work’s impact. A regional study of trade and investment was widely discussed with policymakers in all major trading countries prior to the November 1994 Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Jakarta. The Regional Environmental Strategy has also been widely disseminated. A third regional study of the Pacific island members was completed, and its conclusions were discussed at a regional ministers’ meeting and elsewhere throughout the area. Indiv idual country work has also been reaching a wider audience. Some 6,U()0 copies of the economic report on Viet Nam (in English and Vietnamese) have been made widely available to the public, both inside the country and abroad. This has contributed to a fruitful dialogue within the country on the liberalization process. Reports have been translated and distributed in other countries, as well.
Improved portfolio performance. Project effectiveness is a function of both quality at entry—well-designed projects—and careful supervision. The Bank has adopted measures to improve its project performance above current levels by strengthening the project-preparation process and by enhancing supervision. The region’s overall success rating on projects remains above average—95 percent of projects
Linder implementation are currently rated satisfactory with respect to their likelihood ot achieving their development objectives, and 87 percent of projects exiting supervision in fiscal 1994 were found to be satisfactory. Studies by the Bank's Operations Ev aluation Department ot completed projects approved since 19S0 show that 81 percent ot those in the East Asia and Pacific region met their development objectives and are sustainable.
Smtici.v Fni'K East Asia ani' Pahhc /]
SOUTH ASIA
Improving the quality of life is the central development objective for the countries of South Asia. Despite considerable economic potential, relatively high rates of growth through the 1980s, and slow but steady economic recovery in recent years, countries in the South Asia region are still characterized by widespread poverty and unacceptably low standards of living. One fifth of the world’s population lives in South Asia, but it is home to nearly halt of the world’s poor—between 400 million and 500 million people.
Per capita gross national product (gnp) in the region ranges trom a low ot $200 in Nepal to a high of $900 in the Maldives; with the notable exception of Sri Lanka and several states in India, living conditions are harsh. Only in Atrica is lite expectancy lower. One out ot every ten children born dies before the age of one. Poor health and high rates of malnutrition are accompanied bv low levels ot literacy—as ot 1990, only 45 percent ot South Asian men and 31 percent ot women could read and write. Recent estimates suggest that nearly halt ot all children do not even complete primary school.
The development strategy of the countries in the region has traditionally been inward oriented, and the public sector has been given a large role in the economy. But increasing pressures for faster progress on growth and poverty reduction
have led to an era ot reform. South Asian countries are dismantling restrictions on domestic and foreign private investment, removing trade restrictions, and reducing tariffs. Although they have also adopted privatization programs, progress has generally been slow except in Pakistan, where, after some initial delay, a major privatization program is under way (including industrial enterprises, banks, and energy and telecommunications companies). Financial markets are being liberalized across the region, providing greater scope for private participation and market determination of interest rates and credit allocation. There has also been a substantial relaxation of exchange and capital controls. For example Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka removed remaining exchange restrictions on current account transactions in 1994, while Nepal had done so earlier.
International financial markets have reacted favorably to these reforms. In 1994, portfolio equity inflows increased significantly, amounting to about one fifth the total flows to all developing countries. This new-found access to international capital markets marks a major change in the South Asia economic environment. But inflows, particularly ot foreign direct investment (i ni), continue to be hampered by bureaucratic regulation and low labor-market
flexibility. Flows of i ni in 1994 are estimated at about $1 billion, less than one tenth the amount of all priv ate inflows to developing countries. Nevertheless, total private capital inflows currently amount to 2 percent of CDi’, and, it used to finance incremental high-return investment, they could raise growth rates by at least 0.5 percent annually. However, in the near-term, inflows have tended to appreciate real exchange rates, mainly by fueling inflation, for example in India and Sri Lanka.
Challenges for the future. Reducing poverty, improving living conditions, and sustaining economic growth are critical development issues facing countries throughout the region. The region’s growth record was good during the 1980s, and there is conv incing evidence that high growth rates raised per capita consumption at all income levels and caused levels ot poverty to fall. However, while growth rates were high, they were not sustainable, and, in many parts of the region, rising per capita consumption levels were not accompanied bv commensurate improvements in social indicators. To ensure continued economic and social progress, countries of the region—whether they be small, island economies like the Maldives or semi-industrial giants like India—must address five major challenges:
•	They must stay the course on macroeconomic reforms.
•	Economic reforms, aimed at higher growth and greater economic resilience, must be extended and deepened.
•	Coverage of crucial infrastructure services must be expanded.
•	Measurable steps to reduce poverty and improve living conditions to further develop the human-resource base are essential.
•	Natural resources must be managed so that the region’s development path is environmentally sustainable.
Economic groivth and the private sector.
The broad consensus in development thinking —borne by the successes and failures of past decades—is that countries do better, both in generating growth and reducing poverty', with more market-friendly policies and outward-looking strategies. Economyvvide, this means starting with macroeconomic stability and developing a leaner and more efficient public sector.
Private sector development is essential for generating and maintaining economic growth.
The region has made progress in promoting the private sector in three areas: (a) reforming fiscal and financial incentives and the regulatory and legal environments to improve the environment lor private sector development; (b) privatizing those public sector activities that are more efficiently carried out by private sector; and (c) opening sectors to private investment that had previously been reserved for the public sector. The Bank has taken steps to improve its support to private sector development. For example, starting in 1994, it broadened its efforts to help India in mobilizing global resources from private sources. The Aid India Consortium was replaced by the India Development Forum, which included discussions with both official donors and, for the first time, private sector representatives. A similar approach was followed for the 1995 Pakistan and Sri Lanka Aid Consortiums.
The Bank is discussing with all countries in the region the need to stay the course on the macro policy front and to continue accelerating trade and financial sector reforms. It is also establishing closer links with the private sector and developing a better assistance strategy by
undertaking private sector assessments. These assessments aim to identify the obstacles that private firms believe are blocking expansion. Assessments have been completed for India and Sri Lanka. An assessment is currently being prepared for Pakistan.
Two lending operations that support financial sector reforms were approved during the past year. The Bank’s largest-ever loan to India, for $700 million in support of the Financial Sector Development Project, is assisting in the modernization of that country's banking system. Reforms supported by the loan will make it possible for India to move forward with a more diversified and competitive financial sector. The reforms support the central government’s financial sector reform agenda through recapitalizing and restructuring state-owned banks and allowing banks to raise capital from the market.
These reforms are expected to strengthen India's banking system and contribute to the development of capital and money markets. The $216 million Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project in Pakistan will strengthen the regulatory framework under which banks operate and expand the long-term supply of credit to private enterprises.
Sectoral policies and reforms are also crucial. For example, infrastructural bottlenecks—particularly in roads, power, ports, and telecommunications—slow private sector expansion. Agricultural reforms are also important; this sector is a key source of income for the rural poor in South Asia.
The Bank’s efforts to help meet the region’s massive infrastructure requirements have focused on developing mechanisms to improve efficiency and expand private sector participation in the funding and management of basic infrastructure. Progress to date has been limited to utilities (power, telecommunications, and gas) and transport. During the past year, a $250 million operation was approved to assist the government of Pakistan increase the private sector's role in the development, ownership, and operation of power and related infrastructure by providing long-term financing through a replenishment of the Private Sector Energy Development Fund for subprojects that are either under implementation or are shortly to be launched.
In India, efficiency, accountability, and competition are being encouraged through greater private sector participation in the power sector. Efforts are also under way to improve the efficiency of transport operations in India (railways, roads, and ports) by introducing commercial principles, more efficient pricing policies,
and easier entry for the private sector. In Bangladesh, a $120.8 million ida credit is assisting the government in implementing further reforms to improve the enabling environment for private participation in the natural gas sector.
Addressing the needs of the poor. Economic growth alone is not sufficient to address the needs of South Asia's poor. Around the world, on average, increases in per capita income levels have been accompanied by improvements in standards of living of the poor; but the relationship is not inevitable. Evidence suggests that the pattern of public spending, and, in particular, spending on basic services—education, health, nutrition, and family planning—and safety net programs has an important effect on living standards. Furthermore, this effect is distinct from that of increases in private income levels and concomitant reductions in poverty.
As a part of ongoing reforms, most countries in the region have taken steps to reorient public spending to better address the needs of the poor. Bank-led public expenditure and investment reviews are discussed annually with the governments of Pakistan and Sri Lanka, and a review of education spending was completed this past fiscal year for Bangladesh.
Bank support for human-resource development in South Asia has expanded rapidly since the late 1980s. For example, in the period
1986-90, lending tor education, health and nutrition, and family planning accounted for 8 percent ot the total portfolio. In fiscal 1995, it accounted tor 23 percent of the portfolio. The Bank's strategy for the social sectors has three elements: (a] improving coverage and quality of services; (h) improving efficiency and cost effectiveness; and (c) developing innovative approaches to expand community participation to ensure service improvements. There has been a shift away from focusing solely on the public provision ot services and—as in other sectors— a rethinking ot the role ot public and private sectors. The Bank is working closely with member governments to identify areas where there is a need for more public sector involvement, areas that are better left to private providers, and wavs to encourage stronger partnerships between governments, the private sector, and nongovernmental organizations (ngos).
The South Asia region is host to some ot the world's best-known ngo groups; the diverse programs supported by them have great potential tor helping to reduce poverty and improve living conditions in the region. In some Bank-assisted projects, ngos play a role in the delivery ot services—tor example, in the S59.8 million Integrated Nutrition Project in Bangladesh (approved in fiscal 1995), the Cataract Blindness Control Project in India (approved in fiscal 1994), and the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Project in Nepal (under preparation in fiscal 1995).
Ensuring sustainable development. The region’s current development strategies hold the promise of sustained, poverty-reducing economic growth. This growth, superimposed on a rapidly growing and urbanizing population, will put more pressure on air, water, and land resources. Problems are already apparent: In many areas, there are increased levels of air and water pollution, contamination by toxic wastes, soil erosion, land degradation, and deforestation. In addition, the environment is adversely affected in many countries by the presence ot incentive regimes that encourage bad environmental practices—intensive use ot high-polluting energy, inefficient use ot surface water and groundwater,
underinvestment in sanitation and waste management, and inadequate protection of soils and forests.
Promoting sustainable agricultural growth is crucial tor South Asia. Although traditionally the slowest growing sector, agriculture currently accounts for 32 percent of South Asia’s gl>p and employs more than 50 percent of the labor force. Agriculture is a key source of income for South Asia's poor. A substantial share ot Bank lending is directed toward agriculture, with the aim of increasing output levels, particularly for smallholders. Much of the ongoing dialogue with member countries has focused on ways to increase private investment in the sector and to rcduce the role of government in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. A number of critical issues—such as reducing fertilizer subsidies in India and Nepal, tor example—have been addressed in recent public expenditure reviews. A substantial amount of economic and sector work in agriculture is either ongoing or has recently been completed tor Bangladesh, India, Nepal, and Pakistan.
Within the agriculture sector, research and extension has a high payoff in terms of increased yields and higher profits. Research and extension is the focus ot the $59.5 million Agriculture Human Resources Development Project in India. The project seeks to improve the quality and relevance of higher agricultural education and in-service training programs and strengthen the capacity ot participating states to develop and manage human resources.
The lack ot water is a key constraint to a more rapid expansion of agricultural output in many parts of South Asia. The Bank is providing support for overall water-resources management and tor expansion and improvement of irrigation infrastructure (canals and tubewells, for instance). A strategy paper for the irrigation and drainage sector in Pakistan was completed during the past year: it calls tor market forces to play a larger role in the sector. Recognition of individual water-property rights was identified as crucial for improving the efficiency of Pakistan's water-distribution system. An enhanced role for local farmers’ groups and broader community participation was also en-
couraged. The Balochistan Community Irrigation Project, currently under preparation, adheres to the sector strategy articulated in the paper. Community management and maintenance of local irrigation infrastructure are fundamental parts ot the project. Local participation is also important in a series ot state-level water-resources projects under preparation in India (one such project—the $282.9 million Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project in India—was approved during the year). The projects are designed to improve planning and allocation for all water uses, and for agriculture, the largest user of water, enhanced efticiencv of use.
Protecting the natural resources of the region is a complex and long-term process. Governments face difficult policy dilemmas as they search for ways to accelerate growth and still ensure environmental sustainability. Some progress has been made in recent years in addressing these issues. National environmental action plans (nkaps) have been completed in all countries of the region, and follow-up work is in progress. Parallel to the neap process, explicit steps are being taken to strengthen environmental management. The Bank is assisting in this process. In India, for example, ikrp and ida funds are supporting the strengthening of four
state pollution-control boards, with the aim of enhancing their technical capability to monitor and enforce pollution regulations. Funds will also be onlent to highly polluting industries to encourage them to adopt cleaner technologies.
Improving portfolio performance. Intensive work has been carried out in recent years to reassess potential project impact on the basis of the past and present record of project implementation, institutional capacity, and the political will to undertake policy actions essential for project sustainability. As a result, components of several projects have been reoriented, and efforts continued during fiscal 1995 to turn around problem projects, as well as to further improve performance, sustainability, and development impact through project restructuring.
Project proposals are now consistently screened with a view to ensuring that their design is simple and that major policy reforms are in place. The use of pilot projects has been extended, supervision plans make explicit provision for mid term reviews, and an increased borrower role in supervision is being actively pursued. Portfolio-management practices have been strengthened by increasing the organizational support for sectoral supervision, enhancing the role of resident missions, and, more generally, by seeking to foster an implementation culture among managers and staff. As a result of all these measures, the number of problem
projects in the region has fallen steadily since fiscal 1991.
To achieve enduring improvements in project implementation, certain governance-related issues—accounting, audit, and procurement, for example—are being addressed in several countries. Successful completion of this work is expected to improve the enabling environment for a greater private sector role in economic activities.
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
The recent output performance in the Europe and Central Asia (eca] region shows that countries that advanced early and more rapidly on the road toward stabilization and structural relorm— Albania, Estonia, and Poland, for example—are experiencing a recovery of output. Positive rates of growth were registered for countries in transition throughout Central Europe and in the Baltic states; the process has been helped by the end of recession and the subsequent recovery of import demand from Western Europe, Where reform has been delayed, output decline has been extremely sharp; during 1994, for example, official gdp fell some 20 percent in Belarus and Ukraine,
The containment of central bank credit to finance the budget and directed credit to state enterprises has been crucial for stabilization. But this has not been easy—particularly in the newly independent states of the former Soviet Union (ksu]. As the tax base shrinks (in the Russian Federation, tax revenues fell by about 10 percent between 1992 and 1994, and the pressure to continue subsidies remains) governments face difficult choices. In terms of their fiscal repercussions, sector policies, such as recapitalization of banks, pension and social transfer policies, and public investment programs, have to be carefully weighed. In such situations it becomes
critical to put together modern tax systems with a large base covering the emerging private sector and to redirect public expenditures to the highest priority areas. Thus, it is crucial to move from subsidizing enterprises to subsidizing the most vulnerable citizens, that is, from protecting enterprises to protecting the poorest households.
Sustaining output recovery in Central Europe will require accelerating privatization (and provision of postprivatization investment financing], reforming the banking sector, improving access of privatized firms to term financing, and increasing the financial discipline of those enterprises that remain in the public sector. This is particularly true for Bulgaria and Romania. In Hungary and Poland, where important reforms were originally made in these areas, efforts to deepen the process must be renewed.
Some positive developments are taking place on the policy front in many of the newly independent states ol the ksu. Latecomers to the relorm process, such as Ukraine and Uzbekistan, have now devised major programs of stabilization, price liberalization, and privatization. The end of conflict in Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia has allowed those countries to focus on economic reform and structural change. In Russia, a new program ol stabilization—reflecting an emerging consensus among the execu-
tive and legislative branches of the government and the central bank—was put into place during the first half of 1995, incorporating strict ceilings on credit expansion and aiming at a sharp reduction in inflation by the end of the year. This program is accompanied by further liberalization measures in the energy sector, particularly oil exports.
Activities of the Bank. The volume of lending to the countries of the eca region increased from $3.7 billion in fiscal 1994 to $4.5 billion in fiscal 1995, and the number of operations increased from forty-two to fifty-eight. Some $1,741 million, or 39 percent of the total, was committed to nine projects in Russia. First-time borrowers included Azerbaijan, Georgia, and Turkmenistan. Gross disbursements increased as well, up from $1,980 million in fiscal 1994 to $2,677 million. Bank support to the region spans sectors and lending instruments, and intensive economic work and policy dialogue complement lending activities.
The Bank has sharply stepped up its assistance to a number ot countries that have recently put together comprehensive programs of reform. Rehabilitation loans, supporting overall economic liberalization and privatization, were approved for Armenia, Georgia, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.
In each case these rehabilitation loans were accompanied by investment loans to help
stem the deterioration of key infrastructure, including energy and agricultural irrigation.
A second generation of adjustment operations is supporting the continuation of sectorwide reforms in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, and Russia. In Russia, the $600 million Second Rehabilitation Loan is supporting key measures to liberalize the energy sector— particularly energy exports—and the implemen-
tation of a more transparent and competitive allocation of scarce pipeline rights. During the year financial and enterprise adjustment operations were approved for Albania and the former Yugoslav Republic ot Macedonia. These operations are designed to further privatization efforts and financial sector reforms and to enhance financial discipline in enterprises that remain in the public sector. Debt-reduction
operations in Bulgaria and Poland w ill lu'lp those countries regain access to international financial markets.
Supporting the emergence of the private sector. Through its assistance the Bank is supporting ownership changes, improvements in the legal and economic environment tor private sector growth, and increased access of the private sector to credit. How to remove business constraints is a topic in all the countrv economic memoranda produced tor the countries ol the region. Separate private sector assessments (psas), based on interviews with entrepreneurs, have been completed for Hungary and Lithuania; these document business constraints as seen by the private sector and assess the' potential for infrastructure privatization at the central and local lev els.
Programs ot mass privatization are also being assisted through the Hank's adjustment operations. Rapid privatization is essential; it needs, however, to be accompanied by shilts in enterprise governance and a strengthening of creditors’ rights. The Bank's technical assistance program, therefore, is helping to shape legal
changes aimed it clarifying ownership and creditors right' and implementing systems tor the subsequent trading of shares.
Impediments to the emergence of new private enterprise-- remain an issue in some countries, panic ulaiiv for newcomers to the reform program. Through its adjustment operations, the bank is Ixu king policies that replace state orders with competitive procurement (limited to the states’ own needs), break up trading and transport monopolies, and improve private sector access to commercial real estate.
In an effort to increase the volume of credit available to the emerging private sector, the Bank is assisting in resolving the portfolio problems ot state banks and limiting allocations ot additional credit to large loss-making state enterprises. In countries with more independent banks and a stronger prudential framework (Poland, tor instance), the creditor banks themselves participate in such workouts with the debtor enterprises. In countries where banks lack the relevant capacity, the preferred approach is to isolate the large loss-makers from regular bank credit. Budgetary support is made available only it these money-losing firms
Si ction Fo"r Kimoir ani> Cf.ntrm Asia SI
downsize and restructure. Assistance in this area has been central to the adjustment operations approved during the year for Kazakhstan and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Because the process of unfreezing bank lending (largely tied up in rolling over nonperforming loans) and redirecting credit to the private sector will take some time, the Bank, in the interim, is providing resources directly to private firms.
Credit lines were approved in fiscal 1995 in the three Baltic states; these were components of innovative operations that included equity cofinancing from a capital fund created by the Swedish government and technical assistance funded by several international donors. A postprivatization and credit program was approved for Kyrgyz Republic, and an innovative pre-export guarantee project was approved for Moldova.
Poverty and the protection of social services.
During fiscal 1995, the Bank accelerated its analytical work on poverty issues so as to identify better operational priorities. Comprehensive poverty assessments were completed for Kyrgyz Republic, Poland, and Russia, and work in other countries is well under way. The poverty assessments reveal an increase in poverty, stemming from an overall decline in income and employment, combined with a worsening in-
come distribution. The majority of poor households are working poor or have unemployed members. In some countries, poverty is shallow, with households bunched around the poverty line. In others, there is greater depth of poverty but evidence of movement of many households in and out of severe poverty. These findings suggest that growth of output and employment is at the center of the solution.
At the same time, it is critical that steps be taken to prevent leaving groups behind. Social transfers and safety nets, while costly in many countries, failed to mitigate the increase in inequality and protect the most vulnerable groups, including families with many children and elderly nonworking pensioners. Structural unemployment has increased. Measures to make government programs and policies more effective in this area were addressed by several operations during the past year:
•	Adjustment operations in Georgia, Kazakhstan, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, and Ukraine are supporting measures to better target and assure the sustainability of transfers (particularly pensions);
•	the Second Rehabilitation Loan for Russia supports measures to ensure that the country’s unemployment fund focuses its resources on
BOX 4-3. CONFRONTING THE HEALTH-CARE CRISIS
Two challenges in particular confront the healthcare system in the eca region: immediate shortages of supplies and services, especially in the countries of the former Soviet Union, and the need to introduce structural change. In Russia, for example, per capita consumption of pharmaceuticals fell by half from 1989 to 1993, while the availability of cardiovascular drugs declined by a third; in the Kyrgyz Republic, the shortage of pharmaceuticals is so acute that routine surgery has almost ceased; and in Georgia, patients need to bring their own drugs, linens, and lamps for surgical interventions.
The Bank’s health portfolio in the region is growing: Four health projects are already under implementation, and during fiscal 1995, health projects were approved for Albania, Croatia, and Estonia.'
In Albania, the focus is on the rehabilitation of services, while in Estonia, the emphasis is on support for health-promotion and disease-prevention programs. Responding quickly in Croatia, the Bank approved a project within six months of identification addressing critical shortages of basic equipment for the emergency medical system, intensive care units, and perinatal care units in selected hospitals.
The Bank is also supporting the transfer of critical social assets from restructuring enterprises (which used to provide many social services, especially in the former Soviet Union, but which now face hardened budget constraints) to local governments.
unemployment-compensation payments rather than on financing transfers to enterprises to sustain output; and
•	loans were approved for Kyrgyz Republic, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Romania to assist in the redesign of more targeted transfer programs and the provision of employment and retraining services to equip workers for change.
A pressing problem throughout much of the region is to avoid the collapse of key social services previously provided by enterprises now in the process of downsizing or closure. Transferring these services to the care of local governments is essential. In Russia, a S90 million technical assistance project, approved in fiscal 1993, supporting mass privatization was restructured during the past year to permit a portion of the remaining funds to be used to support the
In the first project of its kind, this divestiture process is being supported in Kazakhstan, where the rehabilitation of critical health and early childhood facilities in five cities is being funded, along with funding for incremental costs on a declining basis, as a prelude to a national strategy. The Privatization Implementation Assistance Project in Russia, approved in fiscal 1993, was amended to include a component to improve the nutrition of preschoolers who attend kindergartens that have been transferred from state-owned enterprises to municipal governments.
Health projects are also addressing needed structural changes. These include strengthening primary health care services (with a particular emphasis on maternal and child health) and developing public health interventions to encourage effective promotion of healthy lifestyles and integrated delivery of primary health care (as, for example, in the health project approved for Estonia).
1. A Second Health Project, for $150 million, was also approved for Turkey. Turke\>'s health-care needs, however, are quite distinct from those of other eca countries. Global health indicators in Turkey have improved to a point where many are now comparable with those of other countries with a similar per capita income. In Turkey, the burden of disease reflects regional disparities in, for instance, the health and status of women, education of parents, the prevalence of malnutrition, and iti the availability of clean water.
transfer of kindergartens operated by state-owned enterprises (sof.s) to local governments. In the first project of its kind the transfer of social services from sots to local governments in five cities in Kazakhstan is being assisted; the project is financing the rehabilitation, as well as the incremental recurrent costs, of critical health and preschool facilities transferred from the soes. Severing the link between social services and employment also facilitates mobility of workers.
The quality of basic health services in much ot the region has been deteriorating alarmingly. In response to this crisis the Bank committed funds to help finance four basic health projects during the year; another five are under preparation (see Box 4-3). Most have components to strengthen maternal and child health care, public health, and emergency care. In addition, the
Kazakhstan Social Protection Project contains a significant health component.
Infrastructure and the environment. In many countries of the region, infrastructure investments have fallen to dangerously low levels.
The Bank is addressing the problem in a var-
iety ot ways: It supports rehabilitation or maintenance of infrastructure that is complementary to private sector growth; through sector work, it is assisting governments in prioritizing public investment, particularly in the Baltic countries and in Russia; and it is
actively exploring possibilities ot attracting foreign direct investment for infrastructure projects through its newly mainstreamed program of guarantee instruments.
Almost a third of the projects approved during the past year provided financing for key
infrastructure projects. Highway projects were approved tor Croatia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia—crucial for them to keep their trade links with the rest ot Europe.
A $400 million housing project in Russia is supporting a liberalization of urban land markets
BOX 4-4. EMERGENCY RESPONSE: DEALING WITH THE OIL SPILL IN KOMI
In 1994, one of the world’s largest oil spills took place in the Komi Republic in northern Russia as a result of failures from the regional Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline, about 1,000 miles northeast of Moscow, near the Arctic circle.
The authorities constructed temporary dams and dikes to contain the spill in the autumn, but these measures were not fully effective. More than 730,000 barrels of oil—triple the amount released during the Exxon Valdez oil spill—were estimated to be trapped in the frozen bogs and creek beds.
Assistance was urgently requested from the Bank in late January 1995 to mitigate the problem after the Russian government and the pipeline operator were unable to mobilize the needed resources. The timing was crucial: To prevent further contamination of the downstream rivers (the Kolva, Usa, and Pechora) and the Barents sea, the construction of new containment structures and the reinforcement of existing structures had to begin well before the spring thaw, which usually starts in early May. The Bank agreed to prepare an emergency loan—if the government immediately financed containment and clean-up activities by an international contractor and Russian subcontractors until Bank funds were available.
In addition to financing containment infrastructure, the $140 million project, approved three months after the original request was made by the
Russian government, will continue the clean-up in an environmentally appropriate way. It will also minimize, to the extent possible, given the difficult site conditions, damage to the affected areas; provide assistance to affected people in coordination with a local nongovernmental organization; support safe pipeline operations in the near term and evaluate the need in the future for a replacement pipeline-invest-ment project; and identify and implement other measures to mitigate against future oil spills.
In addition to $99 million in ibrd funds, the project is being financed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development ($25 million) and the pipeline operator ($16 million). Canada and the United States financed the provision of key consultant services to support project preparation.
Given the time constraints and the complexity of the operation, there is a high risk that the project will not completely prevent substantial environmental damage. However, partial success is better than inaction, as even limited clean-up and containment far outweigh the negative consequences—the wholesale release of the oil into the river systems—which would have occured if actions had been delayed until the following winter. As of the end of June 1995, the containment structures had been successfully strengthened, and there had been virtually no release of oil into the rivers.
and the auctioning of public land, as well as providing credit for private land developers. Municipal infrastructure funds, including those for water projects, were approved for Azerbaijan, Georgia, and Turkey, in addition to urban transport projects for Hungary and Russia. To facilitate energy conservation and the adjustment to higher energy prices, the Bank supported both district heating investments—in Latvia and Poland—and power-improvement projects—in Albania, Armenia, and LIkraine. Projects supporting key agricultural infrastructure, particularly irrigation, were approved for Albania, Armenia, Ukraine, and LIzbekistan.
The Bank continued to provide leadership in investing in environmental improvements and in promoting regional environmental programs. The Bank's first environmental loan to Russia,
the $110 million Environmental Management Project, for instance, is strengthening environmental policy, improving hazardous waste and water-qualitv management, and promoting pollution-abatement projects. Since many resource-recovery and industrial pollution-abatement projects require small investments and have short payback periods, a new funding mechanism has been created specifically for this operation. It uses funds from the Bank and other donors, together with those from local sources, to lend to enterprises to finance projects such as copper recovery from dust and waste tailings, as well as hydrocarbon-vapor and oil recovery.
Another area of environmental focus is coordinated investments to protect water resources.
Projects were approved in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania to protect their shared Baltic coast. The three projects are designed to reduce the discharge of partially treated, as well as untreated, wastewater to the Baltic sea; restore water quality near recreational beaches; improve water supply and sanitation services; and promote environmentally sustainable management and the development of the shared coastal zone and protected areas. The Bank is also playing a key role in regional initiatives involving two other seas. The Black Sea Environmental Programme has developed an “urgent investment portfolio" for Bulgaria, Georgia, Russia, and Ukraine. The Bank approved its first loan under the program when it approved financing for two wastewater-treatment facilities in the Georgian coastal cities of Batumi and Poti. In Central Asia, the Bank is working with the five countries of the Aral sea basin—Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan—to advance the first phase implementation of a nineteen-project program that balances environmental, economic, and social objectives. In tiscal 1995, the Bank also completed the Strategic Action Plan aimed at improving the quality and availability of water in the Danube basin and at reducing the negative impact of human activities on its ecosystem, as well as on that of the Black sea.
The Bank also responded to an environmental emergency during the year—the oil pipeline spill in Russia’s Komi Republic, which threatens the marine systems of the Kolva river and beyond into the Usa and Pechora rivers—by approving a $99 million emergency project to mitigate the spill’s effects (see Box 4-4).
Governments continued to be assisted in developing national environmental action plans (neaps) and environmental strategies; during the past year, the governments of Kyrgyz Republic and Moldova became the eleventh and twelfth in the region to request Bank assistance in preparing a neap or an environmental strategy. The Bank remains ready to support other countries in the region that wish to undertake such activities.
Portfolio management. The number of operations under supervision continued to increase
during fiscal 1995. On June 30, 187 projects were under supervision as compared with 1 50 on the same day in 1994. To deal with the growing portfolio, an intensified dialogue is being maintained with member-country governments on implementation issues. Yearly or biennial in-country portfolio reviews with most member governments are now organized to identify country-specific implementation issues and to agree on measures to deal with them. Reviews were held in Albania, Bulgaria, Russia, and Turkey and are planned for early tiscal 1996 in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Poland, and Russia.
A strategy to give the Bank's resident missions a prominent role in the routine supervision ot projects is being put in place to take advantage of their better knowledge ot local conditions. In Russia, a permanent working group, comprising government officials and resident mission staff has been set up to coordinate Bank work, including project supervision, to ensure that implementation proceeds without delays. The functions ot the Budapest Regional Office were also redefined to give it regional responsibility for supervising human-resources projects.
Sixtion Four Europe anli Central Asia 87
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
As measured by standard indicators, calendar 1994 was largely a good year for the Latin America and the Caribbean (lac) region.
The rate ot growth of regional gross domestic product (cdp) increased, reaching its highest level in years (4.2 percent), and per capita income gained back ground lost in the 1980s; inflation continued to fall (most dramatically in Brazil); poverty declined slightly in some of the larger countries; the prospects for accelerating hemispheric integration received a boost at the Miami Summit of the Americas; the electoral process resulted in smooth transitions of government in many countries; and Haiti returned to the international fold.
At the same time, however, points of vulnerability lay below this progress in the shape of low domestic savings rates, high current account deficits, and sometimes precarious fiscal balances. What had been a positive year turned more somber when the Mexican peso began its collapse on December 20.
The crisis unfolded by the devaluation of Mexico's peso uncovered the remaining high vulnerability of many countries to external shocks. The crisis also reinforced the importance of some key policies. First, it hit very hard many of the countries that, at the time, had relatively weak fiscal positions, thereby heightening the
importance of strengthening the fiscal accounts in the early stages of reform programs.
The crisis also heightened the importance of policies that will generate an increase in domestic savings. Among such policies, the development of a sound financial sector remains a goal that many countries in the region have yet to realize.
The Mexican crisis offers— or more accurately, reaffirms— seven fundamental lessons for the countries of the lac region and for other nations embarked on adjustment and reform programs:
•	In view of the dangers posed by a decline in savings during the reform process, reformers should move very fast to create an environment that encourages savings. During recent years, savings-rate declines have been compounded by two factors. First, far-reaching reforms have opened more investment opportunities than domestic savings can finance. Second, in some cases, the initial stages of reform have been accompanied by declining domestic savings. Both these factors have led to an increasing reliance by the region on voluntary foreign savings and an increase in current account deficits.
•	The composition of capital flows—portfolio versus longer-term direct investment funds—is extremely important. Short-term flows are very sensitive to short-term changes in interest rates and other political and macro-
economic variables. Longer-term direct investment funds, however, are less volatile and do not respond in the same way to possibly ephemeral short-term speculative factors. Encouraging long-term investment—as Argentina and Chile have done—has been a success. Increasing the share of long-term investment funds is not easy, however.
•	Significant care is needed in managing stabilization programs based on fixed nominal exchange rates. Although such programs can be effective in reducing inflation, experience has also shown that they tend to generate real exchange-rate appreciation and a resulting decline in external competitiveness. This is particularly true in countries in which contracts and other components of production costs are subject to some inertia. This tendency can be offset by rapid productivity increases and by the implementation of reforms aimed at reducing domestic distortions. Countries that rely on fixed exchange rates should implement fiscal and monetary frameworks that allow them to react promptly to signs of external disequilibrium.
•	Productivity gains are a fundamentally important determinant of the way the overall external sector develops. Productivity growth is at the heart ot export expansion and, thus, contributes to keeping the current account in bal-
ance. Countries that experience productivity gains early on in their reform and adjustment programs—hefore real exchange-rate appreciation takes place—will generally he in a better position to handle external disturbances.
•	A healthy banking system is particularly important in open economies subject to external shocks. Banks should be able to withstand changes in financial conditions, including temporary increases in interest rates and changes in the flow of foreign funds. If this is not the case, the banking system can become the Achilles heel of the economy. This means that a modern regulatory and supervisory system should be developed early on in the reform process.
•	Improving income distribution and reducing poverty cannot be left to the trickle-down effects of economic growth. Government policies—in particular, tiscal programs and the ways in which tax administrations are run—and programs are critical. As Mexico is discovering, stabilization programs have a better chance of succeeding if social stability can be secured with the help of essential safety nets.
•	In redefining the role of the state, it is important not to forget that a strong state is a prerequisite for a robust economy. The state should draw its strength not through ownership ol assets, management of public institutions, and the conduct ot commerce, but through building powerful institutions that promote competition, protect the consumer, and provide the framework within which the response ot all economic agents can be predicted with reasonable accuracy.
In support of the objective of increasing savings, the Bank is stepping up its involvement in savings-enhancing initiatives. In particular, it continues to work with member countries in reforming and strengthening the financial sector and capital markets and in devising related pension-system reforms. There is strong crosscountry evidence suggesting that these reforms will increase domestic savings, helping to achieve manageable current account positions.
To encourage investment and long-term capital inflows, the Bank is supporting policy reforms— including the design of regulatory frameworks, privatization, the strengthening of supervisory
systems, and the modernization ot the judiciary system. These reforms, in turn, have an impact on productivity.
To further increase productivity, the Bank is supporting the modernization reforms undertaken by a large number of countries. The Bank is also supporting a second generation ot reforms affecting fiscal federal relations and markets and provincial finances—in Argentina, tor example—that will further improve productivity.
The Bank's work in helping strengthen the financial and banking sectors of member countries takes a two-pronged approach: On the one hand, policy dialogue and economic and sector work have continuously emphasized the need to implement modern prudential regulations; on the other hand, a number ot operations have focused on the restructuring of the banking sector. Mexico’s Financial Sector Restructuring Program and the Provincial Bank Privatization Loan in Argentina are products of an effective dialogue that enabled the two countries, with assistance from the Bank and others, to strengthen their financial sector management and contain the crisis in confidence of private investors. In the case of Mexico, the need to assist financial sector reforms had been anticipated even before the peso crisis with the approval in January 1995 of the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project.
The Bank's activities, fiscal 1995. The i.ac region's short- and medium-term development agenda poses major challenges to the Bank in how best to apply its limited resources in support of suitably focused country-assistance programs. The Mexican peso crisis underlined the volatility of private capital flows to the region and required the Bank to focus on fostering macroeconomic stability as a prerequisite for sustained and equitable growth.
While the Bank continues to encourage higher domestic savings, the uncertainty ot private capital flows reinforced the demand for long-term official finance. The immediate impact of the peso crisis on the Bank’s programs included demand for crucial technical assistance and significant amounts ot financial assistance to support essential social programs to cushion
the impact ot adjustment. (Specifically, in the case ot Mexico, the crisis modified the Bank’s operational strategy; some projects with medium-term goals were postponed to provide space in the pipeline for newly emerging operations.) In the medium term, a continued strong demand for external capital for investment in human resources and infrastructure is anticipated.
As a consequence, the Bank’s financial commitments to the countries of the region—$6.1 billion in fiscal year 1995—were significantly greater than had been planned. Gross disbursements of $4.2 billion were also significantly
higher than in the previous year, with large increases occurring in Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, and Peru. Net disbursements and transfers remained negative, however, for the region as a whole and for most of the region’s major borrowers.
Many of the smaller countries of the region continue to seek Bank assistance to adjust and modernize their economies in the face ot market and trade-relationship changes.
During the year, for example, Ecuador received assistance through a structural adjustment loan, two related technical assistance loans to improve its fiscal and public sector management, and funds to support the implementation of a debt agreement with its commercial creditors. Bolivia received support to modernize its public sector management through a project to reform the judiciary system. And, together with the help of others, the Bank responded quickly to the special needs of Haiti through an Emergency Economic Recovery Credit and an operation for highway maintenance and rehabilitation. To bring greater cohesion among donor agencies, the Bank has increased its coordination with bilateral and multilateral donors involved in the region's development. Consultative group and aid-coordi-nation meetings were chaired by the Bank for Bolivia, Guatemala, and Haiti, and another, for El Salvador, was cochaired with the Inter-American Development Bank (idb). As a further step towards sharing more aid-coordination activities in the region, the Bank participated in a consultative group meeting for Nicaragua chaired by the idb at the Bank's Paris office. It also participated in meetings of the Steering Committee of the Consultative Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (cord), at which work programs were designed and current development issues were reviewed. More generally, work program and cofinancing arrangements were strengthened with the idb, and overlapping activities were reduced, allowing the Bank to be more selective in its country-assistance strategies. Close cooperation continued with the Caribbean Development Bank, with the two institutions jointly organizing an
Export Development seminar, which led to the identification of investment needs in member countries.
An important aspect of the Bank's involvement with its clients, and with the larger development community, is its program of economic and sector analysis. Such work takes a variety of forms.
Informal policy analysis is frequently undertaken at the request of governments who want
the Bank’s advice or who want to learn of experience in other countries. More formal reports (also reviewed by client governments) are designed to inform the Bank’s executive board (and consultative group members) of country performance in areas such as medium-term growth strategies and prospects, poverty reduction, and private sector development. During the past year, the regional vice presidency conducted a thorough overhaul, designed to lower
costs, increase responsiveness, and improve dissemination, of its economic and sector work program. It also began to integrate more tully its analytic work within the context ot overall country-assistance strategies, while stressing certain regional themes such as trade integration, mobilization ot domestic savings, and the modernization of state tunctions.
The diversity ot topics and formats ot economic and sector analysis can be illustrated with a few examples.
In response to the accelerated policy dialogue that surfaced following the election ot Brazil’s President Cardoso, a country economic memorandum reviewed the government's stabilization program and highlighted structural reform policies that would be needed to consolidate the program's initial success. In addition, a series of notes tor the incoming government outlined issues and recommended priority policy actions. Similarly, a series of policy notes was provided to Mexican authorities to help them address various policy issues. A poverty assessment, conducted jointly with the Colombian government, was concluded, with the main effort at local dissemination being undertaken by Colombian authorities. In Honduras, the Bank undertook a comprehensive public expenditure review in collaboration with the iiik. Overall,
the Bank continued its program of poverty analysis, which is increasingly moving from mapping poverty to a more detailed examination of the links between poverty and national and sectoral policies.
In the Caribbean, the Bank is increasingly taking a regional approach to economic and sector work. A series of papers on European policy toward Carribcan bananas was produced, as well as reports—dealing with economic policies in the Organization ot Eastern Caribbean States, environmental issues, and private sector development—for the cccf.d. Further regional reports—on the public sector, poverty issues, and export services—are under way in preparation for the 1996 cccm meeting.
In accordance with its decision to be more selective in its activities in the region, the human-resources and infrastructure sectors have been identified as priorities for support. Support for infrastructure is based on a report completed by the Bank that highlights the neglect of infrastructure in Latin American countries and the need for new investments—estimated at $60 billion annually—to stimulate growth, and delineates the roles that should be played by the public and private sectors. It is expected that human-resources and infrastructure operations will account for about 25 percent and 45 per-
Note: Disbursements from the ida Special Fund are included. The countries shown in the table are those with the largest amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
cent, respectively, of total lending for the next three years. Rural poverty alleviation will also continue to be a major focus in selected countries or in regional programs within countries.
Several of the Bank’s fiscal 1995 human-re-sources operations were designed in response to the challenge posed by the low quality ol education in the region. The problem of low quality is most serious in basic education, with international comparators showing that public school achievement in the I AC region to be far lower than in East Asian countries, tor example. The Technical Education and Training Modernization Project in Mexico features the introduction of trade-certification standards, while the Program of Essential Social Services, also in Mexico, provides a safety net to maintain key services to cushion the impact of the significant adjustment that was made in public expenditures in the wake ot the peso crisis. And the Education Reform Project in Bolivia is supporting the first phase of a long-term reform process whose sustainability will depend on continued firm commitment and strong leadership from the government over several administrations with respect to both institutional and financial policy measures, as well as sustained support from the international community. The project is receiving support from the inn, Germany, the Netherlands, and Sweeten, as well as from the Bank.
Because the lac region will require huge annual investments to rehabilitate and expand its physical infrastructure, the Bank is identifying ways to support private sector investment in priority infrastructure. The Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project is a good example ot the role that the Bank can plav in the privatization of infrastructure functions. The Bank, as part of its efforts to mainstream environmental management, has also integrated environmental requirements into the design of infrastructure projects. An innovative example ot integration in the fiscal 1995 portfolio ot projects was the Solid Waste Management Project that benefits the four member states ot the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States— Dominica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The project includes a component financed by the Global
Environment Facility to manage the disposal of waste materials from ships to protect the marine environment.
Portfolio management and dissemination of information. At the beginning ot the fiscal year 326 projects in twenty-nine countries, with commitments of $31.8 billion (of which about half was undisbursed), were under implementation. Brazil and Mexico together accounted for one third of the total number ot projects and for more than half of total commitments. Projects in the agriculture and transport sectors w'ere the most numerous. Projects in the education, health, public sector management, and transportation sectors have all increased as a percentage of the portfolio, reflecting shifts in lending strategies in recent years.
As a tollow-up to the 1992 report ot the Bank’s Task Force on Portfolio Management, the region has developed an integrated approach to managing its portfolio. This includes not only steps to improve project quality at entry, but full or partial cancellation of slow-disbursing projects. Steps to improve project quality at entry range from promoting social assessments and participation in project design and implementation, through simplifying the policy objectives associated with projects by linking investments to early resolution of a few essential policy actions, to parallel dialogue and assistance for broader and longer-term policy change. Capacity-building programs for indigenous people, designed to help them identity their needs and development priorities, have been pioneered, using proceeds from the Institutional Development Fund. These training programs have been launched in Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guatemala, Mexico, and Nicaragua.
Resources devoted to implementation continued to rise. Developing borrower capacity to implement Bank-financed projects has been supported by an increase in the number ot staff and consultants based in field offices. Training seminars for borrower staff on procurement—a chronic bottleneck to timely project implementation—were held in eight countries; more than 1 50 officials in each of the past two tiscal years have attended the seminars. The Bank gave considerable attention to disseminating the lessons
of its operations, the results of economic and sector analysis, and examples of best practice through seminars and workshops for officials from the region. Most were jointly sponsored with bilateral donors and international organizations. Of particular interest was a Health Sector Reform seminar that was held in San Jose,
Costa Rica, in February 1995, which was attended by all the health ministers of Central American countries, as well as representatives from the Pan American Health Organization and other aid agencies.
Finally, a major innovation during the past year was the convening of the first annual Bank-sponsored conference on development issues (held in Rio de Janeiro in June 1995 for policymakers and development practitioners from the public and private sectors), which focused on key development challenges facing the
region. Topics covered in the meeting included political economy, savings and growth, trade and economic integration, income inequality and sustainable development, education and growth, and the impact of capital flows.
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Aggregate growth of gross domestic product (gdp) in those economies of the Middle East and North Africa (mena) region in which the Bank is most active3 was just under 4.2 percent in 1994—a substantial improvement over the 2.25 percent achieved in 1993. As in previous years, however, performance varied widely from country to country. Yemen—beset by severe macroeconomic difficulties and civil war—actually grew more slowly than in 1993, while growth in Morocco reached 14 percent, dramatically rising from drought-related stagnation in 1993.
Challenges and opportunities. The mena region faces substantial development challenges. Slow overall gdp growth during the 1980s and early 1990s, combined with the region's high rate of population growth (close to 3 percent a year), led to an actual decline in aggregate per capita income. Both poverty and unemployment rates remain un-acceptably high. About 65 million people, or 25 percent of the region’s population, are living in poverty. Unemployment averages about 20 percent, and youth unemployment is often much higher (as much as 50 percent in Algeria, for example). Although the countries of the region have traditionally invested heavily in education and health care, and despite great progress in quantitative expansion of schools and health facilities
over the past three decades, the quality and availability of basic human services still need substantial improvement. Meanwhile, rapid population growth has meant that simply maintaining services has strained available resources.
The region has substantial assets, however, including a high degree ol cultural identity, a long tradition of trade and entrepreneurship—fostered in part by its advantageous location between Europe, Africa and western Asia—and a relatively well-trained labor force. While arable land and fresh water are in increasingly limited supply, several countries are richly endowed with oil.
A major obstacle to development in the past has been the region’s uncertain political situation, which has preoccupied policymakers, diverted domestic resources away from growth-enhancing investments, and deterred foreign private investors from participation in the economies of the Maghreb and the Mashreq. The recent advances in the Middle East Peace Process present an opportunity for the countries of the region to use the reduction of tensions to frame and implement new strategies for restoring soundly based prosperity for their peoples.
At the first Middle East and North Africa Economic Summit, held in Casablanca at the end of October 1994, the Bank proposed a three-
pronged strategy that synthesized both expressed client priorities—and how to support them—and country-assistance strategy discussions in the Bank’s executive board.
•	First, growth must be rapid, so as to make up for past lost ground and lay the foundations tor long-term prosperity.
•	Second, growth must be widely shared throughout national populations so as to broaden opportunities across all segments of society and make the most of the human capital on which the resource-poor, population-rich countries of the region must depend for their development.
•	Third, growth must be environmentally sustainable, both to address the existing environmental problems facing the region and to ensure that future growth will not be eroded by spiralling environmental penalties.
In addition, the Bank suggested that growth prospects would be enhanced by the development of productive transnational partnerships, both among countries in the region and between mena countries and external partners. The development agenda for action by mena countries is formidable. The Bank’s contribution to realizing it during the past fiscal year included a lending program of nearly $1 billion, which
3.	Algeria, Egypt, Iran, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Tunisia, the West Rank and Gaza, and Yemen.
was based on selective assistance in priority areas indicated by the three-pronged strategy, together with a substantial program of analytical and advisory work directed at supporting the policy framework necessary to ensure rapid, shared, and sustainable growth.
Promoting rapid growth. Promoting rapid growth is the core requirement tor reducing poverty and raising living standards in the
region. Rapid growth, in turn, will depend critically on moving away from past public sector-oriented development strategies and adopting a "new paradigm" for prosperity, based on unleashing the energies of the private sector as the engine of growth. But private sector development is a complex task, involving a wide range ot policy actions, ranging from macroeconomic stabilization and reduction of constraints on in-
ternational trade and investment to rationalization of the role of the public sector in the economy so as to provide room for a dynamic private sector to develop and thrive.
Most countries in the region have already taken substantial steps toward macroeconomic stabilization and trade and investment liberalization. Morocco and Tunisia have moved beyond this stage and into wide-ranging reforms designed to enhance the business climate. These reforms are already paying oft in terms of private sector development and increased foreign investment. Iordan, too, has been successful in implementing its reform program.
Lebanon has taken steps toward stabilization and has seen a revival of business confidence and investment over the past two years, while Egypt has put in place a number of measures that underpin the second phase ot its economic reform and structural adjustment program. For Egypt, the stabilization program has been successful in achieving its immediate goals; further monetary and fiscal adjustment is required to consolidate the gains made. Algeria has taken important steps towards stabilization, but still must do more to reduce the role of the public sector. The special difficulties facing Iran and Yemen have meant that their progress has been more limited. Nevertheless, Iran is undertaking an economic program that includes tariff reform and privatization.
Bank support for private sector development combines analytical and advisory work with selective lending operations to buttress it. During the past year, Bank staff prepared private sector assessments (psas] for Lebanon and Jordan. Like their predecessors for Egypt, Morocco, and Tunisia, these analytical reports evaluate both the potential for, and the constraints against, rapid private sector growth and propose policy initiatives for consideration.
Other substantial items ot analytical and advisory work during the year included a study of export-growth determinants and prospects in Morocco and Tunisia (a follow-up to the psas for these two countries); a report on financial policy for Lebanon, which indicated major areas for financial sector reform to support stabilization, reconstruction, and private sector development; and a Morocco Public Sector Review,
which evaluated priority needs for public expenditure and wavs to accommodate them, while still reducing the overall weight of the public sector in the economy so as to permit further rapid private sector growth.
Lending designed to help promote private sector development during the year included support for a project that is helping Algeria to accelerate its transition to a market economy. The Bank-supported Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan will encourage private sector development (including the launching of a privatization program), public expenditure reform, and financial sector reform. A highways
loan to Algeria; a secondary, tertiary, and rural roads operation in Morocco; and projects in Tunisia for rural roads and rural finance are also expected to facilitate private sector development, including commercial activities of poor, small-scale farmers.
Supporting shared growth. Ensuring that the fruits of growth are widely shared depends critically on creating more and better private sector jobs and incomes. But it also requires that steps be taken to provide greater equality of opportunity to all citizens, including women. Here, education is the great equalizer. Good basic schooling tor all means that anyone can enter the job market with the chance to compete for new employment created by a dynamic private sector. Supporting widely shared growth also means that basic health care be available to all citizens. Finally, special attention has to be paid to the needs ot the poor, not all ot whose needs may be addressed by rapid growth alone.
The Bank's long-standing partnerships with mkna governments on programs to support hu-man-resources development have enabled it to continue to respond strongly and selectively to priority client needs. Lending during the year included operations that build on existing country success stories, as in Jordan (where a $60 million ibrd loan supported the second phase of comprehensive general education reform designed to enhance quality and further expand access to basic schooling) and Tunisia (where the latest in a series ot Bank-supported operations will extend the government's ambitious reform program from lower basic to upper basic and secondary schooling). Bank operations have also assisted new clients facing special needs— as in the West Bank and Gaza (where both education and health services were supported by a $20 million loan on ida terms from the Trust Fund for Gaza) and Lebanon (where the Health Sector Rehabilitation Project will help strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of hlealth and rehabilitate hospitals and primary health-care centers, including centers operated by nongovernmental organizations).
Addressing poverty has remained at the forefront of country dialogue and Bank analytical work, which has included preparation ot a so-
cial welfare study (for Egypt) and a poverty assessment (for Tunisia). Tunisia's stabilization and reform program, based on economic growth and consequential expansion ot employment opportunities, has already led to marked reductions in poverty. As poverty becomes more localized, targeted interventions to reduce its incidence will become more important. This targeted approach is exemplified in an innovative community-development program that is currently under preparation by the government of Lebanon and the Bank. Under the program, poor rural communities will be helped to implement small-scale social infrastructure projects. The program is designed to be demand-driven and to encourage grassroots and private self-help initiatives.
Finally, supporting widely shared growth involves paying special attention to enhancing the socioeconomic position of women. A Bank document prepared for the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo^ emphasized not only the need to improve family health care (including family planning tor those seeking it) but also the imperative of expanding opportunities tor women, especially through more and better schooling for girls. Education is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for empowering women in society, however; in this connection, the government of Morocco and the Bank are currently discussing a comprehensive strategy for better integrating women in the development process as a whole.
Securing environmentally sustainable growth. The countries ot the region are already facing widespread environmental pollution, loss of arable land, and, above all, freshwater scarcity and degradation of its quality. The Bank has continued to support countries’ efforts to grapple with these problems, both through its analytical and advisory work and through selective lending for priority needs. During the year, Bank staff worked with the government of Iran on an environmental strategy study and with Morocco and Tunisia on water-sector reviews.
4,	WnrM Bonk. 1994. “A Population Perspective on Development: The Middle East and North Atrka." Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Washington, D.C.
Drawing on the extensive work undertaken on environmental issues conducted in close cooperation with clients over more than a decade, the Bank also prepared both a comprehensive environmental strategy and action program for the mf.na region and a regional water-strategy paper.
The environmental strategy, launched at the December 1994 meeting of the ministers ot the League of Arab States concerned with the environment, estimates that environmental degradation is currently costing the region as much as 3 percent of regional c.np a year through adverse health effects and lost economic opportunities.
It proposes an urgent program of remedial action, based on improved institutional arrangements for dealing with environmental issues, enhanced incentives for pollution reduction and more efficient use of resources, targeted investments to clear up the worst consequences of past pollution and prevent its future escalation, and measures to improve environmental awareness among citizens and policymakers alike.
The regional water-strategy paper proposes a new approach to the increasingly severe water shortage in the region, involving pricing water to reflect economic costs, an emphasis on conservation and water-saving technologies, national management of water resources and co-
operative management of water resources across national boundaries where appropriate, and investigation of nonconventional supply sources such as water imports and desalination.
Both the environmental and water-strategy documents have been well received in the region, and the proposals contained in them are expected to be central to the Bank’s future policy dialogue with member governments.
Lending during fiscal 1995 supported the objectives of both the environmental and water strategies. Thus both the Irrigation Improvement Project in Egypt (assisted by a $26.7 million ibrd loan and a $53.3 million ida credit) and a $80 million loan to support agricultural sector adjustment in Jordan included measures to promote the efficient use of agricultural water. A $58 million loan to Tunisia for water supply and sewerage will help improve demand management and cost recovery, and the Solid Waste and Environmental Management Project in Lebanon (assisted by a $55 million ibrd loan) will reduce solid and hazardous waste pollution and support cost recovery for waste-disposal services.
Facilitating partnerships for development.
The concept of partnership is assuming growing importance in an increasingly interdependent global business and trading environment. The
Bank stands ready to assist member countries of the region in assessing the feasibility of implementing common infrastructure projects in order to better allocate scarce available resources.
The Bank has traditionally helped to bring donors and developing member countries together through its cofinancing and aid-coordina-tion activities, including Bank-chaired consultative groups and special fora such as the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee for the West Bank and Gaza, and through its role as cosponsor of, and active participant in, bodies that link European and mena countries such as the Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program. It has played an active role in the Working Groups on Regional Economic Development, the Environment, and Water set up under the auspices of the Middle East Peace Process. It has also brought together experts from different countries within the region through meetings of its
regional Council of Advisers and through its sponsorship of the regional Economic Research Forum.
Especially with the new emphasis across the region on private sector-led development, the impetus is likely to grow for government-private sector partnerships within countries and for increased links between government and business groups in mf.na and external partners, especially in Europe.
During the past year, the Bank encouraged the establishment of high-level government-private sector links designed to accelerate private sector development in Morocco and Egypt. It also strengthened its own ties with the League of Arab States, Arab multilateral and bilateral funds, and the European L'nion (tu), and is discussing with the EU possible participation in the recently announced ft initiative for a Euro-Mediterranean partnership—a large-scale,
five-year program of assistance to southern and eastern Mediterranean rim countries. In addition, the Bank has responded to the transnational initiative jointly proposed by Jordan and Israel for the integrated development of the Jordan rift valley. Bank staff worked with Jordanian and Israeli teams on a preliminary report outlining the scope of the development program, and the Bank is helping to finance the program’s preparatory planning stage.
Improving internal organization, procedures, and business practices. Internally, the Bank’s regional management and staff worked during the year to further enhance responsiveness to client needs. A broad-based approach to meeting those needs, involving a judicious blend of financing and analytical work selectively targeted to critical issues, is being complemented by organizational and procedural improvements designed to enhance the quality and timeliness of both lending and analytical activities. The region's strategic focus has been sharpened through organizational change involving consolidation of Country Department operational units into four thematic divisions—for country-assistance strategy, private sector development and infrastructure, human resources, and natural resources. Even stronger emphasis than hitherto has been placed on country-assistance strategy documents and comprehensive country portfolio-performance reviews in response to country priorities. Cost effectiveness and results orientation are being promoted by greater delegation of authority, both within headquarters staff and to field offices, with the latter expanded to include resident missions in Yemen and Gaza.
In line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Portfolio Management (November 1992), the region is continuing to strengthen the portfolio-management and supervision function, to encourage task manager problemsolving in the field during supervision missions, and to increase local participation in supervision tasks wherever appropriate. Regional management and staff have worked intensively on wavs to streamline the processing of all tasks and products, with the aim of reducing processing
stages and production time while still rigorously maintaining product quality. The regional vice presidency has also been a leader in developing new training programs designed to enhance staff capacity and upgrade technical skills. Taken together, these initiatives should pay substantial dividends in terms of further improvements in the quality of the Bank's products and their responsiveness to client needs.
Sr.cTiON Foir Mitilm p. East and North Africa 103
S I 1 \I\1 A R I I- S ()[■ P R < 5 I I. C : ! S Al’l'HOVh I> I C > K IBRD AM) I [3/\
Assist.wcI' in Fisc a i. 199 5
ida—$10 million. More than 50,000 poor farm families are expected to benefit from a project that seeks to increase agricultural production by raising farm productivity through the rapid rehabilitation of existing irrigation and drainage infrastructure. Total cost: $44.1 million.
ida—$6 million. Small farm and off-farm activities will be promoted, basic rural infrastructure repaired, and employment created for the rural population. Total cost: $12 million.
ida—$43 million. The level of irrigated agriculture production for food security will be maintained and water-resource management improved through the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure and the streamlining of the water-management system. Total cost: $57.2 million.
ida—$8 million. Funds will be provided to help finance projects and programs generated in line with recommendations of the country’s national environmental action plan. Total cost: $9.3 million. ida—$20.4 million. The government’s efforts to strengthen land-administration institutions, improve land management, and provide land to landless peasants will be supported. Total cost: $27.2 million.
ibrd—$211 million. The quality of life for some 2.7 million people in the rural areas of Bahia, Ceara, and Sergipe will be improved by providing better access to water supply and other basic social and economic infrastructure and by increasing their production, incomes, and employment. Total cost: $351.7 million.
ida—$16.6 million. Some 25,000 low-income households are to benefit from a project that seeks to raise livestock productivity by expanding animal-health services. Total cost: $32.5 million.
ida—$24.5 million. A program to enhance the supply response of the agriculture and livestock sectors is expected to bring more productive and sustainable technology to 550,000 producers—primarily smallholder farmers—and increase family incomes and well-being. Total cost: $25.6 million.
ibrd—$47.5 million; ida—$200 million. Absolute poverty in thirty-five of the very poorest counties in the southwest will be reduced by increasing the incomes and productivity and improving the health and educational status of about 2.8 million upland smallholders. Total cost: $486.4 million.
ibrd—$100 million; ida—$110 million. Some 5 million people in Hubei and Hunan provinces will benefit directly from a project that will finance high-priority water-control investments. Total cost: $551.9 million.
Note: Data used in this section have been compiled from documentation provided at the time of project approval. Projects marked by (§) are included in the Program ofTargeted Interventions, and those marked by (t) are poverty-focused adjustment operations.
Projects marked by (t) include the participation of primary stakeholders.
IBRD—$51 million. A four-year program ot technology development and adaptation (emphasizing investment and research with potential to benefit small farmers) and institutional development will be financed. Total cost: $84 million.
ida—$5.8 million. Actions designed to diversity and expand private agricultural exports will be supported. Total cost: $16.4 million. ikrd—$28 million. Productivity, employment, and incomes on about
5,000	small farms should increase through investments in irrigation infrastructure and improved support services. Total cost: $43.2 million. ibrd—$26.7 million; ida—$53.3 million. Incomes ot about 95,000 mostly poor farm households should increase as a result of the provision of timely and adequate amounts of irrigation water to three irrigation command areas. Total cost: $182.3 million.
ida—$120 million. Support for policy reforms that create an enabling environment for the growth of a competitive fertilizer sector will contribute to accelerated and sustainable growth in agricultural production and productivity. Total cost: $230.4 million.
ida—$22 million. The development of the informal and formal seed sectors, institutional strengthening, and human-resource development will be supported. Total cost: $31.8 million.
ida—$9 million. The long-term sustainability ot the fisheries subsector will be established, thereby maximizing its contribution to the economy. Total cost: $10.5 million.
ida—$5 million. Funds from ida retlows will be provided to supplement the agriculture-sector adjustment credit approved in fiscal 1992.
ida—$26.3 million. Funds from ida reflows will be provided to supplement the agriculture-sector adjustment credit approved in fiscal 1994.
ida—$282.9 million. A statewide program to improve the productivity and sustainability of Tamil Nadu’s irrigation sector will be supported. Total cost: $491 million.
IDA—$126 million. Agricultural extension services will be strengthened and employment opportunities offered to some 300,000 poor rural people in Assam state, thereby contributing to agricultural growth and income generation. Total cost: $146.6 million.
ida—$59.5 million. Changes in the way the central government and the states develop and employ human resources in efforts to modernize the agricultural sector and achieve greater sectoral productivity will be introduced. Total cost: $74.2 million.
ida—$58 million. The first stage of a long-term development strategy of the forestry sector in Madhya Pradesh—whose main beneficiaries will be tribal peoples and forest-fringe villagers—will be supported. Total cost: $67.3 million.
IBRD—$80 million. Efficient and equitable land markets will be fostered and social conflicts over land alleviated through acceleration of nonforest land titling and registration. I.ower-income groups will be the main beneficiaries. Total cost: $140.1 million.
irrd—$63 million. Regional agricultural research and development will be strengthened, ensuring the location-specificity of technology and emphasizing the development of market-oriented technology packages. Total cost: $101.8 million.
ibrd—$80 million. The transition to a more sustainable and efficient use of resources, particularly water, will be supported, and markets will be freed up to enable the private sector to invest, produce, and trade in line with the country’s comparative advantage in agriculture.
ibrd—$6.6 million. The government will be assisted in implementing its agriculture-adjustment program. Total cost: S13.3 million. ida—$25.2 million. The first four years ot a long-term extension program to improve agricultural advisory services in the country’s twenty-eight extension districts will be supported. Total cost: $36.6 million.
ida—$21.2 million. The incomes of about 40,000 small-scale farm families are expected to rise as a result of a project that will increase agricultural output and improve production and productivity on irrigation schemes. Total cost: $25.7 million.
ida—$6 million. Key sectoral constraints to private investment in agricultural marketing and processing will be addressed. Total cost: $6.9 million.
ibrd—$85 million. Agricultural productivity will increase in selected rainfed areas through a program ot rural investments, the transfer of agricultural technology through private sector extension, and institutional development. Total cost: $225.6 million.
IDA—$6.8 million. A pilot project will test the private provision of services to small-scale irrigation farmers and promote the adoption of low-cost technologies that meet small-farmer requirements and capabilities. Total cost: $7.5 million.
IDA—$24.9 million. By improving the performance ot the forestry sector in Punjab, rural production (mainly in farm forestry and livestock) will be increased, as will employment and income tor smallholders. Total cost: $33.8 million.
id \—$45 million. The government’s resumed program ot agriculture adjustment following the January 1994 devaluation of the cfa franc will be supported.
ibrd—$1 18.1 million. Secure land tenure will be granted to an estimated
1.1	million predominantly rural families from among the poorest segments of the population. Total cost: $206.8 million. irrd—$65 million. Credit will be made available through the National Agricultural Bank (BNA) for onfarm processing and marketing investments, fisheries, and other rural investments. Total cost: $420 million.
ibrd—$32 million. The national seed-system's capacity to produce high-quality seed efficiently will be improved. Total cost: $63.3 million. ibrd—$66 million. The cotton subsector will be modernized by supporting selective interventions to open it up to the world market and build the basis tor efficiency improvements. Total cost: $84.6 million.
ibrd—S55 million. The management ot national parks and other protected areas will he strengthened, and public environmental research, training, and education intensified. Total cost: $95.9 million. ibrd—$39 million. A new decentralized public agricultural extension service to serve the needs ot poor tarmers who are now without adequate extension services will be established. Total cost: $79 million.
ida—$100 million. More than 300,000 farm tamilies in low-income regions will benefit directly from a project that aims to increase agricultural production through the rehabilitation and completion ot seven irrigation schemes. Total cost: $135.7 million.
ida—$60 million. An investment program will support the agricultural sector's objectives ot improving household tood security, promoting better use of natural resources, generating incomes and employment, and increasing export earnings. Total cost: $350 million.
ibrd—$190 million. Student learning in seven selected provinces will be increased by financing investments designed to increase the quality and efficiency ot secondary education. Total cost: $268.7 million. ida—$40 million. The first step in a long-term process of retorm and quality improvement to strengthen the quality, efficiency, and equity of basic education will be supported. Total cost: $178.9 million.
ida—$1 1.5 million. A basic education and training project aims to achieve universal primary education by 1999, increase the skill levels and productivity of the labor force, and enhance institutional capacity. Total cost: $15.8 million.
ibrd—$35 million. The internal and external efficiency, quality, and equity of all the 1,600 puhlicly financed secondary schools in the country will be improved.
ibrd—$200 million. Reforms in technology policy and institutions will be supported so as to promote the development of clean, productivity-enhancing technologies for China’s industries. Total cost: $402 million.
ida—$100 million. About 5 million poor schoolchildren will benefit from a project to expand basic education, especially in remote areas inhabited by minority nationalities. Interventions to improve school attendance by girls are included. Total cost: $1 77 million.
ida—$9.6 million. A demand-driven reorientation of the vocational skill-training system and improvements in informal sector productivity in selected occupational areas are expected to benefit informal sector workers, including the poorest urban dwellers. Total cost: $12.4 million. ida—$42.5 million. A project to increase primary school enrollment and completion rates, improve teaching and student learning, and strengthen education-system management will target girls and poor households in rural areas. Total cost: $53 million.
ida—$30 million. The national policy ot equitable access to educational opportunities will be supported by channeling resources especially to rural and indigenous areas. Total cost: $53.1 million.
MiA—$260.3 million. Access to primary education will he improved, more than 1.5 million children will complete primary education by reducing dropout rates, and the instruction of, and learning achievement among, some 14 million children will be upgraded. Total cost: $310.5 million.
ibrd—$132.5 million. About 250 million textbooks will be provided to primary and junior secondary students, with priority given to poor children. In addition, textbook production will be transferred from the government to the private sector. Total cost: $355.2 million. ibrd—$69 million. The quality of professional, managerial, and science and technology staff in key government ministries and agencies will be upgraded. Total cost: $95 million.
ibrd—$25 million. The government's strategy to modernize government aecounting-information systems will be further supported. Total cost: $33.9 million.
ibrd—$60 million. A Second Human Resources Development Investment Project seeks to further the improvement of educational quality, building on the accomplishments of its predecessor. Total cost: $186.7 million.
ida—$13.4 million. Primary and secondary education quality will be improved, the shortage of teachers (especially in the atolls) reduced, atoll primary teacher skills upgraded, and secondary education will be made more widely available in the atolls. Total cost: $17.9 million.
ida—$50 million. Balance-of-pavment support will be provided in conjunction with the promotion of urgently needed education reforms. ida—$35 million. A project to increase primary enrollment in underserved regions, increase girls’ enrollment, expand lower-secondary education capacity, and improve education quality and planning will be supported. Total cost: $42.6 million.
irrd—$16 million. The government’s program for higher and polytechnic education, aimed at producing the manpower needed to support a more competitive economy, will be supported. Total cost: $26.5 million.
ibrd—$265 million. The quality of technical education and training will be improved so that it meets the needs ot the productive sector. Total cost: $41 2 million.
ida—$34 million. Efforts of the government to achieve a better quality ot primary education and greater efficiency of the school system will be supported. Total cost: $39.3 million.
ida—$1 50 million. Support will be provided to North-West Frontier Province’s primary education program, which seeks to improve access, equity, and efficiency, while enhancing the quality of the learning environment. Total cost: $813.1 million.
ibrd—$146.4 million. The quality of primary education will be raised by rehabilitating dilapidated classrooms in poor, rural areas and by distributing teaching materials and training teachers on their use. Total cost: $298.6 million.
irrd—$40 million. The quality and supply of skills needed to support the transition to a market economy will be increased, and priority market-oriented training programs will be developed. Total cost: $51.4 million.
ibrd—$3.4 million; ida—$3.3 million. Reforms to basic education— aimed at increasing educational efficiency and effectiveness and at enhancing equity of access—will be supported. Total cost: $12.8 million. ida—$36.6 million. School quality will be improved through school construction and rehabilitation, textbook provision, and the introduction of school-based experiments in teaching and learning processes. Total cost: $46.6 million.
ibrd—$98.3 million. Basic and secondary education quality will be raised and access increased so as to accommodate the projected increase in school enrollments. Total cost: $184.3 million.
ibrd—$1 10 million. The main water resources in Liaoning province will be protected to allow their sustained economic and safe use for drinking, industrial, and agricultural purposes. Total cost: $350.8 million. irrd—$2 million. Pollution in Haapsalu bay and in the Matsalu bay catchment area will be reduced through support for the decentralization ot environmental management responsibilities. Total cost: $8.4 million. IDA—$10.8 million. The institutional framework required for successful environmental management and implementation of needed investments at the local level will be developed. Total cost: $12.5 million.
ibrd—$143 million; ida—$25 million. Four state pollution-control boards will be strengthened, and efforts by individual firms to abate pollution will be supported. Total cost: $330 million.
irrd—$4 million. In the context ot the country’s legal obligations to protect the Baltic sea from ecological degradation, water and wastewater services in Liepaja will be improved. Total cost: $21.2 million.
ibrd—$55 million. Unsanitary dumping of solid waste will be eliminated, and methods of waste collection and disposal improved. Total cost: $135 million.
IBRD—$7 million. In the context ot the country’s legal obligations to protect the Baltic sea from ecological degradation, water and wastewater services in Klaipeda will be improved. Total cost: $23.1 million.
IBRD—$6.8 million; ida—$4.7 million. Public health risks will be reduced and the environmental integrity of the four island states of the Organization ot Eastern Caribbean States will be protected by improving solid waste-management facilities and facilitating compliance of measures restricting dumping ot ship-generated solid waste into the international and territorial waters of the wider Caribbean sea. Regional opportunities tor reduction, recycling, reuse, and recovery of w'aste will also be identified. Total cost: $50.5 million.
ibrd—$1 10 million. Environmental management institutions at the federal level and in three demonstration regions will he strengthened, and pollution-abatement projects developed and undertaken. Total cost:
$ 194.8 million.
ibrd—$6.3 million. The institutional capacity to plan and implement sound environmental management will be built. Total cost: $10.5 million.
ibrd—$300 million. The government's effort to promote fiscal reform in its provinces will be supported.
ibrd—$10 million. The implementation of reforms in the financial and
enterprise sectors will be supported. Total cost: $31.8 million.
ida—$15.5 million. The environment for the private entrepreneur will
be improved and the direct role of the state in economic activities
reduced.
ida—$3.5 million. Sustainable institution-building mechanisms supporting the financial and private sectors will be implemented. Total cost:
$4 million.
IDA—$3.1 million, ida reflows will be made available to help finance the Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit, approved in the amount of $15.5 million (see above).
ibrd—$700 million. Greater market orientation, allocative efficiency, technical competence, and competition will be fostered in India’s financial system, thus contributing to meeting the long-term financing needs ot the country's investors. Total cost: $1,534.1 million. ibrd—$62 million. Fundamental restructuring in the enterprise and financial sectors will be accelerated and deepened.
ida—$15 million. Private enterprises will be assisted through provision of technical assistance and, through a newly established financial intermediary, foreign exchange for investment and incremental working capital. Total cost: $20.3 million.
ibrd—$35 million. Reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors will be accelerated. Total cost: $114 million.
ibrd—$25 million. Credit will be channelled through selected participating banks to help finance investment and related permanent working capital needs of private and privatized enterprises. Total cost: $50.3 million.
ida—$85 million. Implementation of major reforms in the enterprise and banking sectors will be supported. Moreover, the ability of the social safety net program to provide more equitable protection against poverty will be strengthened.
ida—$7.2 million. Activities in support of the government's private sector development program, including those encouraging investor interest in the private sector and financial sector strengthening, will be financed. Total cost: $7.9 million.
of authorized capital ot $184 billion. During tiscal year 1995, subscriptions to the $74.8 billion general capital increase (c.ci), approved in April 1988, continued on schedule. Twenty countries subscribed an aggregate $6.4 billion. A total of 51,754 gci shares [$6.2 billion, or 8 percent of total allocations, including additional gci shares allocated to new members that joined the ibrd after April 1988) remain to be subscribed. At the end ot fiscal 1995, the permissible increase ot net disbursements ("headroom") was $75.3 billion, or 38 percent of the ibrd's lending limit.
Reserves. On June 30, 1995, reserves amounted to $17.2 billion, and the reserves-to-loan ratio stood at 14.3 percent.
IDA Finances
In October 1994, the executive directors discussed a report on the use of resources during the first year of ida-iu (fiscal year 1994), took note ot it, and encouraged a candid look in the future at implementation and design problems and at establishing firmer linkages between ida programs and results on the ground (see Box 6-1).
Ida's commitment authority, ida is mainly funded by donor contributions, and such funds
are 'replenished” by an agreement among donors every three years. Fiscal year 1995 was the second year of the tenth replenishment of ida (ida-iu), the agreed size of which was SDR13 billion, ida’s commitment authority is based on these donor contributions, which are made available in three annual tranches, and other resources available to ida (mainly repayments from past credits and net income transfers from the ibrd).
As ot June 30, 1995, the donor funds made available for the ida-iu period (fiscal 1994-96) totaled SDR7.642 million. During fiscal 1995, the association received formal notifications to contribute to ida-iu from Belgium, Portugal, and Spain, which increased commitment authority by SDR208 million. Part of the second tranche of ida-id contributions is not yet available, as the United States’ payment to ida-io was about 8 percent less than the agreed schedule, and two other donors (Germany and Canada) exercised their right to withhold their contributions proportionately to the shortfall in the United States’ payment.
Other resources made available during the year included the transfer of SDR207 million from the ibrd's fiscal 1994 net income and
BOX 6-1. REVIEW OF THE FISCAL 1994 IDA PROGRAM
The review covered ida's efforts during fiscal 1994 in the three major areas defined by donors: ida’s experience and progress in poverty reduction, its efforts to stimulate sustainable growth through improvements in the quality and level of investment in ida countries, and Ida's enhanced activities on environmental sustainability. The pervading influence of these priorities was demonstrated by the fact that 80 percent of the fiscal 1994 lending operations directly addressed at least one of these objectives, while most addressed more than one. The remainder addressed specific country priorities considered essential for growth.
The $6.6 billion in commitments during fiscal 1994 was the highest annual lending ever achieved by ida. Commitments fell short of expectations, however, because civil strife or inadequate progress in the adoption of policy reforms curtailed lending in sev-
eral countries. A partially offsetting factor was the policy breakthrough achieved by the countries of the cm zone, which, in January 1994 decided to change the parity of the cm franc vis-a-vis the French franc. In the first six months of 1994, ida provided approximately $ 1 billion in quick-disbursing credits and adjustment operations to these countries.
The $5.5 billion in disbursements during fiscal 1994 was also the highest ever for ida—reflecting better portfolio management and an increase in adjustment lending. Adjustment operations remained within guidelines, and most had a poverty focus.
To build on progress in developing country-specific strategies, further emphasis is being given to incorporating results from poverty assessments, national environmental action programs, and other country-specific analytical work into ida operations.
SDR931 million ol commitment authority against current and future repayments from past credits. Ot the latter amount, SDR800 million is tor ordinary credits and another SDR 131 million is for the Fifth Dimension program. Therefore, the total available resources for the ida-10 period increased to SDR 10,303 million in fiscal 1995.
Against these resources, the association made ida-in commitments of SDR3.829 million during fiscal 1995. Of this amount, 39 percent went to Africa, 25 percent to South Asia, 19 percent to East Asia and Pacific, 10 percent to Europe and Central Asia, 6 percent to Latin America and the Caribbean, and 1 percent to the Middle East and North Africa.
IDA's commitment fee. For each tiscal year, the level of commitment fee is set by the executive directors based on an annual review ot ida’s financial position. The commitment fee for tiscal
1996	was set at 0 percent for all ida credits. ida’s commitment tee had been 0 percent from fiscal year 1989 through fiscal 1995.
origin and affiliated organizations
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization which commenced business in 1949.The principal purpose of the IRRD is to promote economic development in its member countries, primarily by providing loans and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. The activities of the IBRD are supplemented by those of three affiliated organizations, the International Development Association (IHa), the International Finance Corporation (I Ft:), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MlGA).The Ida’s purpose is to promote economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in the IDA S membership by providing financing on terms which are more flexible and bear less heavily on the balance of payments than those ot conventional loans. The ll'C’s purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member's guarantee. The MIGA was established to encourage the flow ot investments for productive purposes among member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
The IBRD’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and with International Accounting Standards.
During the first quarter ot tiscal year 1995, the IBRD adopted a new accounting interpretation that requires receivables and payables trom certain financial transactions be presented on a gross basis in the financial statements when the right and intent to offset are not present. The effect is that both Total Assets and Total Liabilities are increased by SI 7,523 million (SI9,193 million—June 30, 1994).
Reclassifications: Certain reclassifications ot the prior year's information have been made to conform to the current year’s presentation. In prior years, deferred amounts receivable and payable to maintain value of currency holdings had been classified as an asset and a liability, respectively. These amounts have been reclassified in the balance sheet as a component ot Equity. The effect has been to reduce Total Assets by S542 million, decrease Total Liabilities by S874 million, and increase Total Equity by $332 million at June 3U, 1994 trom those amounts previously reported. This reclassification has no impact on the legal obligation ot the members to maintain the value of their capital. In addition, in prior years the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses was recorded as a liability. This amount has been reclassified as a reduction ot assets. The effect
of this reclassification has been to reduce Total Assets and Total Liabilities by $3,324 million at June 30,
1994	from the amounts previously reported. This reclassification does not reflect a change in the provisioning policy, but has been made to conform with industry practice.
Translation of Currencies .The IBRD’s financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing the IBRD's financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
The IBRD is an international organization which conducts its business in the currencies of all ot its members. The IBRD’s resources are derived trom its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in those various currencies. The IRRD has a number of general policies aimed at minimizing exchange-rate risk in a multicurrency env ironment. The IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by holding or lending the proceeds of its borrowings in the same currencies in which they are borrowed. In addition, the IBRD periodically undertakes currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its Retained Earnings with those of the outstanding loans. With respect to its other resources, the IRRD does not convert one currency into another except tor small amounts required to meet certain obligations and operational needs.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates at the end of the period. Income and expenses are translated at the market exchange rate at the dates on which they are recognized or at average market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments, with the exception of those relating to capital subscriptions described in Note A, are charged or credited to Equity.
Valuation of Capital Stock: In the Articles ot Agreement, the capital stock ot the IBRD is expressed in terms ot "U.S. dollars ot the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944” (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator ot the monetary system and the repeal ot the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms ot gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared. The Executiv e Directors of the IBRD have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944’’ in Article II, Section 2(a) ot the Articles of Agreement ot the IBRD are interpreted to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced bv the International Monetary Fund, as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction ot the basket method of valuing the SDR
on July 1, 1974, such value being $ 1.20635 tor one SDR.
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings consists ot allocated amounts (Special Reserve, General Reserve, and Surplus) and unallocated Net Income.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6 ot the Articles of Agreement which are to be held in liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of the IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by the IBRD. The Special Reserve assets are included under Investments in the Trading portfolio, comprising obligations of the United States Government, its agencies, and other official entities. The allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in 1964 with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
The General Reserve consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which, in the judgment of the Executive Directors, should be retained in the IBRD's business.
Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are retained by the IBRD until a further decision is made on their disposition or the conditions of transfer for specified uses have been met.
Unallocated Net Income consists of earnings in the current fiscal year. Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the unallocated Net Income has been allocated to the General Reserve. Additionally, upon approval of the Board of Governors, transfers have been made out of unallocated Net Income to the IDA (or facilities administered by the IDA), the Global Environment Trust Fund, Technical Assistance Trust Fund for the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and Surplus.
Loans: All ot the IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans to the IFC. The majority of the IBRD’s loans have repayment obligations in various currencies determined on the basis of a currency pooling system, which is designed to equalize exchange-rate risks among borrowers. The IBRD also otters single currency loans. Except for certain loans which were converted to the currency pooling system, loans negotiated prior to July 1980 and all single currency loans are repayable in the currencies disbursed. Interest on all loans is accrued in the currencies outstanding.
Incremental direct costs associated with originating loans are expensed as incurred as such amounts are considered immaterial.
The IBRD does not reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. In exceptional cases, however, such as when implementation of a financed project has been delayed, the loan amortiza-
tion schedule may be modified to avoid substantial repayments prior to project completion. It is the policy of the IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of the IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless the IBRD management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if development credits by the IDA to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all loans to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by the IRRD. On the date a member's loans are placed in nonaccrual status, unpaid interest and other charges accrued on loans outstanding to the member are deducted from the income of the current period. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received bv the IBRD. On the date a member pays in tull all overdue amounts, its loans emerge trom nonaccrual status, its eligibility for new loans is restored, and all its overdue interest and other charges including those from prior years are recognized as income in the current period.
The IBRD determines the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses based on an assessment of collectibility risk in the total loan portfolio, including loans in nonaccrual status. The accumulated provision is periodically adjusted based on a review ot the prevailing circumstances and would be used to meet actual losses on loans. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or credit to income.
Investments: During the first quarter of fiscal year
1995,	the IBRD adopted a new accounting standard that requires investments to be classified into trading, available-for-sale, or held-to-matui ity portfolios. In the second quarter ot the fiscal year, the IBRD commenced investing in certain securities with the intention of holding such securities to maturity to align the investment portfolio with the debt funding these investments in specific currencies. Remaining investment securities are held in a trading portfolio and classified as an element of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows due to their nature and the IBRD's policies governing the level and use of such investments.
The IBRD carries its investment securities and related financial instruments in the trading portfolio at market value and investment securities in the held-to-maturitv portfolio at amortized cost. For investments in the trading portfolio, both realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in Income from Investments. From time to time, the IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of commitment.
Fair Value Disclosures. Financial instruments for which market quotations are available have been valued at the prevailing market value. Financial instru-
ments for which market quotations arc not readily available have been valued using methodologies and assumptions that necessarily require the use of subjective judgments. Accordingly, the actual value at which such financial instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction or whether they are actually exchangeable is not determinable.
NOTE A—CAPITAL STOCK, RESTRICTED CURRENCIES, MAINTENANCE OF VALUE, AND MEMBERSHIP
Capital Stock: At June 30, 1995, the IBRD’s capital comprised 1,525,248 (1,525,248—June 30, 1994) authorized shares, of which 1,462,574 (1,409.235— June 30, 1994) shares had been subscribed. Each share has a par value ot 0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate ot $1.20635 per 1 974 SDR. Ot the subscribed capital, $10,858 million ($10,665 million—June 30, 1994) has been paid in, and the remaining $165,580 million ($159,338 million—June 30, 1994) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of the IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans. As to SI41,150 million ($13(5,002 million—June 30, 1994), the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement and as to S24.430 million ($23,336 million—.Fine 30, 1994), bv resolutions of the Board of Governors.
Restricted Currencies .-The portion ot capital subscriptions paid in to the IBRD is div ided into two parts: (I) SI,086 million ($1,067 million—June 30, 1994) initially paid in gold or U.S. dollars and (2) $9,772 million ($9,598 million—June 30, 1994) paid in cash or noninterest-bearing demand obligations denominated either in the currencies of the respective members or in U.S. dollars. The amounts mentioned in (1) above, and (i) $774 million ($779 million—June 30, 1994) which were repurchased by members with U.S. dollars, and (ii) $364 million ($284 million—June 30, 1994) which were the proceeds trom encashments ot U.S. dollar-denominated notes which are included in the amounts mentioned in (2) above, are freely usable by the IBRD in any ot its operations. The portion ot the amounts paid in U.S. dollar-denominated notes are encashed by the IBRD in accordance with the schedules agreed between the members and the IBRD. The remaining amounts paid in the currencies ot the members, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by the IBRD in its lending operations only with the consent of the respective members, and tor administrative expenses. The equivalent of $5,967 million ($5,444 million—June 30, 1994) has been used tor lending purposes, with such consent.
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides tor maintenance of the value, as at the time ot subscription, ot such restricted currencies, requiring ( I ) the member to make additional payments to the IBRD in the ev ent that the par value ot its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange
value of its currency has, in the opinion of the IBRD, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2) the IBRD to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased.
Since currencies no longer have par values, maintenance ot value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value of a member's currency against the standard of value of the IBRD capital based on the 1 974 SDR. Members are required to make payments to the IBRD if their currencies depreciate significantly relative to the standard ot value. Furthermore, the Executive Directors have adopted a policy of reimbursing members whose currencies appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value.
The net maintenance of value amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan are included in Deterred Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings and shown as a component ot Equity since maintenance of v alue becomes effective only as such currencies are repaid to the IBRD.
Membership: On February 25, 1993, the IBRD's Executive Directors decided that the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) had ceased to be a member of the IBRD and that the Republic ot Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic ot Slov enia, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (FRY) are authorized to succeed to the SFRY\ membership when certain requirements are met including entering into a final agreement with the IBRD on the IBRD’s loans made to or guaranteed by the SI RY which the particular successor Republic would assume. Three of the five successor Republics—the Republics ot Croatia and Slovenia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia—have since become members ot the IBRD. The paid-in portion ot the SFRY\ subscribed capital allocated to the other successor Republics (the Republic ot Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)) is included under Payments on Account ot Pending Subscriptions until the requirements ot succession have been met.
NOTE B—LOANS, COFINANCING AND GUARANTEES
Loans: On August 2, 1994, the IBRD’s Executive Directors approved a one-year interest waiver ot 25 basis points on disbursed and outstanding loans for all payment periods commencing in the fiscal year ending June 30, 1995 tor all eligible borrowers. Also, on August 2, 1994, the Executive Directors approved a one-vear commitment fee waiver of 50 basis points on undisbursed loans to all borrowers for all payment periods commencing in the fiscal year ending June 30,
1 995. Similar waivers were in effect tor the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994. On December 20, 1994, the IBRD's Executive Directors approved a proposal to encourage the IBRD's borrowers to convert their
respective loans from 1982 terms to 1989 terms.
Loans on 1982 terms are based on the weighted average cost of all IRRD debt drawn down alter June 30, 1982 while loans on 1989 terms are based on the weighted average cost of borrowings funding these loans. The purpose ol the conversion is to facilitate interest risk management by the IBRD and to enhance its ability to offer borrowers new loan products. To each borrower that converts all its loans from 1982 loan terms to 1989 loan terms, a one-time 10 basis point waiver of annual interest charges for two consecutive six-month interest periods will be given. Borrowers that had opted for such conversion before December 20, 1994 were also given this waiver. For the tiscal year ended June 30, 1995 the combined effect of these waivers was to reduce Net Income by $251 million (S238 million—June 30, 1994).
In connection with the cessation of the membership of the SFRY discussed in Note A, in February 1993 the IBRD reached an agreement with FRY for the apportionment and service ot debt due to the IBRD on loans made to or guaranteed by the SFRY and assumed by the FRY, which confirmed a February 1992 interim agreement between the SFRY (then consisting of the Republics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia] and the IBRD pertaining, among other things, to such loans. As of the date hereof, no debt-service payments have been received bv the IRRD from the FRY'. With respect to the Republic ot Bosnia and Herzegovina, a preliminary understanding was reached in June 1993 on the loans made to or guaranteed by the SFRY to be assumed by that Republic. Until an agreement is reached, loans benefitting that Republic are included with the loans assumed bv the FRY in accordance with the IBRD’s above-mentioned agreement with the FRY.
At June 30, 1995, no loans payable to the IRRD other than those referred to in the following paragraphs were overdue bv more than three months.
At June 30, 1995, the loans made to or guaranteed bv certain member countries and two other countries— the FRY and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina— with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $2,618 million ($2,363 million—June 30, 1994), of which $1,41 1 million ($1,009 million—June 30,
1994) was ov erdue, were in nonaccrual status. As at such date, overdue interest and other charges in respect of these loans totaled S864 million (S628 million—June 30, 1994). If these loans had not been in nonaccrual status, income from loans for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995 would have been higher by $156 million ($149 million—June 30, 1994). A summary of
Under an IDA program established in September 1988, a portion ot principal repayments to the IDA are allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988. Such supplementary IDA credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions, in proportion to each country’s interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible tor such IDA supplemental credits, a member country must meet the IDA's eligibility criteria tor lending, must be ineligible tor IBRD1 lending, and must not have had an IBRD loan approved within the past twelve months. To receive a supplemental credit trom the program, a member country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to the IRRD and the IDA and must have an IDA-supported structural adjustment program in place. As at June 30, 1995, the IDA had approved credits of $1,179 million ($974 million—June 30, 1994) under this program from incep-
tion, ot which $1,128 million ($846 million—June 30, 1994) had been disbursed to the eligible countries.
Cofinancing and Guarantees:The IBRD has entered into agreements syndicated by other financial institutions either by a direct participation in, or a partial guarantee ot, loans for the benefit of member countries or a partial guarantee of securities issued by an entity eligible for IBRD loans. The IBRD's direct participations in syndicated loans are included in reported loan balances.
Guarantees of $1,610 million at June 30, 1995 ($1,181 million—June 30, 1994) were not included in reported loan balances. $173 million of these guarantees were subject to call at June 30, 1995 ($173 million—June 30, 1994).
The IBRD has partially guaranteed the timely payment of interest amounts on certain loans that have been sold. At June 30, 1995, these guarantees, approximating $4 million ($4 million—June 30, 1994), were subject to call.
Statutory Lending Limit: Linder the Articles of Agreement, the total amount outstanding ot guarantees, participations in loans, and direct loans made by the IBRD may not be increased to an amount exceeding 100 percent ot the sum of subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus. On the IBRD’s Balance Sheet, Reserves and Surplus correspond to items labelled Retained Earnings, Cumulativ e Translation Adjustment, and Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses. The IBRD’s Executive Directors have issued guidelines pursuant to which all guarantees issued by the IBRD will be counted towards this limit at the time they first become callable, irrespective of the likelihood of an actual call. At June 30, 1995, such total amount was $123,676 million or 62 percent (58 percent—June 30, 1994) of the Statutory Lending Limit.
NOTE C—FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Investments
As part ot its overall portfolio management strategy', the IBRD invests in government and agency obligations, time deposits, and related financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk including futures, forward contracts, covered forward contracts, options, and short sales.
Government and Agency Obligations .‘These obligations include marketable bonds, notes, and other obligations. Obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments ot countries require a minimum credit rating of AA, if denominated in a currency other than the home currency; otherwise no rating is required. Obligations issued by an agencv or instrumentality of a government ot a country, a multilateral organization, or any other official entity require a credit rating of AAA.
Time Deposits:' \ \mc deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
Futures and Forwards: Futures and forward contracts are contracts for delayed delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument, at a specified price or yield.
Covered Forwards: Covered forwards are agreements in which cash in one currency is converted into a different currency and, simultaneously, a forward exchange agreement is executed providing tor a future exchange of the two currencies in order to recover the currency converted.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder ot the option to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option. The IBRD only invests in exchange-traded options.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the IBRD’s portfolio at the time of the sale. The IBRD must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
Trading Portfolio: Investment securities in the trading
A summary ot the currency composition ot Invest-	ties Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase and
merits held in the trading portfolio, net Receivable/	Payable tor Cash Collateral Received at June 30,	1995
Payable tor Covered Forwards, and the net ot Securi-	and June 30, 1994 is as follows:
ties Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securi-
The annualized rate of return on average investments in the Trading portfolio, net of agreements to repurchase and cash collateral received, held during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995, including both realized and unrealized gains and losses, was 5.58 percent (3.56 percent—June 30, 1994).
Held-to-maturity portfolio: Investment securities in the Held-to-maturity portfolio are carried at amortized cost. The book and fair values of investment securities in the Held-to-maturity portfolio at June 30, 1995 were:
The expected maturities ot investment securities in the Held-to-maturity portfolio at June 30, 1995 are summarized below:
In millions
June 30, 1995
The annualized rate of return on average investments in the Held-to-maturity portfolio, held during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1 995, was 8.11 percent.
Loans
The table below reflects the carrying and estimated fair values ot the loan portfolio, excluding the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses, as at June 30, 1995 and June 30, 1994.
All of the IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members ot the IBRO, except for those loans made to the IFC. The IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor is there a market ot loans comparable to those made by the IBRD. The IBRD has never suffered a loss on any of its loans, although from time to time certain borrowers have found it difficult to make timely payments for protracted periods, resulting in their loans being placed in nonaccrual status. Several borrowers have emerged from nonaccrual status after a period ot time by bringing up-to-date all principal payments and all interest payments, including interest and other charges on overdue principal payments. In an attempt to recognize the risk inherent in these overdue payments, the IBRD maintains a provision for loan losses. The balance of the Accumulated Provision for Loan 1 .osses at June 30, 1995 was $3,740 million (S3,324 million—June 30, 1994}.
Fixed rate loans: On loans negotiated prior to July 1982, the IBRD charges interest at fixed rates. The estimated fair value of these loans is based on discounted future cash flows using the rate at which the IBRD could undertake borrowings ot comparable maturities at June 30, 1995 plus a 50 basis point spread.
Variable rate loans: In 1982 the IBRD mitigated its interest rate risk by moving from fixed rate to variable rate lending. The rate charged on variable rate loans is based on the IRRD s own cost of qualified borrowings plus a 50 basis point spread, resulting in a passthrough of its average borrowing costs to those members that benefit from IBRD loans. Since the interest rate tor variable rate loans is based on the interest rate of the qualified borrow ings, the fair value of variable rate loans has been estimated based on the relationship ot the fair value to the carrying value of the underlying borrowings.
Single currency loans: In 1993 the IBRD introduced single currency loans. The rates charged on single currency loans are equal to the six-month reference interbank offered rate tor the applicable currency prevailing on the semiannual reset date, plus a cost margin equal to the IBRD's weighted average margin relative to the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate on its borrowings funding single currency loans, calculated for the previous semester and averaged across currencies, plus an interest spread ot 50 basis points. Since the interest rates tor single currency loans are based on the interest rate of qualified borrow ings, the fail' value of single currency loans has been estimated based on the relationship ot the fair value to the carrying value of underlying borrowings.
Borrowings
Currency swaps: Currency swaps are agreements in which proceeds of a borrowing are converted into a different currency and, simultaneously, a forward exchange agreement is executed providing for a sched-
ule of future exchanges of the two currencies in order to recover the currency converted. The combination ot a borrowing and a currency swap produces the financial equivalent ot substituting a borrowing in the currency obtained in the initial conversion for the original borrowing.
Interest rate swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements that transform a fixed rate payment obligation in a particular currency into a floating rate obligation in that currency and vice-versa.
Forward interest rate swaps: A forward interest rate swap is an agreement under which the cash flow exchanges ot the underlying interest rate swaps would begin to take effect from a specified date.
Deferred rate setting agreements:The IBRD enters into deferred rate setting agreements in conjunction with some of its bond issues. These agreements provide tor payments to be made to or by the IBRD reflecting gain or loss on one or more government securities or related financial instruments. These agreements allow the IBRD to fix the effective interest cost to the IRRD of all or a portion of the issues over a specified period of time after the issue date of the respective bond. The potential credit loss to the IBRD from nonperformance is limited to any amounts due, but unsettled, from the financial intermediary. However, periodic mark-to-market settlements on these agreements limit this risk. At June 30, 1995 and June 30, 1994, the effective interest cost of all principal amounts had been fixed.
Providing liquidity and minimizing the cost of funds are key objectives to the IBRD’s overall borrowing strategy. The IBRD uses swaps in its borrowing strategy to lower the overall cost ot its borrowings tor those members who benefit from IBRD loans.The IBRD undertakes swap transactions w ith a list of authorized counterparties. Credit and maturity limits have been established tor each counterparty.
Swaps are used to modify the interest rate and/or currency characteristics of the borrowing portfolio and are linked to the related borrowings at inception and remain so throughout the terms of their contracts. The interest component of a swap is recognized as an adjustment to the borrowing cost over the life ot the contract. Upon termination, the change in a swap's market value is recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value ot the underlying borrowing and recognized as an adjustment of the borrowing cost over the expected remaining life of the borrowing. In instances where the underlying borrowing is prepaid, the change in the associated sw ap's market value is recognized immediately as an adjustment to the cost of the underlying borrowing instrument.
The following table reflects the carrying and estimated fair values of the borrowings portfolio as at June 30,
1995	and June 30, 1994.
The estimated fair values are based on quoted market prices where such prices are available. Where no quoted market price is available, the fair value is estimated based on the cost at which the IliRl' could currently undertake borrowings with similar terms and remaining maturities, using the secondary market yield curve. The fair value of swaps represent the estimated cost ot replacing these contracts on that date.
The average cost of borrowings outstanding during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1 995 was 6.(i2 percent (t>.74 percent—June 30, 1994), reflecting a reduction in interest expense of SI 57 million ($234 million—lune 30, 1994) as a result ol swaps.
NOTK D—RISK EXPOSURE OF CERTAIN FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
For the purpose of risk management, the utRP is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which
involve elements of credit risk in excess of the amount recorded on tile balance sheet. Credit risk represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance bv obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. Additionally, the nature ot the instruments involve contract value and notional principal amounts that are not reflected in the basic financial statements. For both on- and off-balance sheet securities, the l UR 11 limits trading to a list ot authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit limits have been established tor each counterparty by typo of instrument and maturity category.
The credit risk exposure and contract value/notional amounts, as applicable, ot these Financial instruments as at June 30, ll>95 and June 30, 1994 are given below
On August 2, 1994, the Executive Directors allocated $505 million of the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994 to the General Reserv e. On October 6, 1994, the Board ot Governors approved a transfer to the IOA, by way of grant, of $300 million in an equivalent amount in SPR\ out of the net income earned in the hscal year ended June 30, 1994. On the same day the Board of Governors also approved a transfer ot $249 million to Surplus. On November 28,
1994,	the Board of Governors approved a transfer ot S20 million for Emergency Assistance for Rwanda out of Surplus.
Transfers to International Development Association:
The Board ot Governors has approved aggregate transfers to the IPA totaling $4,273 million trom unallocated Net Income for the Hscal years through June 30, 1993. On October 9, 1994, the Board of Governors approved a transfer to the IPA, by wav of grant, ot S300 million in an equivalent amount in SPRs. As at June 30, 1995, all transfer;, to the IDA had been paid. At June 30, 1994, $ 1,023 million remained payable to the IPA.
Transfers to Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries: The Board of Governors approved aggregate transfers to the Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Onlv Countries totaling $200 million through June 30, 1994. At June 30, 1995, $105 million remained payable (SI 31 million—June 30, 1994).
Transfer to Trust Fuiul for Gflza.'The Board of Gov ernors approv ed a transfer to the Trust Eund for Gaza, by way ot grant, totaling $50 million through lune 30,
1 994. At June 30, 1 995, $25 million remained payable ($50 million—June 30, 1994).
Transfer for Emergency Assistance for Ru’anda: On
November 28, 1994, the Board of Governors approved a transfer ot $20 million tor Emergency Assistance tor Rwanda out ot Surplus. At June 30,
1995,	$5 million remained payable.
NOTE F—EXPENSES
On lebruary 21, 1995, the Executiv e Directors approved the expenditure of S 1 53 million for costs associated with planned staff reductions. At June 30,
1995,	the revised estimate for the total cost of this plan was $131 million.The reductions, to meet changing client demands, are designed to improve the IBRP’s and the IPA's efficiency while maintaining current operating lev els. The planned staff reductions arc expected to lower future years' administrative expenses by an amount greater than the associated cost. Under this plan, approximately 590 staff (originally budgeted at 598 staff) in various departments are to be declared redundant during Hscal year 1995 through Hscal year ] 999. It is estimated that payments to meet termination costs trom the planned reductions will be completed by the end ot Hscal year 1998. As at June 30, 1 995, 285 staff have been notified ot pending separation under this plan at a cost of $51 million. $1 million has been charged against the accrual ot $131 million. Included in the total charge ot $ 13 1 million are costs associated with job search assistance, training, outplacement consulting, pension plan contributions, medical insurance contributions and related tax allow ances.
Of the total charge ot $131 million, $78 million has been inc luded in Administrative Expenses tor the fiscal year ended hine 30, 1995 and $53 million has been charged to the IDA, consistent with normal cost apportionment procedures, through the management tee tor the fiscal year 11|95.
Administrative Expenses are net of the management fee of $57 1 million ($545 million—June 30, 1994) charged to the ipa and $1 I 1 million ($107 million — June 30, 1994) charged to reimbursable programs. Included in the amounts charged to reimbursable programs are allocated charges of S21 million ($21 million—June 30, 1994) charged to the IIV and $1 million ($1 million—June 30, 1994) charged to the MIGA.
Contributions to special programs represent grants tor agricultural research, the control ot onchocerciasis, and other developmental activities.
NOTE G—TRUST FUNDS
The IRRP, alone or jointly with the IPA, administers on behalf ot donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted tor specific uses which include the cofinancing of IRRP lending projects, debt reduction operations for IRRP members, technical assistance tor borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs and research and training programs. These funds are placed in trust and are not included in the assets of the
The responsibilities of the IBRD under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services. During the fiscal year 1995, the IBRD received $19 million ($1 7 million—June 30, 1994) as fees for administering trust funds. These fees have been recorded as a reduction of administrative expenses.
NOTE H—STAFF RETIREMENT PLAN
The IBRD has a defined benefit retirement plan (the Plan) covering substantially all of its staff. The Plan also covers substantially all the staff of the I re and the MIGA. Under the Plan, benefits are based on the years of contributory service and the highest three-year average of pensionable remuneration as defined in the Plan, with the staff contributing a fixed percentage ot pensionable remuneration, and the IBRD contributing the remainder of the actuarially determined cost ot future Plan benefits. The IBRD uses the aggregate method tor determining its contribution to the Plan. The amount of that contribution approximates the net periodic pension cost as detailed below. All contributions to the Plan and all other assets and income held tor the purposes ot the Plan are held by the IBRD separately from the other assets and income of the IBRD, IDA, IK", and MIGA and can be used only tor the benefit ot the participants in the Plan and their beneficiaries, until all liabilities to them have been paid or provided tor. Plan assets consist primarily ot equity and fixed income securities, with smaller holdings of cash, real estate, and other investments.
Net periodic pension cost for the ibrd participants for the fiscal years ended June 30. 1995 and June 30,
1994	consisted of the following components:
The portion of this cost that relates to the IBRD and is included in Administrative Expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995 is $65 million ($63 million-June 30, 1994). The balance has been included in the management tee charged to the IDA.
The following table sets forth the Plan's funded status as at June 30, 1995 and June 30, 1994:
The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligation was 8.25 percent (8.25 percent—June 30, 1994). The effect of projected compensation lev els was calculated based on a scale that provides for a decreasing rate ot salary increase depending on age, beginning with 1 2.7 percent at age 20 and decreasing to 6.2 percent at age 64. The expected long-term rate of return oil assets was 9 percent (9 percent—June 30, 1994).
NOTE I—RETIRED STAFF BENEFITS PLAN
The IBRD has a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) that provides certain health care and life insurance benefits to retirees. All staff who are enrolled in the insurance programs while in active service and who meet certain requirements are eligible for benefits when they reach early or normal retirement age while working for the IBRD. The RSBP also covers the staff of the IFC and the MIGA.
Retirees contribute a level amount toward life insurance based on the amount of coverage. Retiree contributions toward health care are based on length of service and age at retirement. The IBRD annually contributes the remainder of the actuarially determined cost for future benefits. All contributions to the RSBI1 and all other assets and income held for purposes of the RSBI’ are held by the IBRD separately from the other assets and income of the IBRD, IDA, IFC, and MIGA and can he used only for the benefit of the participants in the RSBP and their beneficiaries until all liabilities to them have been paid or provided for. RSBP assets consist primarily of fixed income and equity securities.
Net periodic postretirement benefits cost for the IBRD participants for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1995 and June 30, 1994 consisted of the following components:
In millions
The portion of this cost that relates to the IBRD and is included in Administrative Expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995 is $23 million ($21 million— June 30, 1994],The balance has been included in the management fee charged to the IDA.
The following table sets forth the RSBP s funded status as at June 30, 1995 and June 30, 1994:
Jn millions
Of the $332 million prepaid as at June 30, 1995 ($338 million—June 30, 1994), $301 million is attributable to the IBRD ($31 1 million—June 30, 1994) and is included in Miscellaneous Assets on the Balance Sheet. The remainder has been attributed to the IK" and the MIGA.
For June 30, 1995, the accumulated plan benefit obligation (apbo) was determined using health care cost trend rates of 1 1.2 to 15.1 percent, decreasing gradually to 5.1 percent in 2010 and thereafter. The health care cost trend rate used for June 30, 1994 was 12.2 to 16.4 percent decreasing gradually to 5.8 percent in 2010 and thereafter.
The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the amounts reported. To illustrate, increasing the assumed health care cost trend rates by one percentage point would increase the APBO as at June 30, 1995 by $138 million and the net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the fiscal year by $19 million.
The weighted average discount rate used in determining the APBO was 7.5 percent (8.25 percent—June 30, 1994). The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was 8.25 percent (8.25 percent—June 30, 1994).
President and Board of Governors International Bank tor Reconstruction and Development
In our opinion, the financial statements appearing on pages 140 through 164 of this Report present fairly, in all material respects, in terms of United States dollars, the financial position of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Dev elopment at June 30, 1995 and 1994 , and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and with International Accounting Standards. These financial statements are the responsibility of management ot the International Bank tor Reconstruction and Development; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including International Standards on Auditing, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about w hether the financial .statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. W'e believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
As described in the Summary ot Significant Accounting and Related Policies in the Notes to Financial Statements, the International Bank tor Reconstruction and Development changed its method ot accounting tor the offsetting of amounts related to certain contracts during the year ended June 30,
1995.
Sorts
1.	See Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements—Note C for an explanation of the two categories of membership.
2.	In the Statements of Sources and Applications of Development Resources at June .30. 1995, Member Subscriptions and Contributions Committed of $92,772 million ($89,544 million—June 30. 1994) does not include $512 million ($512 million—June 30. 1994) of Suntzerland's subscription and contributions and includes Special Fund contributions of $386 million ($389 million—June 30. f 994} and repayments from credits financed by the Special Fund of $7 million (nil—June 30, 1994).
$512 million ($512 million—June 30, 1994) of Switzerland's subscription and contribution have not been included in the Statements of Sources and Applications of Development Resources since this represents the difference between the total cofinancing grants of $580 million provided by Switzerland directly to the IDA borrowers as cofinancing grants between the fourth and the ninth replenishments of the IDA resources, and the July 1992 contribution by Switzerland of $(?8 million.
Special Fund contributions of $386 million ($389 million—lune 30. 1994) have been included, since the development credits that were funded using these resources are repayable to the IDA (see Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements—Note C).
Repayments from credits financed by the Special Fund of $7 million (nil—June 30, 1994) have been inchided.
3.	Xiay differ from the sum of individual figures shon-n because of rounding.
The Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.
NOTE A—ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
ORIGIN AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
JDA: The International Development Association (IDA) is an international organization established on September 24, 1960 to promote economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in the IDA's membership by providing financing on terms which are more flexible and bear less heavily on the balance of payments than those of conventional loans. The IDA has three affiliated organizations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Finance Corporation (ifc), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). The principal purpose of the IRRD is to promote the economic development of its member countries, primarily by providing loans and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs ot economic reform in developing member countries. The lFC's purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in .such enterprises without a member's guarantee. The MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes among member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
Special Fund: On October 26, 1982, the IDA established the Special Fund constituted by funds contributed by members of the IDA and administered by the IDA to supplement the regular resources available for lending by the IDA. The arrangements governing the Special Fund may be amended or terminated by the IDA's Executive Directors subject to the agreement of a qualified majority of the contributors to the Special Fund. The resources of the Special Fund are kept separate from the resources of the IDA.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
Due to the nature and organization of the IDA and the Special Fund, these financial statements have been prepared for the specific purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of member subscriptions and are not intended to be a presentation in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States or with International Accounting Standards. These special purpose financial statements have been prepared to comply with Article VI, Section 1 1 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of the IDA.
The IDA's special purpose financial statements are prepared in accordance with the accounting policies outlined below.
Basis of Accounting
The IDA's special purpose financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting for development credit income, investment income, and administrative expenses. That is, the effects of transactions and other events are recognized when they occur (and not as cash or its equivalent is received or paid), and they are recorded in the accounting records and reported in the financial statements of the periods to which they relate.
Translation of Currencies
The IDA's special purpose financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing the IDAs financial position and the results of its operations tor the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
7DA;The IDA is an international organization that conducts its business in the currencies of all ot its members. Development resources and sources of development resources are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the accounting period, except Member Subscriptions and Contributions, which are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are translated at the market rates of exchange at the dates on which they are recognized or at an average ot the market rates of exchange in effect during each month. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of development credits denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) are charged or credited to Cumulative Translation Adjustment on Development Credits. Other translation adjustments are charged or credited to the Accumulated Surplus.
Special Fund: Development resources of the Special Fund are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the period. Contributions are translated in the manner described below. Income is translated at market rates of exchange on dates of recognition of income. Translation adjustments are charged or credited to the Accumulated Surplus.
Member Subscriptions and Contributions Recognition
IDA: Member Subscriptions and Contributions for each IDA replenishment are recorded in full as Subscriptions and Contributions Committed upon effectiveness of the relevant replenishment. Replenishments become effective when the IDA has received commitments from members for subscriptions and contributions of a specified portion of the full replenishment. Amounts not yet paid in, as at the date ot effectiveness, are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable and shown as a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed. These receivables come due throughout the replenishment period (generally three years) in accordance with an agreed maturity schedule. The actual payment of
receivables when they become due trom certain members is conditional upon the respective member's budgetary appropriation processes.
The Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable are settled through payment ot cash or nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes. It the receivable is settled in cash, the cash is recorded in Cash and Investments Not Immediately Available tor Disbursement until such time as it becomes available in accordance with the replenishment agreement. The notes are encashed by the IDA as provided in the relevant replenishment resolution over the disbursement period of the credits committed under the replenishment, and the cash received is recorded in Cash and Investments Immediately Available tor Disbursement.
In certain replenishments, members have had the option ot paying all of their subscription and contribution amount in cash before it becomes due and receiving a discount. In these cases, the IDA and the member agree that the IDA will invest the cash and retain the income. The related subscription and contribution payment is recorded at the full undiscounted amount. The cash and investments are recorded in Cash and Investments Not Immediately Available tor Disbursement until the date when the subscription and contribution amount would have become due, at which time it becomes available. The discount is recorded in Other Resources and amortized over the projected disbursement period for the replenishment's credits.
Under the Articles of Agreement and the arrangements governing replenishments, the IDA must take appropriate steps to ensure that over a reasonable period of time the resources provided by donors tor lending by the IDA are used on an approximately pro rata basis. As discussed in the prev ious paragraph, donors sometimes contribute resources substantially ahead of their pro rata share. Unless otherwise agreed, the IDA does not disburse these funds ahead of donors’ pro rata shares. Cash and Investments Not Immediately Available tor Disbursement represents the difference between the amount contributed and the amount available for disbursements on a pro rata basis.
Transfers to the IDA from the IliKD are recorded as Sources of Development Resources and are receiv able upon approval by the IBRD's Board ot Governors.
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership ot the IDA is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, w'hich make payments of subscriptions and contributions provided to the IDA in convertible currencies that may be freely used or exchanged by the IDA in its operations, and (2) Part II members, most ot which make payments of 10 percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies, and the remaining 90 percent ot their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions, in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II members provide a portion of their subscriptions and contributions in the same
manner as mentioned in (1) above. The IDA\ Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by the IDA tor projects financed bv the IDA and located outside the territory of the member except by agreement between the member and the ilia. These subscriptions of Part 11 members are recorded as Restricted Cash and Notes.
Special Fund. Member Subscriptions and Contributions to the Special Fund are paid in cash and nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes. The demand notes are encashed by the Special Fund as needed tor disbursement on Special Fund credits. As Special Fund credits are disbursed, the portion of subscriptions and contributions related to those disbursements is reflected as part of the IDA's Member Subscriptions and Contributions, .since repayments on all development credits become part of the general resources of the IDA.
Valuation
IDA: Th e subscriptions and contributions provided through the third replenishment are expressed in terms of "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in etfect on January I, I960” [I960 dollars). Following the abolition ot gold as a common denominator ot the monetary system and the repeal ot the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors ot the IDA have decided, with effect on that date and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words "U.S. dollars ot the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960" in Article II, Section 2(b) of the Articles ot Agreement of the IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of US. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being equal to SI.20635 tor one SDR (the 1 974 SDR), and have also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in I960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board ot Governors.
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the third replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, the IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market value of the SDR.
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the fourth replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members' currencies or SDRs and are payable in members’ currencies. Beginning July 1, 19S6, subscriptions and contributions made available for disbursement in cash to the IDA are translated at market rates of exchange on the dates thev were made avail-
able. Prior to that date, subscriptions and contributions that had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market rates ol exchange on dates of disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the accounting period.
Article IV, Section 2(aj and (b) of the IDAS Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member's currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of the IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the member’s territories, so long as and to the extent that such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. The provisions of Article )V, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of the IDA through the third replenishment, but are not applicable to those of the fourth and subsequent replenishments.
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987 that settlements of maintenance of value, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements. These amounts are shown as Deferred Amounts Receivable to Maintain Value ot Currency Holdings.
Special Fund: Beginning April 1, 1989, subscriptions and contributions received but not yet disbursed, as well as subscriptions and contributions disbursed or converted into other currencies, are translated at market rates of exchange on the dates they were made available for disbursement in cash to the Special Fund. Prior to that date, subscriptions and contributions that had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market rates of exchange at dates of disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions receivable are translated at market rates of exchange at the end ot the accounting period.
Development Credits
All development credits are made to member governments or to the government of a territory' of a member (except for development credits that have been made to regional development banks for the benefit of members or territories of members of the IDA). In order to qualify for lending on IDA terms, a country’s per capita income must be below a certain level, and the country may have only limited or no creditworthiness tor IBRD lending. Development credits carry a service charge of
0.75 percent, generally have 35- or 40-year final maturities and a 10-year grace period tor principal payments. Dev elopment credits are carried in the financial statements at the full face amount of the borrowers' outstanding obligations.
It is the policy ot the IDA to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such development credit are overdue by more than six months, unless the IDA management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if loans by the IRRD to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by the IDA. On the date a member's development credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued on development credits outstanding to the member that remained unpaid are deducted from the income from development credits of the current period. Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by the IDA. On the date a member pays in full all overdue amounts, the member's credits emerge from nonaccrual status, its eligibility for new credits is restored, and all overdue charges (including those from prior years) are recognized as income from development credits in the current period.
In fulfilling its mission, the IDA makes concessional loans to the poorest countries; therefore there is significant credit risk in the portfolio of development credits. Management continually monitors this credit risk. However, no provision for credit losses has been established because it is not practicable to determine such an amount in view of the nature and maturity structure ot the credit portfolio. Should actual losses occur, they would be charged against the IDA's Accumulated Surplus. To date, the IDA has not suffered any losses on receivables from development credits.
/D/4.-The repayment obligations of the ilia's development credits funded trom resources through the fifth replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars. In June 1 987, the Executive Directors decided to value those development credits at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis. Development credits funded from resources provided under the sixth replenishment and thereafter are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed.
Special Fund'. Special Fund development credits are denominated in SDRs. The principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed.
Special Fund development credits are made on the same terms as regular IDA development credits except that the proceeds ot Special Fund development credits may be used only to finance expenditures tor goods or services from (a) Part II members of the IDA; (b) Part I members contributing to the Special Fund; and (c)
Part I members contributing to the regular resources ot the IDA through the 1DA> FY84 Account who have notified the IDA that such contributions are to be treated in the same manner as contributions to the Special Fund for purposes of any future adjustment ot the voting rights of the members ot the IDA.
Investments
The IDA carries its investment securities and related financial instruments at market value. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in Income from Investments.
NOTE B—INVESTMENTS
As part ot its overall portfolio management strategy, the IDA invests in government and agency obligations, time deposits, and related financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk including futures, forward contracts, covered forward contracts, options, and short sales.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes, and other obligations. Obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed bv governments of countries require a minimum credit rating ot AA if denominated in a currency other than the home currency; otherwise no rating is required. Obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality ot a government of a country, a multilateral organization, or am other official entitv require a credit rating of AAA.
Time Deposits:Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks anil other financial institutions.
Futures and Forwards: futures and forward contracts are contracts for delayed delivery ot securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield.
Covered Forwards: Covered forwards are agreements in which cash in one currency is converted into a different currency and. simultaneously, a forward exchange agreement is executed providing tor a future exchange ot the two currencies in order to recover the currency converted.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller ot the option.The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option. The IDA only invests in exchange-traded options.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the IDA'.-. portfolio at the time of the sale. The IDA must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will mov e adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
A summary of the IDA investment portfolio by instrument tor Investments Immediately Available for Disbursement and Not Immediately Available tor Disbursement at June 3d, 1995 is as follows:
For the purpose of risk management, the IPA is party to a v arietv of financial instruments, certain ot w hich involve elements of credit risk in excess ot the amount reflected in the Statements ol Sources and Applications of Development Resources. Credit risk represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms ot the contraits. Additionally, the nature ot the instruments involves contract value and notional principal amounts that are not reflected in the basic financial statements. For both on- and off-balance sheet securities, the 11W limits trading to a list ot authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit limits have been established tor each counterparty by type of instrument and maturity tategory.
The credit risk exposure and contract value/notional amounts, as applicable, ot these financial instruments as at June 30, 1995 and June 30, 1994 are given below:
NOTE C—MEMBER SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CO\-TRIBl JTIONS
Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable:
The pavment ot subscriptions and contributions is conditional on the members' budgetary processes. At June 30, 1995 receivables from subscriptions and contributions was $6,739 million ($1 1,186 million—
June 30, 1994) ot which $475 million ($343 million—June 30, 1994) was due and $ti,2(i4 million ($10,843 million—June 30, 1994) was not vet due.
Subscriptions and contributions clue as at June 30,
1 995 were as follows:
Membership: On February 25, 1993 the ibriv.. Evecu-ti\ e Directors decided that the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SIR'i) had ceased to be a member ot the IRRD and that the Republic Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic ot Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic ot Macedonia, the Republic ot Slovenia, and the Federal Republic ot Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are authorized to succeed to the membership ot the SFRY in the IBRD when certain requirements are met. In accordance with the Articles ot Agreement ot the IDA, on February 25, 19l>3 the Sl-RY ceased to be a member ot the IDA due to the cessation ot its membership in the IBRD. Three ot the five successor Republics—the Republics ot Croatia and Slovenia and the tormer Yugoslav Republic ot Macedonia—have since become members ot the 11 >a. As at June 30, 1995 the subscription and contributions allocated to the other successor Republics (the Republic ot Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Federal Republic ot Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)) are included under Payments on Account ot Pending Membership.
On May 29, 1992 Sw itzerland became a member ot the ID \. Betore that date Switzerland had contributed to the IDA an equivalent ot S51 million. As agreed between the Swiss Confederation and the IDA, these grant contributions were converted to an IDA subscription. Further, during the commitment periods between the fourth and the ninth replenishments ot the ILYA resources, Switzerland had refinanced projects by making av ailable to the IDA borrowers untied grants in the aggregate amount of Swiss trancs I ,055 million (historical U.S. dollar amount ot $580 million). On July 7, 1992, as agreed between the Swiss Confederation and the IDA, these grant contributions were converted to an iPA subscription and contribution when Switzerland contributed a further $68 million, representing the present value of future reflows ot the cofinancing grants it they had been made through the IDA on the IDA's repayment terms. At June 30, 1 995, $51 2 million ($512 million—June 30, 1994), representing the difference between the total cofinancing grants ot $580 million and the present value of future re flows ot $68 million, ha\e not been included in the Member Subscriptions and Contributions in the Statements <4 Sources and Applications ot Development Resources.
Contributions to Special Fund: Member contributions to the Special Fund totaling $596 million at June 30, 1995 ($596 million—June 30, 1994) are reflected as Member Subscriptions and Contributions in the Statements ot Sources and Applications ot Development Resources. At June 30, 1995 the Special Fund total is reflected net ot S386 million ($389 million—lune 30, 1994), which represents development credit disbursements that are repayable to and included in Member Subscriptions and Contributions to the IDA. Further.
$7 million (nil—June 30. 1994), representing repayments trom development credits financed bv the Special Fund, ha\e been deducted trom the Special fund total and included in the Member Subscriptions and Contributions to the IDA.
NOTE D—TRANSFERS FROM THE IBRD
/D,4:The IlilU's Board ot Gov ernors has approved aggregate transfers to the IDA totaling $4,2/3 million through June 30, 1994. Ot the total amount, $80 million has been disbursed tor grants for agricultural research, the control of onchocerciasis, and other developmental activities. On October 6, 1994 the 1UKn ' Board of Governors approved a further transfer of $300 million in an equivalent amount in SDKs to the IDA by wav of a grant.
NOTE E—DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
IDA: At June 30, 1995 no development credits payable to the IDA other than those referred to in the following paragraphs were overdue bv more than three months.
At June 30, 199? the development credits made to or guaranteed bv certain member countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding ol S3,37b million (S3,533 million—June 30, 1994), ot which Sti'5 million ($42 million—June 30, 1994) was overdue, were in nonacu'ual status. As of such date, overdue charges in respect of these development credits totaled million ($4b million—June 30, 1994). If these development credits had not been in nonaccrual status, income from development credits for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995 would have been higher bv $24 million ($31 million—June 30, 1994), which is net of charges received from such members during the year. A summary ot member countries with credits or guarantees in nonaecrual status follows:
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1 Ml-'5 Haiti and Rwanda paid off all their arrears, and therefore credits to them came out ot nonaccrual status. As a result, income from development credits for the fiscal year ended June 30, lS'S'5 increased b\ $7 million corresponding to income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years. For the fiscal vear ended June 30, 1 '-)S)4, the increase in income from development credits due to developing credits to countries coming out ot nonaccrual status w as S2 million.
Under a program established in September 19SS. a portion ot principal repayments to the IDA is allocated
on an annual basis to provide supplementary IOA credits to iDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988. Such supplementary IDA credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions, in proportion to each country's interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IHRli loans. To be eligible for such supplemental credits trom the IP A, a member country must meet the IDA's eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRP lending, and must not have had an IRRD loan approved w ithin the last twelve months. To receive a supplemental credit trom the program, a member country must be no more than sixty days overdue on its debt-service payments to the l!iftn and the IDA and must have an IPA-supported structural adjustment program in place.
A summary ot cumulative IDA credits committed and disbursed under this program from inception as at June 3(1, 1995 and June 30, 1994 is given below:
Special Fund: Special Kind dev elopment credits disbursed and outstanding of $492 million at June 30,
1995	($457 million—June 30, 1994) are included in the Statements ot Sources and Applications ot Dev elopment Resources ot the IPA since principal repayments on these development credits will become part ot the general resources ot the IDA.
NOTE F—DISCLOSURES ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Investments: Since the IPA carries its investments at market value, the carrying amount represents the fair value of the portfolio. These fair values are based on quoted market prices where available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments. The fair value ot short-term financial instruments approximates their carrying value.
Development Credits: The IPA development credits have a significant grant element because ot the concessional nature ot the IP.Vs terms. Discounting the IDA\ credits using the standard 10 percent discount rate of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organization tor Economic Cooperation and Development provides an estimate for the grant element of the IDA credits. Using the 10 percent DAC discount rate indicates that the typical IPA credit contains a grant element ot 75 percent to 80 percent of the nominal credit amount at the time the credit is committed.
This grant element calculation considers interest rates, maturity structures, and grace periods tor the credits.
It does not consider credit risk, portfolio seasoning, multilateral and sovereign credit preferences, and other risks or indicators that would be relevant in calculating face v alue. Estimating the impact of these factors is not practicable. However, the face value of Total Development Credits is substantially lower than the $98,285 million reflected on the Statements of Sources and Applications ot Development Resources.
NOTE G—INCOME AND EXPENSES
ZTM:The IDA pays a management tee to the IBRP representing its share ot the administrative expenses incurred by the IBRP. In February 1995 the Executive Directors approved the expenditure ot $1 53 million tor costs associated with planned staff reductions. At June 30, 1995 the revised estimate tor the total cost of this plan was $131 million. The reductions, to meet changing client demands, are designed to improve the IBRD1' and the ID v- efficiency while maintaining current operating levels. The planned staff reductions are expected to lower future years’ administrative expenses bv an amount greater than the associated cost. The IPA' share of the $131 million in costs associated with the planned staff reductions is $53 million and has been included in the Management Fee charged by the IBRD tor the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995.
Special Fund:'Thc service and commitment charges payable bv borrowers under Special Fund development credits are paid directly to the IDA to compensate it tor services as administrator ot the Special Fund. Income from investments of the Special Fund becomes part ot the resources ot the Special Fund.
NOTE H—TRL1ST Fl'NDS
The IDA, alone or jointly with the IRRP, administers on behalf ot donors, including members, their agencies, and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses, which include the cofinancing of IDA lending projects, debt reduction operations for IDA members, technical assistance tor borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs, and research and training programs. These funds are placed in trust and are not included in the development resources ot the IDA. The distribution ot trust fund assets bv executing agent is as follows:
The responsibilities of the II1A under these arrangements vary and range trom services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods ancl ser-yices. The IDA receives tees for administering trust
funds as a reduction ot the Management Fee charged hv the lliKl). During the hscal year 1995, the IDA received $12 million ($1 1 million—June 30, 1994) as tees tor administering trust funds.
We have audited the special purpose Statements ot Sources and Applications ot Development Resources as ot June 30, 1995 and 1994, the Summary Statement ot Development Credits and the Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions as of June 30, 1 995, and the related special purpose Statements of Changes in Accumulated Surplus and ot Cash Flows for the years ended June 30, 1995 and 1994, expressed in terms ot United States dollars, of the International Development Association (IDA) and ot the Special Fund Administered by the International Development Association, w hich appear on pages 168 through 187 ot this Report. These financial statements are the responsibility of management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are tree of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as ev aluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The special purpose financial statements were prepared to reflect the sources and applications ot dev elopment resources and the dev elopment credits, voting power, and subscriptions and contributions of IDA and the Special Fund Administered by IDA to comply with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles ot Agreement ot IDA as described in Note A. and are not intended to he a presentation in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States or with International Accounting Standards.
In our opinion, the special purpose financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, in terms ot United States dollars, the sources and applications of development resources as of June 30. 1995 and 1994, the development credits, voting power, and subscriptions and contributions ot IDA and the Special Fund Administered by IDA at June 30, 1995 and the changes in their accumulated surplus and their cash flows for the years, ended June 30, 1995 and 1994, on the basis of accounting described in Note A.
This report is intended solely tor the information ot the Board ot Governors, management and members ot IDA. Howev er, under IDA s Articles ot Agreement, this report is a matter ot public record and its distribution is not limited.
D E V ELOP \1 ENT C O M M ITTEE COM M U N 1QUES	A P P E N D 1 X 12
Fiscal 1995
COMMUNIQUE
Oaoberl. I99J
1.	The 49th meeting ot the Development Committee was held in Madrid, Spain on October 3, 1994 under the chairmanship of Mr. Mourad Cherif, Minister of Finance and Investment of Morocco. On its own 20th Anniversary, the Committee joined in congratulations to the World Bank and IMF on the 5()th Anniversary of the Bretton Woods agreement, and welcomed the World Bank's publication "Learning trom the Past—Embracing the Future."
Transfer of Resources
2.	The Committee's main task is to keep under review the transfer of resources to developing and transition countries. It therefore welcomes the continued high level ot total flows to these countries. It notes the slow rate ot growth in official development assistance and calls on donor countries to enhance their aid as soon as possible and to increase its focus on the poorest countries. Where appropriate, the Committee favors a reduction in the stock of debt and an increase in concessionality for the poorest countries lacing special difficulties. The Committee recognizes the special needs and problems of countries emerging from economic and political disruption and also of the poorest, most indebted countries and requests the Executive Boards to examine proposals in these areas.
3.	The Committee welcomes the increased volume ot private flows in recent years to a growing number of countries that are implementing economic reforms. It notes uncertainties about the sustainability of such flows in changing world conditions and the fact that they continue to be concentrated in a small number ot countries. It urges countries not currently receiving such flows to improve their creditworthiness through macroeconomic reform and to create a climate favorable to sound private sector development; these measures will attract more foreign portfolio and direct investment. The Committee asks the World Bank Group, the IMF and industrial countries to continue their efforts to facilitate and encourage private flows to all developing and transition countries.
Aid Effectiveness
4.	Effective aid requires closer collaboration between receiving countries, international organizations and donors. For aid to be most effective it has to be adequate and to operate in a favorable environment. Prime responsibility for domestic policies that contribute to aid effectiveness rests, ot course, with the recipient countries themselves. The guiding principles tor recipients are:
a.	Appropriate domestic economic policies tailored to local conditions are essential if aid is to be effective.
h.	The effective use of aid requires strong administrative and institutional capacity.
e.	"Ownership" by the government and participation by other stakeholders, including beneficiaries, are essential.
5.	The guiding principles for donors and international agencies are these:
a.	The best conditions and policies for aid cannot substitute for strong “ownership" by the recipient government and good governance. Donors and recipients must collaborate to make these the basis tor effective aid.
b.	Donors should support participation by relevant stakeholders (especially women, the poor and other disadvantaged groups); this helps to improve the design ot projects and ensure that they are properly implemented and operated. The Bank should strengthen its skill mix and incentive system for these purposes.
c.	Technical assistance (TA) is likely to be most effective when it responds to clearly-defined needs and the absorptive capacity ot the recipient. TA should work within and, if necessary, seek to strengthen the institutional environment along the lines approved by the OFCD Development Assistance Committee (DAC).
d.	Multilateral agencies, including the IMF, the World Bank Group and the regional development banks, work closely to support countries’ own efforts to put in place a sound framework tor macroeconomic and structural policies that foster the private sector and strengthen public
sector management. Aid programs should be consistent with this framework and with the country’s own development priorities. Innovative approaches to achieve this objective are to be encouraged. The World Bank will strengthen its consultations with other donors who in turn will collaborate in this approach.
e.	Efforts to coordinate and simplify donor aid procedures and practices should be accelerated. Aid operations should be made more transparent to improve accountability. Donors should avoid setting up mechanisms that are inconsistent with the recipients' own efforts to manage their own budgets and implement aid. Ministers support recent efforts in the DAC to reduce the use of tied aid credits. They also urge donors to minimize the additional costs associated with trade-distorting tied aid where this can be done w ithout reducing volume.
f.	The DAC principles provide an appropriate framework for improving aid coordination. Consultative groups and roundtable meetings are more effective when preceded by active involvement ot the recipient government and consultation with other donors. The agenda for consultative groups should cover issues of development strategy, aid utilization, aid coordination and technical assistance in addition to mobilization of financial resources.
g.	Recent efforts to improve the effectiv eness ot the World Bank and other development agencies, focusing on their development impact and on results in the field, need to be sustained and extended. Particular attention should be given
to: shifting the focus from projects to country programs; improving the "quality at entry” ot projects; strengthening evaluation and disclosure policies; streamlining procedures; addressing urgently the adequacy ot held office networks; and changing staff incentives to focus on development impact.
h.	Aid can also help to stimulate private investment; institutions such as the IFC and MICA can play a valuable role but must pay due attention to development effectiveness.
i.	Many of these principles apply with equal force to the countries in transition. However,
more attention needs to be given in these countries, in differing degrees, to informing both policymakers and public opinion at large ot the workings ot a market economy and the complementary roles ot the public and private sectors.
b.	The Committee will follow up these issues carefully at future meetings and particularly looks forward to the report of its Task Force on the Multilateral Development Banks.
The Uruguay Round and the Developing and 'transition Countries
7. The Committee reviewed the results of the recently completed Uruguay Round negotiations and their impact on the developing and transition countries. At this stage it was only possible to make a preliminary assessment of the likely effects. The Committee also considered the implications for the future work of the World Bank and the IMF. It believes that:
a.	In addition to its global effects, the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round will bring significant benefits to developing countries over time through increased market access, the integration ot new areas into the system, and strengthened rules and institutions. Early ratification and implementation are therefore essential.
b.	These benefits will accrue particularly to countries that pursue sound macroeconomic policies and adopt market-based reforms.
c.	A number of developing countries should benefit in particular from the phased integration of textiles and clothing into the multilateral system, although the timetable for liberalization will delav these benefits.
d.	Some countries may need help to adjust to higher world food prices and the erosion ot preferences, although most of them will gain trom the reduction ot agricultural subsidies. Initial studies made by the Bank and the IMF indicate that the negative effects are likely to be fairly small and that existing instruments seem adequate to deal with them. Further research mav refine these findings. Meanwhile, the Bank and the IMF must be ready to address these problems.
C O M M U N 1 Q U E S (amtmued)
Appendix 12
e.	In the longer run it is important to keep up the momentum of mutually advantageous trade liberalization and to avoid new forms ot protectionism.
f The task ot the Bank and the IMF is to assist developing and transition countries to ease the change to the new trading system by providing policy advice, financial support and technical assistance in order to maximize the gains from new market opportunities.
g.	It will also be necessary to bring the transition countries (many ot whom are not yet members ot GATT) into the multilateral process as quickly as possible so that they can fully share the benefits of trade liberalization and enlarged market access without discrimination. The Bank and the IMF should encourage and assist these countries in their efforts to become more tullv integrated into the multilateral trading system and to adopt policies that will facilitate their accession to the new World Trade Organization (WTO).
S.	The Committee believes it is essential tor both institutions to collaborate closely with the WTO and notes that the ministerial declaration at the end ot the Uruguay Round calls tor early talks betw een the Director-General of the \VT( > and the heads of the Bank and IMF.
Population
9.	Ministers from the participating countries welcomed the outcome of the recent United Nations Conference on Population and Development, which it discussed at its last meeting. The Committee called on the Bank and conference participants to play an active part in implementing the Programme ot Action approved by the conlerence.
Desertification
10.	It also welcomed the agreement on the antidesertification convention, called for its early ratification, and encouraged the Bank to continue its active support tor development and environmental management in dryland areas.
COMMUNIQUE
April 27, /lFu5
1.	The 5()th meeting ot the Development Committee was held in Washington, D.C. on
April 27, 1995, under the chairmanship of Mr. Mohamed Kabbaj, Minister of Finance and Investment of Morocco. The Committee expressed its deep regret at the departure of Mr. Lewis T. Preston and recorded its great appreciation ot his distinguished leadership as President of the World Bank. It offered its congratulations to his successor, Mr. James D. Woltensohn.
Resource Flows to Developing and Tra n sit ion Countries
2.	The Committee welcomed the continued high level of total resource flows and the increase since 1990 in v arious forms of priv ate finance, especially foreign direct investment, which does not add to debt-servicing burdens. At a time of rapid globalization and liberalization of financial markets, it noted the recent high volatility of financial flows, as exemplified by currency movements. But portfolio flows have declined, and Ministers recognized that markets are likely to be more selective in their provision of such capital. This emphasizes the need for recipient countries to follow sound macroeconomic policies to gain or maintain access to private markets and to mobilize significant domestic savings. They should avoid excessive reliance on short-term flows to finance longer-term development needs. The strong policy base and solid long-term prospects ot many dev eloping and transition countries SLiggest that they should be able to attract continued foreign direct investment.
3.	The Committee expressed its concern about the prospect ot a tall in total official dev elopment assistance. Given the pressing needs ot the poorest countries, it urged continued strong support for the International Development Association (lF>A) and tor the Special Program ot Assistance tor Africa (SPA). It welcomed the recent agreement in the Paris Club to implement "Naples Terms" tor the poorest and most heavih indebted countries and called for them to be applied fle.viblv. The Committee noted that some of these countries have a heavy burden ot debt owed to multilateral institutions. It invited the Executive Boards of the World Bank and the IMF to continue their review ot this sub-
ject so that Ministers can return to it at the next meeting.
Trade
4.	The Committee welcomed the establishment on January 1 of the World Trade Organization and urged close collaboration between the WTO and the Bretton Woods institutions. It called on the Bank and IMF to assist those countries that are not yet members ol the W TO to join the organization and to become more tully integrated into the multilateral trading system. It noted the Bank's new estimates of the likely impact of the Uruguay Round upon the trade ol developing countries. It welcomed evidence of the positive effect the Round will hav e on most developing countries, especially on those taking this opportunity to relorm their own policies.
It noted the Bank’s view that the adverse impact upon food-importing countries and those that will lose preferential access to industrial markets is likely to be small. It asked the Bank and IMF to monitor the impact on individual countries and to be prepared to help as necessary. It agreed that further liberalization of the agricultural and serv ice sectors would provide important additional gains.
Infrastructure
5.	The Committee noted that dev eloping countries currently invest over $200 billion a year in infrastructure, more than 90 percent ol it in the public sector. Adequate, efficient and carefully designed infrastructure with full regard to the environment is crucial to sustainable development. More investment and improv ed performance in infrastructure will require a series of reforms in the structure and delivery of services. Governments have a continuing responsibility, whether as providers or regulators of infrastructure. In particular, efficiency requires prices that reflect all long-run economic costs, more businesslike management, increased involvement of the private sector, and better-targeted subsidies. Such reforms should be designed to increase incentives to devote suffi-
cient resources to maintenance in order to make best use of existing assets and reduce the need for expensive replacements.
b.	Improvement will also involve more use of private finance in various forms. The options chosen will vary tor each country and service depending on conditions such as level of domestic savings and the depth of financial markets. Private participation can be encouraged through build-own-operate and build-own-operate-trans-fer concessions, leases, operating contracts, partial guarantees from the public sector, and privatization. The aim must be to pass the commercial risks to the priv ate sector and to reduce the call on public funding and public guarantees.
7.	The Committee agreed that the poor stand to gain directly and quickly trom better infrastructure, which can also help to improve environmental conditions. Donor countries can help the poorest countries bv providing financial and technical support and inv estment guarantees for the development of infrastructure within a policy framework that encourages efficient operation, maintenance, and responsiveness to users. The multilateral institutions (including IDA) have a major responsibility tor providing advice and financial support. They can also play a catalytic role in mobilizing funds from a wider range of private sector sources, using all the means available, including World Bank guarantees, and Ih'C and MIGA resources.
Social Summit
S.	The Committee generally w elcomed the outcome ot the recent Social Summit in Copenhagen and agreed to discuss the implications tor the dev eloping and transition countries and for donors and the Bank and the IMI, at its next meeting in Washington, D.C. on October 9, 199?.
Executive Secretary'
9.	The Committee expressed its deep appreciation to Peter Mountfield, the retiring Executive Secretary, for his dedicated service to the Committee over the past tour years.
Ahtnpix Tu k.i \t