The World Bank Group
The World Bank is a development institution whose mission is to fight poverty and improve living standards for people in the developing world. It provides loans, policy advice, technical assistance, and knowledge-sharing services, ibrd and ida—together the “World Bank” or “the Bank”— are owned by member countries that carry ultimate decisionmaking power. The World Bank Group today consists of five closely associated institutions:
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Established 1943 181 Members
Cumulative lending: $349.4 billion Fiscal ZOOO lending: $10.9 billion for 97 new operations in 41 countries ibrd provides loans and development assistance to middle-income countries and creditworthy poorer countries. Voting power is linked to members’ capital subscriptions, which in turn are based on each country's relative economic strength, ibrd is not a profit-maximizing organization but has earned a net income every year since 1948.
Restored roads in Peru's remote areas give poor, isolated villagers access to market centers and economic and social opportunities.
The International Development Association
Established i960 161 Members Cumulative lending: $110.] billion Fiscal 2000 lending: $4.4 billion for 126 new operations in J2 countries ida is the Bank’s concessional lending arm and provides key support for the Banks poverty reduction mission, ida assistance is focused on the poorest I,	countries, to which it provides interest-free loans (termed “credits”)
.	and other services. In fiscal 2000, 81 countries were TDA-eligible.
Rural communities participate actively in efforts to improve food security and nutrition standards in Benin.
The International Finance Corporation
Established igjb li/f Members
Committed portfolio: $zi.j billion Fiscal zooo commitments: $2,4 billion for 75 countries
ifc promotes growth in the developing world by financing private sector investments and providing technical assistance and advice to govern' ments and businesses. In partnership with private investors, ifc provides both loan and equity finance for business ventures m developing countries.
A village-level cellular phone network, enabled through GrameenPhone, empowers rural women entrepreneurs in Bangladesh.
Noncommercial guarantees help privatize commercial vehicle services in Lesotho, raising their quality and efficiency.
The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Established 1988
1	sz Members
Cumulative Guarantees issued: Sj.l billion Fiscal zooo Guarantees issued: $1.6 billion
MIGA helps encourage foreign investment in developing countries by providing guarantees to foreign investors against loss caused by noncommercial risks, miga also provides technical assistance to help countries disseminate information on investment opportunities.
The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
Established 19 66 l^l Members Total cases registered:
Fiscal ZOOO cases registered: iz
icsid helps to encourage foreign investment by providing international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes, icsid also has research and publishing activities in the areas of arbitration law and foreign investment law.
A port terminal concession in Argentina is being arbitrated in icsid.
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
In January 2000, James D.
Wolfensohn addressed the Security Council on the impact of hiv/aids on peace and security in Africa, marking the first time that the Council discussed a health issue as a threat to peace and security.
Anew millennium is beginning. For the World Bank, it is a time to ask ourselves, how can we improve our effectiveness in the fight against poverty? It is also a time to act: with urgency and with responsibility. Urgency, because roughly two billion more people will be joining us on this planet in the next 25 years, and we must be ready for them. Responsibility, because the 2.8 billion poor who currently live on less than two dollars a day are our fellow human beings, and not just a statistic.
Achieving a world free of poverty is an enormous and complex undertaking. And solutions are far from simple. The challenges are multidimensional; they call for people, groups, and institutions to come together to play a wide range of roles in a collegial, collective effort. It is only with strong coalitions—local, national, regional, and global—that we will succeed in fighting poverty; that much is clear.
What does it take to reduce poverty?
Our strategy, at the country level, is rooted in a wealth of lessons from development experience. Some of the key lessons are: that development assistance leads to progress in sound policy and institutional environments; that economic growth is crucial but must be accompanied by government action targeted to meet poor people’s needs and to address the social costs of reform; that reforms cannot be imposed from the outside but must be “homegrown”; that communities must have a voice and play a role in their own development; and that open economies grow faster than closed economies. Our recent work on poverty—economic analysis as well as consultations with poor people—reveals that
people in poverty are an asset, not a liability. It is imperative that we give them opportunities, that we empower them, and that we ensure their security.
Drawing on these lessons, our work is guided by the following principles:
>■ Country ownership: A country’s progress depends fundamentally on its directing the policy agenda. Actions taken without broad buy-in have too often turned out to be unsustainable. Success requires that consensus-building by all stakeholders be part of the action agenda.
2s- Long-term integrated approach: To achieve sustainable growth, crucial for poverty reduction, poverty reduction strategies must be multidimensional. These strategies must address macroeconomic as well as social, environmental, and institutional needs. Progress must occur on all fronts, ranging from governance, anticorruption, and judicial and financial systems to health, education, and transport policies.
Partnership: Collaborative relationships, shared objectives, and a mutually agreed-upon division of labor are crucial. We need to go beyond aid coordination: we need to align strategies, be selective, draw on mutual expertise, and reduce wasteful competition and duplication among donors.
>• Results focus: It is crucial to have development outcomes as our guides, and these must flow directly from the long-term vision. Countries must set poverty reduction targets, lay out public policy actions to achieve them, and work with civil society to monitor progress.
We put forward this vision last year to the global community under a pilot approach we call the Comprehensive Development Framework (cdf). I am heartened that it is increasingly a shared vision. More countries and more partners are testing the cdf approach and participating in this work-in-progress. Our work with these countries in fiscal 2000 has advanced: their interest creates the learning ground, their experience will define the way forward. Continuing this theme is our joint endeavor with the IMF to help those
countries eligible for debt relief, under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (hipc) Initiative, to produce Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (prsps).
Our strategy to fight poverty also requires action at the global level. There is much that can be done to promote disease reduction globally through greater use of cost-effective vaccines; to raise awareness of the impact of hiv/aids on development; to address transnational challenges such as the prevention of financial crises; to provide concerted debt relief to poor countries; and to preserve the world’s natural resources. Each of these efforts could have a profound impact on poverty. In addition, empowering people with knowledge and technology could have far-reaching benefits. The Bank has taken important steps to advance the concept of the “Knowledge Bank,” including efforts to develop the framework for a Global Development Gateway, being conceived as an Internet-based vehicle facilitating the provision and exchange of information.
At both country and global levels, our emphasis is on demand-driven services and aid effectiveness. The past year’s decline in lending relative to the previous years record volume attests to this evolution. Emerging market countries have needed substantially less financial support due to the strong recovery of global financial markets and a resumption of access to private capital. Other countries are indeed in need but lack the circumstances (national peace as well as sound policies and institutions) that would permit an effective use of financial aid. Lower lending also reflects smaller-sized operations, through which the “New Bank” has responded to country needs to adopt pilot approaches and build institutional capacity as prerequisites to successful development efforts. The Bank has, moreover, increased its reliance on nonlending services in the policy dialogue, recognizing their key role in building support for development efforts.
I cannot stress enough the importance of partnerships. The task ahead is too formidable for any single institution or set of institutions to tackle. Every one of us has a role to play: private sector, public sector, civil society, nongovernmental organizations (ngos), academia, religious
groups, multilateral and bilateral donors, and development organizations. If we are to achieve the United Nations—based international development targets, we all need to work together (see Box i.i). Halving poverty levels by 2015 is possible, but only if we concert our efforts in a new way.
It is my firm conviction that the Bank has a crucial role to play in this challenge. As a cooperative, we enjoy the backing of nearly every nation of the world in pursuing our mission. As a development institution with a half-century of experience across countries and sectors, we have a vast array of lessons that we continue to build on every day. As a global institution with offices throughout the world, we have an unparalleled reach, growing in leaps and bounds in this age of communication, which is helping us get closer to the people we serve, and to share knowledge that is key to empowerment and progress. As a strong financial institution and leader in capital markets, we mobilize funding on good terms and tailor it to meet long-term development needs typically unmet by private creditors. And as a multinational employer, we are blessed with a rich pool of skills and talent, a group of people with an unequaled professionalism and devotion to fighting against poverty. I am enormously indebted to them.
The World Bank’s track record shows clearly that we are making a difference, and that we are learning and adapting to client needs. Our task is to build on all that we have achieved. We, as a global community, can go down the business-as-usual path and see the numbers of poor grow steadily, decade after decade; or we can innovate and follow the path with more unknowns but infinitely more promise. For the Bank the choice is clear: we have embarked on a path of change, and we are committed to listening, learning, and acting in partnership until more and more people partake in the manv opportunities that the new era of growth, technology, and global development has to offer.
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL
This Annual Report, which covers the period from July i, 1999 to June 30, 2000, has been prepared by the Executive Directors of both the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (ibrd) and the International Development Association (ida) in accordance with the respective by-laws of the two institutions. James D. Wolfensohn, President of the ibrd and IDA, and Chairman of the Boards of Executive Directors, has submitted this Report, together with the accompanying administrative budgets and audited financial statements, to the Board of Governors.
Annual Reports for the International Finance Corporation (ifc), the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (miga), and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (icsid) are published separately.
WHERE THE WORLD BANK GOT ITS MONEY IN FISCAL 2000...
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
In fiscal 2000, IBRD raised $15.8 billion in international debt capital markets. Borrowings and shareholder equity fund ibrd’s loans and investments.
^ The year’s funding volume was below that of fiscal 1999, after peaking in fiscal 1998 due to above-average demand for financing.
>■ ibrd continued to borrow at favorable costs. ibrd’s financial strength is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices.
^ IBRD issued debt in 13 currencies and in a wide range of maturities and structures in fiscal 2000, Diversification helps lower borrowers’ funding costs and expand the Bank’s investor base.
Already a leader in emerging capital markets, IBRD launched its first Mexican peso and Chilean peso bond issues m fiscal 2000.
A $3 billion electronic bond offering in January zooo marked another first, continuing ibrd’s tradition of innovation, financial strength, and flexibility to meet investor needs.
International Development Association
Fiscal 2000 marked the first of three years under “lDA-12,” the 12th Replenishment of IDA agreed upon by donors in November 1998. IDA-12 permits new IDA lending of approximately S20.5 billion in fiscal 2000—02, which is in line with recent levels.
The i2dl Replenishment included $11.6 billion of new donor funds and a $0.9 billion contribution from IBRD Net Income. The remainder, s8.o billion, came from ida’s own funds, primarily from repayments of past credits and investment income.
Nearly 40 countries are ida donors. Donor nations include not only industrial countries but also developing and transition countries—some
of them former ida borrowers—such as Argentina, Botswana, Brazil, Hungary, Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, and Turkey.
5^ ida’s finances are managed in a prudent and conservative manner. Its financial strength is based on a strong and continued support from its donors as well as the increasing level of repayments from maturing “credits” (the term applied to ida loans).
...AND WHERE IT WENT
The World Bank is the world’s largest single source of development assistance to reduce poverty globally. A strong financial institution, it is able to leverage its shareholder capital several-fold to make available long-term development resources for ibrd lending on terms that the market would not have provided. Resources for ida lending to poor countries—mostly without access to capital markets—are leveraged from shareholders’ contributions. Bank lending also plays an important catalytic role, helping mobilize additional resources from cofinanciers or client governments to support common development objectives.
New lending of $15.3 billion in fiscal 2000 was below the record levels in fiscal 1998—99, as ibrd borrowers emerged from financial crisis. Lending declined in every region except Africa. Latin America and the Caribbean was the largest borrowing region ($4 billion). Poverty reduction continues to drive lending, with 22 percent of lending directed to human development. Improvements in project quality through greater selectivity, enhanced consultation, and strengthened preparation and supervision has meant that billions of dollars for borrowers’ projects are used more effectively. Nine out of 10 new projects were rated satisfactory on preparation in calendar 1999, compared with 7 out of 10 in calendar 1996.
IBRD FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
(see Section VI for more information)
Managing Returns to Maintain Strength
>• As a cooperative institution, ibrd does not seek to maximize profit but to earn adequate return on assets to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities on an ongoing basis. ibrd targets a net return on assets (roa) of about i percent per annum. In fiscal 2000, a reduction in the loan loss provision due to improved credit quality of loans boosted roa by 0.16 percent.
Managing Risk
>• Consistent with its development mandate, ibrd’s main risk is the credit risk of its loan portfolio. This risk is closely managed.
IBRD keeps its exposure to market risk quite limited. Market risk arises due to movements in market variables such as interest rates and exchange rates. The Bank’s equity capital-to-loans ratio is a summary measure of its risk-bearing capacity.
This ratio declined over fiscal 1998—99 due to a surge in Bank lending. However, the Bank remains strongly capitalized.
Achieving Efficient Intermediation
>■ ibrd’s high credit rating (aaa) allows the Bank to borrow for long maturities at favorable terms. The Bank borrows globally in multiple markets and currencies.
^ Outstanding debt after swaps reached 76 percent of average total earning assets, as of June 30.
^ ibrd borrowed $15.8 billion at medium- to long-term maturities in fiscal zooo. Innovation in capital markets continued: IBRD pioneered a first-ever electronic bond offering and became the first foreign issuer in the Mexican and Chilean peso bond markets, creating a new asset class for foreign investors.
>■ As of June 30, 2000 the liquid asset portfolio was $24.3 billion, comprised of extremely liquid investments.
Lending: Volume Down,
Quality Up (see also Overview)
^ The quality of ibrd operations continued to improve: ongoing projects had substantially fewer problems than a few years ago.
As emerging markets recovered from the financial crisis, ibrd lending in fiscal 2000 fell below the record levels of the last two years, back to historical pre-crisis trends in lending levels.
>- The level and type of Bank lending support has been continuously evolving in response to changing demands from country clients. Global economic recover)’ contributed strongly to trends in Bank lending over the past year, as successful economic reforms in many emerging markets restored their access to international capital markets. Lower volume also reflects a gradual downtrend in the size of operations in line with the ongoing shift awav from large infrastructure projects toward smaller operations supporting institution-building and human development.
>• Increasingly, nonlending activities precede or accompany lending to promote effective use of resources; advisory and analytical services in fiscal 2000 helped countries build consensus and ownership.
Lending by Region: Last Year’s Crisis Borrowings Recede
2^ Loans to Brazil, Colombia, and Mexico— three of the ibrd’s top five borrowers in fiscal 2000—accounted for a large part of new commitments in the Latin America and Caribbean region.
Turkey was the largest IBRD borrower m fiscal 2000 ($1.8 billion), as the Bank supported key structural and social reforms and responded to a severe earthquake; China was the second largest ($1.7 billion), reflecting the Banks support for infrastructure and rural development needs.
2s- In the wake of East Asia’s marked economic recovery, the region borrowed S2.5 billion in fiscal 2000, compared with s8.8 billion in both fiscal 1999 and fiscal 1998. Argentina and Indonesia, last year’s
IBRD OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
largest borrowers ($6 billion combined), together borrowed under $70 million in fiscal 2000.
Lending by Sector: Institutions and Infrastructure; People
^ ibrd support in fiscal 2000 focused on strengthening the financial sector ($1.6 billion), improving public sector management ($1.5 billion), and meeting infrastructure needs ($1.8 billion including transport, telecommunications, and water supply)—key elements for successful private sector development and poverty reduction.
Human development was also a priority in ibrd assistance in fiscal 2000: lending for education, health and nutrition, and social protection amounted to $1.7 billion, with notable support for strengthening health systems and health care institutions.
Also noteworthy was the support for rural development and environmental needs ($1.5 billion, half of which for China), while multisector lending (so.5 billion) reflected mainly assistance for disaster recovery, including prevention and risk mitigation efforts.
ibrd Investment and Adiustment Lending
Investment lending accounted for the bulk of ibrd’s new commitments in fiscal 2000 (59 percent of the total). The share of adjustment lending fell from 63 percent in fiscal 1999 to 41 percent in fiscal 2000.
2^ IBRD support for structural and sectoral adjustment (promoting policy and institutional reforms conducive to private sector—led growth and poverty reduction) focused on financial sector and public sector management reforms and governance (including assistance for decentralization in Mexico, fiscal transparency in Thailand, and subnational reforms in India’s Uttar Pradesh state).
Latin American countries accounted for much of the year’s adjustment lending, but other reforming nations (such as Thailand and Turkey) also recieved substantial support.
ida Financing
Effective March 23, 2000, IDA-12 replenishment provides resources for new financing commitments during fiscal 2000—02.
2s" IDA-12 replenishment of $20.5 billion included $11.6 billion of new donor funds.
>- IBRD Net Income contributed $0.9 billion to IDA-12.
ida’s own resources represent $8.o billion. This source of funds has become increasingly important as a share of replenishments, rising from 20 percent in ida-io to 39 percent in IDA-12.
Lending: Lower Volume, Focus on Effective Use of Resources
>■ A decline in IDA lending commitments in fiscal 2000 reflected the confluence of country-specific factors—especially policy and institutional performance and conflict situations in Africa and Asia—and ida’s focus on selectivity and aid effectiveness.
As with ibrd operations, innovative new lending instruments that promote learning and innovation with reduced risk and greater aid effectiveness also imply smaller operations. The size of new IDA operations averaged under $35 million in fiscal 2000, compared with S55 million for fiscal 1990—99.
As with IBRD operations, operational quality continued to improve, while analytical and advisory services—and new support for preparing Poverty Reduction Strategies—enhanced prospects for successful use of ida resources.
Lending by Region: Focus on Africa and on Reformers
>■ New ida commitments to the Africa region in fiscal 2000 stood at $2.0 billion, about the same
level as in fiscal 1999 but constituting a higher share of total ida lending and approaching the 50 percent target set by ida donors.
India was the largest ida borrower in fiscal 2000 with new commitments of $867 million, followed by support for structural and social reforms in Tanzania ($330 million), Vietnam ($286 million), as well as Mozambique, Senegal, and Zambia.
Lending by Sector: Human Development, Reform, Infrastructure
Support for human development—including education, health and nutrition, and social protection—was the most important focus of ida lending in fiscal 2000 ($1.6 billion, a third of which for India).
>- Human development operations repeated successful experience (especially in social funds and education), focused on basic health and education, and involved innovative approaches (such as distance learning in Benin and community development in Lesotho).
>■ Support for economic reform, economic recovery (multisector), and private sector development was focused largely on Africa ($0.7 billion).
ida support for infrastructure needs was also significant ($0.6 billion), recognizing these countries’ limited access to private capital—which plays an increasing role in financing infrastructure—and supporting sector reforms (Madagascar transport, Nicaragua telecom) as well as rural development (Bhutan, Vietnam).
>- Assistance for agricultural and environmental needs was also significant ($0.5 billion), with the largest number of operations in Eastern Europe.
RESPONDING TO A CHANGING WORLD
In July 1944, 44 countries came together to form the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Their immediate goal was to help war-torn economies rebuild after World War II. Since then, much has changed in the world—and in what is,
today, the World Bank. Most countries of the world are now members of the Bank and support its efforts to achieve a world free of poverty.
AS THE WORLD HAS CHANGED...
As far too many have not benefited enough from economic progress, and the numbers of poor have steadily grown...
As state-controlled, closed economies have generally failed, and market-based, open economies have mostly succeeded...
As donor budgets have tightened, and private capital flows have surged in importance...
As structural reforms have proven a necessary but insufficient condition for poverty alleviation...
As development has proven complex and not solely a function of financial resources...
...WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE HAS EVOLVED
...the Bank has anchored its mission in poverty reduction, with expanded support from a concessional lending arm, the International Development Association (ida), and a greater focus on people's well-being, health, and education
...Bank assistance has supported market-friendly policies and institution-building that are key to private investment, export-led growth, and poverty reduction
...Bank assistance has been refocused toward countries, sectors, and poorer target populations that tend to benefit less from private flows
...the Bank has emphasized the need to make growth inclusive: the focus is on social protection, good governance, and the role of an effective state in addressing needs unmet by the private sector
...the Bank has expanded its loan product menu and increasingly complemented its lending with nonlending services to empower people with knowledge and capacity and to help build national consensus
As democratic principles have taken root and societies have become more open...
...the Bank has, in its work, increasingly emphasized consultation and participation to strengthen the people's voice and to promote country ownership of development efforts
As financial and natural crises have dealt blows to the world's poorest people...
...the Bank has responded on many fronts: providing finance, mobilizing and coordinating donor interventions, ensuring attention to poor people's needs, and supporting efforts to assess future risks and prepare for them
Across the globe one person in five lives on less than $l a day—and one in seven suffers chronic hunger
GOAL: HALVE THE PROPORTION OF PEOPLE LIVING IN EXTREME POVERTY BY 2015
The Poverty Challenge: Where We Are Today
In many developing countries, the poor struggle at the margin of the formal economy. They lack political influence, education, health care, adequate shelter, personal safety, regular income, and enough to eat.
Worldwide, the number and proportion of people living in extreme poverty declined slightly through the mid-1990s. Most of the decline was in East Asia, notably in China. But progress slowed temporarily in some Asian countries in the late 1990s, and ground to a halt or reversed in others. In the rest of the world, while the proportion of people in poverty declined, population growth meant that the number of poor people increased. And in the Europe and Central Asia region, undergoing economic and social transition, the proportion of poor more than tripled.
Between 1988 and 1996, Thailand’s economy grew hy j% a year, and the share of the population in poverty dropped from 22% to 11%. But the country’s financial crisis pushed that share hack up to lf/o in 1998. In response, Thailand is redirecting its development strategy to reduce inequality, which remained high despite all the growth.
The country’s development plan, now more people-centered, has increased resources to the poorer north and northeast. The objective: to reduce poverty to less than 10% hy 2001. A new social investment fund helps create jobs and supports social services for poor people. As part of the new strategy, governance reforms are geared to increasing accountability and giving authority to local district councils, which now elect their own officials and command greater resources.
The numbers of poor are greatest in South Asia, but the proportion of poor people is highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Most poor people live in rural areas, but urban poverty is growing faster. Women are more likely than men to lack rights to land and other assets. They also have difficulty getting access to credit. And they lack adequate employment and economic security' in old age.
Today there are 150 million underweight children in the developing world. But the proportion of malnourished children is falling everywhere except Africa. Being underweight increases the risk of death and inhibits mental and physical development. Malnourished women are more likely to have underweight babies. Despite progress, special efforts will be needed to meet the World Food Summit goal of halving the number of undernourished people by 2015.
Poverty rates can be cut in half by 2015 if countries follow policies that reduce social and gender inequalities and create income-earning opportunities for poor people. But actions by industrial countries are crucial; development assistance must continue to support poverty reduction efforts. Debt relief and open markets for developing country exports can play an important role. Meeting this goal is only a first step, because even if it is reached, almost 900 million people will still be left in extreme poverty. That is why the effort to eliminate poverty needs to be intensified.
The Poverty Challenge: What the World Bank Is Doing
GOVERNANCE
MATTERS
Good governance and strong institutions are central themes oj World Bank support for poverty reduction. Why? Because they:
directly improve the quality and accessibility of services to poor people (e.g., education, health, water; justice);
contribute to economic growth and help ensure that budget allocation and policymaking take place in an environment that is open, transparent, noncorrupt, and not biased against poor people;
S'- give citizens—including poor people— greater voice, which increases the accountability of government to its citizens and thus improves public peformance.
ntensifying focus on poverty. Over the past year, we have conducted wide-
■	ranging participatory poverty analyses and elaborated a framework for poverty I reduction in the World Development Report 2000/2001 (see facing page). We are I	supporting important efforts to reduce inequality, particularly in poor peoples
access to assets. And we are measuring progress by poverty-related outcomes rather than amounts loaned.
Helping countries adopt a strategic framework for poverty reduction. In fiscal 2000, we linked debt relief and concessional assistance more closely to poverty reduction (see “Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers,” facing page). Working with the IMF, we are combining the Fund’s expertise in helping countries follow sound macroeconomic policies with the Bank’s experience in social and structural policies and programs.
Fighting poverty at the global level. We are helping provide global public goods like knowledge, health, agricultural research, and environmental best practice that can go far in helping poor people; we are working with partners to prevent financial crises and mitigate their impact.... and at the local level: We are working with communities and helping empower poor people to become agents of change. Pilot community-based development programs will help us learn how to better work with communities. We are also helping people to use natural resources in a manner that does not undermine their long-term welfare.
Sharpening the poverty focus of Country Assistance Strategies (CASs). cass and related lending and nonlending services are aimed at supporting policies, strengthening institutions, and financing programs that help people better feed and educate their children, find jobs, increase incomes, and manage resources, as illustrated below.
COUNTRY ASSISTANCE
Assistance to India is focused on state-level reform and development, for example in Uttar Pradesh, the most populous and one of the poorest states. Other support will help eradicate polio by the 2001 target date; reduce infant and maternal mortality, and raise enrollment and literacy.
LENDING SERVICES
Mali’s Grassroots Initiatives Project is improving living standards in the poorest rural areas. Building communities’ capacity for decision- : making on resource use is empowering them to take charge of their own development.
NONLENDING SERVICES
A new monitoring system on poverty in Indonesia measures the extent of poor people’s vulnerability to local and national shocks; suggests improvements to safety nets to reduce such vulnerability; and introduces indicators to monitor desired outcomes.
World Development Report 2000/2001: Attacking Poverty
The World Development Report (wdr) ZOOO/2001 builds on past thinking and strategy but also substantially broadens and deepens what is judged to be necessary to meet the poverty challenge. The experience of the last decade has shown the need for countries to develop strategies that go beyond labor-intensive growth and human development, as advocated in the wdr 1990: institutional context, structural inequality, social barriers faced by disadvantaged groups, and exposure to economic crises and natural disasters all affect a country’s ability to reduce poverty effectively.
The wdr 2000 is developed around a notion of poverty as defined by poor people themselves through multi-country participatory studies. They speak not only of their lack of opportunities for economic advancement but also of their powerlessness, voicelessness, vulnerability, and fear.
The wdr 2000 proposes, at the country level, a general framework for action in three equally important areas. Countries should set their own priorities and sets of actions across these three pillars:
Promoting economic opportunities for poor people through equitable growth, better access to markets, and expanded assets;
■	Facilitating empowerment by
making state institutions more responsive to poor people and removing social barriers that exclude women, ethnic and racial groups, and the socially disadvantaged;
Enhancing security by preventing and managing econo-mywide shocks and providing mechanisms to reduce the sources of vulnerability that poor people face.
Actions are also required at the international level. Such actions would promote financial stability; ensure that technological, scientific, and medical progress benefit poor countries; increase debt relief and make development assistance less intrusive; open developed country markets to developing country' exports; and give voice to poor people in international forums. Progress on these fronts will ensure that countries’ efforts to attack poverty are effective, locally owned, and sustainable.
Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers Based in the Comprehensive Development Framework
In a major new program launched in December 1999, Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (prsps), produced by countries, are becoming the basis for debt relief and for concessional lending by' the Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
This new program is the result of growing international concern about the slow progress in reducing poverty. Following intense consultations among national governments, the Bank, the Fund, u.N. agencies, regional development banks, ngos, and religious groups, it was agreed at the joint Bank—Fund Annual Meetings in September 1999 that the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (hipc) Initiative would provide enhanced and faster debt relief, and that poverty reduction strategies would guide the use of freed-up resources.
In terms of content, prsps emphasize:
Understanding the nature and locus of poverty and the links between growth and poverty reduction
2s- Identifying public actions that have the highest poverty impact 2s" Selecting and tracking outcome indicators In terms of process, prsps emphasize:
>■ Country leadership in articulating a development vision
Participatory processes to ensure broad-based support, good governance, transparency, and accountability
2^ Close collaboration between the Bank and the Fund and across all development partners
^ection J
Overview
In fiscal 2000, the World Bank took important steps, together with its clients, to pave the way for solid progress in the fight against poverty. Every step involved partners, some old, some new, many at the country level, some at the global level.
Global Context: Recovering Economies, Persistent Challenges
Economic and financial conditions recovered sharply in 1999 from the trials of the prior two years. At an estimated 3.3 percent, world economic growth exceeded expectations, led by a strong United States economy and policy reforms in emerging market countries. Global trade recovered strongly, and commodity prices firmed. These elements will permit more “self-financing” of development by countries. The present challenge is to sustain and strengthen this economic turnaround. Global Development Finance zooo suggests that those countries that rely more heavily on trade, are more diversified, attract more foreign direct investment, and have become more competitive are the most likely to sustain growth.
In all regions, progress is evident but obstacles remain. Africa’s advances cannot keep pace with poverty, as conflict persists and hiv/aids continues its ravage of the continent’s working-age people as well as of its children. Recovery in crisis-hit East Asia was better than expected, and the crisis’ social impact less than feared, but an overhang of domestic bad debt clouds the picture. South Asia continued to lead the developing world in growth but poverty remains entrenched, and conflict situations are diverting public resources. Eastern Europe is facing challenges of poverty and inequality that were unknown a decade ago. Inequality also mars Latin American and Caribbean nations’ economic and social landscape; in addition, these countries fell victim to natural disasters during the year. The numbers of poor are also rising in the Middle East and North Africa region, where, despite economic advances, high unemployment persists.
The international goal of halving the proportion of the world’s population living in absolute poverty by 2015 is attainable but difficult, according to World Development Indicators zooo (wdi zooo; see Box 1.1; see also “The Poverty Challenge” at the beginning of this report). The report finds that the goal can be reached if economic growth resumes (and indeed accelerates)
The goals for international development aim at a world free of poverty. Set in quantitative terms, the goals come from the agreements and resolutions of the world conferences organized by the United Nations in the 1990s and reconfirmed at the Social Summit in Geneva in June 2000. The goals will not be easy to achieve, but progress in some countries and regions shows what can be done. The message is that if some countries can make great strides in reducing poverty in its many forms, others can as well. But it will take hard work. Success will require, above all, stronger voices for poor people, economic stability and growth that favors them, basic social services for all, open markets for trade and technology, and good use of the resources for development.
This material is based upon A Better World for All: Progress Towards the International Development Goals published jointly by the IMF, OECD, UN, and World Bank (June 2000). For more information, visitwww.paris21. org/ betterworld.
Reduce the proportion of people living in extreme poverty by half between 1990 and 2015
Enroll all children in primary school by 2015
Make progress towards gender equality and empower women by eliminating gender disparities in primary and secondary education by 2005
Reduce infant and child mortality rates by two-thirds between 1990 and 2015
As growth increased globally in the mid-1990s, poverty rates fell—rapidly in Asia, but little or not at all in Africa. Income inequality is a barrier to progress in Latin America.
Although enrollment rates continue to rise, they have not risen fast enough. Per current trends, more than 100 million school-age children will not be in school in 2015.
Getting more girls through school is an essential first step to empowering women. The gender gap has narrowed, but girls' enrollment remains significantly behind that of boys.
For every one country that cut infant and under-5 child mortality rates fast enough to reach the goal, 10 lagged behind—and another one moved backwards, often because of hiv/aios.
Reduce maternal mortality ratios by three-quarters between 1990 and 2015
Provide access for all who need reproductive health services by 2015
Implement national strategies for sustainable development by 2005 so as to reverse the loss of environmental resources by 2015
Skilled care during pregnancy and delivery can do much to avoid many of the half-million maternal deaths each year. The proportion of births attended by skilled personnel rose slowly in the 1990s.
Contraceptive use is one indicator of access to reproductive health services. With increasing access to such services, the rate of contraceptive use is rising in all regions.
Despite their commitments at the Rio Earth Summit in 1992, fewer than half the world's countries have adopted environmental strategies, and even fewer are implementing them.
and if inequality does not increase. Progress has been uneven: While the poverty rate has fallen in some large countries, especially in China, other parts of the world have seen an increase in the proportion of people living in extreme poverty. Social indicators have generally improved over three decades but progress in many areas has been too slow to allow achievement of the international goals. And inequalities across income level and gender are often evident. In India, for example, the majority of 15- to 19-year-olds from the bottom 40 percent of households has not completed even one year of schooling, whereas the same age group from the richest 20 percent of households has completed 10 years of school. Similar patterns exist in many7 developing countries.
The Bank’s contribution to poverty reduction in fiscal 2000 is the subject of this overview. This section presents fiscal 2000 operational results and then outlines the wide-ranging steps taken this past year that mark the changes in the Bank’s work and set the strategic directions for the next several years. (For fiscal 2000 financial results, see Section vi.)
World Bank Assistance: Results of Operations
Fiscal 2000 was a year of lower lending volumes, sustained improvement in the quality of lending, and expanded nonlending support.
Total lending in fiscal 2000 amounted to $15.3 billion for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (ibrd) and the International Development Association (ida) combined, significantly below the record levels of the last two years (see Table 1.1, on page 33). Having reached peak levels in the wake of the 1997—98 financial crises that hit three continents, demand for ibrd funds subsided in fiscal 2000 as global financial markets recovered and emerging market economies regained access to private capital flows. Lending to ibrd “crisis” borrowers—Argentina, Brazil, Indonesia, Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, and Thailand—which accounted for $13 billion m fiscal 1999, was down to si.8 billion in fiscal 2000. ida lending also declined, although by less, which reflects the confluence of country-
specific factors, largely in Asia (Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Vietnam) and in Africa (Cote d’Ivoire, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, and Zimbabwe), where several countries faced conflict situations.
The year’s results attest to an increasing emphasis, in Bank assistance, on demand-driven services and aid effectiveness. In fiscal 1998—99, the Bank had responded rapidly to ibrd borrowers’ changing needs, m the face of difficult market conditions, while the recovery of financial markets explains the significant decline in lending in fiscal 2000. But the results also reflect two underlying trends characterizing the 1990s: a leveling of overall demand compared with the steady growth in the two previous decades, and within that band, greater volatility (see Figure 1.1)—both the result of increased reliance by ibrd borrowers on private capital markets.
Meanwhile, in line with ida’s increasing focus on aid effectiveness, new ida commitments declined in fiscal 2000 in response to a deterioration in country policy performance (including governance), and other conditions that dimmed prospects for effective use of financial aid. For both ibrd and ida countries, lower lending also reflects a trend toward smaller operations, as countries have sought more support for the social sectors, public sector management, and institution building— rather than large-scale physical infrastructure investment, where the private sector is assuming a growing role. New lending instruments that provide phased support and that promote learning and innovation—both aimed at reducing risk and building institutions to increase aid effectiveness—also imply smaller operations. Average
MAKING A DIFFERENCE... TO INDIA’S HEALTH.
Bank~supported reforms in six states are transforming the quality of health care systems—and beginning to have a major impact on health outcomes.
loan size in fiscal 2000 was $69 million, compared with $93 million for fiscal 1990. Finally, the year’s lending results also reflect a strengthened emphasis on quality, in recognition of the greater complexity of operations as well as heightened concern for fiduciary frameworks—corruption-free procurement, for example—and social and environmental safeguards.
In fiscal 2000, the Bank increased its emphasis on nonlending services to enhance aid effectiveness. A wide range of advisory, analytical, training, and knowledge-related services sought to nurture improved policies, strengthen
MAKING A DIFFERENCE... TO TANZANIA’S POOR.
ID/i’s $1.2 billion in debt relief to Tanzania enables more public spending for poor people and will help the country pursue economic growth~led poverty reduction.
coordination among partners, and build domestic capacity to manage development programs. Bank assistance increasingly recognizes that the quality of lending is enhanced when it is accompanied or preceded by nonlending services that provide advice and knowledge. But nonlending services also have development impact when used without lending to inform the policy dialogue and to underpin the development of Country Assistance Strategies (cass). A significant example of this relationship was the Bank’s support in fiscal 2000 to countries in the preparation of Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, which set out country priorities and policies providing the context for debt relief or ida lending through the cas process.
Major themes of assistance in fiscal 2000 were anchored in the central objective of poverty
BOX 1.2 IDA-12 SUPPORT FOR POVERTY REDUCTION IN FISCAL 2000: SOME ILLUSTRATIONS
Education. The Nicaragua Second Basic Education Project aims at a more equitable basic education system that involves the community in school governance. It will increase coverage at the preschool and primary levels, fund a pilot scholarship program for poor students, provide training for teachers as well as school management, and set up a national evaluation and monitoring system.
Health. The Madagascar Second Health Sector Support Project will support primary healthcare services, disease prevention, reproductive health, nutrition, and reduced incidence of major communicable diseases. This program will benefit the rural poor, especially women and children, and will target groups at risk (for example, in Hiv/AIDS prevention).
Gender. A government-led strategy is being prepared in Vietnam, informed by two studies on gender-based violence and on changing gender relations in the country. The studies were recently completed by IDA in partnership with Vietnamese social research organizations.
Social protection. In India, the Andhra Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project is providing educational support for female child laborers and school dropouts, while the Second Social Fund for Development Project in Yemen is helping poor people gain access to microfinance and undertake income-generating activities.
Governance. Bank assistance, often through adjustment operations and technical assistance, is increasingly moving
beyond projects to help countries improve public sector performance and reduce corruption in public spending. Such efforts are underway in nine African countries and six Eastern European countries, as well as in Indonesia, Cambodia, and India.
Privatization-related issues. About $94 million out of $120 million in project costs for the Mozambique Railways and Ports Restructuring Project will support retrenchment of over 12,000 employees. This support will cover provision of severance payments and efforts to help workers find jobs or become self-employed.
Post-conflict. A Transitional Support Strategy for Burundi, covering a period of about 18 to 24 months, contains actions to halt the worsening poverty and to stabilize the economy as the peace process evolves. Support will include a participatory approach to rehabilitating village-level infrastructure, generation of labor-intensive employment, and an emergency recovery credit to help restore a minimum level of social services.
Environment. Nonlending activities provide important support for environmental protection. In particular, analytical studies on rural energy in India will benefit rural and poor urban communities; collaborative activities across African countries are helping strengthen regulatory capacity and water resource management; and grants to Armenia and Georgia are improving environmental legislation and regulatory capacity.
reduction, with the role of the ida—the Bank Group’s concessional lending arm—highlighted in Box 1.2 (an illustrative set of IDA-12 projects in fiscal 2000) and Box 1.3 (a retrospective of ida-ii covering fiscal 1997—99):
Key focal points of Bank assistance in fiscal 2000 were economic management and private and financial sector development, fundamental drivers of economic growth and poverty reduction. Aimed at attracting private investment, assistance was broad in scope and included institutional and governance reviews; financial sector assessments and other efforts to strengthen banks and capital markets; and support for stronger, more efficient public institutions, including anticorrupt judicial systems and regulatory frameworks. A sizable share of investment lending was focused on the poorest countries as well as on sectors that significantly affect poor people (for example, water supply and sanitation) but where private investment is scarce. Nonlending assistance has been important; substantial advisory services and some technical assistance were provided jointly with the International Finance Corporation (ifc) following some merging of functions in fiscal 2000 to maximize synergy across the Bank Group.
>■ Attention to human development remained a priority. Assistance included: multisectoral strategies to fight such killers as hiv/aids and malaria that disproportionately affect poor people; sustained efforts to strengthen basic health services; nontraditional approaches to delivering education services to poor people (involving the private sector or directly through scholarships); and continued emphasis on social protection through social funds and social expenditure reforms. A strategy paper on reproductive health complemented lending operations; another on social protection is under preparation.
Environmental management was another important focus of Bank assistance. Analytical studies proposed innovative ways of improving industry environmental performance and are examining environment—health links; lending operations sought to address water supply and
usage, protect forests, build institutional and regulatory frameworks, shift environmental management to the community level, and promote disaster forecasting and preparedness.
Development effectiveness has improved, according to the latest data on the quality of operational projects. Out of the projects that closed in fiscal 1998—99, the Bank's independent Operations Evaluation Department (oed) has found that over 80 percent of dollars lent (or 72 percent of projects) achieved a satisfactory or better outcome, which reflects a steady improvement from the early 1990s (see Figure 1.2). Moreover, only 6 percent of these dollars are unlikely to produce sustainable results. Progress over prior years is notable in light of the increased complexity of today’s projects and the inherent risks of the development business. Other indicators measuring the performance of projects still under implementation show even greater improvement. The share of projects that are at risk of not achieving their development objectives has fallen steadily (see Figure 1.3); it is estimated to have declined further, to 15 percent of the total in fiscal 2000. The quality of projects entering the portfolio has also improved markedly: nine out of 10 new projects in calendar 1999 were rated satisfactory, compared with seven in 10 in calendar 1996. Improvement in the quality of ongoing projects means that billions of dollars are being more effectively used, with greater development impact.
FIGURE 1.3 PROJECTS AT RISK OF NOT ACHIEVING DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
(percent of projects)
BOX 1.3 SUPPORTING POVERTY REDUCTION THROUGH IDA-II
Period covered: July 1, 1997 through June 30, 1999 Amount of funding: son 14.5 billion, US$19.2 billion equivalent
Global context. The economic expansion of the lggos and IDA-supported reforms brought faster growth to many IDA-eligible countries. Some of the poorest began to qualify for debt relief. But the absolute numbers of poor people remained high. And though spared the worst of the period’s financial crises, a number of IDA countries saw their growth slow and the pressures on vulnerable groups rise. Meanwhile, armed conflict, natural disasters, and the Hiv/AIDS epidemic strained the economic and social fabric of many very poor countries—all at a time when concessional resources were on the decline.
New commitments under IDA-ll were at a level similar to that of IDA-10, with lower adjustment lending offset by higher investment lending. The number of operations increased by 12 percent, with substantially more operations in Europe and Central Asia (ECA Moldova and Indonesia became IDA-eligible, while China, the Arab Republic of Egypt, and Equatorial Guinea graduated at the end of fiscal iggg.
IDA-ll assistance focused on
■	social	sectors,	reconstruction	follow-
ing disasters or conflict, good governance, and support to countries in transition. Lendingfor social and human development accounted for nearly 40 percent of new investment lending, reflecting IDA’s strong focus on the social underpinnings of growth and poverty reduction, and reduced inequality. South Asia and Africa,
the regions with the lowest social indicators, accounted for almost three-quarters of total investment lending, with substantial social sector lending also to Egypt. Poverty reduction and long-term rebuilding were at the center of support to countries following disasters such as Hurricane Mitch in Central America in fiscal iggg; conflict in Sub-Saharan Africa; and countries suffering the effects of the Kosovo crisis. IDA was able to increase lending in good policy environments for both Africa (below) and some of India’s states, as well as Bolivia, Honduras, Nicaragua, and the Republic of Yemen.
Africa. Lending increased significantly in several countries with good or improving performance: Madagascar; Senegal, Uganda, and Zambia. IDA responded swiftly to the return to stability in Rwanda, and also supported Mozambique in its recovery effort. But poor performance and armed conflict resulted in minimal or no lending to such potentially large borrowers as Angola and Nigeria, as well as Ethiopia since fiscal iggg. The number of operations was higher under IDA-ll relative to IDA-10, given the many smaller operations focused on capacity building and institutional development. The volume of lending was lower by 11 percent.
Asia. New lending to China, India, and Indonesia (in the financial crisis’ immediate aftermath) continued to emphasize human development and poverty alleviation. Almost half of all investment lending in South Asia went to the social sectors. Commitments to Bangladesh doubled, partly due to floods in fiscal iggg. The overall lending volume in Asia was j. l percent below the comparable level for IDA-10, which reflects a JO percent reduction in loans to China as part of IDA phase-out, as well as India’s improving creditworthiness.
Europe and Central Asia. New lending to Europe and Central Asia nearly doubled as poverty in the region rose. Bosnia and Herzegovina received extraordinary support as did other countries coming out of civil conflict: Albania, Armenia, Georgia, FYR Macedonia, and Tajikistan. Reconstruction and transition management were the key objectives for this region.
World Bank Assistance:
A Business in Change
Progress to date
The improvements in operational quality noted above stem largely from the Strategic Compact between the Bank and its shareholders to transform itself into a client-focused organization. In fiscal 2000, the Compact’s final year, progress was further consolidated. While the impact of the Compact is measurable in many areas (see Box 1.4), equally notable is its effect in moving the Bank toward a culture of listening, learning, partnership, flexibility, and innovation, in order to adapt its services to better meet member countries’ needs. A noteworthy innovation in fiscal 2000 was the policy-based guarantee offered to Argentina, which allowed the country to put forward a $1.5 billion note issued at a time of investor coolness to emerging market debt. Innovation in meeting investors’ needs, which translates into benefits for the borrowers, has also been an important objective (see Box 1.5).
Building blocks of a new vision
With a more strongly client-focused culture in fiscal 2000, the Bank embarked on new long-term
efforts that could significantly improve the prospects for poverty reduction. These efforts recognize the huge scope of the poverty problem. They go beyond traditional solutions and aim at mobilizing people and institutions everywhere. Forging partnerships, fostering consensus, building awareness, and sharing knowledge, at country as well as global levels, are key themes underlying these efforts. The central challenge is to increase development impact.
In fiscal 2000, the Bank began to work closely with countries interested in piloting the Comprehensive Development Framework (cdf) approach introduced last year. This approach recognizes the multidimensional nature of the challenges in poverty reduction and the need for extensive partnership. Country pilots have made progress, but the pace and depth have been uneven due to country circumstances (see Box 1.6). Realizing the promise of the cdf will be challenging, not only for countries but also for their external partners, and it will require funda-
MAKING A DIFFERENCE... TO RWANDAN WOMEN.
An adjustment operation is supporting the enactment of legislation that would end discrimination against women in inheritance and ownership, and the adoption of a plan to give them more opportunity.
Investments in rural electrification, water supply, and diverse small-scale facilities under the Rural Poverty Alleviation Program have not only improved the quality of life but also created economic opportunity throughout Northeast Brazil. In the state of Sergipe alone, 22,000 homes, 1,200 small businesses, and 400 rural schools and daycare centers have been electrified.
>• Nearly half of the Bank's country directors, who are responsible for three-fourths of its loan portfolio, are now located in client countries (nearly all were in Washington, D.C. initially)
>■ About 43 percent of all staff assigned to regional units are located at country offices (compared with 33 percent in fiscal 1997)
>- Increased emphasis on country ownership of development efforts »■ Stronger, more open working relationships with country partners
>■ Increased focus on governance, financial sector, social dimensions of development, rural development *- Special support for debt relief, post-conflict needs, and capacity building (especially in Africa), reflecting targeted efforts to reduce poverty »■ Greater role in addressing global needs (for example, hiv/aids, environmental issues)
>- More effective partnerships in pursuing all of the above
>- Improved results at project closing (more satisfactory and sustainable outcomes, greater development impact)
»- Improved health of ongoing projects (improved quality at project start, such as greater readiness for implementation; and better supervision)
»■ New loan types (recognizing the need for longer-term approaches, learning and innovation, special response in times of crisis)
*- New financial products (helping borrowers better manage their debt and financial risk)
>■ New analytical and advisory products (for example. Institutional and Governance Reviews and Financial Sector Assessments)
»- Reform of human resources policy
»- World class (internal) knowledge management system
»■ Strengthened training capabilities
>■ Comprehensive management reporting system
>■ Stronger quality assurance program
>- Strengthened core services for projects (procurement, financial management, social development)
>• Stronger, expanded World Bank Institute >■ Large array of web sites for clients »- Global distance teaming network
mental changes in culture and working practices. Effective and cost-efficient partnership with governments, other development agencies, and civil society will be crucial for the Bank; also important is progress on harmonization of donor policies, procedures, and practices.
As an outcome of the joint World Bank—International Monetary Fund Annual Meetings in September 1999, which followed extensive worldwide consultations, debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative, launched by the Bank and the Fund in 1996, was enhanced to be made deeper, broader, and faster. These enhancements double the assistance provided by the original framework, accelerate delivery of relief, and strengthen the link between debt relief and poverty reduction. Fiscal 2000 was a year of active implementation of the enhanced hipc Initiative framework; debt relief commitments were agreed for seven countries (Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Mauritania, Mozambique, Senegal, Tanzania, and Uganda), which will amount to $8.4 billion in nominal terms over time from all creditors. Including relief already committed to Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire, Guyana, Mali, Mozambique, and Uganda
BOX 1.4 THE STRATEGIC COMPACT: INSTITUTIONAL RENEWAL IN FISCAL 1998-00
In 1997, the Bank embarked on the Strategic Compact, a three-year program of institutional renewal. The Compact aimed, fundamentally, to enhance the Bank’s effectiveness as a development institution. While an evaluation of the program is forthcoming, the Compact has had a marked impact on several fronts. Sustaining progress will be an ongoing challenge.
under the original hipc framework, total relief from all creditors under the Initiative amounts to about S14 billion. Of this total, ida relief is projected to provide approximately $4 billion. When completed, debt relief from all participating creditors under the hipc Initiative could amount to more than $50 billion over time, with the Bank projected (as of June 30, 2000) to contribute nearly $11 billion of this total. When combined with traditional debt relief mechanisms, the Initiative will reduce, by more than one-half, the outstanding debt of 32 eligible countries. Only the poorest countries with unsustainable levels of debt are eligible for debt relief; delivery of complete debt relief provided under the enhanced framework follows the development of country-owned, participatory poverty reduction strategies.
At the joint Bank—Fund Annual Meetings in September 1999, ministers also endorsed a framework to strengthen the link between Bank and Fund programs in low-income countries—including debt relief and poverty reduction. Under this framework, countries receiving debt relief or concessional lending from the Bank and the Fund would produce Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (prsps) before they receive such resources. This new framework is designed to strengthen country ownership of policies and programs to reduce poverty; ensure broad stakeholder participation in formulating strategies; improve coordination among development partners; and focus the combined resources of the international community to achieve results. By the end of 1999, the Bank and the Fund had agreed on an operational approach to jointly support country efforts to prepare prsps. To elicit broad partner support for prsps, they are reaching out to government officials, bilateral donors, the u.n., multilateral agencies, nongovernmental organizations (ngos), and other stakeholders. Two prsps were presented in fiscal 2000 by Burkina Faso and Uganda, along with eight “interim” prsps, road-maps to forthcoming prsps that help avoid delays in debt relief and concessional lending (Albania, Bolivia, Mauritania, Mozambique, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Tanzania, and Uganda). A large body of new poverty-focused research undertaken for the
World Development Report 2000/2001 (which updates the landmark 1990 issue on poverty) is aimed at strengthening the analytical basis for poverty reduction strategies.
Poverty-focused country assistance increasingly centers on those policies and institutional reforms that support private sector-led growth, empowerment of poor communities, and security against shocks for the most vulnerable.
Reflecting these trends, cass, the governing instrument for Bank support to a country, are evolving. For fiscal 2000, 100 percent of full cass and cas Progress Reports for IDA-eligible countries were disclosed to the public or are in the process of being disclosed. For IBRD-only countries, 64 percent of full cass and cas Progress Reports were disclosed or are in the process of being disclosed. All full cass (for both ida- and IBRD-eligible countries) were prepared with civil society consultation in the countries, continuing the trend of the last few years of increasing stakeholder participation in the cas process.
According to a fiscal 2000 review, cass’ coverage of governance issues and the social and political underpinnings of reform has improved; and ida cass are even more focused on poverty reduction and human development. Complementing cass are sector strategy papers, which help to identify areas of relatively weak country performance. The Board reviewed six sector strategy and related papers in fiscal 2000: Fuel for Thought:
An Environmental Strategy for the
BOX 1.5 INNOVATION IN THE CAPITAL MARKETS: THE E-BOND
In January 2000, the Bank Lunched the first-ever integrated electronic bond offering in capital markets. The $3 billion five-year notes were marketed electronically, distributed via the internet., and traded electronically in the secondary market. This transaction set a new standard in the use of technology in bond markets. For the first time, retail customers and smaller institutional investors had access through the click of a mouse to a large global bond in primary offering and were able to buy it at the same price as large institutional accounts. As of June JO, 2000, the E-bond had outpnformed comparable securities since its launch.
Capital market innovation helps mobilize lower-cost funds for the Bank’s borrowing member countries.
MAKING A DIFFERENCE... TO FLOOD-RAVAGED MOZAMBIQUE.
Early Bank response—with partners—to assess damage, fund reconstruction, accelerate debt relief, and lead a fundraising initiative enabled flood victims to rebuild their communities.
BOX 1.6 THE COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK: PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2000
The Comprehensive Development Framework (cdf) is an approach to development that has won growing support worldwide, cdf principles are being implemented in 12 pilots and also by some nonpilot countries at their initiative. While it is too early for results, given the inherently longterm nature of the cdf approach and its call for societal transformation, the pilot efforts are moving forward. Indeed, countries using the cdf (such as Bolivia, Ghana, and Uganda) have made significant progress in preparing Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, which are based on cdf principles and aim to translate a country's poverty reduction strategy into an action plan. More generally, however, progress in implementing the cdf has been uneven, given different starting points and varying country circumstances.
>• All pilots have formulated, or are formulating, a long-term, integrated vision, with explicit efforts to balance social, structural, and institutional dimensions with macroeconomic objectives.
*■ Pilots have used national consultative processes to promote country ownership among a wide range of domestic stakeholders, and many country governments are taking the lead on aid coordination.
>■ Strengthened partnerships are emerging in many pilots, as donors better align their strategies to the country's long-term vision and prepare joint analytical work as a basis for strategic selectivity and improved division of labor.
»• Some pilots are working to specify development results and put in place systems to monitor progress in poverty reduction.
Challenges. The particular challenges of cdf include: capacity constraints within government; the quality of governance; difficulties in harmonizing donor policies and procedures; and ensuring that national consultative processes do not undermine existing democratic institutions. For the Bank, ensuring strategic selectivity in country assistance will be crucial.
Nearly all pilots are focusing on governance issues, and many are implementing projects to improve justice systems. Romania, for example, is embarking on a major public administration reform effort; they hosted a regional anticorruption conference in March 2000.
Several pilots are emphasizing the importance of knowledge sharing and transparency through country-based CDF web sites. The multipartner-run Vietnam Development Center provides access to the latest development knowledge and information available worldwide and offers targeted distance learning courses.
Over time, the critical test of CDF will be how far poverty is reduced. Poverty reduction requires specific goals and indicators linked to country-owned strategies. Bolivia has adopted a results-based budget to integrate the monitoring of such indicators into its budget cycle.
cdf Pilots: Bolivia: Cflte d'Ivoire; Dominican Republic: Eritrea; Ethiopia; Ghana■ Kyrgyz Republic; Morocco; Romania; Uganda: Vietnam; West Bank and Gaza.
Energy Sector; A Strategic View of Urban and Local Government Issues: Implications for the Bank; a Population Note (in a follow-up to the 1997 Health, Nutrition, and Population Strategy Paper); the World Bank Group Private Sector Development (PSD) Strategy; a PSD Subsector Strategy on Small and Medium Enterprises; and Corporate Governance: A Framework for Implementation.
Support from the International Development Association continues to emphasize basic social services; social sector lending is expected to be sustained at about 40 percent of total IDA investment lending in fiscal 2000—02. Governance, client participation, and partnerships are also priorities. An ida donors meeting in June 2000 endorsed an aggressive approach to attack hiv/aids and other communicable diseases that account for 80 percent of the mortality gap between rich and poor countries. Donors also emphasized the development challenges in Africa as a central mission for ida in the new century. Additional challenges for IDA-12 relate to girls’ education, rural growth, recovery from natural disasters, child labor issues, and post-conflict needs in countries whose (often) low performance ratings may not justify the level of resource allocation needed for speedy recovery. Also a priority are new approaches to governance, such as partnerships to spur knowledge sharing and dialogue; citizen surveys on corruption and service delivery; and national anticorruption strategies. Interaction with partners is crucial, especially following such new initiatives as the Memorandum of Understanding with the African Development Bank and growing interaction with u.n. agencies. Other principles underpinning ida support are country participation and ownership; emphasis on poverty diagnosis as a first step to poverty reduction; and a strengthened allocation process that links policy performance and the adaptation of effective poverty reduction strategies to the size and nature of ida assistance to borrowers.
In fiscal zooo, the Bank addressed global challenges that have a profound impact on poverty. Responding to requests from clients and partners, the Bank has joined many regional and global partners to help address issues that cross national borders. Support has, for the most part,
taken the form of research and knowledge management, advocacy and advisory services, capacity building, global standards setting, donor coordination, and resource mobilization.
Among such global challenges, HIV/XlDS is of grave concern, hiv/aids is wiping out decades of progress in improving the quality of life of the poorest people, and it is worsening the prospects for economic development and poverty alleviation. Out of more than 33 million people infected, 90 percent are in the developing world, and two-thirds are in Sub-Saharan Africa (see Figure 1.4).
In fiscal 2000, the Bank committed to substantially expanding the financial resources it makes available to programs, specifically to combat hiv/aids and other communicable diseases. To that end, it will initially make $1 billion in IDA resources available and is prepared to move well beyond that level in the future as national and regional programs are developed. In parallel, the Bank will aim to mobilize large financial sums from partners. Collaborative efforts include launching the Partnership against hiv/aids in Africa, and continuing to work with and support unaids and other partners. In addition, the Bank is an active partner in a number of partnerships, including the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (gavi). gavi is a public-private partnership that aims to ensure that all children have access to existing priority vaccines and to stimulate the rapid development of critical new vaccines against diseases such as hiv/aids and malaria.
Regarding education, after 10 years of international commitment to Education for All (efa), enrollment grew globally, but more than 113 million children still have no access to primary education, and 880 million adults are illiterate, most of them girls and women. In April 2000, the Bank and undp, unesco, unfpa, and unicef convened the World Education Forum in Dakar, Senegal, to review the progress and renew the commitment to efa. With 181 governments participating, developing countries agreed to prepare a national efa plan in the wider context of poverty reduction and development strategies. The Bank and other partners stand ready to support them in implementing the plan.
Avoiding financial crisis is no longer just a national goal but one of international concern, and it has become a top priority in the Bank’s antipoverty strategy. In fiscal 2000, the Bank and the Fund worked together to strengthen financial systems and identify vulnerabilities; they completed assessments for 10 developing countries on a pilot basis, with another 24 slated for fiscal 2001. In addition, the Bank and the Fund continued to help crisis countries stem increases in poverty, and they supported noncrisis countries in diagnostic work (toward developing a long-term debt market in India, for example) and capacity building in such areas as financial supervision and securities regulation. Both institutions also collaborated with other international bodies to strengthen international standards for accounting, corporate governance, and insolvency regimes.
New global initiatives with partners are focusing on climate change and natural disasters. In January 2000, the Bank launched the Prototype Carbon Fund, the world’s first attempt to create a market in emissions reductions that would promote transfer of climate-friendly technology to developing countries. A month later, the Bank launched another effort, with international agencies, donor governments, regional development banks, and private organizations, to help developing countries better cope with natural disasters, which hurt poor people the most. The ProVen-tion Consortium will help countries better anticipate natural catastrophes as well as assess and
MAKING A DIFFERENCE... TO PAKISTANI GIRLS.
With Bank-supported funding, village education committees in Baluchistan have established nearly 1,300 schools and substantially raised girls’ enrollment rates in rural areas.
In February 2000, the Bank hosted an Innovation Competition at the Development Marketplace—a forum envisioned to be both a series of events and an electronic space for the development community to find new and creative solutions to reduce poverty. In a competition open to ngos, businesses, academia and many others, the Marketplace awarded about $5 million in start-up funds to proposals carrying the greatest prospects for success.
reduce associated risks (for example, adopting improved building codes). The consortium complements the Bank’s Disaster Management Facility, which is charged with strengthening attention to prevention and mitigation practices in Bank operations. Meanwhile, support for the world’s forests continued under the World Bank/wwf Forest Alliance, which is active in over 22 countries in partnerships with other ngos and governments. Recognizing the urgent need for progress on environmental issues, the Bank has launched a comprehensive effort to develop an environmental strategy via a wide consultative process involving client countries and a range of partners. The strategy will build on lessons learned and explore the links between the public, private, and institutional sectors (water, forestry, urban transport, rural) and the environment.
Capacity building through knowledge sharing is key to achieving poverty reduction. Knowledge sharing increases the potential reach of the Bank’s expertise and the potential for people in the poorest countries to help themselves. The Bank is advancing this agenda through efforts on several fronts.
>- Communities of practice. A central vehicle for sharing the Bank’s expertise is through communities of practice: Practitioners inside and out-
side the Bank come together through technology, which provides access to knowledge for large numbers of clients, partners, and users around the world. Over 100 such communities cover virtually all areas of Bank activity and serve as engines of informal learning, across clients and partners as well as Bank staff. These communities of practice also build country capacity by helping to form and strengthen local communities. In February zooo, the American Productivity and Quality Center ranked the World Bank as one of five “best-practice partners” (out of some 80 organizations worldwide) in the implementation of knowledge management.
>■ The World Bank Institute (WBl). The World Bank Institute (wbi) now reaches 30,000 participants annually, in nearly 150 countries, through nearly 500 training activities. In fiscal 2000, wbi scaled up its programs through distance learning, global knowledge networks, and extended partnerships, and by harnessing the newest learning technologies. A new initiative, Global Development Learning Network (gdln), gives clients access to learning opportunities drawing on information and knowledge existing in the Bank and partner organizations. Using the Internet, videoconferences, and peer exchange, 13 gdln centers are operational, and over 50 countries have expressed interest. Demand for assistance in developing knowledge strategies is also expanding, as countries seek to use global and domestic knowledge more effectively in support of economic and social development. Vietnam and China are among the countries that have requested such assistance, following a report jointly produced by the World Bank and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (oecd) on the Republic of Korea’s Transition to a Knowledge-Based Economy. wbi’s outreach, which con-
tributes to the success of lending programs, is further leveraged through programs for “gatekeepers” such as journalists, mayors, parliamentarians, civil society, and the private sector, especially in such policy areas as governance and anticorruption.
>• Development research. In fiscal zooo, the Bank developed a new strategy for knowledge generation through research. The strategy reflects consultations with numerous partners, including, in one survey, policymakers in 36 countries who indicated that they used Bank analytical reports more than those of anv ocher institution, national or international. This development research strategy aims to: improve understanding of the dynamics of poverty and the factors underlying successful antipoverty strategies; increase the effectiveness of development assistance; identify newly emerging trends and problems with a view to helping countries plan appropriate responses; and help countries expand their research capacity. Four principles underpin the Bank’s research strategy: increased client orientation; enhanced building of research capacity; expanded dissemination; and a stronger poverty focus. Such a focus aims to support evaluation of public policy and preparation of prsps, with particular attention to the role of institutions and means by which countries can benefit from globalization. The zooo/2001 issue of the Bank’s flagship publication, the World Development Report (wdr), is devoted to poverty (see “The Poverty Challenge” at the beginning of this report). The wdr 1999/2000 on globalization and urbanization underscored the importance of strong institutions at the global, national, and local levels, while the wdr 2001/2002 will examine a range of institutional market-related arrangements, to develop concrete proposals on competition strategies and corporate governance. To build capacity and promote informed debate, the Global Development Network supports a growing worldwide network of research and policy institutes, while the Development Forum, a moderated Internet discussion that has reached over 10,000 subscribers in 175 countries, fosters dialogue between the Bank and its partners.
>- Harnessing technologies. Internally and externally, the role of technology in Bank assistance is growing.
State-of-the-art global connectivity7 has brought staff closer to clients; internal information systems have grown more efficient; and electronic knowledge sharing and collaboration, within the Bank and with partners, are thriving. Over 1,000 projects in the portfolio, many in Africa and Latin America, have information technology components, ranging from investments in communications infrastructure to technical assistance to set up management systems in various sectors. Other support is
MAKING A DIFFERENCE... TO MEXICAN FARMERS.
Innovative solutions to complex land degradation problems in hilly or infertile “marginal areas” are helping — especially the indigenous —small farmers in Mexico raise agricultural productivity and incomes.
BOX 1.7 PARTNERSHIP WITH CIVIL SOCIETY
Partnership with civil society is of growing importance. The Bank is enhancing tools for civil society participation, providing resources to build capacity among nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and working with governments to promote civil society involvement in countries’ development agendas.
Policy dialogue. During fiseal zooo, in-country processes to prepare Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs) provided for civil society engagement in policy dialogue and monitoring of outcomes. Consultations with NCOs, religious groups, and universities got under way, and a special PRSP link was created in the Bank’s NGo/Civil Society web site. Civil society participation in Country Assistance Strategy (CASj formulation also increased, and CAS public disclosure improved. Policy dialogue has varied in content, depending on regions’needs: the CDF (Africa); gender strategies (South Asia); poverty reduction, post-conflict issues, governance; and the environment (Europe and Central Asia); employment, income generation, safety nets, and the social impacts of reform (Latin America and the Caribbean); and anticorruption measures, NGO legislation, and gender equity (Middle East and North Africa).
Operational collaboration. The Bank collaborated actively with NCOs in fiscal ZOOO in the context of natural disasters, social emergencies, and long-term development. In East Timor; the Bank—UNTAET (United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor) donor meetings of December 1999 and June ZOOO included civil society organizations involved in Bank-supported reconstruction programs. Other notable collaboration supported Hiv/.AIDS treatment and prevention in Africa, rehabilitation programs following cyclones in India, and post-conflict reconstruction in the Balkans.
Global partnerships. To promote global dialogue with national and international NCOs, the Bank organized a series of briefings for NCOs at both the joint Bank—Fund Annual Meetings in September iggg and the Spring ZOOO Meetings of the Development Committee. They covered such topics as HIPC, civil society engagement in CDF, and the Bank’s Inspection Panel.
BOX 1.8 STRATEGIC APPROACH TO DONOR RELATIONS AND MAJOR COFINANCING ACTIVITIES IN FISCAL 2000
During fiscal zooo, donor relations activities were reorganized around major policy areas, including poverty reduction strategies, global public goods, and the Global Development Gateway. In addition, bilateral, multilateral, private, and export agencies came together to cofinance activities supporting common development objectives, (see Table I. IA in the Annex Tables for a list of consultations and seminars with donors and other institutions)
The Strategic Partnership with Africa (SPA, formerly Special Program of Assistance for Africa) represents the major coordinating instrument for aid to Africa. The fifth three-year phase (SPA-j, zooo-oz) was launched in December 1999. SPA donors and supporting institutions pledged about $4.0 billion in highly concessional quick-disbursing cofinancing and coordinated assistance to support growth strategies and programs aimed at reducing poverty in low-income, debt-burdened countries. Donors stressed the need to strengthen the poverty focus of SPA-supported programs through the PRSP approach, and to improve aid effectiveness by tracking donor support for sectoral programs.
The Japan Social Development Fund was newly established by the government of Japan in June zooo as a tool to address the social consequences of the 1997—99 economic and financial crisis. This new facility, amounting to approximately S93 million, will provide grant assistance for innovative social programs to help improve living conditions of poor and vulnerable groups affected by the crisis, in particular through community-driven development processes, including capacity building at the grassroots level.
The Bank—Netherlands Partnership Program is an umbrella agreement between the Dutch Authorities and the Bank to channel funds for global and regional initiatives. In fiscal zooo, the program helped address a wide range of development issues, including poverty, gender, good governance, and social sectors. The program has 67 projects, amounting to $J1 million. In addition, nearly SjO million was approved by the Dutch authorities in late fiscal zooo.
provided by InfoDev, a public-private program helping countries build information and communication technology capability. One application of technology that could advance knowledge sharing by leaps and bounds is the Global Development Gateway, currendy in concept stage. The Gateway is being conceived as an Internet-based vehicle to enable a wide array of stakeholders to access ideas and good practice, information about development activities and trends, funding, and commercial opportunities. The initiative would thrive on partnership; the Bank’s role has been a catalytic one.
Partnerships: listening, learning, and collaborating
The Bank’s heightened commitment to listening and learning is perhaps best embodied in the Voices
of the Poor, a series of studies that build on participatory research with about 60,000 poor men and women from over 60 countries around the world. The findings, which were used to inform the wdr 2000/2001, are striking and similar across countries. Many poor people find themselves worse off, with fewer economic opportunities and greater insecurity than in the past. Their experience with public institutions is largely negative, and corruption and poor quality services are seen to be all too common. Yet, many believe that governments have an important role to play in their lives.
The Bank’s work increasingly recognizes that progress in poverty reduction requires broad coalitions: individuals, groups, and institutions working together with a common purpose. The pages of this Annual Report attest to the vital roles of client governments, the private sector, other donor and development agencies, and local and global civil society (see Box 1.7). Extensive collaboration on the cdf pilots and on prsps over the past year is testimony to the centrality, within Bank assistance, of country partnership. Knowledge initiatives offer another example of partnership: wbi works with over 200 partner training institutes and 100 bilateral, international, charitable, and private sector organizations to design and implement knowledge-sharing programs worldwide. The diversity of the Bank’s partnerships in fiscal 2000 is evident from the following examples:
The Bank and the European Union (eu) coordinated a comprehensive regional approach for economic and social development in South East Europe.
>• ida and unicef embarked on a new partnership to help the Republic of Yemen, where human development indicators are among the poorest in the world, to improve children’s health and nutritional status and to raise the education status of primary school-aged girls.
>■ The Bank and an outside panel co-hosted over 4,000 civil society leaders in Buenos Aires to help develop the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Argentina.
The Bank and the Commonwealth Secretariat joined with the imf, World Trade Organization (wto), eu, u.N. agencies, and regional development
3°
the world bank annual report
2 0 0 0
banks to address development issues of importance to small states, as presented in the final report of the Bank—Secretariat Task Force, Small States: Meeting Challenges in the Global Economy.
More than 500 participants, including 200 local government officials from 77 cities, came together for the World Competitive Cities Congress hosted by the Bank, to discuss the challenges of explosive city growth. If current trends continue, a third of the world’s urban people could be living in poverty by 2025.
A governance partnership was launched in Indonesia between the government, civil society, private sector, bilateral donors, the Asian Development Bank, undp, and the World Bank.
>■ Eminent thinkers, business people, social activists, academics, politicians, writers, and economists from Latin America came together with senior staff from the Bank, IMF, and Inter-American Development Bank (iadb) to exchange views on the region’s growth, inequality, and poverty, in the first-ever distance meeting of the region’s external advisors.
Members of the International Task Force on Commodity Risk Management m Developing Countries (international institutions, producer and consumer organizations, major commodity exchanges, and commodity trading firms) worked with stakeholders to help countries better manage their vulnerability to commodity price fluctuations through new, market-based approaches.
Universities, u.N. agencies, and private foundations worked with the wbi on a new course offering in population and reproductive health, to be “wholesaled” through a network of universities and training institutes in Africa.
Partnership: Mobilizing resources
Cofinancing and trust funds constitute powerful and flexible mechanisms to advance and implement the strategic agenda shared by the Bank, clients, and development partners. These mechanisms help at the country level to implement programs, and at the global level to agree on policies and mobilize financing m support of challenges ranging from prevention of infectious diseases to sound corporate governance. New program and sector-wide
approaches to lending, moreover, will facilitate donor coordination in country-owned programs.
Cofinancing refers to funding committed by external official bilateral partners, multilateral partners, export credit agencies, or private sources in the context of specific Bank-funded projects (see Figures 1.5 and 1.6. Cofinancing data m this section are as presented to the Board at the time of approval; figures could be higher than reported). Official bilateral and multilateral partners continued to be the largest sources of cofinancing in fiscal 2000, providing 59 percent (see Box 1.8). Major partners included the Inter-American Development Bank ($2,576 million); private sponsors (s2,2o6 million); Andean Development Corporation (scjoo million);
Montreal Protocol Investment Fund ($230 million);
Global Environment Facility ($197 million); and eu institutions ($165 million).
The Bank’s trust funds program is also an important form of collaboration and coordination with numerous partners (see Figure 1.7). Official bilateral donor agencies still finance most trust fund partnerships with the Bank; at the same time, the Bank is increasingly reaching out to new partners—private sector, foundations, and ngos—as a way of leveraging its own financial and staff resources (see Box 1.9). The strategic agenda for trust funds has grown,
and now indudes new global and post-conflict collaborations that respond to urgent needs. While Japan, the Netherlands, and Canada provided the largest share of external contributions during fiscal 2000, the Bank Group’s own contributions totaled $414 million, mainly for hipc and post-conflict operations. Support for global and regional trust funds increased through additional contributions for existing funds as well as the creation of new trust funds such as the Prototype Carbon Fund (about $140 million mobilized).
Looking Ahead
The Bank has come far in transforming itself to be more responsive to the needs of people in the developing world; but the task ahead is daunting. The fight against poverty entails a host of formidable challenges, including; combating hiv/aids; finding ways to ensure that debt relief reduces poverty; ensuring that the poorest countries have the opportunity to benefit
from globalization; narrowing the “digital divide” to make technology work for poor people; ensuring them opportunity rather than charity; meeting the international goals for education and especially girls’ education; and breaking the disturbing trend of rising inequality across and within nations. Africa will require particular attention within ida’s program to address post-conflict issues and arrest the spread of hiv/aids.
The activities described in this overview, and generally in the Annual Report, reflect the evolving strategy of the Bank to help countries fight poverty. The core of Bank assistance will continue to be implemented at the country level, with increasing emphasis on the principles of country ownership, long-term and comprehensive development, wide partnerships, and a focus on outcomes. Private sector-led economic growth—necessary for increased opportunities for poor people—will remain a central theme of Bank assistance. This economic growth must be complemented by greater empowerment of poor people through community-driven development efforts, to increase their voice in decisionmaking and to reduce inequality. The poorest countries, with weak access to other capital, will receive ida, and in some cases hipc, assistance, which will focus especially on human capital and on attracting private investment. In middle-income countries, home to over 2 bil-
BOX 1.9 TRUST FUNDS HIGHLIGHTS IN FISCAL 2000
>■ Support Jbr post-conjlict operations. Duringjiscal zooo, the Bank approved new contributions Jbr Kosovo ($23 million), the West Bank and Gaza ($60 million), and East Timor ($10 million); these Bank contributions are being leveraged to mobilize trust fund contributions from external donors. In the case of Sierra Leone; the Bank has played a key role in mobilizing and coordinating donor support for the Bank-administered multidonor trust fund supporting the government’s disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration program.
Support from private foundations was significant in fiscal zooo. For example, contributions from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation of SJ.J million and $z8.j million were pledged to support Bank efforts toward immuniza-
tion and eradication of the guinea worm, respectively.
Japan’s Policy and Human Resources Development Program remains the mainstay of external funding for borrowers’ project preparation costs, other technical assistance, and training. Contributions duringfiscal zooo totaled almost $90 million. Over ljj new technical assistance grants were approved during the year.
The Consultant Trust Funds Program benefits the Bank by financing consultants who assist in developing and appraising projects, supervising them, and preparing analytical studies. The donors benefit by having procurement tied to their countries, and the consultants benefit from gaining hands-on experience with the Bank’s work. Contributions totaled $60 million in fiscal 2000.
a
Classified on a Loan-by-Loan Basis
Classified on a Loan Component Basis1’
Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.
a.	To better capture the evolving nature of Bank operations, the Bank's sector classification system is reviewed and changed as appropriate. In fiscal 2000, two new sector categories were created (Economic Policy and Private Sector Development) and one sector category was dropped (Industry). Economic Policy comprises operations that support macroeconomic policy, trade, and other economic and institutional reforms. It includes structural adjustment operations previously assigned to Multisector and some operations previously assigned to Finance. Private Sector Development comprises operations dealing with the business environment, private infrastructure, small scale enterprise, and privatization issues. As such, it includes some operations previously assigned to Industry and to Public Sector Management. Other operations previously included under Industry have been assigned to Public Sector Management. In addition, a few individual operations approved in FY98-99 were reassigned, including an FY99 project from Agriculture to Water Supply and Sanitation.
b.	This column shows lending by sector, based on a classification by major loan component. The example of a $100 million mining loan, with components aimed at addressing environmental, financial, and social protection needs, serves as an illustration. In the case of loan-by-loan classification, the full amount of the loan appears in the Mining sector; in the component classification, the full amount is split among the four sectors-Mining, Environment, Finance, and Social Protection. As a result, total lending of $1.5 billion for Social Protection in the component classification is the sum of all social protection components within loans approved in fiscal 2000.
c.	Excludes IDA HIPC grants of $75 million to Uganda in FY98 and $154 million to Mozambique in FY99.
emphasis will be on promoting private sector development, supporting key public investments or social programs that would otherwise be unfunded by private or public sources, and meeting crisis needs. Wherever poverty challenges require action at the global level, the Bank will capitalize on its advantage as a global institution to play the role of advocate, advisor, catalyst, coordinator, or financier as needed.
The vision embodied in the Comprehensive Development Framework (cdf) offers the chance for solid progress in this first decade of the 21* century.
ing, learning, and partnerships. It will also mean an intense effort to sustain the momentum and spirit of the Strategic Compact, to continuously innovate and improve responsiveness to clients, with an emphasis on results, especially poverty-related outcomes. Finally, the development challenge will have to be tackled by the countries themselves, responding to the call of President Mkapa of Tanzania at a meeting in Stockholm to assess progress on the cdf:
“Our people must be encouraged and facilitated to be owners of their development; not just beneficiaries, but doers of development.”
§ECTION II
The Executive Directors are responsible for the conduct of the Banks general operations; they perform their duties under powers delegated by the Board of Governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement, 5 of the 24 Executive Directors are appointed by the member countries having the largest number of shares; the rest are elected by the other member countries, which form constituencies in an election process conducted every two years.
Executive Directors consider and decide on IBRD loan and IDA credit proposals made by the President, and they decide on policies that guide the general operations of the Bank. They are also responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors at the Annual Meetings an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and an Annual Report (this report) on the Bank’s operations and policies, as well as any other matters deemed necessary in their judgment.
During fiscal 2000, Executive Directors regularly met at Bank headquarters twice a week with frequent additional meetings, both formal and informal. Directors also serve on one or more of five standing committees: Audit, Development Effectiveness, Budget, Personnel, and Executive Directors’ Administrative Matters. The committees help the Board discharge its oversight responsibilities through in-depth examinations of policies and practices.
In addition, groups of Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors periodically visit borrowing countries to observe, first-hand, Bank assistance in progress. They meet with project managers, beneficiaries, government officials, nongovernmental organizations, the business community, as well as other development partners, financial institutions, and resident Bank staff. In fiscal 2000, Directors visited Indonesia, Kenya, Madagascar, Mauritius, Rwanda, and the Solomon Islands. Executive Directors’ oversight responsibility covers all Bank policies and activities, including approval of all lending operations and the annual budget. In shaping Bank policy, the Board takes into account the evolving perspectives of member countries on the role of the Bank Group as well as the Bank’s operational experience. Directors also play an active role in preparing the agenda and issues papers for the semi-annual meetings of the joint Bank—Fund
Development Committee. In fiscal 2000, the Development Committee addressed the fight against hiv/aids, the links between trade, development, and poverty reduction, the report of the Joint Commonwealth/World Bank Task Force on Small States, and a number of the issues discussed below. (For more detail, see Appendix 16 in The World Bank Annual Report ZOOO: Financial Statements and Appendixes to the Annual Report.)
Strategic Issues
Major areas of Board emphasis during fiscal 2000, discussed in the body of the Annual Report, are highlighted below:
Strategic Compact and the Strategic Directions Paper. Executive Directors continued to monitor, with substantial input from the Committees, the fiscal 1998—00 Strategic Compact between the Bank and its shareholders, which has been aimed at making the Bank more responsive, and improving the quality of services, to clients. Directors welcomed the progress achieved under the Compact, including reform of the budget process. For the future, Directors generally supported the Strategic Directions Paper, which emphasized assistance for poverty reduction at the country level, complemented by efforts at the global level; thev were also pleased that resource requirements adhered to the Compact agreement. Directors endorsed Managements commitment to continue working on the quality of nonlending services and on matrix management and staffing issues.
Comprehensive Development Framework (cdf). The Board focused on the implementation challenges of the cdf. In reviewing the progress in pilot countries, the Directors focused on harmonization of procedures, sector-wide approaches, strategic selectivity in the Bank’s program, and links between the cdf and Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers. While supportive of the approach to cdf laid out in the Strategic Directions Paper, they encouraged a full evaluation of cdf pilots before considering mainstreaming the cdf to Bank clients.
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. In September 1999, the Executive Board and the Development and Interim Committees endorsed enhancements to the hipc Initiative to
provide deeper, faster, and broader debt relief for countries committed to pursuing sound policies.
In so doing, they expressed concern about the remaining financing gap and stressed the critical importance of full participation by multilateral and bilateral creditors. Directors approved decision points for seven countries and a completion point for one country under the enhanced framework.1
Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs). Also in September 1999, the Development and Interim Committees supported stronger links between debt relief and poverty reduction in low-income countries, based on poverty reduction strategies prepared by countries with support from the Bank, the Fund, and other partners. Directors broadly endorsed the principles and core elements of prsps, welcoming the emphasis on pro-poor growth, country ownership, transparency, and stakeholder participation. They also reviewed two prsps and progress on the preparation of interim prsps for eight countries.
Country and sector strategies. Guided by the Committee on Development Effectiveness (code), the Board continued to stress the need to evaluate results at the country (rather than project) level. Directors urged that Country Assistance Strategies (cass) focus on poverty reduction, partnership, and selectivity in allocating resources; they also called for more emphasis on country ownership, results, self-evaluation, and progress on cross-cutting themes such as gender and private sector development. They also reviewed, with substantial input from code, six sector strategy and related papers that set priorities in key subject areas. code and its subcommittee also provided input on draft public sector, financial sector, social protection, and gender strategy papers, and supported structural changes proposed for ifc and Bank units working on private sector development.
1. Decision point: The point at which the international community agrees, for countries with unsustainable debt levels and a solid record on economic reform and poverty-reduction programs, on the amount of relief needed to reduce outstanding debt to a sustainable level. Multilateral creditors, including ida, begin providing significant “interim assistance " beginning immediately at the decision point.
Completion point The point at which all creditors provide, unconditionally, the remainder of their share of debt relief agreed to at the decision point. The completion point is tied to implementation of key reforms and policies outlined in a country’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.
Financial Capacity
In September 1999, Executive Directors discussed a report titled Options for Enhancing the IBRD's Financial Capacity, in response to a request from the Development Committee. The request was the result of a report from the Bank’s President (in part, based on the findings of an external panel) that the Bank might be reaching the limits of its risk-bearing capacity. At last September’s Annual Meetings, the Development Committee agreed with the report’s finding that the Bank’s finances remain sound but that its financial capacity' may limit its ability to respond to unanticipated future needs, especially if global financial markets were to weaken. The Committee asked for continued review of options and regular reports, a request echoed by the Executive Directors, the Development Committee, and ministers at the Spring meetings in April zooo. This issue will continue to be carefully monitored by the Board’s Audit Committee as well as by the full Board.
Administrative Budget
Following review by the Budget Committee, Executive Directors approved a total net administrative budget for fiscal 2000 of $1,445.1 million. In August
1999,	the Board separately approved an allocation of 1125.9 million for the Development Grant Facility. The fiscal 2000 administrative budget maintained the discipline of the Strategic Compact Framework with two exceptions: an additional 516.9 million was approved for the Bank’s institutional anticorruption ($6.9 million) and Y2K ($10.0 million) programs. The fiscal 2000 budget was lower by $106.1 million in nominal dollars and by S92.4 million in fiscal 1997 dollars than the original
Compact envelope, thus reducing the claims on income. In June 2000, the Executive Directors approved a total administrative budget of $1,442.2 million for fiscal 2001, the first post-Compact budget.
Human Resources Reform
Executive Directors continued to monitor, with guidance from the Personnel Committee, the comprehensive reform of human resource policies and systems approved as part of the Strategic Compact. Realigned employment and compensation policies now ensure that all Bank staff are selected and evaluated against common criteria and have access to a comparable set of benefits. Directors were generally satisfied with progress on the Banks learning agenda and endorsed reform of the Bank’s internal conflict resolution system. They welcomed, in particular, the new mediation service, greater access by field staff, the strengthening of the Ombudsman Office and Office of Professional Ethics, and the system’s increased focus on cost-effective prevention and informal, nonadversarial channels for dispute resolution.
Inspection Panel
The Board created an independent Inspection Panel in September 1993 to more closely address the concerns of the populations affected by the Bank’s operations. This panel ensures that the latter adhere to the institution’s operational policies and procedures regarding the design, preparation, and implementation of a project. In fiscal 2000, the Panel processed five requests for inspection, including one on the China Western Poverty Reduction Project, on which the Panel issued a report to the Board in April 2000.
SECTION II THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Evaluation of Operations — Taking on the Challenge
For several reasons, effective performance evaluation—understanding what works and what does not—has taken on a new urgency. Development risks are on the rise. Local involvement in development programs is increasing. And governments are more accountable to citizens for development effectiveness.
The World Bank strives for development effectiveness by continuously learning from experience and focusing on quality and results (see Box 3.1). Evaluation is crucial to these efforts: it strengthens accountability, improves the quality of operations, and informs strategy, policy, and resource allocation. Since 1997, the Bank’s evaluation strategy has emphasized: participatory evaluation, to actively involve all relevant stakeholders; knowledge management, to identify best practices in development and to inform Bank and country policies; and “real time” feedback, to help management assess the performance of projects under implementation.
BOX 3.1 EVALUATION AT THE WORLD BANK
Among multilateral development banks, the World Bank’s eval-| nation methods are closest to best practice, according to two recent independent reviews (1996 and 1999, sponsored by the Evaluation Cooperation Group). Evaluation at the Bank Group is carried out by Jive units:
>■ The Operations Evaluation Department (oed) —in place Jor more than jo years, provides an independent assessment of Bank operations at the project, thematic, and country levels. OED reports on the (inadequacy of the feedback system, assesses Bank responses to evaluation findings, and encourages evaluation capacity development in member countries.
The Operations Evaluation Group (oeg) does the same Jor the IFC, joining with OED when appropriate.
The Quality Assurance Group (QAC)—established in 1996, aims to improve the quality of ongoing projects (and therefore, outcomes) by focusing on project appraisal and supervision, portfolio management, and economic and sector analytical work. "Real-time" indicators help managers track quality in key risk areas.
^ The Internal Auditing Department (ud) provides independent appraisals to help management discharge its responsibility to establish and maintain sound internal controls.
The World Bank Institute’s (WBI) evaluation unit evaluates WBl’s training activities and supports capacity development in evaluation through training programs at headquarters and in the field, the latter through distance learning methods (such as interactive video conferences) as well as face-to-face learning.
Completion reports are prepared for all projects, and their performance ratings are independently validated by OED.
Field performance audits are earned out for 2J percent of all operations one to seven years after project completion. To provide a full picture of likely development impact, OED complements its outcome ratings (the most probable estimate of results) with ratings of long-term sustainability (resiliency to risk), and institutional development (contribution to capacity building). OED judges the outcome of a project to he satisfactory if its major objectives are likely to be met, and if the rate of return is above 10 percent in real terms.
BOX 3.2 HIGHER IMPACT ADJUSTMENT LENDING: HELPING AFRICA REFORM
With only 60 percent of adjustment operations achieving satisfactory outcomes, the Bank introduced Higher Impact Adjustment Lending (hial) in the Africa region in 1993. HIAL was designed to improve results by focusing adjustment support on countries most likely to use assistance effectively and by enhancing the design of such operations. The improved design was to help match transfers to needs and to the pace of reforms, with fewer hut more concrete conditions than in the past. This new design was to smooth resource flows and give governments increased freedom in the timing of reforms and greater ownership of programs.
An initial evaluation in 1999 shows that HIAL has been effective. With the number of conditions cut in half (compared with 1980—9<f) on average; HIAL produced improved develop-ment outcomes:
>• HIAL countries performed better than comparable countries (IDA countries) in fiscal adjustment, exchange and interest rate policy, and structural reforms.
>- Better results were also achieved in economic growth, inflation, the current account, foreign exchange reserves, and debt sustainability.
There were more povertyfocused operations in the HIAL group (although social expenditures decreased slightly as a share of GDP).
Improved Development Results Amid Greater Complexity
The Bank supports activities that are increasingly focused on such challenging areas as policy reform; human, social, and institutional development, including governance; and environmental protection. As the latest Annual Review of Development Effectiveness (1999 arde) shows, even projects in such traditional sectors as transport have become more demanding. Achieving development impact often requires inclusion of many components and agencies, wide geographic dispersion of activities, and tackling tough institutional and policy issues. Moreover, implementation often takes place in environments where human resources, infrastructure, and implementation capacity are inadequate. Removing social and struc-
BOX 3.3 FAILURE? OR PRELUDE TO SUCCESS?
Even projects that appear to fail may contribute to development. For example; the completion report for a $zj million urban development project in Colombia rated project outcome as unsatisfactory. Community centers had been built in slum areas to channel and coordinate the delivery of services to poor households. But the sophisticated coordination mechanisms proved unworkable in Colombia’s highly centralized government structure. When project funds ran out, no one was available to run or fund the centers.
A decade later, an OED evaluation found that the project had produced a substantial impact. The community buildings were a focus for community activities. Once project funds were spent, services started to be coordinated naturally because of their proximity within the buildings. Colombia’s policy of decentralizing government services (encouraged by the Bank) facilitated and validated these developments.
tural obstacles to poverty reduction entails substantial risks, although it brings high development rewards. In fiscal 1999, 72 percent of all Bank projects were thus classified by oed as substantially or highly complex, doubling the 1992 ratio.
Despite the growing challenges, development outcomes held steady or improved in the last two fiscal years, according to independent evaluations by oed. Over 80 percent of dollars lent (and 72 percent of projects) achieved satisfactory outcomes, with adjustment operations faring especially well. Rates of return on Bank-supported projects averaged 22 percent. Project sustainability improved, as did institutional development impact.
The share of Bank lending achieving satisfactory outcomes would be even higher (84 percent of dollars lent and 78 percent of projects), if Africa were excluded. Africa faces great obstacles to development, including a devastating htv/aids epidemic, civil conflict, and a limited—albeit improving—skills base. However, project outcomes in Africa are showing some improvement. In fiscal 1998—99, 69 percent of dollars lent and 61 percent of projects yielded satisfactory or better results, compared with 68 percent of dollars lent and 55 percent of projects in fiscal 1994—97. Similar results are evident for adjustment lending in Africa (see Box 3.2).
Bankwide, even projects rated unsatisfactory have been shown to have had useful development consequences that could not have been predicted
when the project closed (see Box 3.3). In the development business, perfect outcome scores would be unlikely, and even undesirable. Given the riskiness of the operating environment, they could indicate that the Bank is not tackling relevant challenges in its operations.
Quality Reforms
Along with the improvement in project outcomes, the higher quality of ongoing operations reveals increasing development effectiveness. Quality has improved significantly since the creation of the qag in 1996 and the introduction of “real time” monitoring tools; these instruments of accountability have provided incentives for greater managerial emphasis on quality, and they have catalyzed systemic change by improving the understanding of the key determinants of quality. The fiscal 1998—00 Strategic Compact between the Bank and its shareholders strongly reinforced the focus on quality (see Section I, Overview). At the same time, engagement with client-country governments to improve results has increased.
Portfolio management indicators have been
i	improving. Overall quality at entry (attesting to a projects design and readiness for implementation) improved for the third consecutive year in calendar 1999; in line with the Strategic Compact target, 9 out of 10 operations were rated satisfactory or better. The quality of project supervision has also risen. These improvements have translated into jumps in the health of the overall lending portfolio. The number of active projects in danger of not achieving their development objectives has
been substantially reduced since the early 1990s (see Figure 3.1). Improvements just in the last year mean that over $5 billion in lending is now likely to produce better results.
In addition, because quality7 management takes time to affect the bottom line—investment projects take an average of seven years to implement, and adjustment operations, two to three years—the full impact on results is yet to come. The mainstreaming of these efforts points to sustained improvements in project performance and better outcomes for clients.
The Comprehensive Development Framework
A broadened agenda led by the results-based Comprehensive Development Framework (cdf) would have important implications for evaluation, as noted in oed’s 1999 ARDE.The cdf approach recognizes that client empowerment and joint learning are crucial, and that standard policy prescriptions are obsolete. It recognizes that country ownership of reform results not from externally imposed conditionality but from consensus-building efforts. Participatory approaches improve outcomes (see Box 3.4); projects prepared by outsiders, without involving all stakeholders and beneficiaries, tend to fail. Thus the cdf approach calls for extensive stakeholder involvement and stronger partnerships at all
BOX 3.4 PARTICIPATORY EVALUATION IN UGANDA
In January 2999, JO participants in seven focus groups, representing Uganda’s government, civic leaders, nongovernmental organizations, the private sector; and donors, engaged in a participatory evaluation of the Bank’s assistance to Uganda since 1986. “When this project in research and training started”said one participant, “all through it, there were participatory discussions with the Bank. When we did the research on privatization, we all discussed it and tried to reach a consensus. Thinking has changed—that’s why we have this positive response.’’
Participants observed that the Bank is consulting more with stakeholders (especially in project design and appraisal), is more open to criticism, and is reaching out to a wider range of constituents. But the Bank still needs to listen better, to respect local ideas and expertise, and to engage in even wider consultations with stakeholders (including NGOs), especially at the sector, project, and district levels.
levels; flexible Bank instruments and interventions; and appropriate performance indicators as well as monitoring and evaluation to assess progress on new objectives, methodologies, and operational modalities. The cdf approach emphasizes an unwavering focus on results and the development of evaluation capacity in borrowing countries.
The Bank actively supports governments in building evaluation capacities; that is, developing their monitoring and evaluation functions as part of sound governance. Evaluation helps governments better understand the entire range of their activities and identify how best to achieve development effectiveness: what works, what does not, and why. It is also a means to foster a service-oriented, performance culture within governments.
Successful capacity building in evaluation requires an in-depth assessment of country evaluation capacities and needs, strong awareness and demand from governments and civil society, and good partnership with other development agencies. In Ghana, for example, a brainstorming workshop organized by oed with senior officials, ngos, and parliamentarians led to a detailed diagnosis and action plan for evaluation activities. As part of the plan, the World Bank Institute has begun to develop trainers in Ghana and has conducted seminars for senior policymakers on monitoring and evaluation. The Bank also supports evaluation capacity building in Benin, Honduras, the Kyrgyz Republic, Poland, Tanzania, and Uganda.
Development Effectiveness: Unfinished Agenda
Bank managements targets for project performance are within reach. The level of satisfactory outcomes is expected to meet the Strategic Compact target of 75 percent of projects, or about 85 percent of dollars lent. But Bank performance can improve further; there is also room for borrowers to progress in their project implementation performance, which has stagnated recendy. The cdf approach poses important challenges as noted above. In addition, as the Bank’s role moves beyond projects to encompass systemic policy change, capacity building, and the creation and dissemination of development knowledge, new operational approaches and instruments will be needed to enhance selectivity and leverage the Banks impact.
Portfolio of Lending Operations
At the end of fiscal 2000, the Bank’s active portfolio consisted of 1,608 operations, which represents outstanding commitments on active projects (net of cancellations) of $118 billion equivalent (see Figure 3.2). The portfolio continues to be dominated by investment loans, with adjustment loans accounting for 4 percent of total projects and 13 percent of the dollar amount of outstanding commitments. The regional and sectoral distributions are about the same as last year, as is the
BOX 3.5 ONCE BARELY AFLOAT, CARIBBEAN PORTFOLIO BECOMES TOP PERFORMER
The quality of the Caribbean portfolio today ranks among the Bank’s best—a complete turnaround from Z997, when it received the lowest peformance rating. At the time, 21 of the portfolio’s 48 projects were classified as problem projects. The portfolio suffered from inadequate project supervision and weak local implementation capacity. Project designs failed to fully factor in local conditions. And because of its small size; the Caribbean portfolio received inadequate attention. Quality performance indicators flagged the urgent need for action.
Improving the portfolio became the top priority of a new Caribbean Country Management Unit that was keen to address these issues in December 1997. Task teams were
strengthened. Borrowers and implementing agencies were mobilized. Project supervision budgets were increased. Several projects were restructured and closing dates extended after much scrutiny. Meanwhile, projects that could not be restructured were closed, freeing up scarce administrative resources to be used more effectively for strategy and project development.
The swift and sustained managerial attention, along with good Bank-Borrower collaboration and a willingness to make tough decisions, was key to bringing the Caribbean portfolio out of rough waters and making it one of the Bank's top performers this year.
size of the overall portfolio. However, average project size is lower ($73 million) compared with the portfolio at the end of fiscal 1999 ($80 million), which echoes the trend noted in new commitments.
Highlights of portfolio performance in fiscal 2000 are noted below:
Continued improvement in overall portfolio performance: At the end of fiscal 2000, commitments and projects at risk of not achieving their development objectives were at half their levels of 1996, when the Portfolio Improvement Program was introduced.
Noteworthy progress in Africa, and in the private sector—infrastructure sector: The Africa region’s portfolio, historically one of the Bank’s riskiest, is now on a par with the Bank average. Substantial reductions in risk were also achieved, Bankwide, in projects that address needs in electric power and energy, private sector development, water supply and sanitation, and urban development.
Stronger project outcomes: Eighty-four percent of projects exiting the portfolio in fiscal 2000 were rated satisfactory in terms of achieving development objectives at the time of closing, compared with 78 percent m fiscal 1999. These ratings bode well for sustained improvement in satisfactory project outcomes as measured by oed’s independent evaluations, which are conducted after a project has closed.
The improvements noted above are the result of increased and systematic attention to portfolio management (see Boxes 3.5 and 3.6). To ensure sustained progress, Country Assistance Strategies are attaching a high priority to improving portfolio quality. Such a priority means: addressing links between project implementation and other aspects of the Bank’s policy dialogue (for example, procurement difficulties tied to corruption); reflecting lessons learned in the assistance strategy; tying new lending to country portfolio performance; and reflecting Bankwide experience in identifying appropriate instruments for assistance (for example, Learning and Innovation Loans, or nonlending services).
BOX 3.6 THE MAURITANIA PORTFOLIO—AN AFRICAN SUCCESS STORY
Performance indicators for the Bank’s portfolio in Mauritania, comprising 13 credits amounting to $234 million at the end of fiscal 2000, have been consistently strong. As of June JO, 2000, no dollar commitments were at risk (of not achieving their development objectives), compared with 16 percent for the Bank overall. A deliberate, multipronged strategy is driving sustained success. Elements include:
2s- Resolving, in a timely fashion, overall and project-specific problem issues, in part through frequently held, action-oriented Country Portfolio Performance Reviews
Building local implementation capacity Developing links between macroeconomic and sector policy dialogue and Bank lending ^ Forging strong partnerships with government and local stakeholders throughout the project cycle
Increasing the responsibility and accountability of the field office in portfolio management
AFRICA
Regional Context
Preliminary economic data for Africa suggest a modest recovery in 1999, following a slowdown in growth a year earlier due to developments in East and South Asia and to increased conflict and adverse weather conditions in the region. Performance within the region showed divergent trends but there was continued evidence in 1999 that economies responded to social stability and sound policies. Nearly half the countries in the region posted positive per capita growth rates; however, on average, growth continues to fall short of what is needed for the absolute number of poor to decline. The outlook for 2000 is for a further acceleration of growth, with more export expansion, recovery in agriculture, and a reduction in conflict.
The continent has made significant advances over the last decade. Democratic governance has been strengthened, and the progress towards more open systems of governance seems irreversible. Most African economies are growing again. Africans are assuming leadership of the development agenda. Government ownership of reforms, accompanied by an increasing capacity for implementation, is among the more enduring development of the 1990s. Leaders across the continent have realized that the primary chal-
lenge, apart from restoring peace, is stronger and more widespread growth so that Africa can begin to make a serious dent on poverty.
Most countries have been pursuing reforms that will equip them for global economic integration: restoring macroeconomic balance, improving resource allocation, and creating conditions more promising for efficient investment. Since 1995, the median African economy has grown at about 4 percent per year, the best sustained performance since independence. Markets have been opened, currencies realigned, tariffs reduced, and price controls abolished. The export sector has been revitalized and is currently growing at around 8 percent. Ongoing efforts at regional integration are providing a boost to intra-African trade and to export expansion. Subregional institutions such as the Southern Africa Development Community (sadc) and the Economic and Monetary Union of West Africa (uemoa), along with bilateral cooperation initiatives such as the Maputo Corridor, are facilitating cross-border trade and investment initiatives. New financial institutions and regional stock exchanges have also been taking root.
Still, only a few countries—Botswana, Mauritius, Mozambique, and Uganda, for example—have sustained growth rates that could significantly reduce poverty within a decade. Growth in the region must be accelerated to over 7 percent if Africa is to halve severe poverty by 2015, and it must be broad-based and equitably distributed. A major challenge across much of the continent is the establishment of peace, a precondition for growth. The unfinished agenda includes greater efforts at social inclusion and peace, as well as continued improvements in governance, which is broadly defined to include keeping a healthy peace, empowering local
people through community-driven programs, enabling Africans by building capacity in the region, bridging the digital divide, and strengthening and enforcing the rule of law. Also crucial will be investments in infrastructure (except for South Africa, the continent has fewer roads than all of Poland) and protecting the environment, especially Africa’s forests.
There is an urgent need for determined action to fight hiv/aids in Africa. The spread of the disease has continued unabated in most countries, threatening development in the region as a whole. The epidemic has indeed reversed progress in East and southern Africa in the last four decades, reducing life expectancy by as much as 17 years in the worst hit countries, doubling child and adult mortality rates, and depleting the already scarce supply of skilled managers. Over 23 million people in Africa live with hiv/aids; 3.8 million of them were infected in
1999	alone. Almost 14 million Africans have died of the disease since the start of the epidemic.
Bank Assistance
Working more closely with clients and partners is a growing hallmark of Bank assistance to Africa. To enhance client focus, the Bank is increasing its presence in the field, with many staff who work on Africa now based in country offices. Such field
presence is helping reinvigorate the quality and rate of implementation of operations and strengthening collaboration with partners. Collaboration is also evident in the Banks work in fiscal 2000 on a groundbreaking report, Can Africa Claim the zf Century?, prepared jointly with the African Development Bank, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, the African Economic Research Consortium, and the Global Coalition for Africa. The report highlights policies that are successful as well as others in need of adaptation to the region's pressing circumstances. It also proposes ways in which international donors could support Africa’s development efforts more effectively.
The Bank’s assistance to Africa aims to spur economic growth to higher rates that would guarantee significant and sustained poverty reduction, improve governance, and help reverse the hiv/aids crisis. Support for the region recognizes the diverse
AFRICA FAST FACTS
Total population: 0.6 billion Population growth: 2.4%
Life expectancy at birth: yo years Infant mortality per 1,000 births: 92 Female youth illiteracy: 26%
1999 GNP per capita: $500
Total fyOO New Commitments ibrd $97.6 million IDA $2,061.4 million
Total fyOO Disbursements ibrd $88.0 million IDA $1,848.4 million
Outstanding portfolio as of June 30, 2000 $13.4 billion
Note: Population and GNP data are for 1999, other indicators are for 1998, from the World Development Indicators database.
Infrastructure development is critical to improving living standards in Africa, creating access to services, reducing transaction costs and expanding private sector activity, and attracting investors to the region.
nature of Africa’s challenges. One group of countries, which includes Botswana, Cape Verde, Ghana, and Uganda, has undertaken serious economic, political, and institutional reforms. The Bank supports these countries in their pursuit of “second generation” economic reforms. A second and larger group comprises countries that have launched reform programs but need to deepen their reform agendas. Facing such a challenge, for example, are Cameroon, Guinea, and Madagascar. The third group is extremely volatile, with countries such as Angola, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Sierra Leone marked by varying degrees of violent conflict. In these countries, peace will require greater inclusion of excluded groups and the empowering of communities. Ongoing programs and new Bank-supported projects, such as the Sierra Leone Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project, have sought to support the process of consolidating peace and reducing poverty. Pover-
ty reduction is also an important objective of the Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (see Box 4.1).
In a recent survey, clients credited the Bank with helping to bring about economic growth, strengthen sound macroeconomic and trade policies, and establish needed physical infrastructure. The challenge for Africa and the Bank will be to consolidate and deepen policy gains to achieve higher growth and better governance. Dealing with the hiv/aids crisis, putting special emphasis on human development, and delivering resources directly to poor people will be among the top priorities for the region. An important challenge for Africa will also be to find the capacity to develop, introduce, and sustain reforms. In fiscal 2000, the Bank continued to support the Partnership for Capacity Building in Africa (pact), a collaborative framework between African countries, the Bank, and other donors, which was approved
BOX 4.1 THE CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT
The World Bank Board approved support Jor a project to develop oilfields in southern Chad and to build a 1,0)0 km pipeline to off-shore oil loading facilities on Cameroon’s Atlantic coast. The project will cost an estimated $3.7 billion; its private sponsors, a consortium of oil companies including ExxonMobil (USA), Petronas (Malaysia), and Chevron (USA), are providing the bulk of the funding. Bank Group support includes J93 million on IBRD terms ($33.4 million to Cameroon and S39.J million to Chad) and $100 million from the International Finance Corporation (IFC').
Bank Group role. Financing was only one element of Bank Group support for this project. National and international civil society groups had expressed strong concerns related to the use of oil revenue, the environment, human resettlement, the project’s impact on indigenous peoples, and public consultations. These groups also noted that the region’s natural resource “booms” had, in the past, a negative impact on poverty reduction efforts. In response, the Bank, working closely with the governments and private sponsors, redoubled its efforts to ensure a project design that would respond to these concerns. The result was the development in Chad of a sound revenue management program targeting significant funds to education, health, rural development, infrastructure; and environmental management, with 10 percent of revenue held in trust for future generations. Application of the Bank’s environmental and social safeguard policies also resulted in the re-routing of the pipeline to ensure protection of biodiversity, human settlements, indigenous peoples, and cultural heritage. The pipeline will be buried, and two large national parks have been newly created. Project-related public consultation started in 1993 and evolved considerably throughout project preparation. The lie’s role has also been important in mobilizing long-term finance and in supplying technical skills for financing.
Poverty reduction focus. The project could transform the economy of Chad, one of the world’s poorest countries. Nearly 6 million Chadians live on less then $1 a day, infant mortality is high, and access to basic social services is extremely limited. The government’s program for use of the new revenues, estimated at nearly $2 billion for Chad over 23 years, targets key sectors of its poverty alleviation strategy. Other expected benefits are infrastructure improvements in Cameroon and Chad, employment generation, local procurement, capacity building, and increased private investment in both countries.
The world bank annual report 2000
by the Board in fiscal 1999 and which recognizes the crucial role of capacity building in Africa’s development.
Table 4.1 shows the value and sectoral distributions of total Bank lending to the Africa region in the fiscal 1992—00 period. Table 4.1A (see Annex) compares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the region for fiscal 1995—00; and Table 4.2A (see Annex) shows operations approved in fiscal 2000 by country. Figure 4.1 shows IBRD and ida lending by sector.
Supporting strategies Jor growth and poverty reduction
The piloting of the Comprehensive Development Framework (cdf) approach, introduced in fiscal
1999,	reflects countries' recognition of the need for a sharper focus on poverty and for strong partnerships. The cdf approach calls upon governments to take an integrated and long-term view of their countries’ development, engage their civil societies in defining priorities and goals, and coordinate donor assistance. Partners’ coordinated support around a common, country-driven strategy is crucial. The cdf is enabling pilot countries such as Ghana and Uganda, for example, to think more strategically about the sequencing of policies, programs, and projects, and the pacing of reforms. Some other African
countries, while not in the pilot program, have also adopted the approach informally, and they have begun to apply cdf principles.
A key focus of the Bank’s strategy for poverty reduction in Africa is debt relief Through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (hipc) Initiative, the Bank has been working closely with African countries and other donors to deal with the region’s official debt, which at the end of 1999 stood at approximately $170 billion. Thirty-two of the 41 countries from around the developing world that are currendy classified as hipcs are from Africa. Fiscal
2000	has been an important year for the Initiative (see Overview), and a year of active implementation. During fiscal 2000, six countries from the region (Burkina Faso, Mauritania, Mozambique, Senegal, Tanzania, and Uganda) qualified for debt relief under the enhanced Initiative, which is estimated to total some $7.1 billion in nominal terms over time, from all creditors. Including relief already committed to Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire, Mali, Mozambique, and Uganda under the original hipc framework, total debt relief committed as of end June 2000 is estimated to be nearly $12 billion, ida’s share of this relief would amount to $3.6 billion over time. To qualify for debt relief under the Initiative, countries have to present a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (prsp), which is an operational instrument
Creating a base for competitive industrialization in Africa is not easy but there are enough examples to show that the region can diversify and be competitive across a broad range of products—including textiles.
intended to translate a country's poverty reduction strategy into a focused plan of action. A number of additional African countries are due to receive debt relief under the enhanced Initiative in early fiscal 2001.
Intensifying response to the Hiv/aids challenge
Africa’s future depends on its success m meeting the hiv/aids challenge. The Bank has developed a vigorous response to the epidemic in Africa. After committing about $233 million in aids assistance between fiscal 1986 and fiscal 1999, it is now aggressively pursuing a strategy to help countries deal with the crisis. A special unit, ACTAfrica, has been created in the office of the Vice President of the Africa Region to deal exclusively with this challenge, working closely with unaids (see Box 4.2). One of the unit’s important tasks is to ensure that
all Bank-funded projects in the region, not just the stand-alone hiv/aids projects, have hiv/aids —fighting components.
Helping empower communities
Community Action Programs (caps) are the Africa Region’s version of Community Driven Development (cdd), a new emphasis in Bank assistance across all regions, which empowers local communities by making resources available to them for homegrown development programs. Recognizing that conventional assistance programs have failed to reach the poorest Africans when delivered through weak, centralized mechanisms, caps allocate and channel resources to poor populations; in addition, caps improve the institutional and governance environment to empower communities to design and implement their own development initiatives. A credit supporting the first cap, benefiting rural infrastructure in Senegal, was approved by the Board in January 2000. Project funds will be used to improve local governance and financial management; to pilot initiatives that will improve mobility for some 1.3 million people living in rural areas; and to help communities fight the spread of hiv/aids.
BOX 4.2 ACTAfrica—RESPONDING
Hiv/AIDS is undermining macroeconomic growth, human capital development, and good governance in Africa. To help fight the epidemic; the Bank has adopted a strategy of intensified action. Launched in September 1999, the strategy seeks to:
Use advocacy to increase demand for HIV/AIDS— related action
Strengthen the Bank’s capacity to respond to new demand for action
^ Expand resources available from the international community
Expand available knowledge and develop new prevention tools.
To stimulate and support implementation of the strategy, the Bank has established a multisectoral Hiv/AIDS
TO THE HIV/AIDS CRISIS IN AFRICA
Campaign Team for Africa (ACTAfrica). The team will serve as the focal point and clearinghouse on HIv/aids and will provide a variety of services, including:
2^ Equipping and supporting Bank country teams to mobilize African leaders and civil society, and the private sector to intensify action against HIv/aiDS
Retrofitting projects with HIV’/AIDS components where possible, and assisting in the development of new dedicated Hiv/AIDS projects
^ Supporting Bank country teams in addressing hiv/aids in their country assistance strategies
Strengthening and expanding the Bank’s partnership with UNAIDS, as well as with other key agencies, nongovernmental organizations (h'GOs), and interested bilateral donors.
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
Regional Context
Eeast Asia’s recovery from the 1997—98 financial crisis strengthened during fiscal 2000 and is gaining momentum, though unevenly across countries (see Figure 4.2). External developments supported this recovery, as demand for the region’s exports increased and the region’s terms of trade improved. While the social impact of the crisis was less than had originally been feared, poverty became more acute throughout the region, affecting school attendance and preventive health care expenditures. Nonetheless, the creation of new jobs has offered hope to workers and their families, and while incomes of low-income groups have not yet been restored, renewed economic growth has at least halted the decline of incomes. With a few more years of growth, poverty levels would return to those prevailing before the crisis.
Though sharper than expected, the recovery remains fragile due to the overhang of bad debts (see Figure 4.3), which drain corporate earnings and fiscal resources. Consolidating recovery will require: restructuring of banks and corporations to restore their financial viability; sound management of the burgeoning public sector debt; and efforts to reduce lingering inefficiencies exposed by the crisis. A disturbing characteristic of the
post-crisis environment, particularly among low-income and urban households, is increased economic insecurity as a result of job losses and lower real wages. The prospect of increased unemployment also looms in the transition economies (Cambodia, China, Laos, Mongolia, and Vietnam) as governments move to reform inefficient state enterprises and downsize large public sectors.
Bank Assistance
The Bank’s assistance strategy in East Asia has been completely transformed in the aftermath of the crisis. According to East Asia: Recovery and Beyond, a World Bank publication released in May zooo, the region’s long-term prospects hinge on unleashing new productivity-induced growth. These prospects are in turn dependent on the effectiveness of regulatory policies and of business, government, and social institutions. While continuing to emphasize prudent macroeconomic management, the Bank is drawing on its analytical work in the region and focusing its support on financial and corporate restructuring and governance; public sector performance and governance; and social protection.
Increased contact with clients and stronger partnerships continue to characterize Bank assistance in East Asia. Operations have been increasingly decentralized, with nearly 50 percent of staff and all but one country director now in the field. Regional hubs have been established (in Singapore to enhance strategic regional links, in Hong Kong, China to focus on private sector development,
^ and in Sydney to support activities in the Pacific Islands, Papua New Guinea, and East Timor). A local presence has also been established in East Timor to assist in implementing the reconstruction effort. Assistance to East Timor is underpinned by a comprehensive sector framework / agreed upon with other donors,
the U.K., and the East Timorese leadership, which already has yielded considerable results. By June
2000,	the Bank and the Asian Development Bank (adb) had together rolled out comprehensive programs in aII sectors of the economy, with special emphasis on employment generation activities. Throughout the region, Bank operations are fostering partnerships with other multilateral and bilateral institutions, including the adb, Association of Southeast Asian Nations (asean), Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (apec), and the Asia—Europe Meetings group.
Vietnam is among the countries piloting the cdf approach. This initiative reflects the government’s concern that fragmented donor programs were having less impact than they would as part of a coordinated framework. In fiscal zooo, the government promoted awareness of the new approach; strengthened partnerships among donors, government, and civil society; and began to tackle the harmonizing of procedures across donors. Achievements in the first year included Vietnam: Attacking Poverty, a joint report of a government-donor-NGO working group. The coordinated approach has generated a shared perspective on the nature of poverty and its causes, and an agreed-upon agenda for future work. A joint donor-gov-ernment working group on governance has also been established. In fiscal 2000, assistance strategies were also prepared for the Pacific Island states (see Box 4. 3).
New lending operations in eap numbered 29 in fiscal 2000 and total lending was $3 billion, down from fiscal 1999 levels as anticipated. Demand for funds was substantially lower as the crisis receded and the region’s economic performance improved. Lending was complemented by economic and sector studies, short policy notes, and advisory consultations that, in some cases, resulted in agreement on reform measures even when not tied to lending. A number of technical assistance projects supported corporate and banking sector reforms, funded primarily through the Asia—Europe Meetings (asem) Trust Fund and the Policy and Human Resources Development (phrd) Trust Fund. Table 4.2 shows the value and sectoral distributions of total Bank lending to the
East Asia and Pacific region in the fiscal 1992—00 period. Table 4.3A (see Annex) compares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the region for fiscal 1995—00; and Table
4.4A (see Annex) shows operations approved in fiscal
2000,	by country. Figure 4.4 shows ibrd and ida lending by sector.
Accelerating financial and corporate restructuring
Financial and corporate sector reforms continued to advance in fiscal 2000, if at an uneven and generally slow pace. Three patterns have emerged. First, the five crisis countries (Republic of Korea, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines) are at advanced stages of identifying and transferring bad loans to asset management companies; their progress well exceeds that of noncrisis countries (particularly China and Mongolia). Second, progress in debt restructuring and resolution of bad loans has been fitful, with the Republic of Korea leading and Indonesia lagging in a process that may span the better part of a decade. Third, financial sectors are being opened to foreign owners and competitors in varying degrees, with dramatic changes in Thailand and Korea. Bank assistance in fiscal 2000—in close collaboration within the Bank Group and with
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC FAST FACTS
Total population: 1.8 billion Population growth: 1.1%
Life expectancy at birth: 69 years Infant mortality per 1,000 births: 33 Temahyouth illiteracy:3%
1999	GNP per capita: $1,000
Total fyOO New commitments ibrd $2,495.3 million IDA $483.8 million
Total fyOO Disbursements ibrd $2,940.3 million ida $706.1 million
Outstanding portfolio as of June 30,2000 $31.7 billion
Note: Population and GNP data are for 1999, other indicators are for 1998, from the World Development Indicators database.
other international agencies—aimed to facilitate the restructuring of banks and corporations, and to strengthen regulatory frameworks and institutions, including the judicial system, insolvency system reform, financial supervision, and competition policy. In Thailand, to complete financial and corporate sector reforms, the Bank has supported economic and financial adjustment through two loans since the crisis, with a third under discussion this fiscal year. Policy dialogue with the Republic of Korea yielded agreement on extending and deepening corporate and financial sector reforms. Though the funds under the Corporate and Financial Sector Restructuring Loan were not accessed, the Republic of Korea nonetheless implemented the bulk of reforms associated with the operation.
Strengthening public sector performance and governance
With rising public debt squeezing noninterest public spending, civil society in many East Asian countries is increasingly demanding more efficient, effective, and accountable government; improved social and infrastructure services; and the safeguarding of the environment. In response, the Bank has supported sector projects and policy reforms emphasizing public sector transparency and accountability (see Box 4. 4) as well as greater stakeholder participation in project design and implementation. Wide-ranging efforts in Indonesia include anticorruption and civil service reforms. The Indonesia Forests Program, for example (developed this year through an intensive Bank-sponsored consultation process with donors, government, and civil society), represents a government commitment to introduce major reforms in the sector, address urgent issues including illegal logging, and set a framework for coordinated forest development. Bank operations are also adopting demand-oriented and private sector approaches to service delivery (particularly in infrastructure activities) with an emphasis on
BOX 4.3 ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE PACIFIC ISLAND STATES
The challenges facing the Pacific Island countries (Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Marshall Islands, Samoa, the Solomon Islands, Tonga, and Vanuatu) are: to overcome the constraints they share as small states, including economic and environmental vulnerability; to deal with changing global trade regimes; to improve institutional and human capacity; and to identify practical options in response to the ongoing process of globalization. A major challenge unique to these countries is how to provide sustainable and meaningful economic and social opportunities and services for growing populations within a context of fast-paced social, cultural, and economic change.
Regional cooperation, by pooling resources across countries, would minimize the vulnerabilities of these small countries. Regional cooperation opportunities, however, are limited in the Pacific region, due to its immense size and the variety of cultures and political systems. Nonetheless,
the Bank’s strategy aims to support regional initiatives in those limited areas where prospects are strong, such as trade, hanking, transport, telecommunications, management of marine resources, and bulk purchasing of supplies and products.
The CDF and the shared work with the Commonwealth Secretariat on small island states provide the basis for a long-term strategy for assistance to the Pacific Island countries. This assistance plan was outlined in the Pacific Regional Strategy (May 1000) and the Papua New Guinea Country Assistance Strategy (December /99g). The Bank’s strategy supports country-led reform programs (in coordination with other regional and bilateral development partners) as a key element for success. The strategy focuses on the importance of sustainable utilization of natural resources in meeting development aspirations, and it emphasizes the critical role of Pacific institutions, traditions, and customs in reducing poverty.
cost recovery of recurrent expenses. New projects in China with these features will help reduce air pollution, address water pollution and sewerage problems, and support water supply, waste water treatment, and industrial pollution control.
In fiscal 2000, the Bank also supported decentralization of public sector decisionmaking and accountability. These significant challenges must be met: to ensure neutral impact on fiscal resources, adequate capacity at the local government level, and reduced corruption at local levels. In the Philippines, the Mindanao Rural Development Project (a project to improve rural incomes and food security) assigns a larger role to local governments while also closely involving rural poor communities in project design and implementation. The project emphasizes capacity-building at local levels, which represents a new approach to rural development in the Philippines.
Enhancing social protection
During the crisis, the Bank supported efforts to bolster safety net programs and to gather data to
strengthen related policymaking functions. Greater involvement exposed severe limitations in the ability of private and public systems to cope with a shock as severe as the recent crisis.
The need for policies and institutions that could help households manage social risks also became evident.
Bank assistance in fiscal
2000	sought to help build a comprehensive and effective social policy framework and to ensure that poor people participate in the benefits of future growth.
Also recognizing the fiscal constraints on governments as well as demands from communities, social sector programs have increasingly em
The Indonesia Village Infrastructure Project has empowered communities to assume responsibility for project planning and implementation.
BOX 4.4 THAILAND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
Strengthening public sectors has been an important focus of Bank assistance in the East Asia region. Public sector reforms can raise productivity (of workers and public investment) in the economy, improve competitiveness, enhance citizen satifaction with public services, and ultimately help sustain economic growth. In Thailand, the Bank is supporting an important effort of the government to improve public sector governance in central agencies and line ministries, through a $400 million loan approved this fiscal year. The comprehensive Public Sector Management Rtform Plan, issued in May 1999, aims at improved performance-based resource management, better service delivery, and greater accountability and transparency. Recognizing that institutional reforms require time to implement,
and that the pace of implementation is often uneven, the reform program has been designed around concrete objectives with flexible benchmarks that can be adjusted to accommodate the pace of implementation.
The reforms are already yielding tangible results, which reflects the strong support among various stakeholders in Thailand, as well as the rforms’grounding in the principles of the new constitution. Agencies and ministries have been restructured to promote efficiency; processes in pilot departments have been re-engineered to emphasize results-based management; new financial management approaches have been developed; and important legislation (including the Official Information Act) has been passed.
nity empowerment and demand-driven approaches to promote operational efficiency, transparency, and effectiveness.
Support for social protection has entailed the strengthening of local communities and ngos, as well as assistance for health, education, infrastructure, environment, water supply and sanitation, urban and rural development, and other local capacity-building activities. A Social Investment Fund in Thailand, aimed at assisting the needy, has in the words of some Thai community leaders become “a social movement,” promoting lasting goals of community selfreliance and cooperation, mutual learning and
continuous development, and the strengthening and stabilizing of society through community networks. Under the comprehensive City Development Strategies approach, the Bank supports the formation of civil society umbrella associations charged with producing a strategic vision for their cities. The Bank and Bandung, Indonesia (one of 12 initially targeted cities), have agreed to work together on a Cities Without Slums Initiative to upgrade and improve living standards in poor neighborhoods of Bandung. Bank operations are also increasing their use of innovative technological approaches to social service delivery.
SOUTH ASIA
Regional Context
South Asia was the fastest growing developing region in 1999 for the second consecutive year, gdp growth averaged 5.4 percent, up slightly from the previous year. Growth in India, at 6 percent in 1999, continued to lead the region's performance, spurred by an expanding commitment to a broad range of reforms at the national level and in some key states, as well as rising business confidence. Bangladesh grew at a healthy 5.2 percent in 1999, up from 5.1 percent the previous year. This growth was better than expected; a bumper rice crop and sound macroeconomic management helped to offset the effects of the 1998 floods, weak external markets, falling commodity prices, and surging petroleum bills. Growth slowed in Pakistan, to 3.1 percent; the weak performance reflected political uncertainties and serious balance of payments difficulties as well as weak external markets (the latter also affected Sri Lanka).
South Asia’s strong growth is all the more remarkable—and indicative of its potential dynamism—in the face of regional and national political instability. Tensions between Pakistan and India over Kashmir continue to take a toll on lives, command large defense expenditures, and keep G7 sanctions in place following nuclear weapons tests in 1998; a military coup in Pakistan
in October 1999 created further uncertainties. Elsewhere in the region, a sharp escalation in the scale of the Sri Lankan civil conflict caused an interruption in renewed mediation efforts; political strikes continue in Bangladesh, costing the economy an estimated $60 million for each day lost; and political instability continues in Nepal. Combined with economic and policy constraints, these upheavals limit the regions ability to attract the foreign investment critical to growth and poverty reduction. Gross capital market flows to South Asia are just 1 percent of the total to developing countries. The instabilities have also contributed to large public sector deficits, inadequate infrastructure services, and poor quality of public spending.
South Asia’s poverty continues to present a profound challenge to the Bank’s mission. The region is home to 40 percent of the world’s poor, with some half a billion people living on less than a dollar a day. Key indicators signal the scope of the challenge: South Asia has the world’s highest adult illiteracy rate (59 percent of women are unable to read or write), a third of the world’s maternal deaths, and malnutrition that affects more than half the region’s children under 5 years of age. Lack of access to health care, major public health threats such as hiv/aids and malnutrition (see Figure 4.5), low primary school enrollment rates, environmental degradation, inadequate infrastructure, and social exclusion are among the many obstacles to future growth and poverty reduction.
Bank Assistance
The Bank articulates its strategy to help South Asia reduce poverty around three key dimensions.
First, it recognizes the need for , sound economic policies to promote growth. Second, it recognizes that equitable distribution
of the benefits of growth requires institutional development (supporting good governance) and policies conducive to supporting poverty alleviation and human development, especially among vulnerable groups such as women. Third, in applying cdf principles, it calls for a holistic approach to address multidimensional poverty, reaching across sectoral boundaries and engaging governments, other country partners, and donors in a coordinated effort to ensure maximum impact on poverty reduction.
This strategic approach has implications not only for the role of the Bank in each South Asian country but also for how it works with these countries. While projects and programs continue to be important, capacity building and knowledge-driven activities tailored to a country’s needs are increasingly emphasized (see Box 4.5). In fiscal 2000, the Bank consolidated recent years’ efforts to transform the way Bank staff work with client countries and to devolve decisionmaking to country offices. The strategic vision that the “country should be in the driver’s seat” found expression at several levels: from the Bank’s interaction with countries and states to its efforts at the community level to enable people to take control of their own development.
Table 4.3 shows the value and sectoral distributions of total Bank lending to the South Asia region in the fiscal 1992—00 period. Table 4.5A (see Annex) compares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the region for fiscal 1995—00, and Table 4.6a (see Annex) shows operations approved m fiscal 2000, by country. Figure 4,6 shows ibrd and ida commitments by sector.
Building country ownership
Strengthening client ownership of policies and programs and involving poor people in development efforts became focal points of Bank assistance in fiscal 2000. A key priority in India was building strong partnerships with reforming states (see Box 4.6). Following the lead of Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, India’s largest state and one of its poorest (with 40 percent of its 160 million people living below the poverty
line), has also embraced much needed reforms.
In Pakistan, the Bank and the Fund continued to engage in high-level policy dialogue with the new government on macroeconomic and structural issues, with an emphasis on the need to build support for policy change at national and provincial levels. In Bangladesh, a consultation process to inform the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (cas) engaged all levels of society, including rural communities, the urban poor, ngos, academia, business communities, trade unions, ministers, and parliamentarians. Following another consultation process supported by the Bank and development partners, the government presented its poverty reduction strategy at the April 2000 Development Forum in Paris.
Emphasis on country-led development characterizes Bank assistance to Nepal. The Bank’s fiscal 1999—01 cas emphasizes government-led donor coordination to improve aid effectiveness. A Public Expenditure Review in fiscal 2000 helped the government to trim its donor assistance requests and to use limited public resources to maximum effect; a parallel study looked at decentralization and improved monitoring of public expenditures. In the same spirit, a $5 million Rural Infrastructure Project is piloting a local government-led approach to the planning and improvement of rural roads, entrusting district-level committees with the design, supervision, and implementation of civil works. Another new project is setting up a road rehabilitation and maintenance fund to be managed by government and private sector representatives; the fund, similar to one being established in Pakistan, aims at increased private sector involvement in infrastructure.
Strengthening governance and institution building
Governance and institution building—to strengthen citizens’ voice, improve government accountability, and reduce corruption—are key themes of Bank assistance to South Asia. The new government in Pakistan has put good governance at the heart of its reform agenda. A major step is a comprehensive plan for decentralization, which would devolve political, financial, and administrative responsibilities to local representatives. In Bangladesh, several new initiatives, such as the Country Financial Accountability Assessment, a Procurement Review, an Anti-Corruption Report, and an Institutional and Governance Review, have identified numerous social and political obstacles to reform and have stimulated a dialogue on measures that can strengthen the rule of law, reduce corruption, and improve service delivery.
The Bank is helping strengthen the region’s institutions through a combination of lending and nonlending services. In Sri Lanka, a Legal Reform Project is addressing legal constraints to private sector development by simplifying regula-
tory structures and adjudication processes and enhancing government capacity to reform and improve the quality and efficiency of the judiciary. A Financial Sector Update in Pakistan examined the government’s banking sector reform program and emphasized the need to extend reforms to the legal and regulatory environment. The Bank also helped the government examine the costs of corruption through a series of workshops that drew representation from a wide section of government, ngos, and the private sector. Also in Pakistan, a Provincial Finances study and a Public Expenditure Review of Punjab Province sought to strengthen provincial governments’ capacity for planning and funding essential social and economic services.
Empowering poor people
Critical to a sound poverty reduction strategy are institutions, public and private, that not only improve access to services, markets, and economic opportunities but also empower poor people to participate in the development process. India’s District Poverty Initiatives Projects in Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan are examples of such institution-building support by the Bank in fiscal
2ooo.	Designed to finance small-scale subprojects at community and village levels, these initiatives seek to mobilize and empower groups of poor people by helping them to voice their demands as well as plan and implement their own poverty-reducing schemes. District and subdistrict agencies, both state and nongovernmental, are
BOX 4.5 SUPPORTING BHUTAN’S UNIQUE VISION FOR DEVELOPMENT
Nestled in the remote eastern Himalayas, the tiny Kingdom of Bhutan has made great progress in improving the living standards of its people since first embarking on modernization in the early 1 g6os. Over 70 percent of primary school-age children are now in school\ compared with only 3j percent in the early igrjos. Bhutan has a unique vision for social transformation: policies aim to preserve the country’s strong cultural and environmental heritage.
In fiscal ZOOO, the Bank developed a CAS that supports Bhutan’s vision and development priorities. At the country’s request, the strategy emphasizes the transfer of knowledge and ideas, rather than finance. In one such initiative, the Bank is helping Bhutan improve its training of government officials by offering greater access to World Bank Institute courses and internships for promising Bhutanese civil servants. Close collaboration on analytical and advisory services will lead to shared learning valuable to both Bhutan and the Bank. The emphasis on such nonlending services is illustrative of an increasing recognition—on the part of countries and the Bank alike—that knowledge is key to development and to the effective use of development resources.
encouraged to listen to citizens and ensure that the social and economic infrastructure within their purview reaches the poorest.
In Bangladesh, local communities are helping ngos to implement a new nutrition project. It is the first of a series of projects supporting a 10-year National Nutrition Program, which aims to eradicate malnutrition countrywide by 2010. An earlier Integrated Nutrition Program saw the incidence of severe malnutrition in children under 24 months decline from 13 percent to 2 percent; the new endeavor is designed to build on those gains.
Bank support is also helping to empower people in Pakistan and strife-ridden northeast Sri Lanka. Approved at the end of fiscal 1999, the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund Project aims to help poor individuals and communities (with a particu-
BOX 4.6 SUPPORTING INDIA’S REFORMING STATES
India’s large deficits at the central and state levels have obstructed poverty reduction by putting macroeconomic stability at risk, diverting financing from the private sector, hinder-ingfinancial sector reforms, and limiting state spending on health, education, and infrastructure. Reforms in several states are beginning to address these imbalances, and in recent years, the Bank Group has re-oriented its strategy to focus assistance mainly on those states. In fiscal 1998, the Bank supported innovative efforts in Andhra Pradesh to restructure public expenditures through fiscal reforms, social spending targets, and public enterprise divestiture. Public spending on primary education and health is already climbing.
In fiscal 2000, Uttar Pradesh became the second state to receive state-level Bank assistance; the Bank is providing a multisectoral package that supports its economic reform program and helps the state put its finances on a sustainable path. Operations supporting fiscal, public sector, and power sector reform have provided urgently needed funds, especially for the improvement of social services for poor people. The package supports reforms relating to the civil service, taxation, and privatization; it also includes assistance for primary education and health systems development.
Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh together account for over a fourth of India’s poor. Similar support to other reforming states is under preparation.
lar focus on women) by providing microcredit, capacity-building support, and communitv infrastructure.
The fund has already approved $10 million to five partner organizations, reflecting a mix of rural and urban ngos in the country.
In Sri Lanka, an irrigation project to revive agricultural production is aimed at rebuilding communities torn apart by ethnic conflict. For this project, ngos will train villagers to play a decisive role in planning and implementing development activities; project management will be entrusted to regional and district levels in coordination with other existing rehabilitation programs. The Bank is working with UNHCR and the Red these efforts.
EUROPE
Regional Context
Ten years after the breakup of the Soviet System, what is perhaps most striking about the Europe and Central Asia (eca) region is its diversity7. A decade ago, all countries m the region seemed to face similar challenges of transition from a planned centralized system to a market economy. Today, Central Europe is far advanced in its transition and is making progress toward meeting the challenges of European Union membership. Countries m South East Europe remain troubled by post-conflict uncertainties but face a potential turning point offered by the Stability Pact, which aims at their integration into European structures (see Box
4.7). And for the Commonwealth of Independent States (cis) countries, transition has been more difficult, although some countries have made more progress than others.
Economic performance in 1999 varied across the region. Aggregate growth in Central and South East Europe was slightly down—not, however, as a result of deteriorating economic policies. Rather, slower growth was due to a less favorable external environment, reflecting in part the Russian Federation’s 1998 financial crisis and the hardening of terms in international capital markets as well as efforts to cool the economies in the face of unsustainable macroeconomic trends and to confront the costs of postponed reforms. The new governments in Croatia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, and the Slovak Republic are confronting their remaining reform agendas, while Turkey’s new administration has embarked on aggressive reforms. In cis countries, aggregate growth in 1999 reached a new high of about 2.5 percent. The outcome largely reflects the Russian Federation’s
AND CENTRAL ASIA
rapid recovery, helped by a sharp devaluation and higher oil prices. However, with capital flight at peak rates of about 10 percent of gdp in 1999, sustained recovery will require the new government to give high priority to strengthening the climate for private sector development. Recovery in Ukraine will likewise depend on the policies of the new administration. Sustaining momentum in policy reform will also be key to continued growth in Central Asia and the Caucasus; while better terms of trade and an expanding Russian economy helped economic performance in 1999, progress in reform was erratic due to elections in many countries.
Bank Assistance
Adapting to rapidly changing circumstances at the country and subregional levels was a key feature of Bank assistance in fiscal 2000. The Bank responded quickly to an earthquake in Turkey (see Box
4.8), floods in Tajikistan, and post-conflict reconstruction m the Balkans. The Kosovo crisis set off a major reorientation of Bank assistance. Several operations were approved in fiscal 2000 to support Albania in the rehabilitation of w'ater supply, emergency road repair, and education. Grant financing also provided for key infrastructure, rehabilitation of agriculture and social services, and budget support in Kosovo. These efforts were part of the Bank’s wider involvement in the long-
term development of South East Europe in the context of the Stability Pact.
Bank support for reforms was guided by countries’ pace of implementation. In Turkey, the Bank responded to a notable acceleration of
reforms with a large adjustment operation. In the Russian Federation and Ukraine, on the other hand, where political developments slowed the reform effort, the Bank cut back its lending activities while maintaining policy dialogue and providing analytical support. Such nonlending services will help strengthen the basis for strong Bank response to renewed reform efforts by new administrations.
As the “transition" theme that has characterized the Bank’s work in the eca region becomes a less useful organizing principle, four priorities are emerging: poverty prevention and reduction; building of public and private institutional capacity; effective decentralization and community development; and improved environmental management. In the cdf pilot countries—the Kyrgyz Republic and Romania—the process has also broadened stakeholder participation in the discussion of country priorities.
Table 4.4 shows the value and sectoral distributions of total Bank lending to the Europe and Central Asia Region in the fiscal 1992—00 period. Table 4.7A (see Annex) compares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the region for fiscal 1995—00, and Table 4.8A (see Annex) shows operations approved in fiscal 2000, by country. Figure 4.7 shows ibrd and ida lending by sector.
Preventing and alleviating poverty
Poverty and inequality are today recognized as major issues for the eca region; this was not the case at the beginning of the transition process. An ongoing eca Poverty Study as well as Voices of the Poor document the region’s heightened incidence of poverty, inequity, and declining quality of life. In response, the Bank has sharpened the poverty focus of its assistance and increased the emphasis on lending for public goods and basic social services. Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers are in preparation for all ida countries in the region, and the one for Albania was submitted to the Board last June. In Armenia, a social investment fund is financing demand-driven community projects to improve basic social and economic infrastructure, short-term employment opportunities, community outreach, and local capacity building. In the Russian Federation, an operation aimed at developing a sustainable coal industry disbursed $200 million in fiscal 2000 to mitigate the impact on workers (and their families and communities) who were laid off following the closing of inefficient mines. Rural poor people will benefit from the Tajikistan Primary Health Care Project, which seeks to improve primary health services and develop a more equitable approach to their funding. In Central Asia and the Caucasus, Bank assistance has aimed at increasing agricultural productivity to raise the incomes of the poorer segments of the population. Examples include research and extension operations in Armenia, and land registration and on-farm irrigation operations in the Kyrgyz Republic (see Box 4.9).
Promoting institutional development, governance, and anticorruption
A key challenge for countries in transition is building state institutions capable of governing a modern market economy. The Bank continues to assist in developing new and better strategies for identifying and addressing problems of governance, and by integrating these strategies into its nonlending and lending assistance.
Five countries—Bosnia and Herzegovina, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, and the Slovak Republic—requested and received assistance in fiscal 2000 for diagnosing problems of corruption and developing strategies for reform. A new type of governance diagnostic was piloted in Armenia, which examines the institutional origins of weak public sector performance. Governance and anticorruption workshops were conducted in a number of countries, including Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Kyrgyz Republic, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, and Turkey. Two innovative adjustment loans, to Albania and Latvia, supported reforms aimed at strengthening governance and reducing corruption.
In fiscal 2000, nonlending services helped countries analyze the effect of powerful private interests in preventing policies aimed at creating a level playing field. Such interests harm the business environment by obstructing competition, entry, and investment, and by increasing inequality and poverty. A new report, Anticorruption in Transition, offers remedies for this and other forms of corruption and will be disseminated at the Joint Bank—Fund Annual Meetings in September 2000.
Promoting decentralization and community development
In the region’s formerly centrally planned systems, government authority and capacity at the provincial and municipal levels were poorly developed or nonexistent. The transition has given rise to an important need for building the institutional capacity of these subnational authorities. A special challenge for eu accession countries will be to ensure that regional and local authorities are able to put substantial EU grant funds to good use.
The Local Initiatives Project in Bosnia and Herzegovina offers a good example of local-level institution building. The project gives low-income microentrepreneurs access to credit by helping selected ngos serve as microfinance institutions through provision of appropriate knowledge, technology, and performance incentives. More than
35,000	small loans have been disbursed, nearly half to women and a fifth to returning refugees or displaced persons. Seven out of eight institutions have become operationally selfsufficient and developed the governance, human resource, and financial capacity to be sustainable over the long term.
Protecting the environment
In fiscal 2000, the Bank supported the region’s environmental needs by helping countries to shape country and regional environmental strategies; build stronger environmental institutions; and finance priority investments to improve environmental management.
Preparation of National Environmental Action Plans was launched, with Bank support, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and Turkmenistan, virtually completing the roster of national environment strategies in eca countries. In Poland and other eu accession countries, the Bank helped environmental authorities assess the cost of complying with eu environmental legisla-
BOX 4.7 WORKING WITH THE EC TO PROMOTE STABLE DEVELOPMENT IN SOUTH EAST EUROPE
In June 1999, soon after the Kosovo crisis, the international community and South East European countries signed a Stability Pact1 to promote regional integration and economic development. The Pact gave the European Commission (I (j and the World Bank the mandate to coordinate a comprehensive regional development approach and economic assistance to the region.
In an early effort to carry out the Pact’s mandate, the Bank collaborated closely with partners to prepare a regional strategy paper. The Road to Stability and Prosperity in South East Europe proposes four areas of action: to move rapidly toward trade integration with the W and create a stable, transparent, and nondiscriminatory environment for private sector development; to foster social inclusion and efforts to promote peace; to improve institutional capacity and governance, with a focus on corruption; and to invest in infrastructure, with attention to environmental concerns.
As part of their donor coordination role, the Bank and the lie co-chaired a funding conference in March ZOOO. Donors pledged billion equivalent for a series of “quick-start” regional activities. The conference marks a crucial step in translating the Stability Pact’s principles into tangible progress, and it signals strong prospects for continued productive partnership.
1 The participants of the Stability Pact are: ait EU Member States, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, Romania, Russian Federation, Slovenia. FYR Macedonia, Turkey, the United States, the European Commission, Chairman in Office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and the Council of Europe.
tion. Assistance to Tajikistan is focused on capacity building for planning and implementing sustainable mitigation and preparedness activities for Lake Sarez.
Among lending activities, the Bulgaria Privatization Support Adjustment Operation is noteworthy for its innovative approach to industrial pollution. To attract private investment by removing environment-related investor risks, a legal framework is being established along with mechanisms for dealing with past environmental liabilities in the privatization of polluting industries. The approach includes provisions to clean up past pollution and to ensure future compliance with environmental standards. The Poland Rural Environmental Protection Project demonstrates another effective mechanism for channeling investment for environmental protection, this one in rural areas. The project will help reduce nitrate run-off from approximately 1,000 farms, while helping Poland meet eu accession requirements.
BOX 4.8 RESPONDING TO TURKEY'S EARTHQUAKE: SPEED, PARTNERSHIP, PREVENTION
In August 1999, the Marmara Region of Western Turkey was hit with a devastating earthquake that caused over lj.000 deaths and physical destruction estimated at somewhere between l.j percent and j.j percent of GVP,
The World Bank responded immediately, beginning with a comprehensive assessment of the disaster’s impact and needs for recovery. Five weeks later, the Board approved reallocations of up to $l6y million from eight ongoing loans, making funds available for urgent needs in health, education, infrastructure reconstruction, and other services. Two new loans were approved in November iggg, bringing the Bank’s total financial supportfior recovery to over $1 billion. The government and the Bank worked with key donors in preparing the projects, which support disaster recovery and disaster preparedness. Two new institutions are being established: the Emergency Management Agency of Turkey, to help the nation respond quickly to human and organizational needs after a natural disaster, and the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool, a new compulsory insurance program for homeowners that will both provide an incentive for sound construction practices and transfer catastrophic risk offshore through reinsurance markets (see Box j.jfi The IFC has also provided a credit line to help small- and medium-sized firms (SMEs) in Turkey’s earthquake regions.
BOX 4.9 PROMOTING LAND MARKET INSTITUTIONS AND SUSTAINABLE IRRIGATION IN THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
In the Kyrgyz Republic, agriculture accounts Jor nearly half of GDP and employment, particularly in rural areas where two-thirds of the population reside and where poverty is concentrated. Agricultural growth is a high priority in the national economic strategy. To promote efficient use of land resources, IDA has been working with the government to build infrastructure and institutional capacity. Two new credits were approved in fiscal ZOOO:
2^ The Land and Real Estate Registration Project takes forward the land privatization reforms that have boosted agricultural production since tgg6 by putting in place arrangements to protect property rights and facilitate market activity in land. The project addresses rural needs but will also foster development of urban real estate markets.
>■ The On-Farm Irrigation Project helps build sustainable irrigation systems by establishing Water User Associations fwiJAs) and rehabilitating distribution systems serving private farmers. To promote sustainability, the project suj)ports adequate maintenance, institutional strengthening of WUAs, and a sound legal framework.
IDAs role. IDA’s experience in land reform-related issues in CIS and other countries gives it a unique advantage in providing such support to the Kyrgyz Republic. Complementary IDA support for rural development, privatization, banking reform, andfiscal reform should further advance prospects for agricultural growth.
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Regional Context
The economic slowdown in Latin America and the Caribbean (lac) that began in 1998 continued throughout most of 1999, although by 2000 recovery was underway in most lac countries. Regional growth was flat in 1999, down from about 2 percent in
1998.	The contributing factors were external shocks to terms of trade and reduced access to capital markets; natural disasters—an earthquake in Colombia and devastating floods in the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela—compounded problems for those countries. The regional current account deficit declined, due mainly to reduced imports. While fiscal balances deteriorated, they are expected to improve. Also promising was foreign direct investment (fdi), which surged to a record $89 billion in 1999 and bodes well for the future, especially in Brazil and Mexico. Overall, prospects have brightened, due to the receding impact of shocks to terms of trade and renewed access to international capital markets.
The magnitude of slowdown and the pace of recovery have varied among countries. Three small nations, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, and Trinidad and Tobago, led in economic growth. Certain large nations also performed well. Brazil’s swift policy response to the currency crisis
stopped speculative capital outflows and enabled rapid economic recovery. Mexico’s tight fiscal policy and a flexible foreign exchange regime (helped by a booming U.S. economy) reassured external creditors and spurred growth of about 3.5 percent. Peru’s growth also approached 4 percent, as exchange rate movements helped the economy adjust to shocks and recover from El Nino problems. Other large countries fared poorly, however. Argentina was affected by declining commodity prices, by trade shocks triggered by Brazil’s currency crisis, and by reduced access to (more costly) private financing. In Colombia, Ecuador, and the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela, internal political difficulties and financial system weaknesses intensified the slump, prompting authorities to raise interest rates to avoid currency runs in the face of external shocks.
Regional growth is expected to average 3—4 percent in 2000, likely led by Chile, Mexico, and Peru. Argentina could achieve similar growth with improved access to international capital markets on more favorable terms. Even with growth, however, deep inequalities of wealth persist in most lac countries, with 35 percent of the region’s people, or about 177 million, living in poverty. This high level of poverty is partly due to the macroeconomic shocks, which resulted in increased unemployment and cuts in social programs aimed at poor people.
Bank Assistance
In fiscal 2000, the Bank responded to the
region’s external financial shocks and natu-\ ral disasters by helping people cope
with worsened poverty as well as the sudden loss of jobs and, in some cases, homes. Assistance to help countries manage environmental resources in sustainable ways continued, along with other efforts (developed in consultation with
local communities) to improve the quality of life in cities and rural areas. With emerging market economies recovering faster than expected from the 1997—98 crisis, the region has had less need for the large capital transfers associated with last year’s adjustment lending. At the same time, the Bank has continued efforts to improve countries' access to private capital. In a first-time use of the new instrument, the Bank issued a $250 million policy-based ibrd guarantee in support of a sovereign bond issue by Argentina that raised $1.5 billion on the u.s. dollar bond market in October
1999	(see page 98).
Bank assistance to the lac region in 2000 focused on three broad areas. A first priority was the reform of financial and governance systems, building on the macroeconomic stability achieved in most countries, to attract and sustain investor confidence. Second, and also critical, were investments in health and education to improve the quality of life and to provide future generations with the skills needed to compete in the global economy. The third focus of Bank support was the response to economic and natural crises. Nonlending services complemented the Bank’s financial assistance. A study exploring the links between poverty and crime, for example, aimed to help policymakers address this crucial challenge for the region (see Box 4.10).
Two lac countries, Bolivia and the Dominican Republic, chose to be among the first to pilot the Comprehensive Development Framework (cdf) approach that emphasizes partnership with civil society and a balance in policymaking across macroeconomic, financial, social, structural, and environmental elements of development (see Box 4.11). Bolivia now has in place a five-year National Action Plan, developed through a National Dialogue that brought together representatives of government, civil society, and the private sector.
Debt relief continues to be an important part of Bank support for poverty reduction in the region. Bolivia’s National Dialogue met in May
2000	to develop a Poverty Reduction Strategy that would provide the framework within which Bolivia would qualify for delivery of its complete debt relief package amounting to $2.1 billion in
nominal terms, under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (hipc) Initiative.
Guyana, Honduras, and Nicaragua are expected to qualify for debt relief under the enhanced hipc framework within calendar year 2000.
Table 4.5 shows the value and sectoral distributions of total Bank lending to the Latin America and Caribbean region in the fiscal 1992—00 period. Table 4.9A (see Annex) compares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the Region for fiscal 1995—00, and Table 4.10A (see Annex) shows operations approved in fiscal 2000, by country.
Figure 4.8 shows ibrd and ida lending by sector.
Supporting institutional reform
In fiscal 2000, Bank activities in lac focused heavily on institutional reform, including of public administration, taxation, social security, and judicial and financial systems. Major loans were approved to help countries rebuild and strengthen fragile financial systems affected or threatened by economic, financial, and currency crises. In Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay the Bank approved loans amounting to almost $1.4 billion in support of financial sector reforms. These reforms address the need for stronger bank supervision, deposit insurance requirements, and regulations promoting greater transparency and improved risk assessments, which will all help to increase confidence in banking systems. Other reforms are helping clean up countries’ banking industries and making them more competitive.
Support for institutional reform also addressed needs in governance, which is especially relevant as lac countries continue their shift from the 1980s’ centralized systems of authoritarian rule to decentralized forms of government
that give states and municipalities greater responsibility for public service delivery. Research on decentralization constituted one form of such support in fiscal 2000. In Beyond the Center—Decentralizing the State, the Bank underscores the need for transfers of accountability to local governments to be accompanied by transfers of authority and of human and financial resources. The report discusses challenges facing local and national governments regarding the division of powers, the sharing of fiscal responsibility, and the delivery of quality services.
The Bank also provided financial support for decentralization in fiscal 2000. A $606 million adjustment loan to Mexico will help subnational governments borrow and
Other**
Human
Development
manage debt, ensure greater transparency on federal transfers to lower levels, and improve intergovernmental coordination. In Brazil, a $505 million special sector adjustment loan is helping state and federal governments carry out administrative reform, control personnel costs, and increase efficiency. The Bank is also helping decentralized environmental management in Brazil through support for the country’s Second National Environmental Program and through a loan that helps the Ceara state government upgrade water conservation and implement reasonable prices for water use.
Local governance is being supported by the World Bank Institute (wbi). wbi has conducted distance-learning courses on municipal finance by video-conference for over 3,000 local administrators across the region, with seminars and conferences on subnational capital markets, municipal management, and planning and information systems. With numerous partners, wbi is also helping cities develop action plans to improve air quality. Urban areas, which are now home to 75 percent of the region’s people, are receiving such support under the Clean Air Initiative for Latin American Cities, now in its second year.
porting efforts such as the Ecuador Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorean People’s Development Project, which mobilizes community experience, knowledge, and cooperation to develop subprojects in agriculture, handicrafts, and natural resources management. Similar projects are underway in Peru and Colombia.
Responding to crisis
Response to financial and natural crises, with an emphasis on poverty reduction, has been a crucial aspect of recent Bank assistance to the region. In Brazil, in late 1998, the Bank responded to external shocks by committing up to $4.5 billion through June 30, 2001 to support the country’s recovery. In addition to the administrative reform loan mentioned above, the Bank also approved a second social security adjustment loan in fiscal 2000, to help make sustainable Brazil’s public pension system for private sector workers.
In Colombia, the challenges were twofold. To ease the social impact of recession and help bolster the economy, in fiscal 2000, the Bank
Investing in people
Investments in health, education, water, and sanitation services are critical dimensions of the Bank’s work in lac. These include social investment funds and other mechanisms to finance more than 5,000 local community initiatives a year, all of which constitute about one-fifth of the Bank’s portfolio in the region. Community-driven development projects funded this way not only target poor people but also provide rapid responses to emergencies, while building leadership and problem-solving capacity at the local level.
Support for education in fiscal 2000 included a credit to Nicaragua to expand coverage for school reconstruction and to improve the quality of preschool and primary education. In addition, the Bank is continuing its assistance to Central American countries devastated by Hurricane Mitch in November 1998. Other efforts are helping bring worldwide best practices to decisionmakers in government, the private sector, and civil society7. Bolivia and the Dominican Republic are among 10 pilot countries participating in the Global Distance Learning Netw'ork, a multidonor fiscal 2000 initiative led by the Bank and the government of Spain, which uses interactive videoconferencing, the Internet, and electronic classrooms to deliver high quality training to specialized groups.
Bank support for the region’s health was also substantial in fiscal 2000. A $52 million loan to Argentina aims to strengthen public health surveillance, while a $20 million loan to Ecuador helped support basic health and nutrition programs during that country’s economic crisis. Operations focusing on poor people included an $80 million loan to expand health service coverage to Peru’s rural poor, especially mothers and young children, and a similar-sized loan will help extend water and sewerage services to poor communities in Colombia.
There is growing awareness in the region that the social exclusion of indigenous people and African Latin Americans undermines their development prospects and prevents countries from capitalizing on their potential. The Bank is sup-
BOX 4.10 NONLENDING SERVICES: EXPLORING THE LINKS BETWEEN POVERTY AND VIOLENT CRIME
Latin America’s homicide rates are among the world’s highest, a reality home out hy the Bank’s recent study, Voices of the Poor, which found personal security the most frequently cited challenge facing Latin America’s poor people. In fiscal ZOOO, the Bank launched an ambitious research effort to explore the causes of crime and violence in the region. The findings showed that violent crime was linked to income inequality, low GDI'growth, low and ineffective police presence, and drug-related, illicit activities.
Case studies in Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador; Mexico, and Peru confirm that economic conditions are significant determinants of who becomes a crime victim in the region. High-income employed, educated men are more likely to become the victims of crime, for example; but police presence, youth gangs, illicit drug trade, and availability of weapons are also important risk factors. Lack of reliable data impedes effective allocation of public resources to reduce crime in most LAC countries. The studies’data and conclusions will help address this need and assist policymakers in crime reduction.
The Bank supports a long-term integrated approach to development in the Dominican Republic, supporting needs ranging from health and education to reforms in telecommunications, water and sanitation services, power services, and environmental institutions.
National consensus helped build continuity into the Dominican Republic’s emerging development strategy as a new government took office in 2000. The consensus grew out of consultations managed by the Ponttficia Universidad Catolica Madre y Maestra and financed by the World Bank as a step toward a national development strategy using the CDF approach. Launched in late 1998, the consultation process concluded its first round in December 1999 with a Document of Accord, which identifies the conclusions of five discussion “roundtables,” attended by leaders of major
political parties, the government, private sector, and civil society. The Document includes provisions for efforts in poverty reduction, modernization of the state, relations with Haiti, environmental policy, and rtform of agriculture.
This process produced valuable guidance to the Bank for preparation of its assistance strategy for the Dominican Republic. A participatory approach was key to development of the strategy, which envisages focused support for social protection, health and education, the environment, and power services.
announced its intention to contribute $1.4 billion of a $6.9 billion multilateral three-year program (including a $ioo-million Community Works and Employment Project) to finance temporary public works jobs for 117,000 low-income people. When an earthquake in January 1999 killed over
1,000	people and left 150,000 homeless, the Bank responded quickly, in part through a $225 million loan financing reconstruction and repair of damaged homes and public infrastructure.
Bank assistance in fiscal 2000 also extended to precautionary disaster mitigation. With ida support, Honduras will strengthen its capacity to prepare for and respond to natural disasters, in order to prevent and reduce loss of life and property in the future.
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Regional Context
During the 1990s, tighter demand management, trade liberalization, and improved regulatory reform measures helped improve economic performance in most economies of the Middle East and North Africa (mna) region. Average annual GNP growth during the 1990s was slightly more than 3 percent, compared with 2.1 percent growth in the 1980s.
In the second half of 1999, the regions fiscal and current account balances improved, owing mainly to higher oil prices. Regional gdp growth was 2.2 percent for the year, with considerable differences across countries. For major oil exporters, the swift reversal in terms of trade was equivalent to an increase of over 5 percent of gdp, but fiscal prudence and lower oil export volume held growth to 1.5 percent. More populated oil exporters (Algeria, the Islamic Republic of Iran) fared slightly better with 2.7 percent growth, although drought in Iran hurt agricultural incomes and raised inflationary pressures. The more diversified economies (Jordan, Morocco, the Syrian Republic) also suffered from drought but managed growth of nearly 3 percent. Growth was significantly higher in the Arab Republic of Egypt and Tunisia (5—6 percent) following the recovery of traditional markets and a rise in tourism.
Despite these improvements, important challenges remain. Faster gdp growth is required to reduce unemployment and provide jobs for over one million young people entering the region’s labor markets annually. The public sector remains large, even in countries such as Jordan, Morocco, and Tunisia that have undertaken significant reforms to reduce the scope and improve the efficiency of public administration. Integration with the global economy lags well behind other developing economies in East Asia and Latin America. Furthermore, the fragility of the natural environment threatens to constrain economic growth, and absolute poverty is on the rise in some countries, as is the number of economically vulnerable groups.
Bank Assistance
The Bank’s assistance strategy for mna countries recognizes that sustainable growth depends on improved incentives to individuals for economically productive behavior: increasingly, interventions focus on removing constraints to productive behavior at the level of both household and firm. Bank assistance is focused on three areas. A first priority is rapid, broad-based, and sustainable economic growth to reduce unemployment, while mitigating rural-urban disparities and improving natural resources management. Related initiatives aim to deepen integration with the global economy and develop tourism, while preserving cultural heritage. A second area of support is public sector reform, to help improve budget management, efficiency of public service provision, transparency of financial market operations, and the climate for private sector investment, particularly in infrastructure. Reducing the social costs of transition is a third focus of assistance: support for social protection strategies and comou-nity-based development aims to
benefit those who are poor and economically vulnerable. Learning and development partnerships remain crucial for integrating wider segments of society into the development process.
Table 4.6 shows the value and sectoral distributions of total Bank lending to the Middle East and North Africa region in the fiscal 1992—00 period. Table 4.11A (see Annex) compares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the region for fiscal 1995—00, and Table 4.12A (see Annex) shows operations approved in fiscal 2000, by country. Figure 4.9 shows IBRD and IDA lending by sector.
Promoting rapid, broad-based, and sustainable growth
Today, the predominantly middle-income mna economies are characterized bv unemployment rates exceeding 15 percent. The unemployed are primarily young, educated, and urban. Addressing joblessness will require governments to intensify economic reform, accelerate human capital accumulation, and mitigate persistent rural-urban disparities in access to jobs, and goods and services.
Broad-based and sustainable growth is an important theme in overall country strategies, including the cas for Tunisia; the cdfs for Morocco and the West Bank and Gaza; and the Comprehensive Development Review/Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (being prepared) for the Republic of Yemen. The Tunisia cas, for example, incorporates support for economic reforms to enhance competitiveness, create employment opportunities, and strengthen local institutions while continuing Bank support for human resource development, natural resource management, and rural management.
A key driver of growth, potentially, is human capital, one of the regions greatest assets. The Bank has long supported education reforms, focusing particularly on the need to improve the quality of educational services. In one example of the Bank’s nonlending assistance, an ongoing region-wide labor market study highlights the need to restructure incentives within education systems in favor of private sector employment, while improving cognitive and quantitative skills development. The study aims to improve the effectiveness of financial assistance for education projects in the
region. In Lebanon, for example, an education project is helping reorganize the education ministry, build accurate and timely data, and develop and disseminate a national education strategy. Targeted outcomes include higher enrollments in primary and secondary education, a narrower gap between public and private school outcomes, and enhanced access to public education for poor, underserved communities.
Strengthening urban services will also help growth. More than half the region’s population is urban, with rising pressures on urban schools, hospitals, public utilities, communications, and transport services.
The Bank is helping upgrade urban infrastructure through support for sewerage (Algeria, the Islamic Republic of Iran,
Lebanon, West Bank and Gaza, and the Republic of Yemen), urban transport (Lebanon and Tunisia), and municipal infrastructure (Lebanon, Morocco, West Bank and Gaza, and the Republic of Yemen). The Bank’s regional urban water and sanitation strategy aims to improve public utility performance, increase private sector participation, and meet the needs of the poorest segments of urban populations.
Of paramount importance to the mna region’s sustainable development is preservation of its natural resource base. Agriculture and the rural economy also continue to be a significant source of jobs and income. Water and agriculture projects are underway in Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia, and the Republic of Yemen, W'ith growing emphasis on water management. In Tunisia, for example, a water sector investment loan supports policy and institutional reforms to better manage water demand and price the resource. This loan is also supporting the creation of a socioeconomic
unit for water management in the agriculture ministry and the preparation of a communications strategy for water conservation.
A prerequisite for broad-based growth is a competitive private sector able to attract investment and create jobs. To encourage foreign direct investment and deepen capital markets, the Bank is supporting privatization in several mna countries (see Box 4.12). Other support aims to deepen integration with the global economy. And several countries are beginning to address obstacles to exports created by nontariff barriers, including administrative burdens on exporters. A Private Sector Assessment update in Tunisia outlines methods to make Tunisian firms more competitive
through increased efficiency, innovation, and flexibility in responding to changes in market demand. In Egypt, the Bank is helping improve export competitiveness as well as the general business environment.
The Bank's regional cultural heritage strategy highlights the rich potential for mna culture to reinforce development goals by promoting tourism and traditional craft industries and upgrading urban infrastructure while preserving heritage sites of worldwide and regional significance. Such efforts were ongoing in fiscal 2000 in Jordan, Morocco, and West Bank and Gaza; new projects are being developed in Lebanon, Tunisia, and the Republic of Yemen.
Supporting public sector reform
Although fiscal deficits have generally been reduced, most countries still need to streamline and modernize fiscal management. Assistance to Algeria, for a budget modernization program using new information systems to track expenditures, is under preparation. Efforts in the Republic of Yemen are wide-ranging, covering not only civil service reform and upgrading of technical skills but also improvement and computerization of personnel and financial management systems. The Bank is also providing, under the Technical Cooperation Program, reimbursable advisory services to member countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates). Issues include efficiency of public sector budgetary management and planning, and cost recovery (through user fees) and quality of health and education services. Related activities include workshops, training and preparation of policy notes on small-and medium-sized enterprise (sme) activity, export financing, industrial restructuring, and infrastructure upgrading in railways, ports, and waterways.
Good governance and well functioning institutions, recognized as critical to strong fiscal performance and growth, represent new directions in Bank assistance to the region. The Bank’s judicial and legal reform project in Morocco, West Bank and Gaza, and the Repub-
lic of Yemen, supports the network of jurisdictions, the training of magistrates, and a general framework for performance assessment of the judiciary. Nonlending services in this area include a regionwide study outlining the links between institutional budget procedures and the size, allocation, and use of fiscal
resources.
Strengthening social protection
Broad-based and sustainable development must also ensure the participation of key economic actors in society. While measured poverty rates in mna countries are lower chan in other parts of the developing world, the numbers of poor people are on the rise in some countries and many more live only marginally above the poverty line.
The Bank is actively supporting governments in their efforts to help vulnerable and disadvantaged groups access the benefits of growth and become more active in the development process.
Social funds and social development agencies supporting community-selected activities
Many countries in the region are committed to enhancing private sector—led growth through privatization measures and peform-ance-based management contracts:
Jordan’s privatization program is one of the most successful in the region, with JJ of its targeted 40 companies privatized, including Jordan Cement Factories and Jordan Telecommunications Company; the result is an increase of $600 million in foreign investment.
Performance-based management contracts in water and sanitation projects in Amman, the Gaza Strip, and the southern
area of the West Bank have yielded almost immediate benefits.
In Amman, results include better water quality and maintenance, sewer cleaning, and responsiveness to customer complaints. In the Gaza Strip, an independent audit rated the management contract as excellent in improving water quantity and quality.
In Morocco, Bank support has targeted development of a sound institutional and legalframework for the telecommunications sector to facilitate private sector development and expand cost-efficient service to poor people, particularly in rural areas.
Economic management, institution strengthening, enhanced access to education and health services, and empowerment of local communities through social funds are crucial for poverty reduction in the Republic of Yemen.
have proven to be powerful tools for development in Algeria, Egypt, Jordan, West Bank and Gaza, and the Republic of Yemen. In the Republic of Yemen, the iDA-supported Social Fund for Development supports 785 subprojects covering a wide range of activities, selected and cofinanced by local communities. Community contributions guarantee local ownership, and user
charges (including cross-subsidies for poor people) ensure good operation and maintenance.
The fund is meeting needs for primary schools, health clinics, and water supply and sanitation; in addition the fund has extended microfinance to nearly 40,000 borrowers (with repayment rates of 97 percent) and created thousands of permanent new jobs.
BOX 4.13 MNA GENDER INITIATIVES
The Bank’s agenda in the MNA region is expanding to include dialogue on gender issues and to build a gender dimension into lending operations. In fiscal 2000, the Bank also committed to a program of regionwide training on gender awareness for client countries as well as Bank staff. The program’s top priority is improving the status of women in rural areas; with a focus on education, health, employment, and legal status. MNA’s Consultative Council on Gender, now in its second year, mobilizes members if civil society, professional occupations, and NCOs; promotes dialogue on gender concerns within client countries; and guides the Bank in developing gender perspectives in its regional operations. Following are some examples of Bank support to MNA countries that address gender concerns:
A pilot program in Morocco featuring workshops and consensus-building efforts brought together, in fiscal 2000, government officials and representatives from women’s organizations and civil society; this collaboration resulted in a National Plan of Action on Gender.
>" Nearly half of the small-scale subprojects implemented in the West Bank and Gaza’s NGO project cater to women’s practical needs (kindergartens, educational services for women, prenatal care, and childcare), and a number have been directly implemented and managed by women.
In the Republic of Yemen, the Child Development Project supports community schools for girls and offers incentive packages to schools that enroll the highest proportion of girls.
Promoting learning and development partnerships
Bank strategy in the region is also emphasizing gender dimensions in lending and nonlending activities (see Box 4.13), broadening the dialogue with civil society, and employing a more participatory approach to the design of project and sector work. Learning partnerships, too, are growing in importance. The Third Mediterranean Development Forum held in Cairo in March 2000 brought together participants from governments, think tanks, academia, and the business community to discuss topics such as globalization, development finance, partnerships with civil society, knowledge institutions, social protection, and employment
generation. The Bank also continues to support regional research networks such as the Economic Research Forum for the Arab Countries, Islamic Republic of Iran, and Turkey.
Regionwide knowledge management activities continued in fiscal 2000 to advance the Bank's goal of becoming a “Knowledge Bank.” This year, the Bank launched a new external web site for the region, and it expanded the live database that provides constantly updated country, thematic, and sectoral information. New activities include the creation of a Document Library as well as Country and Project Activity Rooms to integrate and disseminate information at local levels.
Thematic Perspectives
Poverty in the Voices of the Poor
In an effort to understand poverty from the perspective of poor people themselves, the World Bank undertook a 6o-country participatory study, known as Voices of the Poor. The study was conducted as background for the WDR 2000/200; and consists of two parts: a review of recent participatory studies in 50 countries involving 40,000 poor women and men; and a comparative study in 1999 involving 20,000 people in 23 countries.1 What emerges is that poverty entails multiple and interlocking disadvantages that frequently leave poor people powerless to better their lives.
Poor people emphasize material deprivation but also speak of social, physical and psychological dimensions and lack of freedom of choice and action. Their livelihoods are often precarious, seasonal and inadequate; many see economic conditions worsening. Their villages and slums are often isolated, lacking in basic services and transport. Hunger and illness are common, and access to medical care, difficult. Especially in urban areas, crime and violence pose daily threats; police protection is scarce. Within the household, domestic violence against women remains widespread even though more poor women are earning incomes than ever before. Descriptions of poverty also often encompass mental distress and anxiety about the future. “Poverty is lack of freedom, enslaved by crushing daily burdens, by depression and fear of what the future will bring,” says a participant from the Caucuses.
Poor people highlight powerlessness, pointing to officials, traders and civic actors who are neither responsive nor accountable to them. They share numerous examples of criminality, abuse and corruption in encounters with public institutions, saying they have little recourse to justice. “Government has let us down, too many promises—never fulfilling them,” says a 30-year-old unemployed mother from the Caribbean. In poor communities worldwide, local groups and actors are key supports; however, poor people recognize limits to how much “one hungry man can help another hungry man.”
' The study is being published in a three-part series: Voices of the Poor: Can Anyone Hear Us? (2000) by Deepa Narayan, with Raj Patel, Kai Schafft, Anne Rademacher, and Sarah Koch-Schulte; Voices of the Poor: Crying Out for Change (2000) by Deepa Narayan, Robert Chambers. Meera K. Shah and Patti Petesch; Voices of the Poor: From Many Lands (forthcoming) edited by Deepa Narayan and Patti Petesch.
82 Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 87 Human Development
92 Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development 97 Private Sector Development and Infrastructure 102 Financial Sector
POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
Poverty reduction is the Bank’s core mission and guides all its work in developing countries. In fiscal zooo, the Bank positioned itself to pursue its mission more effectively. A country-owned approach to poverty reduction strategies has been adopted, linking poverty reduction to debt relief and concessional lending. To ensure the greatest effectiveness of these strategies, the Bank has worked to mainstream gender, promote good governance and public sector reform, and assist developing countries’ integration into the global economy.
Much Bank lending to support improved economic management, policies, and institutions falls under the umbrella of adjustment lending. Adjustment lending promotes sustained growth
PARTNERSHIPS
Partnerships are integral to the Bank 's work in poverty reduction and economic management. They are central to participatory, country-driven poverty reduction strategies and they also bolster the Bank’s work on gender, public sector reform, trade, and international financial architecture. Collaboration with the Fund increased over the past year: on international standards (for accounting, corporate governance, and insolvency regimes); trade; and the Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC') and the Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers program through the establishment of the Joint Implementation Committee, whose agenda included the streamlining of procedures for approval of debt relief and other concessional assistance.
Other important partnerships include:
The Integrated Framework (if)— a partnership of multilateral agencies (inO, World Bank, IMF, UNDP, UNCTAD, and ITc) and developed countries that provides trade-related assistance to help developing countries integrate into the global economy. A review of the IF was completed in fiscal ZOOO.
2^ A Joint Task Force of the Commonwealth Secretariat and the Bank to address the development challenges faced by small states (populations of less than l.j million), whose final report was endorsed at the Development Committee’s Spring Meetings in April zooo.
Collaboration with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), on developing indicators to monitor progress toward International Development Goals as well as corporate governance, sustainable development, knowledge economics, social safety nets, and anticorruption.
and poverty reduction by supporting countries' efforts to undertake structural and social reforms (see Table 5.1, and Table 5.1A in the Annex). Another classification of lending, Poverty-Targeted Interventions, represents those investment operations that directly target poor people (see Figures 5.1 and 5.2, and Table 5.2 in the Annex).
The Enhanced hipc Initiative
Fiscal 2000 was a turning point for the Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (hipc), established in 1996 to alleviate the debt burden of some of the world’s poorest nations. During the joint Bank—Fund Annual Meetings in September
1999,	the international community endorsed sweeping enhancements to the Initiative, which more than doubled the assistance provided, accelerated the delivery of relief, and strengthened the link between debt relief and poverty reduction. It was also a year of active implementation. Debt relief was committed for Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Mauritania, Mozambique, Senegal, Tanzania, and Uganda. In May 2000, Uganda became the first country to become eligible to receive its full debt relief under the enhanced framework.
When completed, the enhanced hipc Initiative will yield more than $50 billion in debt service relief to 32 eligible countries. When combined with traditional debt relief instruments, the Initiative will more than halve the outstanding external debt of these countries.
The Bank itself (specifically, the International Development Association) will provide nearly $11 billion in debt relief over time. Under the new framework, qualifying countries will begin receiving significant debt relief immediately at the decision point (or point of approval of a country’s eligibility by the Bank and IMF Boards), which will provide up-front assistance to countries in financing much-needed social programs.
Relief under the enhanced hipc Initiative is also now more firmly linked to the support of economic and social programs designed to reach the poorest people. Governments eligible for debt relief will formulate a poverty reduction strategy (in consultation with members of civil society and representatives of poor people) that will outline how resources freed from debt service and other sources of external assistance will be integrated into a comprehensive plan to reduce poverty. A key objective is to attain the International Development Goal of reducing poverty by one-half by 2015.
Poverty Reduction Strategies:
A New Approach
Prompted by concern that progress in the fight against poverty has been too slow, the Bank and the Fund launched in December 1999 a major new program to achieve greater poverty’ reduction in low-income countries. Under this program, Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (prsps), which are produced by the countries themselves, are becoming the basis for debt relief under the hipc Initiative and for concessional lending by the Bank and imf. prsps identify the key obstacles to poverty reduction and lay out a plan to overcome them, including mechanisms to monitor progress. Successful implementation will depend on the full involvement of the whole development community; an important aim is that these strategies become the basis for all donor support.
As noted above, prsps are to be fully owned by countries, designed in broad consultation with civil society, poor people, and their representatives. The country-driven nature of prsps represents an important shift in organizational culture for the Bank and the Fund. The Bank would support governments through advice on areas within the Banks expertise and, together with the Fund, would issue a joint staff assessment of the prsp and make a recommendation to the Executive Boards of both institutions on whether the strategy provides a sound basis for Bank and imf concessional assistance.
All countries that receive debt relief or concessional lending from the Bank and imf
must eventually produce a prsp before they receive these resources. In the meantime, countries scheduled to receive debt relief before the prsp program was initiated can produce an Interim prsp as part of their debt relief application.
Such an Interim paper would present the main elements of a poverty reduction strategy along with a roadmap for the subsequent preparation of the full prsp. In fiscal 2000, Albania, Bolivia,
Mauritania, Mozambique, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Tanzania, and Uganda produced Interim prsps;
Burkina Faso and Uganda produced a full prsp.
Gender
Economic development policies affect men and women differently. It is also well documented that gender inequality contributes to poverty and is often an obstacle to economic growth. Addressing the gender aspects of development can therefore promote equitable and sustainable development. The Gender Sector Strategy the Bank is currently developing is a step in this direction. It will outline ways in which the Bank can better integrate gender into its work, to help create a global environment where gender barriers no longer impede economic growth and poverty reduction, and where men and women have equal access to health care, food, the political system, training, education, and credit.
To expand knowledge sharing and partnerships with other development organizations, governments, and civil society, the Bank is making a
Gender issues are being integrated into areas such as agriculture, water and sanitation, energy, transportation, community development, legal reform, and gender-based violence.
number of statistical indicators on gender available to the public (see the list of web sites on page 171). Work is also underway to develop specific targets as well as tools for monitoring and evaluation, and to prepare country-specific gender reviews.
Support for gender issues in Bank lending is evident in projects in diverse areas such as agriculture, water and sanitation, energy, transportation, community development, and legal reform. For example, in the Ghana Community Water and Sanitation Project, local ngos work with communities to ensure that women actively participate in decisionmaking; according to a midterm review, women accounted for 48 percent of water and sanitation committee members and 35 percent of executive committee members. In another example, the Nicaragua Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project increased womens involvement in extension services six-fold (for men, four-fold). The improvement resulted from actions such as providing technical information on home gardens cultivated by women, incorporating gender-related issues in technical training, and preparing an action plan on gender and monitoring its implementation.
Governance and Public Sector Reform
Building effective and accountable public institutions is a core challenge. Experience has shown that tackling deep-rooted structural and institutional weaknesses is essential for sustainable poverty reduction. Misguided allocation of public resources, excessive government intervention, and corruption have deterred private investment and slowed growth and poverty reduction efforts in many countries. Much of the Banks poverty work points to the high cost of weak government and inadequate service delivery to poor people.
Responding to this accumulation of evidence, the Bank has increasingly focused its assistance on the reform of public sector institutions. Work with partners and clients in-country and international forums reveals the harmful economic consequences of corruption, which is a fundamental symptom of public sector malfunction. In fiscal zooo, the Bank completed Institutional and Governance Reviews in Armenia, Bangladesh, and Bolivia, and work is underway in Argentina, the Balkans, Benin, the Caribbean, Ethiopia, Jordan, Kenya, and Morocco. Additionally, the Bank is analyzing its fiduciary responsibilities in adjustment lending to establish clearer guidelines to link governance and Country Assistance Strategies (cass).
Support in core areas of public sector functioning, such as public expenditure analysis, tax administration, civil service reform, auditing, and judicial reform, has grown steadily (see Figure
5.3). Much of the Bank’s work in public service delivery has focused on institutional concerns, including promotion of private provision, decentralization, and capacity building.
Over the past year, the Bank has sought to gather lessons of experience, integrate governance and anticorruption concerns in all activities, and identify ways to enhance the impact of assistance. The evolving strategy for governance and public sector reform involves three broad directions for the future;
Broadening the approach, emphasizing “bot-tom-up” empowerment, transparency, and compe-
tition in public service delivery (where feasible) as well as “top-down” reforms inside government Working more closely with clients to undertake better, deeper, and more participatory analytical work (including public expenditure reviews, institutional and governance reviews, and anticorruption and governance surveys of households, firms, and policymakers)
Taking a longer-term approach in Bank lending where possible, to allow time for institutional reform. The Bank is now pursuing both longer-term programmatic adjustment loans (as with 3-year Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loans in Thailand and Latvia) and longer-term investment loans (as with 10- to 12-year Adaptable Program Loans in Bolivia and Tanzania).
International Trade
Trade reform plays a critical role in spurring growth and, thus, in reducing poverty. The Bank supports developing country trade in several ways. First, analytical work is increasing understanding of the link between trade, development, and poverty reduction; the potential advantages of regional trade agreements; and the importance of coordination among multilateral organizations on trade-related issues. Second, research and assistance are helping developing countries to formulate negotiating objectives for trade and to adapt to the changing nature of trade in services, product standards, and absorption of technology. Finally, operational support to developing countries continues to help them maximize the benefits to their economies from international trade.
The Bank relies largely on adjustment but also on investment operations to further countries’ trade agendas. While many developing countries have taken major steps to liberalize their trade regimes, a significant number have, so far, failed to reap the advantages of greater integration into the global economy. A major reason, particularly for the poorest countries, relates to an inadequate supply of the human and physical capital needed for trade. Excessive trade protection on the part of both developed and middle-income countries also remains a serious problem. Between 1990 and 1998, 68 percent of Bank
adjustment operations included support for reform of trade and exchange rate policies. In comparison, the Bank’s investment lending for trade-related activities accounted for around 26 percent of total Bank lending from 1994 to 1999.
International Financial Architecture
The term “international financial architecture” refers to the financial and institutional arrangements that are critical to help countries avoid and mitigate crises, integrate into the global economy, and develop successfully. The Bank’s role in this area has three dimensions: ensuring that developing country perspectives are brought to bear in discussions on international norms and governance; helping developing countries integrate into the international economic and financial system; and diagnosing the social and structural obstacles to successful development, as a basis for Bank assistance.
Participation is a key element in the formulation of poverty reduction strategies that empower poor people and lead to sustainable development.
The key challenge is to find the best way for global institutions to work together and with countries to ensure that developing countries are not marginalized from the global economy and are able, instead, to derive its full benefit. The Bank has stepped up its collaboration with other institutions, in particular, the imf. Three joint initiatives deserve highlighting. One of them is the Financial Sector Assessment Program (see page 102). Another is the Report on the Observance of Standards and
Codes (roscs), for which the Bank will share ownership and prepare modules in its traditional areas of expertise. This report summarizes the extent to which countries observe certain internationally recognized standards that can help improve economic policymaking and strengthen the international financial system. Third, the Bank and the Fund are collaborating on a series of studies on external debt management aimed at developing a set of core principles for sovereign debt management.
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
In fiscal 2000, the Bank continued to help countries accelerate their efforts toward human development. The central focus of these efforts is attaining the International Development Goals, including those for poverty reduction; universal primary education; reduction in infant, child, and maternal mortality; and universal access to reproductive health services (see Overview, Box 1.1). Notwithstanding the progress in some areas, enormous challenges remain; malnutrition, pregnancy-related deaths, and infectious and sexually transmitted diseases continue to ravage the lives of people in the developing world. Life expectancy in at least 10 African countries is likely to decrease by 17 years due to the scourge of hiv/aids. In a single year, 11 million children worldwide die before reaching age 5, in most cases from preventable causes. About 113 million primary school-age children are still out of school. Human development indicators are particularly low for low-income communities, and they are often worse for women and girls. In addition, poor people are the most vulnerable to economic and other types of shocks.
Bank support for human development aims at helping countries build the fundamental basis
for accelerating poverty reduction and becoming more competitive in the globalizing world, while protecting poor people. The Bank’s World Development Report 2000/zooi brings into sharper focus the central role of human development in poverty reduction.
The three core poverty reduction strategies highlighted in the Report— opportunity, empowerment, and management of risk for the most vulnerable—are also kev elements of the Bank’s support for human development.
Out of 58 projects in the social sectors approved m fiscal 2000, 21 were in Education,
21 in Health, Nutrition, and Population, and 16 in Social Protection. New lending to these sectors of $2.8 billion ($3.3 billion when classified by loan component; see Figure 5.4) follows record levels reached in fiscal 1998-99 as a
PARTNERSHIPS
The Bank has engaged in key partnerships with the U.N. and private sector agencies on strategic health, nutrition, and population issues such as HIv//iIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, and a new initiative Jor vaccines and immunization.
An important partnership of the Bank and IFC with the private sector is Edlnvest; an on-line facility that promotes private participation in education. The first in a series of regional conferences on private education took place in Cote d’Ivoire in fiscal 2000, co-sponsored by the Ministry of Education, the African Development Bank, and the private sector; this conference brought together more than 200 participants from West Africa, North America, Europe, and Asia to learn about successful models in other countries.
Another example of productive partnerships in the social sectors was a project funded by the Asia—Europe Meetings Trust Fund (jointly sponsored hy the Bank, 110, and the Japanese government) in fiscal 2000 to analyze the employment effects of the East Asian crisis and critically examine the policy responses of the governments. Delegations from Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand agreed on the need for tripartite institutions to build on the social dialogue emanating from the crisis; balance between active and passive (more market-oriented) labor market policies; labor market regulation that addresses economic efficiency and social protection; and government interventions targeted at vulnerable groups, such as women, youth, and migrants.
result of the East Asian crisis. The lower amount reflects both a return to more normal levels and a strategic shift from support for large hardware projects (for example, building hospitals) to policy reforms and capacity building. Disbursments for human development projects accounted for 23 percent of total Bank disbursements in fiscal 2000 (see Figure 5.5).
The Bank is systematically addressing issues that cut across the human development subsectors. In fiscal 2000, the hiv/aids crisis was placed squarely on the global agenda as a development and multisectoral issue, and not just a health issue. Support for hiv/aids prevention and mitigation includes strengthening of advocacy and policies as well as financing new and ongoing projects in Africa and other parts of the world, including major operations in South Asia and Latin America. Similarly, the Roll Back Malaria Program is being implemented as a multisectoral program that incorporates health, water, and sanitation as well as transport issues. The Bank also supports a multisectoral approach to reducing malnutrition, with a focus on community-based nutrition services. The Bangladesh National Nutrition Project, for example, will increase nutritional coverage to nearly one-third of the population over a four-year period. In a number of African countries, new initiatives integrate nutrition services with other activities to support the optimal development of young children. The Integrated Early Childhood Development Project in Eritrea, for example, takes a holistic approach that integrates health care, nutrition, social protection, and early child development The Bank held a Children’s Week in April 2000 to address the interrelated issues of the development, protection, and welfare of children. The event served to highlight pragmatic and cost-effective ways to reverse economic and social inequality through early childhood development
programs and initiatives to reduce child labor, drawing on lessons learned from ngos and national and international organizations, and on the results of an evaluation of research on street children in Eastern Europe and in Latin America.
Health, Nutrition, and Population
During fiscal 2000, $1 billion of new Bank lending was approved for health (including reproductive health) and nutrition operations. Bank strategy in this area is aimed at better health, nutrition, and population outcomes for poor people; enhanced performance of health systems; and sustainable health care financing.
Support to these subsectors is focused on the country level and complemented by efforts at the global level. Policy advice and projects were tailored to country needs, which ranged from malaria control, school health programs, maternal and child health, and nutrition services, to systemic reforms in the financing, management, and delivery of services. Strengthening basic health services was a core issue and accounted for nearly three-quarters of lending in this area, supporting operations such as the Argentina Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project and the Lithuania Health Project. At the global level, the Bank is working actively to mobilize partners and resources where problems and solutions go beyond country borders (see Box 5.1).
BOX S.I THE GLOBAL ALLIANCE FOR VACCINES AND IMMUNIZATION
The Global Alliance Jor Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI') was launched in January 1000 to re-invigorate the international community’s commitment to bring vaccines and immunization to current andJuture generations oj children throughout the developing world. New challenges Jacing immunization programs include strengthening the basic immunization system, making new expensive vaccines more widely available, and encouraging greater investment in new vaccines Jor poor people. GAVI represents a promising global network oj all interested governments, UNICEF, WHO, bilateral agencies, research and technical agencies, the Bill and Melinda Gates Children’s Vaccine Program, private sector
vaccine manufacturers, the Rockrfeller Foundation, the Bank, and other partners. Each oj the partners has identijied its contribution to the GAVI effort that is consistent with its comparative advantage.
The Bank has taken on a greater role in immunization, through country dialogue, lending, and efforts to address marketJailures in research and development Jor priority vaccines. Other partners such as WHO will continue to take the lead in developing global immunization strategies and policies, and the pharmaceutical industry will play a leading role in efficiently developing and marketing products.
In fiscal 2000, the Bank prepared a strategy note addressing population and reproductive health challenges in the coming decade. A Safe Motherhood Action Plan was also prepared, and the Bank joined who, unfpa, and unicef in a statement of commitment to reduce the unacceptable’ high levels of maternal mortality in poor countries. Maintaining quality and resource levels for these activities will continue to be a priority7, as Bank lending shifts toward programmatic support of broad sectoral reforms.
Education
The year 2000 marks the tenth year since the Jom-tien World Conference in 1990 stimulated international commitment to a new and broader vision of basic education. Together with UNESCO, UNDP, unicef, and unfpa, the Bank had then committed itself to helping countries pursue the international targets of providing universal access to primary education; expanding early childhood care; improving learning achievement; reducing the adult illiteracy rate; and doubling lending for education. Bank lending for education increased from an annual average of so.9 billion for the period 1986—90 to $1.8 billion for the period 1991—00. As a share of such lending, support to basic education increased from 27 percent to 44 percent (see Figure 5.6). Within that share, lending for early child development increased dramatically in the 1990s. Another high priority has been to improve
education opportunities for girls, who comprise about two-thirds of the out-of-school population. In April 2000, partners of Education for All met in Dakar, Senegal for the end-of-decade review and to set new directions for the future. A key outcome of the Dakar conference was significant scaling up of Bank efforts to help countries accelerate the development of their education systems with increased emphasis on quality improvements. In March,
President Wolfensohn formally launched Higher Education in Developing Countries, a report prepared by an independent task force marking an important collaborative effort between the Bank and the academic community.
Bank assistance is supporting nontraditional delivery of education services where quality and efficiency improvements are possible.
Many projects are financing the contracting-out of services (such as textbooks and supplies) previously deliv-
The World Bank's education projects focus on improving access to relevant learning, using educational resources more efficiently and equitably, and building stronger institutional capacity.
ered by governments, which generates a savings of 15—40 percent. Moreover, projects increasingly finance households direcdy through stipends and scholarships, which expands access and efficiency as well as voice and choice for poor people. Scholarship programs enable poor children (Indonesia) and girls (Pakistan and Tanzania) to enroll in school in a cost-effective and equitable manner.
Social Protection
Lending for social protection, which includes pension reform (see Box 5.2), public works employment assistance, social assistance, and social funds, returned to pre-crisis levels in fiscal 2000. The Bank supported pension reforms in Brazil, Croatia, and Turkey; social funds in countries as varied as Armenia, Burundi, Honduras, India, St. Lucia, Tanzania, the Republic of Yemen, and Zambia; labor market interventions in Bosnia and Herzegovina; and social assistance and overall social expenditure reforms in Angola, the Philippines, and the Slovak Republic. The Turkey earthquake relief loan is helping to provide public works employment, as do many of the social fund projects.
In partnership with external social fund networks, the Bank organized a second international conference on social funds in June 2000, to evaluate the impact of these operations. The funds, which finance small-scale investments in basic infrastructure, social services, training, and income-generating services (prioritized and implemented by communities themselves), were found to have a positive impact. For example, 30
BOX 5.2 WANT TO KNOW ABOUT PENSION REFORM? VISIT WWW.WORLDBANK.ORG/PENSIONS
The web site address shown above offers users a pension reform primer; and it enables reformers around the world to share their experiences. Information on problems and solutions is exchanged between researchers and practitioners in long-reforming countries such as Argentina, Mexico, Poland, and Sweden and their counterparts in newly reforming countries. Material prepared by Bank staff documents reform experience in countries such as Bolivia, Hungary, and Latvia. The knowledge base is further enriched by papers of other authors on specific implementation issues, such as public management of pension reserves, annuitization, and supervision of private pen-
sion funds; these papers were submitted at the request of client countries and Bank staff. The web site is heavily used by external clients eager to access up-to-date information in this area.
The Bank has developed a pension model, prost, to help countries evaluate the health of their pension systems, the fiscal outcome as well as the poverty impact of various reform options, and the level of benefits to be expected by participants. prost is in heavy demand, with usage by 43 countries and training during fiscal 2000 in Brazil, China, Estonia, the Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Lithuania, Malta, Romania, Sri Lanka, as well as for the European Central Bank.
percent of the Honduran Social Fund reached the lowest ro percent of the income distribution; infant mortality in Bolivia decreased significantly among social fund health center beneficiaries; and enrollment in rural primary7 schools improved in Peruvian districts that received social fund support.
Building on these successes, the Bank launched a Community-Driven Development Initiative in fiscal 2000. The initiative aims to scale up Bank support for development efforts that are identified, planned, and implemented at the community level.
In fiscal 2000, the Bank initiated preparation of a social protection strategy paper that aims to draw on lessons learned in the sector from the recent financial crises. The paper, slated for fiscal 2001 approval, emphasizes the need for a social risk management structure in anticipation of future crises, both at the individual
and national levels, and with particular efforts to ensure adequate safety nets for poor people. Various kinds of risk would be identified, along with the best instruments—among a wide array of informal mechanisms, market mechanisms, and public programs—to reduce the risk, help prepare for it, and deal with the unexpected.
Toward the Future
Countries’ macroeconomic and poverty reduction strategies increasingly emphasize human development. In support of these strategies, the Bank will continue to focus on critical development challenges such as hiv/aids, tuberculosis, malaria and other major communicable diseases, malnutrition, basic education, girls’ education, and risk management, within the context of its overall efforts to promote comprehensive development.
ENVIRONMENTALLY AND SOCIALLY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
There is little point in lifting people out of poverty today only to have their children—or their children’s children—thrust back into its grip tomorrow. Ensuring sustainable development is a complex task that must integrate many strands of the development process. First, it must take into account the growing pressures on the world’s natural resource
PARTNERSHIPS
Partnerships have been central to the Bank’s support Jor sustainable development. Some of its newer collaborative fforts are highlighted below:
>- The World Bank—WWT Forest Alliance brings together governments, the private sector, and civil society to reduce the loss and degradation of forests worldwide.
>■ The Global Water Partnership supports sustainable management of water resources by improving communications within the water community and developing fundable projects.
The Africa Land and Water Initiative develops an integrated approach to land, water; and natural resource management for sustainable growth in Africa.
^ The Popular Coalition to Eradicate Hunger and Poverty helps give poor people increased access to productive assets and a greater voice in decisionmaking
The Clean Air Initiative in Latin America promotes development of clean air action plans by fostering public and private sector involvement in the introduction of clean technologies.
^ The Prototype Carbon Fund, supported by the Bank, governments, and private companies, is the world’s first market-based mechanism to address climate change and to help tranrferfinance and technology to developing countries.
base that lead to expanding deserts, degrading soils, worsening air quality, depleting water resources, degrading forests, and endangering biodiversity, both on land and under water. Second, it must address the crucial role of poor people, who bear the impact of these pressures but also determine—through their behavior— the condition of forests, soils, fish stocks, and the air we breathe. Environmental protection thus entails a comprehensive vision of rural development, to address poor people’s needs for not only food security but also nonfarm sources
of income, improved transport links to markets, and greater rural access to health and education. Finally, sustainable development requires that poor people have more say and participate as equal partners; key to such social transformation are efforts that promote participation, civic engagement, cultural expression, and post-conflict reconstruction.
Environment
The 2.8 billion people living on less than $2 per day are disproportionately affected by bad environmental conditions and natural catastrophes. Every year, between 5 and 6 million people die in developing countries from water-borne diseases and air pollution. The livelihoods of more than 1 billion rural people are at risk because of desertification and dryland degradation. The loss of an estimated 65 million hectares of forests in developing countries in the last five years is also hurting rural poor people, a quarter of whom depend on forests for income, food, and medicines. Policymakers also face hard decisions on how to allocate scarce water.
Emphasizing the role of environment in poverty reduction
A key principle underlying World Bank assistance in fiscal 2000 was that lasting poverty reduction is only possible if the environment is able to provide the services people depend on, and if natural resource use does not undermine long-term development. The Bank is supporting countries in their efforts to preserve the environment in the following ways:
>■ Natural resource management. Several projects are helping to protect forests and watersheds, support land tenure and property rights issues, and create appropriate incentives for conservation. A project in Vietnam, for example, will reestablish the coastal mangrove wetland ecosystem along the Mekong Delta and protect the system’s aquatic resources.
>- Institution building. The Bank is increasing its support for the institutional and regulatory frameworks that govern natural resources, which will ensure long-term environmental stewardship. Brazil’s Second Environmental Project, for example, aims to make national environmental institutions more effective and to strengthen decentralized environmental management at the state and municipal levels.
>- Support in dealing with natural disasters.
The Bank has provided extensive support in the wake of floods, droughts, cyclones, and earthquakes to help countries rebuild and reduce risks of future damage, with a focus on poor people’s needs. Examples include the introduction of an early warning network under the Amazon Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project and efforts to prevent the spread of disease and to rebuild roads after floods in three Chinese provinces under the Yangtze Emergency Rehabilitation Project.
Preparation of a new environment strategy is underway. It focuses on the effect that the environment has on the health, livelihoods, and vulnerability of poor people. The environment strategy complements work on other strategies that guide Bank work in the water, energy, forestry, transport, urban, and rural sectors, and it also reflects the lessons of oed’s environment review. In addition, the Bank is developing an environment sourcebook to help policymakers mainstream environment concerns into a country’s overall poverty reduction framework.
The global dimension
As an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (gef) and the Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol (mfmp), the Bank helps developing countries address global environmental challenges and meet their international obligations in this area. In fiscal 2000, the gef Council approved 20 Bank—gef full project grants, amounting to $266 million; 17 gef medium-sized grants (each under si million), adding up to $13.07 million; and two activities building capacity to prepare inventories, strategies, and action plans in response to biodiversity and climate conventions,
involving grants of $0.4 million. Significant progress has also been made in helping developing countries phase out the use of ozone depleting substances (such as chlorofluorohydrocarbons or cfcs) under the Montreal Protocol, with more than 70 percent of cfc production in developing and transition economies now slated for phaseout. In an innovative approach to address climate change issues, multiple partners came together in fiscal 2000 to launch the Prototype Carbon Fund (see Box 5.3).
Strengthening compliance
Of increasing importance in the design and implementation of Bank-supported projects is the careful application of environmental and social safeguard policies and guidelines, with support from the Bank’s Quality Assurance Group (qag). Support to the private sector in dealing with environmental regulations is an emerging priority. A new Bank publication, Greening Industry: New Roles for Communities, Markets, and Governments, advocates combining market-based incentives and public
Every year, more countries become water stressed—forcing their people to search longer, harder, and at considerably more expense to harness water supplies.
BOX 5.3 THE PROTOTYPE CARBON FUND
The World Bank launched the Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF) in January zooo, which is the world’s first market-based mechanism to address climate change and promote the transfer of finance and climate-friendly technology to developing countries.
Fstablished with contributions from governments and private companies) the PCF is designed to operate like a closed-end mutual fund. It is intended to pilot project-based carbon emission reduction activities within the framework of two of the flexibility mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol — the Joint Implementation and the Clean Development Mechanism. The Bank, acting as “trustee,” will enter into agreements with “host”countries (developing countries and economies-in-transitionj for each project. The emissions reductions will be achieved by upgrading each project
information disclosure to encourage factory managers to improve environmental performance while pursuing profits.
Rural Development
With 70 percent of the world’s poor people living in rural areas, support for rural development is central to poverty reduction efforts. The Bank’s rural strategy recognizes that, while a vibrant and growing agricultural sector is vital in reducing poverty, agriculture alone is insufficient to solve the problem of rural poverty. A total of 38 projects was approved in fiscal 2000 in support of rural development, including 25 in the agriculture sector, amounting to $1.6 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. On June 30, 2000, the Bank’s rural development portfolio stood at $22.1 billion.
With a view to moving to a more action-oriented phase, the Bank conducted a review of its rural strategy in fiscal 2000. Experience from successful strategies, notably those in Brazil, Ethiopia, Mexico, and Uganda, points to the need for:
>• Strong political commitment and leadership:
While a stable macroeconomic policy framework and a good rural strategy are critical, sustained commitment to rural development is important for results, as seen in Mexico and Uganda.
through the use of cleaner technologies. Once certified by independent experts funded by the PCF, these emissions reductions will be transferred to the Fund. The Fund, in turn, will distribute them among the industrialized countries that have invested or “participated” in it.
Benefits accrue to both industrialized and developing countries. Industrialized nations benefit by counting the emissions reductions allocated to them by the Fund toward the reductions in the greenhouse gas emissions that they are committed to achieve under the Kyoto Protocol. For the host countries, the PCF is beneficial as it would not be profitable for them, in the absence of revenue from the sales of emissions reductions to the Fund, to adopt the renewable energy technologies such as wind, small hydro, and biomass energy.
Effective rural institutions: Strong institutions able to formulate and implement rural development strategy are important, along with a long-term strategy to identify and nurture potential leadership for rural development.
Information on rural development: There is a dearth of data on the number of rural poor people, the specific determinants of their poverty, their access to land and other resources, the level of resources directed at rural poverty reduction, or the level of financial and other services available to poor people. While the Bank has developed a rural score card providing a composite indicator to monitor progress, data availability remains a serious constraint in many countries.
A doubling of world food production to feed an extra 2 billion people by 2025—most of them in developing countries—will require new and improved agricultural technologies. Such innovation calls for not only more resources for agricultural research but also a better balance between public and private sector funding. Supported by 58 public and private sector members, including the Bank, the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (cgiar) works through a network of 16 international research centers to mobilize modern agricultural science on behalf of the world’s poor and hun-
gry. cgiar technologies support the Bank’s rural lending programs to alleviate hunger and poverty; improve rural productivity and raise agricultural incomes; manage natural resources sustainably; and build partnerships with national agricultural research programs.
Social Development
The Bank has made progress in promoting a more equitable and inclusive approach to development. Compliance with Bank policies on resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property has been improving; social analysis and participation are being mainstreamed into projects; and projects are addressing social development needs and becoming culturally sensitive. Several tools have been developed to promote the inclusion and empowerment of poor people, and new ground has been broken in the areas of conflict and culture.
Participation and Civic Engagement
During the past year, the Bank scaled up its work to promote participation and civic engagement in a number of ways. Facilitating public participation in investment lending operations has enabled local communities to identify priorities and act on them. Support for decentralized institutional arrangements is allowing local governments to assume responsibility for resource
allocation and enabling communities to assert more voice in decisions that affect them (see Box
5.4). Finally, the Bank has also been promoting increased participation of civil society in national-level policymaking to make it more responsive and transparent.
Conflict and development
Conflict and violence remain among the world’s most pressing problems. In societies emerging from conflict, the Bank has shifted its emphasis from the physical dimensions of reconstruction to the social aspects of conflict prevention and reconciliation. The Post-Conflict Fund was established in 1997 to provide catalytic financing for early phases of Bank work in post-conflict situations
Community-driven development is about people gaining access to resources and increasing capacity to improve their lives and influence decisions that affect them.
BOX 5.4 COMMUNITY-DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT
Community-driven approaches to development—giving local organizations more say—can make resource allocation more responsive to the needs of poor people and increase the power of poor communities to interact with government, the private sector, and civil society in planning and implementing their own development programs.
The Bank is launching a major initiative in Africa, the Community Action Program, to mainstream community-driven development in country programs, with similar efforts envisaged in other regions. A chapter on community-driven development is being prepared for the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper sourcebook; other efforts are underway to disseminate information on legal and procurement matters. Training programs for officials and Bank staff are also planned.
and to promote best practice and piloting of initiatives in conflict prevention. This fund allocated approximately $22 million in grants across 25 countries over the first two years of its operation. A grant to Kosovo covered teachers’ and health workers’ salaries, for example, while support in East Timor funded the international community’s initial assessment mission and the start-up of the local empowerment and governance program.
Culture
Cultural identity is an essential part of empowering communities to take charge of their own destinies. From tourism to restoration, investments in cultural heritage promote labor-intensive economic activities that generate wealth and income.
Community-based development through social funds and innovative cultural heritage operations is responding to the interests of poor communities to develop income-generating activities that draw on their traditions, skills, and other cultural endowments. The Bank has increasingly included culture in its core work, both to make development services (such as education) more culturally responsive and effective, and to develop new tools to reduce poverty. Over the past year, the Bank has financed culture-oriented urban, education, and social development projects in Bolivia, China, East Timor, Indonesia, Romania, and the Republic of Yemen. A research program is under way to develop the socioeconomic rationale for investment in culture.
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The experience of the 20th century underscores the crucial role of dynamic private markets for poverty reduction. It is of concern that, although private resource flows to developing countries have increased eight-fold in the past decade (see Figure 5.7), two-thirds of these flows go to only 10 countries, only two of which are poor. And key sectors that form the foundation for economic growth and social well-being, such as transport and water, receive only a small share of this investment.
Where it exists, private participation in infrastructure has made an enormous contribution to improving the efficiency of infrastructure services and extending delivery to poor people. In the Republic of Yemen, for example, where free entry is allowed in the electrical wires business, thousands of mini-power systems exist and two-thirds of the population has access to electricity. Such invest-
ments have had a substantial impact on poor people through improved physical access to goods, services, and markets; reduced cost of existing goods and services; and the creation of new jobs and better access to existing businesses.
Helping countries develop needed legal and regulatory frameworks and institutions, in a way that protects the interests of poor people is at the heart of the Bank’s assistance for private sector development.
The Private Sector Development Strategy presented to the Board in September 1999 calls for accelerated intervention in
Partnerships supporting private sector development take the form of several global trust-funded programs that help shape thinking in the development community, including:
Cities Alliance, a global partnership to support city development strategies involving UNCHS (Habitat), bilateral donors,
.NCOs, and the business community, whose Cities Without Slums Initiative plans to improve living conditions for urban poor people by building on successful community-based programs. 2" ProVention Consortium, an international partnership of governments, multilateral agencies, private insurance companies, universities, and NCOs, newly launched in fiscal 2000 to develop strategic, rapid responses to natural and technological disasters in the developing world.
The Global Corporate Governance Forum, a Bank—OECD effort to help developing countries improve corporate governance by bringing partners together to exchange experience and good practices and by supporting enforcement and voluntary compliance in this area.
Informationfor Development Program (InfoDev),
a multidonor partnership chaired by the Bank, which has carried out an intensive YZK Initiative (about $26 million) to help governments address Y2K risks and to develop and implement national remediation plans, and awarded 140 grants (two-thirds of which to national, Y2K-related institutions in IDA countries).
^ Water and Sanitation Program, a multipartner effort to build field knowledge, strengthen sector policies, and target investments towards poor people fiscal 2000 outputs included about 20 pilot/demonstration projects,
40 investment projects, 80 studies and field notes, JO learning events, and /] y policy reform initiatives in 36 countries).
^ Business Partners for Development, a program initiated in 1998 that supports pilot projects implemented by companies with the objective of demonstrating how the private sector can help community development.
BOX 5.5 TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS: SECTOR REFORM TO HELP POOR PEOPLE
Operations
Poor people have identified communication services as one of their priority needs. Meeting this need, however; has proven to be difficult: providing service to poor; isolated areas is often not commercially viable; and countries can no longer support tariffs that cross-subsidize service to these areas. In fiscal 2000, the Bank promoted innovative solutions that rely on market mechanisms to meet the communication needs of poor people.
Two fiscal ZOOO operations (SIJ-9 million in Nicaragua and $12.3 million in the Dominican Republic) are examples of these mechanisms. Under both projects, the Bank is helping governments establish telecommunications development funds financed by contributions from all telecommunications service providers. The funds subsidize initial infrastructure investments to those carriers who are willing to operate in poor areas. The residents of rural areas benefit directly by obtaining access to telephone and internet services, often for the first time, and indirectly through better provision of government services and increased commercial activity of local businesses (resultingfrom the improved telecommunications facilities).
the poorest countries; in sectors that directly affect poor people (such as water supply and energy distribution); and with a focus on providing more, better, and cheaper services to the poorest. These strategic thrusts guided the Banks fiscal 2000 operations in private sector development and infrastructure (see Box 5.5 on telecommunications services for poor people); Bank—ifc organizational changes to better harness the private sector’s potential; and the Bank’s knowledge-sharing activities.
Trainers from the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (cgap) are featured at the world-renowned Microfinance Training Program of the Economics Institute in Boulder, Colorado. The program includes a course on Accounting for Microfinance, and has benefited microfinance practitioners from around the world.
Infrastructure support continues to play a leading role in the Bank’s fight against poverty: z8 percent of the Bank’s fiscal 2000 lending supported projects in infrastructure (here defined broadly to include the sectors shown in Figure 5.8). In the water supply/sanitation, transport, and urban development sectors, where private investment is still scarce, Bank lending in fiscal 2000 reached a total of $2.9 billion. In the energy, mining, and telecommunications sectors, where investment is shifting to the private sector, Bank investment lending continued to decline to about si.3 billion in fiscal 2000. Bank operations in these sectors focused increasingly on supporting institutional reform and catalyzing private financing rather than direct funding of investment (see Figure 5.9). The quality of the portfolio in private sector development and infrastructure improved in fiscal 2000 as a result of proactive management of problem projects, especially in the electric power and energy and oil and gas sectors.
Guarantees
In fiscal 2000, the Bank continued to expand its menu of guarantee products through the extension of partial credit guarantees in support of structural adjustment. A Policy-Based Guarantee was issued for the first time in October 1999, in the amount of $250 million, to support the issuance of $1.5 billion in notes by the Republic of Argentina. The guarantee supported Argentina’s reform program and allowed the country to put forward a large issue at a time when investors generally were not disposed to buying emerging market debt. It also helped to broaden the market for Argentine paper and mobilize capital market financing; in addition, it will help Argentina’s future access to private foreign capital (in terms of increased volumes, longer maturities, and reduced spreads). The unique financing structure helped to enhance country creditworthiness, assure continuity of macroeconomic policies, and ensure that vital social services were sustained in a difficult
financial environment. In addition, in Haripur, Bangladesh, a Partial Risk Guarantee of $61 million served to support construction of a private power plant by protecting investors against certain types of nonperformance by the government.
Stimulating private provision of infrastructure
Bank operations to stimulate private investment in infrastructure numbered 306 between fiscal 1988 and fiscal 2000 (Table 5.2). In fiscal 2000, about 60 percent of operations in the infrastructure sectors included private-sector participation as a key objective. In Cartagena, Colombia, for example, the Bank is helping the city’s water and sanitation utility pioneer a private sector participation model; and a project in Albania is introducing private sector participation in water supply rehabilitation through a management/lease contract. Other projects supporting private infrastructure provision are helping to reduce electric energy waste and facilitate private and public investments in energy efficiency (Brazil); improve the quality of electricity supply, develop a competitive electricity market, and increase the grid company’s efficiency (Kazakhstan); and support the country’s private sector development strategy through banking restructuring, infrastructure and utility regulation, and a public enterprise privatization program (Tanzania). In addition, the Bank worked with other donors to launch a new technical assistance facility to promote private sector involvement in infrastructure (see Box 5.6).
Organizational Changes to Improve Bank—ifc Integration
Past efforts to support private sector development point to the need for an integrated approach: countries need support not only to create an enabling business environment and develop sound regulatory frameworks but also to mobilize investment capital. To that end, beginning January 1, 2000, the Bank integrated its staff and work programs in three key psi sectors with those of ifc.
First, to strengthen coordination, staff working on privatization, business environment, and private participation in infrastructure and in social
sectors were regrouped into a joint World Bank-IFC Private Sector Advisory Service (PSAS), psas provides wide-ranging technical and policy-related advisory services to Bank Group clients in the area of private sector development, focusing on frontier sectors and countries where the private sector is not yet a major force for change in the economy.
Second, to better mobilize the Bank Group’s transactions and policy expertise in sectors where investment is shifting rapidly to the private sector, the Bank and ifc created joint Global Product Groups in Information and Communications Technologies; Oil, Gas, and Chemicals; and Mining. These groups provide a full range of assistance to clients, from support for regulatory frameworks to equity investment. They also aim to sharpen the focus on poverty alleviation and environmental issues by, for example, broadening the distribution of liquid propane gas to poor people or improving environmental conditions for them in mining communities.
Finally, the ifc and the Bank have joined forces to improve the business environment for small and medium enterprises (smes), strengthen their capacity and management skills, and help them overcome financial constraints through
While Bank Group lending to the telecommunications sector has declined since 1995 in dollar terms (from $4.3 billion to $3.6 billion in fiscal 2000), the number of projects is significantly higher. IFC and MIGA account for ail of this growth, playing a crucial role in leveraging relatively small Bank Group lending commitments against large volumes of private investment. The dramatically different composition of World Bank assistance (IBRD and IDA)—reflecting greater support for policy reforms, in the form of technical assistance loans and structural adjustment lending rather than for investment in physical infrastructure—accounts for the decline in dollar volume.
innovative work in capital markets. The sme program is especially important in poor countries where domestic private investment is weak. The Bank Group s strategy to assist smes includes support for: expanded training through local partners; utilization of information technologies and expanded internet access; enterprise-level support programs; government—private sector reform dialogue; and development of business associations.
Knowledge Management
Knowledge management activities in the infrastructure sectors are helping client countries manage their sector investment programs and increasing the timeliness and impact of Bank assistance. In Mauritania, for example, through analytical support and sharing of best practice,
the Bank is helping the government use information technology to support health, education, and microenterprise development in poor countries. Support to the Arab Urban Development Institute is of a broader nature, building knowledge management capability to provide access to information on urban economic and social indicators, urban best practices, and urban projects to alleviate poverty. In addition, web sites, seminars, and pilot programs are helping disseminate knowledge to external partners and client countries. The Bank s Gender and Transport web site, for example, has worldwide participation that is helping improve womens involvement in transport planning and provision; the web sites ultimate objective is to increase female economic participation and access to education and social services.
BOX 5.6 PUBLIC-PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE ADVISORY FACILITY LAUNCHED
Working with the U.K. and Japanese governments, the Bank launched a new multidonor technical assistance facility in fiscal 2000 to help developing countries improve the quality of their j	infrastructure through private sector involvement. The Pub-
I	lie—Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAFJ channels
I technical assistance to developing country governments, aimed at tapping the full potential of private sector involvement in infrastructure. It also identifies, disseminates, and promotes best practices on private sector involvement in infrastructure in developing countries.
During fiscal ZOOO, PPIAF provided grants of over US$tj million for some jo activities. Examples include:
>• Preparation of Country Framework Reports for eleven countries (e.g. India, the Philippines, and Uganda), which entailed comprehensive analysis of the supporting policy, regulatory, and financial framework for attracting private investment in infrastructure;
Technical advice on establishing legal and regulatory frameworks, strengthening institutional capacity of regulatory agencies, privatizing network utilities, increasing rural access, and other reforms for example, to prepare privatization of Paraguay’s telecommunications company);
^ International conferences and country workshops bringing together key stakeholders to discuss best practice and build consensus on policy, legislative, and regulatory options for private participation in infrastructure;
^ Support for the creation of regional regulatory forums in South Asia, Africa, and the Caribbean to build capacity of government regulators through training, regional information centers, conferences, workshops, and support of basic regulatory research (for example., a two-week training course delivered to over lOO participants in India by the South Asia Forum for Infrastructure Regulation).
FINANCIAL SECTOR
A well-functioning financial system mobilizes resources and savings and ensures efficient allocation and use of resources. These functions help increase productivity, which is key to growth and poverty alleviation. However, the pivotal role of the financial system in development is even more evident when it breaks down. Many governments weathered the 1997—98 financial crisis through efforts to redress vulnerabilities in their financial systems. Low-income households are further affected when troubled banking systems face loan losses and insolvencies, and the government response to them results in higher taxes, lower social expenditures, or inflation.
As part of its anti-poverty strategy this year, the Bank has helped governments to prevent financial system vulnerabilities and to build strong financial systems. The Banks lending and nonlending support is centered on strengthening banks and nonbank financial institutions, equity and bond markets, microfinance, pensions, mortgage markets, and payment systems, and on developing insurance products to mitigate natural disasters (see Box 5.7).
Lending: Helping Build Sound Financial Systems
Lending for financial sector reform amounted to $1.8 billion in fiscal 2000 and concentrated on building sound foundations for financial systems.
Activities included: support to Turkey to create a new banking and regulatory and supervisory entity; to Tanzania to sell the country’s largest state-owned bank to one of South Africa’s largest commercial banks; and to Mexico for a program of bank restructuring that will strengthen the financial sector, spur economic growth, and help poverty alleviation.
Nonlending: Improving Diagnostics and Capacity Building in Crisis and Noncrisis Countries
Mitigating financial vulnerabilities is today not just a national goal, but a matter of common interest for the international community. The joint Bank—imf Financial Sector Assessment Program (fsap), launched in May 1999 on a pilot basis, identifies country vulnerabilities and key priorities for financial sector development. It provides national authorities with a strategic framework within which to undertake financial sector strengthening. Twelve country assessments were completed in fiscal 2000 (Cameroon, Canada, Colombia, the Republic of El Salvador, Estonia, Kazakhstan, Hungary, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ireland, Lebanon, and South Africa). The pilot program is being substantially expanded, with another 24 assessments slated for fiscal 2001.
Diagnostic work on specific components of the financial system (housing finance, public debt markets, insurance and contractual savings,
PARTNERSHIPS
Participation in international forums is important to the Bank’s support for financial sector development. Sponsored by the Financial Stability Forum, a joint effort with the IMF in fiscal 2000 on debt management and the development of public bond markets will help governments better manage risk and withstand future shocks. Together with international standard-setting bodies, the Bank is working on revising, promoting,
and implementing standards for financial supervision in order to improve the legal and regulatory framework required for strong financial systems. Lastly, the Bank has enhanced collaboration with other regional and multilateral development banks (UDEs) through the MDB Working Group in order to better serve client countries, learn from each other’s experience, and leverage resources.
In countries frequently plagued by large natural disasters, people often rely on governments to bail them out. draining the government of resources that would otherwise be available to finance development. Following Turkey’s earthquake in iggg (its third in eight years), the government asked for Bank assistance to develop a mechanism that would reduce its liability and mitigate risk, while creating a more financially viable response to natural disasters.
With support from the Marmara Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction Project, a national insurance plan has been developed that will shift the financial burden of future reconstruction of housing and infrastructure fmm the individual families and the government to international re-insurers, capital markets, and to the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool ('TCI I), newly being established. TCIP will act as a stand-alone provider of cata-
strophic insurance in Turkey, with $100 million in Bank financing providing the initial capital support. By requiring a small insurance premium to be paid by all families paying taxes, the government will no longer guarantee replacement bousing but instead serve as a re-insurer of last resort. The scheme will be managed and administered by the private sector, to the maximum extent possible, and at the end of five years, the private sector will likely take over capital provision, with the Bank involved only as a credit enhancer.
If successful, TCIP would represent a major breakthrough in reducing the adverse financial and economic exposure of Turkey to catastrophic events. It would also benefit the country’s economic growth as well as its ability to weather major catastrophes without resorting to massive emergency aid from international financial institutions and donor countries.
rural and micro finance) creates opportunities for increased nonbank intermediation, lessens the reliance on banks, mitigates risk in the financial sector, insulates firms from short-run pressures, and in the end, lessens the burden of crises on poor people. In Brazil, support for housing finance reform aims to make homes affordable to more people. In India, the Bank is helping the government explore the potential for developing a long-term debt market, so as to reduce exposure to external shocks. Assistance to the Arab Republic of Egypt will increase access to rural finance.
Advisory services and training are other important nonlending services. A special Bank unit continued in fiscal 2000 to provide intensive crisis management support to Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, and Thailand, and most I recently, Ecuador, in close cooperation with the
imf, the Asian Development Bank (adb) and other regional partners. Support has focused on policies and institution-building for restructuring financial institutions, debt recovery, corporate restructuring, and broader financial sector strengthening, and on the need to reduce instability in domestic financial markets as a way to minimize the impact of crisis on poor people (see Figure 5.10). Further, the World Bank Institute has invested in client
training programs m conjunction with partners (oecd, International Organization of Securities Commissions (iosco), International Association of Insurance Supervisors (iais), and the Toronto Centre), on various elements of the financial system.
Financial Strength ALLOWS IBRD TO
minimize its cost of funds and, therefore, the cost to borrowers leverage up its equity capital...
... thus providing its borrowing members access to capital
>■ in larger volumes on good terms >• with longer maturities
in a more sustainable manner
... than the market would have provided', which means
providing finance to support human and social development needs that are long-term in nature and unappealing to private creditors
preserving borrowers’ financial strength by providing countercyclical support at times of crisis, when poor people are the most adversely affected >• using the leverage of low-cost finance to promote key policy and institutional reforms (for example, social safety net and anti-corruption reforms)
>• catalyzing private capital, by helping create favorable investment climates and through the collective efforts of the World Bank Group >” providing financial support for important global public goods that are critical for the wellbeing of poor people
WHAT MAKES THE WORLD BANK UNIQUE AS A FINANCIAL INSTITUTION?
The World Bank is a unique lending institution that differs in many ways from a commercialfinancial institution. First; its shareholders are sovereign governments from nearly all the world’s countries. Second\ it is a cooperative of nations driven by development objectives, with member borrowers having a voice in the policies of the institution. It does not maximize proft but targets income to ensure financial strength and to support development activities. Third, lending is only one part of an overall assistance package of policy advice; technical assistance, and other nonlending services developed jointly with a country and its partners in support of the country’s comprehensive development strategy. Fourth, member borrowers provide preferred creditor status to IBRD, lowering its cost of funds, which in turn results in attractive borrowing terms for members. Finally, IBRD is not externally regulated but emulates hest practices for risk management and regulation.
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development Condensed Management’s Discussion and Analysis June 30, 2000
Throughout Management’s Discussion and Analysis, terms in boldface type are defined in the Glossary of Terms on page 25 of The World Bank Annual Report 2000: Financial Statements and Appendixes to the Annual Report. The Notes to Financial Statements referred to in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis are also included in that report .
The Management’s Discussion and Analysis may contain forward looking statements. Such statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Consequently, actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated.
I. Financial Overview
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization established in 1945 and is owned by its member countries. IBRD’s main goal is reducing poverty by promoting sustainable economic development. It pursues this goal primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for projects and programs in its developing member countries.
IBRD’s ability to intermediate funds from international capital markets for lending to its developing member countries is an important element in achieving its development goals. IBRD’s objective is not to maximize profit, but to earn adequate net income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities. Box 6.1 presents selected financial data for the last five fiscal years.
The financial strength of IBRD is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices. Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members and in the record of its borrowing members in meeting their debt-service obligations to it. IBRD’s financial policies and practices have led it to build reserves, to diversify its funding sources, to hold a large portfolio of liquid investments, and to limit a variety of risks, including credit, market and liquidity risks.
IBRD’s principal assets are its loans to member countries. The majority of IBRD’s outstanding loans are priced on a cost pass-through basis, in which the cost of funding the loans, plus a lending spread, is passed through to the borrower.
To raise funds, IBRD issues debt securities in a variety of currencies to both institutional and retail investors. These borrowings, together with IBRD’s equity, are used to fund its lending and investment activities, as well as general operations.
IBRD holds its assets and liabilities primarily in U.S. dollars, euro (and its national currency units), and Japanese yen. IBRD mitigates its exposure to exchange rate risks by matching the currencies of its assets with those of its liabilities and reserves; however, the reported levels of its assets, liabilities and income in the financial statements are affected by exchange rate movements of major currencies compared to IBRD’s reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. This financial statement reporting effect does not impact IBRD’s risk bearing capacity.
FY 1998 and FY 1999 were marked by unprecedented growth in the loan portfolio as IBRD responded to the financial crisis that had begun in East and Southeast Asia and spread to other parts of
the developing world. While the global financial crisis led to an increase in lending activity in FY 1998 and FY 1999, the number of loans and the volume of lending commitments fell sharply in FY 2000, returning to pre-crisis levels. This decline was due partly to the recovery from financial crises and country specific circumstances. Many of the borrowers directly affected by the financial crisis have stabilized, in part because of the quick and flexible response of the international community. Lower commitments also reflected a general trend in demand from borrowers for smaller average lending operations.
In the context of assessing changes in IBRD’s operating environment, it is management’s practice to recommend each year the allocation of net income to augment reserves, waivers of loan charges to eligible borrowers, and grants from net income to support developmental activities.
As part of this annual review, in July 1998, IBRD’s Executive Directors took several actions to augment its financial capacity. These measures included increasing the contractual charges on new loans, and reducing the interest waiver for FY 1999 from 25 basis points to 5 basis points on old loans. These pricing changes effectively brought the net spread for FY 1999 to 45 basis points on old loans and to 50 basis points on new loans. Also, a front-end fee of 100 basis points, payable for each such loan at the time it becomes effective, was introduced. In July 1999, the Executive Directors allocated $955 million of FY 1999 income to reserves and maintained the FY 1999 loan pricing strategy and interest waivers for FY 2000.
FY 2000 net income was $1,991 million, $473 million higher than the preceding year. An FY 2000 reduction in the loan loss provision contributed $412 million to this increase. Income was further bolstered by the impact of interest rate resets on loans. These increases to net income were partially offset by the absence in FY 2000 of a one time gain of $237 million, resulting from the liquidation in FY 1999 of the held-to-maturity portfolio.
On August 1,2000, the Executive Directors approved the allocation of $ 1,280 million of FY 2000 net income to reserves, and recommended to IBRD’s Board of Governors the transfer of $635 million from unallocated net income to other development purposes, and that the remainder be retained as surplus. For FY 2001, an increase to 15 basis points in the interest waiver was approved for old loans so that the net lending spread will be 35 basis points. For new loans, the interest waiver of 25 basis points was maintained. FY 2001 waivers of commitment charges were also maintained at the FY 2000 level.
IBRD continues to evaluate alternative strategies to enhance its risk-bearing capacity to ensure that it can respond to borrowers as needed, while preserving its financial strength.
2.	Development Activities
IBRD offers loans, related hedging products, and guarantees to its borrowing member countries to help meet their development needs. It also provides technical assistance and other services to support poverty reduction in these countries.
Loans
From its establishment through June 30, 2000, IBRD had approved loans, net of cancellations, totaling $309,839 million to borrowers in 129 countries. The loans held by IBRD, including loans approved but not yet effective, at June 30, 2000, totaled $164,858 million, of which $120,104 million was outstanding and $44,754 million was undisbursed. Cumulative loan repayments at June 30,
2000,	based on U.S. dollar equivalents at the time of receipt, were $141,265 million.
The amount of loans outstanding at June 30, 2000 was $2,876 million higher than that at June 30,
1999. The increase is primarily attributable to net disbursements of $2,750 million.
During FY 2000, commitments of new loans to member countries were $10,919 million, down from $22,182 million in FY 1999. In FY 1998 and FY
1999, IBRD’s commitments had reached unprecedented levels. FY 2000 commitments have declined from these levels, most notably in adjustment lending. Three types of factors have contributed to this decrease in lending commitments:
>■ Cyclical Factors: Emerging market economies have stabilized after the global financial crisis;
>• Long-term Factors: There is a continuing trend toward smaller average project size;
>• Country-specific Factors: A number of country-specific factors such as political transitions, conflicts, and country performance.
Compared to the preceding fiscal year, the relative regional composition of commitments in FY
2000	shifted away from East Asia and slightly more towards Eastern Europe, Central Asia and Latin America.
Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement (the Articles), as applied, the total amount outstanding of direct loans made by IBRD, participation in loans and callable guarantees may not exceed the statutory lending limit. At June 30, 2000, outstanding loans and callable guarantees (net of the accumulated loan loss provision) totaled $ 117,181 million, equal to 57% of the statutory lending limit.
Lending Instruments
IBRD lending generally falls into one of two categories: investment or adjustment lending. Historically, most IBRD loans have been for investment projects or programs. Figure 6.1 presents IBRD lending by category for the last eight fiscal years, as a percentage of total loans approved.
Current operating guidelines state that adjustment lending, excluding debt and debt-service reduction loans, will normally not exceed 25% of total IBRD lending. This guideline was established with the understanding that it was likely to be exceeded if world economic conditions worsened. This guideline is not a rigid limit but rather a trigger for a reevaluation of such lending. As a result of several large adjustment loans made by IBRD during FY 1999, 63% of IBRD’s lending in that year consisted of such loans (47% for FY 1998). In FY 2000, this proportion decreased to 41% as fewer adjustment loans were necessary. The lower commitments for adjustment lending reflect the general improvement in global financial circumstances compared to the two prior fiscal years. The Executive Directors are aware that, in light of recent financial circumstances in the world, the guideline has been exceeded in recent years, and may possibly be exceeded again in subsequent years.
Investment Lending
IBRD has several lending instruments that support investment activities, either discrete projects or programs of investment. Investment lending committed for FY 2000 totaled $6,493 million ( $8,245 million—FY 1999; $11,151 million—FY 1998).
Adjustment Lending
IBRD also makes adjustment loans designed to support the introduction of basic changes in economic, financial and other policies of key importance for the economic development of member countries. Disbursements on these loans are conditioned on certain performance objectives. Adjustment lending committed for FY 2000 totaled $4,426 million ($13,937 minion—FY 1999; $9,935 million—FY
1998.)
Enclave Lending
On rare occasions, IBRD will lend for a large, foreign exchange generating project in a member
country usually eligible only for loans from the International Development Association (IDA). In these circumstances appropriate risk mitigation measures are incorporated (including off-shore escrow accounts and debt-service reserves acceptable to IBRD) to ensure that the risks to IBRD are minimized. At June 30, 2000, IBRD had $170 million in outstanding loans for enclave projects. In FY 2000, IBRD approved enclave loans totalling $93 million.
Financial Terms of Loans
In recent years, IBRD has offered new loans with three types of financial terms: multicurrency pool loans, variable-spread single currency loans, and fixed-rate single currency loans. Beginning September I, 1999, IBRD also made available a new LIBOR-based fixed spread loan product and, effective December I,
1999,	the offer of fixed-rate single currency loans was terminated. This choice of financial terms is intended to provide borrowers with the flexibility to select terms that are both compatible with their debt management strategy and suited to their debt-servicing capability. Most multicurrency pool loans and variable spread single currency loans mature over a period that ranges from fifteen to twenty years and carry a three- to five-year grace period for principal. While fixed-spread loans offer more flexible repayment terms, this flexibility is subject to limits aimed at maintaining a similar average loan maturity across all loan products for a given borrower.
For most products, IBRD charges a lending rate composed of its average cost of borrowings plus a spread. Until July 31, 1998, that spread was 50 basis points. However, during the first quarter of fiscal vear
1999,	the lending spread was increased to 75 basis points for new loans. Also, a front-end fee of 100 basis points, payable for each such loan at the time it becomes effective, was introduced. In addition, most loans carry a commitment charge of 75 basis points on undisbursed amounts. However, the fixed-spread loans carry a commitment charge of 85 basis points for the first four years and 75 basis points thereafter.
Waivers of a portion of interest owed by all eligible borrowers are determined annually and have been in effect for each of the previous nine fiscal years. Waivers of a portion of the commitment charge owed on the undisbursed portion of loans are also determined annually and have been in effect for each of the last eleven fiscal years. For interest periods beginning during FY 2000, the interest waiver was 5 basis points for old loans and 25 basis points for new loans. The commitment charge waiver for FY 2000 was 50 basis points on all loans. Interest waivers for FY 2001 are 25 basis points for new loans and 15 basis points for
old loans. Commitment charge waivers for FY 2001 remain at 50 basis points. Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note C.
Multicurrency Pool Loans
The currency composition of multicurrency pool loans is determined on the basis of a pool, which provides a currency composition that is the same for all loans in the pool. Pursuant to a policy established by the Executive Directors and subject to their periodic review, at least 90% of the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the pool is in a fixed ratio of one U.S. dollar to 125 Japanese yen to one euro.
The lending rate on these cost pass-through loans is variable, adjusted every six months to reflect the previous semesters average cost of outstanding borrowings allocated to fund these loans, weighted by the average currency composition of the pool. IBRD adds its lending spread to that average cost.
Multicurrency Pool Loan Conversion Options
In FY 1997, in response to borrower demand for broader currency choice, the Executive Directors approved the offer of currency choice for all IBRD multicurrency pool loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued before September I, 1996. The purpose of this invitation was to provide borrowers the flexibility to amend the terms of their existing multicurrency pool loans to reflect their choice of the offered currencies by converting multicurrency pool loans to single currency loan terms or single currency pool terms. Those options expired on July I, 1998. Single currency pool terms are not available for new commitments.
Single Currency Loans
For new commitments, borrowers may select LIBOR-based, variable spread single currency terms. Fixed-rate single currency loan terms were available for loans if the invitation to negotiate was issued before December I, 1999.
Variable-Spread Single Currency Loans
IBRD currently offers variable-spread single currency loans in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, euro, pounds sterling and Swiss francs, and will consider borrower requests for loans in other currencies. Variable-spread single currency loans carry a lending rate that is reset semi-annually. The lending rate consists of a base rate, which is LIBOR for the applicable currency plus a spread. The spread consists of: (a) IBRD’s weighted average cost margin for funding for the preceding semester allocated to these loans relative to LIBOR; and (b) IBRD’s lending spread. These variable rate loans are designed to pass IBRD’s funding spread to LIBOR through to its borrowers. This spread is set every six months, in January and July. At June 30,
2000,	the proportion of outstanding variable-spread single currency loans denominated in U.S. dollars was 96.1% (92.3% at June 30, 1999).
Non-standard Singh Currency Loans
In response to the global financial crises, IBRD approved and disbursed several large loans totaling $7,000 million on non-standard single currency loan terms during FY 1998 and FY 1999. These loans carry a six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR interest rate plus a fixed spread ranging from 75 to 100 basis points and a front-end fee. None of these loans is eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges.
Subsequent to the disbursement of these loans, during FY 1999 IBRD introduced a new type of loan tailored to be part of a broad financial support package for borrowing countries. These special structural and sector adjustment loans also carry non-standard single currency loan terms. As of June 30, 2000, IBRD had approved atotalof$5,05I million of special structural or sector adjustment loans. At June 30,
2000,	$4,051 million of this amount had been disbursed. Their terms include a six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR interest rate plus a minimum fixed spread, currently set at 400 basis points, which may vary for new loans over time depending on IBRD’s overall risk-bearing capacity and market conditions. These loans have a five year maturity with a three-year grace period on principal, and a front-end fee of one percent of the principal amount payable on effectiveness. Special structural and adjustment loans are not eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges. Fixed-rate Single Currency Loans
As of December I, 1999, fixed-rate single currency loans were no longer available for new commitments. Fixed-rate single currency loans carry lending rates that are set on specified semi-annual rate fixing dates for amounts disbursed during the preceding six months. The lending rate consists of a base rate, which reflects market interest rates for the applicable currency on the rate-fixing date for the equivalent loan maturity, plus a spread. The spread consists of: (a) IBRD’s funding cost margin relative to the base rate for these loans; (b) a risk premium to compensate IBRD for market risks it incurs in funding these loans; and (c) IBRD’s lending spread.
Fixed-Spread Loans
During the first quarter of FY 2000, IBRD introduced the fixed-spread loan, designed in response to the borrowers’ desire for more flexible financial products. Fixed-spread loans can be tailored to meet the needs of individual projects and programs and support borrowers’ debt management strategies. Fixed-spread loans are currently offered in U.S. dol-
lars, Japanese yen and euro. Requests for other currencies will also be considered.
These fixed-spread loans carry an interest rate of LIBOR, plus a spread that is fixed at loan signing foi the life of the loan. At June 30, 2000, the fixed spread was 55 basis points for U.S. dollar and euro denominated loans and 45 basis points for Japanese yen. The fixed spread consists of (a) IBRD’s projected funding cost margin relative to U.S. dollar LIBOR, with a basis swap adjustment for non-U.S. dollar loans; (b) a market risk premium of 5 basis points; and (c) IBRD’s standard lending spread. The fixed-spread offered will be evaluated from time to time and may be reset when market changes warrant. Fixed-spread loans carry IBRD’s standard loan charges for new commitments, including a 100 basis point front-end fee on the loan amount and a 75 basis point commitment fee on undisbursed loan amounts. In addition, these loans carry a commitment charge risk premium of 10 basis points on undisbursed loan amounts for the first four years of the loan’s life. This premium, along with the market risk premium in the interest spread, compensates IBRD for funding and refinancing risk.
Borrowers selecting this product may change the currency or interest rate basis over the life of the loan and have more flexibility in selecting loan maturities. Effective February I, 2000, a borrower may choose to include the following conversion features in the loan contract:
>• option to change the currency at market rates of all or a part of the undisbursed or disbursed loan amounts (for a fee);
>- option to fix the interest rate at market rates on all or a part of the disbursed amounts (without charge) for rate fixings for up to the full maturity of the loan, and for amounts up to the outstanding loan amount;
>• option to unfix or re-fix the interest rate at market rates on all or part of disbursed loan amounts (for a fee);
>• option to cap or collar the floating interest rate on all or a part of disbursed loan amounts (for a fee).
Transaction fees range from 12.5 to 25 basis points of the notional transaction amount. Repayment terms are more flexible than for prior products, subject to certain constraints on the average repayment maturity and final maturity on a country basis. Within these constraints, borrowers have flexibility to configure grace periods and maturity profiles in a manner consistent with the purpose of the loan. Repayment profiles may be level repayment of principal, an annuity type schedule, a bullet repayment or a
customized schedule. Repayment profiles cannot be changed after a loan is signed. Table 6.1 presents a breakdown of IBRD’s loan portfolio by loan product.
For more information, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note C.
Hedging Products
Along with the approval of the introduction of the fixed-spread loan product, IBRD also approved the offer of new hedging products for its borrowers to respond to their needs for access to better risk management tools. These products assist borrowers in hedging their risks on individual loans made to them by IBRD. These hedging products include interest rate and currency swaps, and interest rate caps and collars. On a case-by-case basis, commodity-linked swaps may also be considered.
Each request from a borrower for execution of a hedging product must include an explanation of its suitability for risk management purposes. IBRD will serve as a financial intermediary, passing through the
market cost of the instrument to the borrower, and will charge an administrative fee which varies from 12.5 to 37.5 basis points of the notional principal involved. These instruments may be executed either under a master derivatives agreement which substantially conforms to industry standards, or in individually negotiated transactions. IBRD is in the process of making these instruments available.
Guarantees
IBRD offers guarantees on loans from private investors for projects in countries eligible to borrow from IBRD. In exceptional cases, IBRD may offer enclave guarantees for loans for foreign-exchange generating projects in a member country usually eligible only for credits from IDA. IBRD guarantees are flexible instruments that provide the credit enhancement required to mobilize private sector financing for individual projects through targeted and limited support, thus enhancing IBRD’s developmental impact by catalyzing private sector participation. On a pilot basis,
guarantees are being made available to support agreed-upon policies and reforms in certain member countries. IBRD applies the same country creditworthiness and project evaluation criteria to guarantees as it applies to loans. Projects in any member country that is eligible for IBRD lending are also eligible for IBRD guarantees.
3.	Financial Risk Management
IBRD assumes various kinds of risk in the process of providing development banking services. Its activities can give rise to four major types of financial risk: credit risk; market risk (interest rate and exchange rate); liquidity risk; and operating risk. The major inherent risk to IBRD is country credit risk, or loan portfolio risk.
The risk management governance structure includes an Asset/Liability Management Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. This committee makes decisions and recommendations to senior management in the areas of financial policy, the adequacy and allocation of risk capital, and oversight of financial reporting. The Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee reports to the Asset/ Liability Management Committee. This subcommittee develops and monitors the policies under which market and commercial credit risks faced by IBRD are measured, reported and managed. The subcommittee also monitors compliance with policies governing commercial credit exposure and currency management. Specific areas of activity include establishing guidelines for limiting balance sheet and market risks, the use of derivative instruments, and monitoring matches between assets and their funding.
For the day-to-day management of financial risk, IBRD’s risk management structure extends into its business units. Risk management processes have been established to facilitate, control and monitor risk-taking. These processes are built on a foundation of initial identification and measurement of risks by each of the business units.
The processes and procedures by which IBRD manages its risk profile continually evolve as its activities change in response to market, credit, product, and other developments. The Executive Directors periodically review trends in IBRD’s risk profiles and performance, as well as any significant developments in risk management policies and controls.
Credit Risk
Credit risk, the risk of loss from default by a borrower or counterparty, is inherent in IBRD’s development activities. Under the direction of the Asset/Liability Management Committee, policies
and procedures for measuring and managing such risks are formulated, approved and communicated throughout IBRD. Senior managers represented on the committee are responsible for maintaining sound credit assessments, addressing transaction and product risk issues, providing an independent review function and monitoring the loans, investments and borrowings portfolios.
Country Credit Risk
Country credit risk is the primary risk faced by IBRD and is overseen by the Chief Credit Officer who leads the Country Credit Risk Deparment. It has three components as described below. Probable expected losses from all three components are covered by the accumulated provision for loan losses, while unexpected losses are covered by IBRD’s income generating capacity and risk-bearing capital. IBRD continuously reviews the creditworthiness of its borrowing member countries and adjusts its overall country programs and lending operations to reflect the results of these reviews.
(i)	The first component is idiosyncratic risk. This is the risk that individual countries will accumulate extended debt-service arrears, or move closer to accumulating extended debt-service arrears, for country specific reasons.
(ii)	The second component is covariance risk. This is the risk that one or more borrowers will accumulate extended payment arrears, or move closer to accumulating extended payment arrears, as a result of a common external shock. This shock could be, for example, a regional political crisis or an adverse change in the global environment (such as a fall in commodity prices or a rise in global interest rates).
(iii)The	third component is portfolio concentration risk, which arises when a small group of borrowers account for a large share of loans outstanding. Portfolio concentration increases the potential financial impact of idiosyncratic and covariance risk. Portfolio concentration risk is managed using the portfolio concentration limit described below.
In 1997, the Executive Directors approved an approach to portfolio concentration under which IBRD’s largest loan portfolio exposure to a single borrowing country is restricted to the lower of an equitable access limit or a concentration risk limit. The equitable access limit is equal to 10% of IBRD’s subscribed capital, reserves and unallocated surplus. The concentration risk limit is based on the adequacy of IBRD’s risk-bearing capacity relative to its largest loan portfolio exposure to a single borrowing coun-
cry. The concentration risk limit takes into account not only current exposure (loans outstanding, plus the present value of guarantees), but also projected exposure over the ensuing three- to five-year period. The limit is determined by the Executive Directors each year at the time they consider IBRD’s reserves adequacy and the allocation of its net income from the preceding fiscal year. For FY 2001 the concentration risk limit is $13.5 billion, unchanged from FY 2000. The equitable access limit is $20.7 billion. IBRD’s largest loan portfolio exposure (including the present value of guarantees) to a single borrowing country was SI 1.8 billion at June 30, 2000.
Overdue and Non-performing Loans
It is IBRD’s policy that if a payment of principal, interest or other charges on an IBRD loan or IDA credit becomes 30 days overdue, no new loans to that member country, or to any other borrower in that country, will be presented to the Executive Directors for approval, nor will any previously approved loan be signed, until payment for all amounts 30 days overdue or longer has been received. In addition, if such payment becomes 60 days overdue, disbursements on all loans to or guaranteed by that member country are suspended until all overdue amounts have been paid. Where the member country is not the borrower, the time period for suspension of the approval and signing of new loans to or guaranteed by the member country is 45 days and the time period for suspension of disbursements is 60 days. It is the policy of IBRD to place all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD in nonaccrual status, if principal, interest or other charges on any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for loan losses to recognize the risk inherent in the portfolio. The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for loan losses is discussed in the following paragraphs. Additional information on IBRD’s loan loss provisioning policy and status of nonaccrual loans can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies, and Note C.
In 1991, the Executive Directors adopted a policy to assist members with protracted arrears to IBRD to mobilize sufficient resources to clear their arrears and to support a sustainable growth-oriented adjustment program over the medium term. Under this policy, IBRD will develop a lending strategy and will process loans, but not sign or disburse such loans, during a pre-clearance performance period with respect to members that: (a) agree to and implement a medium-term, growth-oriented structural adjustment
program endorsed by IBRD; (b) undertake a stabilization program, if necessary, endorsed, or financially supported, by the International Monetary Fund; (c) agree to a financing plan to clear all arrears to IBRD and other multilateral creditors in the context of a medium-term structural adjustment program; and (d) make debt-service payments as they fall due on IBRD loans during the performance period. The signing, effectiveness and disbursement of such loans will not take place until the member’s arrears to IBRD have been fully cleared.
Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses
IBRD’s accumulated provision for loan losses reflects the following:
>- Management’s assessment of the overall collectibility risk on accruing loans (which includes callable guarantees); and >• The present value losses on nonaccruing loans. Such losses are equal to the difference between the discounted present value of the debt-service payments on a loan at its contractual terms and the expected cash flows on that loan.
Management determines the adequacy of the accumulated provision for loan losses by assessing the amount required to cover probable expected losses in the accrual portfolio and losses inherent in the nonaccrual portfolio as of the balance sheet date. The amount required to cover probable expected losses in the accrual portfolio is related to the mean of the distribution of losses facing the institution over the next three vears, which has been developed to estimate the probable losses inherent in the accrual portfolio at the balance sheet date. This is calculated using a risk-adjusted capital allocation framework that takes into account the concentration and covariance risk in the portfolio. The amount required to cover losses inherent in the nonaccrual portfolio is based on the calculation of the discounted present value of future cash flows.
Estimating probable expected losses is inherently uncertain and depends on many factors. IBRD periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for loan losses accordingly. Actual losses may differ from expected losses due to unforeseen changes in general macroeconomic and political conditions, unexpected correlations within the portfolio, and other external factors.
Commercial Credit Risk
IBRD’s commercial credit risk is concentrated in investments in debt instruments issued by sovereigns, agencies, banks and corporate entities. The majority of these investments are in AAA and AA rated instruments.
Asset /Liability Management
The objective of asset/liability management for IBRD is to ensure adequate funding for each product at the most attractive available cost, and to manage the currency composition, maturity profile and interest rate sensitivity characteristics of the portfolio of liabilities supporting each lending product in accordance with the particular requirements for that product and within prescribed risk parameters. IBRD’s Risk Management Department is charged with identifying, measuring and monitoring market risks, liquidity risks, and counterparty credit risks in IBRD’s financial operations.
Interest Rate Risk
There are two potential sources of interest rate risk to IBRD. The first is the interest rate sensitivity associated with the net spread between the rate IBRD earns on its assets and the cost of borrowings which fund those assets. The second is the interest rate sensitivity of the income earned from funding a portion of IBRD assets with equity. The borrowing cost passthrough formulation incorporated in the lending rates charged on most of IBRD’s existing loans has traditionally helped limit the interest rate sensitivity of the net spread earnings on its loan portfolio. Such cost pass-through loans currently account for more than 84% of the existing outstanding loan portfolio (82% at the end of FY 1999). However, the majority of cost pass-through loans do entail some residual interest rate risk, given the lag inherent in the lending rate calculation. If new borrowings are at interest rates above the average of those already in the debt pool, the higher average debt costs would not be passed through to the lending rate charged to the borrowers and thus would not affect the interest income generated on cost pass-through loans until the following semester. The reverse is true when market interest rates decline.
Another potential risk arises because the cost pass-through currency pool products have traditionally been funded with a large share of medium- and long-term fixed rate borrowings, to provide the borrowers with a reasonably stable interest basis. Given that the cumulative impact of interest rate changes over the last decade has resulted in a decline in the level of interest rates, the cost of these historical fixed-rate borrowings in the multicurrency pool and the single currency pools is currently considerably higher than IBRD’s new borrowing costs. Recent interest rate increases in the market have mitigated this difference to some extent. However, the amount of “above market” debt allocated to the multicurrency pool debt, m aggregate terms, still exceeds the outstanding multicurrency pool loans beyond FY 2011, i.e. the
pool is over-funded beyond FY 2011. The present value of this over-funded portion of the above-market debt is about $230 million as of June 30, 2000. Over-funding reaches a maximum of approximately $5.6 billion in FY 2015. Strategies for managing this risk include changing the rate fixity of the overfunded portion of the debt from fixed to floating rates. During FY 2000, IBRD completed two forward interest rate swap transactions and plans to enter into additional swap transactions until the over-funded portion of the above-market fixed-rate debt is completely swapped to floating rates. A portion of the loss attributable to the combined position will be passed as a rate adjustment to the multicurrency pool loans.
Interest rate risk on non-cost pass-through products, which currently account for 16% of the existing loan portfolio (18% at the end of FY 1999), is managed by using interest rate swaps to closely align the rate sensitivity characteristics of the loan portfolio with those of their underlying funding. As the portfolio of fixed-spread loans increases, the proportion of non-cost pass-though products will grow. The interest rate risk on IBRD’s liquid portfolio is managed within specified duration-mismatch limits and is further limited by stop-loss limits.
Because equity funds a portion of outstanding loans, IBRD's level of net income is sensitive to movements in the level of nominal interest rates. In general, lower nominal interest rates result in lower lending rates which, in turn, reduce the nominal earnings on IBRD’s equity.
Interest rate risk also arises from a variety of other factors, including differences in the timing between the contractual maturity or repricing of IBRD’s assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments. On floating rate assets and liabilities, IBRD is exposed to timing mismatches between the re-set dates on its floating rate receivables and payables.
As part of its asset/liability management process, IBRD employs interest rate swaps to manage and align the rate sensitivity characteristics of its assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments to adjust the interest rate repricing characteristics of specific balance sheet assets and liabilities, or groups of assets and liabilities with similar repricing characteristics.
Exchange Rate Risk
In order to minimize exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment, IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by the Articles. In addition, IBRD’s policy is to minimize the exchange rate sensitivity of its reserves-to-loans
ratio. It carries out this policy by undertaking currency conversions periodically to align the currency composition of its reserves to that of its outstanding loans. This policy is designed to minimize the impact of market rate fluctuations on the reserves-to-loans ratio, thereby preserving IBRD’s ability to better absorb potential losses from arrears regardless of the market environment. IBRD is constantly evaluating alternative strategies to better manage its exchange rate risk.
Figure 6.2 presents the currency composition of significant balance sheet components (net of swaps) at the end of FY 2000 and FY 1999.
Operating Risk
Operating risk is the potential for loss arising from internal activities or external events caused by breakdowns in information, communication, physical safeguards, business continuity, supervision, transaction processing, settlement systems and procedures and the execution of legal, fiduciary and agency responsibilities. IBRD, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operating risks, including the risk of fraud by staff or outsiders. IBRD attempts to mitigate operating risk by maintaining a system of internal controls that is designed to keep operating risk at appropriate levels in view of the financial strength of IBRD and the characteristics of the activities and markets in which IBRD
operates. In the past, IBRD has suffered certain minor financial losses from operating risk and while it maintains an adequate system of internal controls, there can be no absolute assurance that IBRD will not suffer such losses in the future.
In FY 1996, IBRD adopted the COSOa control framework and a self-assessment methodology to evaluate the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting, and it has an on-going program in place to assess all major business units. In each of the last four fiscal years, IBRD obtained an attestation report from its external auditors that IBRD’s assertion that, as of June 30 of each of these fiscal years, its system of internal control over its external financial reporting met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in COSO, is fairly stated in all material respects.
Economic and Monetary Union in Europe
Since January I, 1999, in the normal course of business as a multicurrency organization, IBRD has been conducting euro-denominated transactions in paying and receiving, investments, bond issuance, loan disbursements, loan billing and new lending commitments.
IBRD has adopted a gradual approach to redenominate national currency unit balance sheet items and IBRD-administered donor trust funds to euro during the transition period, before their automatic conversion to euro on January I, 2002.
Year 2000 Update
The Year 2000 issue was the result of computer programs using two digits rather than four to define the applicable year. Without remediation or replacement, this could have resulted in a system failure or miscalculations causing disruptions of operations, including, among other things, a temporary inability to process transactions. Modification and replacement of software and hardware and coordination with third party providers enabled IBRD to operate normally across the globe without experiencing any material interruptions in any critical systems during the roll over and thereafter. The total cost of Year 2000 preparation was estimated at approximately $ 17 million. The cost of certain major systems replacements and enhancements already planned were not considered Year 2000 costs.
a. In 1992, the Committe of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) issued its Internal Control-Integrated Framework, which provided a common definition of internal control and guidance on judging its effectiveness.
While ongoing tracking continues, no latent Year 2000 issues have arisen. Nor have there been indications from any borrowers that they have experienced any serious disruptions to national infrastructure or public administration due to Year 2000 problems which could affect their ability to continue co service IBRD loans.
4. Liquidity Management
Liquidity risk arises in the general funding of IBRD’s activities and in the management of its financial positions. It includes the risk of being unable to fund its portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price. The objective of liquidity management is to ensure the availability of sufficient cash flows to meet all of IBRD’s financial commitments.
The cumulative performance of the liquid asset portfolio in FY 2000 compared to FY 1999 is presented in Table 6.3. These returns exclude investment assets funding certain other postemployment benefits.
The returns for FY 1999 were heavily affected by IBRD’s liquidation, in FY 1999, of the sterling U.K. government securities in the held-to-maturity portfolio. At the time of liquidation the securities in the held-to-maturity portfolio had a fair value of $1,389 million and a carrying value of $1,152 million. This liquidation resulted in a realized gain of $237 million.
Under IBRD’s liquidity management policy, aggregate liquid asset holdings should be kept at or above a specified prudential minimum. That minimum is equal to the highest consecutive six months of debt service obligations for the fiscal year, plus one-half of net approved loan disbursements as projected for the fiscal year. The FY 2001 prudential minimum liquidity level has been set $18.4 billion, representing a $400 million increase over that for FY 2000. IBRD also holds liquid assets over the specified minimum to provide flexibility in timing its borrowing transactions and to meet working capital needs.
IBRD’s liquid assets are held principally in obligations of governments and other official entities, time deposits and other unconditional obligations of banks and financial institutions, asset-backed securities, and futures and options contracts pertaining to such obligations.
O
Liquid assets are held in three distinct sub-portfolios: stable; operational; and discretionary, each with different risk profiles, funding, structures and performance benchmarks. The stable portfolio is principally an investment portfolio holding the prudential minimum level of liquidity, which is set at the
beginning of each fiscal year. The operational portfolio provides working capital for IBRD’s day-to-day cash flow requirements.
The discretionary portfolio provides flexibility for the execution of IBRD’s borrowing program and can be used to take advantage of attractive market opportunities. The discretionary portfolio was gradually liquidated over the first half of FY 2000. This liquidation provided the funding necessary to meet an unusually large concentration of debt service payments during this period. Figure 6.3 represents IBRD’s liquid asset portfolio size and structure at the end of FY 2000 and FY 1999, excluding investment assets associated with certain other postemployment benefits.
At the end of FY 2000, the aggregate size of the IBRD liquid asset portfolio stood at $24,193 million, a decrease of $5,817 million over FY 1999. The higher
volume of liquid assets at
June 30, 1999 included the proceeds from the borrowing program undertaken to pre-fund the large amount of debt maturing in FY 2000.
The IBRD liquid asset portfolio is largely composed of U.S. dollars, with the currency composition of the operational portfolio varying the most as a result of the cash flows generated by disbursements, debt-service payments, new borrowings and reserves conversions.	,
Annualized Financial Return (%j
As a result of higher net income and the increase in reserves, shareholders’ equity grew at a faster pace than the loan portfolio, compared to the prior year. As a result, the ratio of equity capital-to-loans rose to 21.23% at June 30, 2000, from 20.65% one year earlier. In accordance with the financial policy defining this ratio, the amount of transfer to general reserves of $1,114 million approved on August I,
2000	was included in this ratio at June 30, 2000 ($700 million—June 30, 1999). Figure 6.4 depicts this ratio over the last five years.
Capital
The authorized capital of IBRD at June 30,
2000	was $190,811 million, of which $188,606 million had been subscribed. Of the subscribed capital, $11,418 million had been paid in and $177,188 million was callable. Of the paid-in capital, $8,168 million was available for lending and $3,250 million was not available for lending.
No call has ever been made on IBRD’s callable capital. Any calls on unpaid subscriptions are required to be uniform, but the obligations of the members of IBRD to make payment on such calls are independent of each other. If the amount received on a call is insufficient to meet the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made, IBRD has the right and is bound to make further calls until the amounts received are sufficient to meet such obligations. However, no member may be required on any such call or calls to pay more than the unpaid balance of its capital subscription.
At June 30, 2000, $103,115 million (58%) of the uncalled capital was callable from the member countries of IBRD that are also members of the
5. Funding Resources
Equity
Total shareholders’ equity at June 30, 2000 was $29,289 million compared with $28,021 million at June 30, 1999. The increase from FY 1999 primarily reflects the increase in retained earnings of $1,318 million, the reduction in restricted paid-in capital of $180 million due primarily to encashments of demand obligations, and the increase in paid-in capital of $23 million. Table 6.4 presents the composition of equity at June 30,
2000	and 1999.
IBRD’s equity base plays a critical role in securing its financial objectives. By enabling IBRD to absorb risk out of its own resources, its equity base protects shareholders from a possible call on callable capital. The adequacy of IBRD’s equity capital is judged on the basis of its ability to generate future net income sufficient to absorb plausible risks and support normal loan growth, without reliance on additional shareholder capital. IBRD uses the equity capital-to-loans measure as a summary statistic for financial capacity. Cash flow analysis is the basis by which IBRD measures its income generating capacity and its capital adequacy. IBRD continues to consider additional methodologies for evaluating its risk-bearing capacity.
Development Assistance Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. This amount was equal to 90.4% of IBRD’s outstanding borrowings after swaps at June 30, 2000. Table 6.5 sets out the capital subscriptions of those countries and the callable amounts.
The United States is IBRD’s largest shareholder. Under the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, the Par Value Modification Act and other U.S. legislation, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury is permitted to pay up to $7,663 million of the uncalled portion of the subscription of the United States, if it were called by IBRD, without any requirement of further congressional action. The balance of the uncalled portion of the U.S subscription, $22,303 million, has been authorized by the U.S. Congress but not appropriated. Further action by the U.S. Congress would be required to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay any portion of this balance. The General Counsel of the U.S Treasury has rendered an opinion that the entire uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription is an obligation backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, notwithstanding that congressional appropriations have not been obtained with respect to certain portions of the subscription.
For a further discussion of capital stock, restricted currencies, maintenance of value and membership refer to the Notes to Financial Statements-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note A.
Borrowings
Source of Funding
IBRD diversifies its sources of funding by offering its securities to institutional and retail investors globally on terms acceptable to IBRD. Under its Articles, IBRD may borrow only with the approval of the member in whose markets the funds are raised and the member in whose currency the borrowing is denominated, and only if each such member agrees that the proceeds may be exchanged for the currency of any other member without restriction.
Funding Operations
In FY 2000 medium- and long-term debt raised directly in financial markets by IBRD amounted to $15,789 million compared to $22,443 million in FY
1999.	Table 6.6 summarizes IBRD’s funding operations for FY 2000 and FY 1999. Funding raised in any given vear is used for IBRD’s general operations, including loan disbursements, refinancing of maturing debt and prefunding of future lending activities. All proceeds from new funding are initially invested in the liquid asset portfolio and subsequently allocated to
Composition of Borrowings
Of the borrowings outstanding after swaps at June 30, 2000, 55% was at variable rates (54% at June 30, 1999). The currency composition continues to be concentrated in U.S. dollars, with its share at the end of June 30, 2000 at 80% of the borrowings portfolio (79% at June 30, 1999). This reflects IBRD borrowers’ preference for U.S. dollar-denominated loans and the corresponding currency composition of the liquid asset portfolio.
A more detailed analysis of borrowings outstanding is provided in the Notes to Financial State-ments-Note D.
6. Results Of Operations
IBRD’s net income can be seen as broadly comprising a spread on earning assets, plus the contribution of equity, less provisions for loan losses and administrative expenses. Table 6.7 shows a breakdown of income, net of funding costs.
FY 2000 versus FY 1999
FY 2000 net income was $1,991 million, $473 million higher than in FY 1999. The majority of this change was due to the following:
>- A $412 million reduction in loan loss provision expense resulting primarily from a reassessment of the possible losses inherent in the loan portfolio. That assessment concluded that a general improvement in credit quality for certain large borrowers, as well as for the accrual portfolio as a whole, warranted a $243 million reduction in the accumulated provision for loan losses. The remaining $169 million decrease in expense is attributable to a reduction in the growth of the loan portfolio.
>- A $345 million increase in loan interest income, net of funding costs, resulting from an increase in
the average outstanding loan balance, especially in the higher-yielding special adjustment loans, as well as the improved net returns from the single currency pool loans. Net returns from the single currency pool loans recovered because the higher U.S. dollar borrowing costs were not fully passed through to borrowers in FY 1999. The lower interest waivers and higher front-end fees in effect for the full FY 2000 also contributed to the increase in net returns from the loan portfolio.
A $208 million reduction in investment income, net of funding costs, primarily as a result of the non-recurring $237 million gain realized in FY
1999	from the liquidation of the held-to-matu-rity portfolio.
>- A $66 million increase in net noninterest
expenses, due primarily to a decrease in pension and postretirement income.
FY 1999 versus FY 1998
FY 1999 net income was $1,518 million, $275 million higher than FY 1998. This increase was primarily attributable to:
»- A $237 million gain realized upon liquidation of the held-to-maturity portfolio during the first quarter of the fiscal year.
>■ A $233 million increase in loan interest income, net of funding costs, resulting from the changes in loan pricing. During the year IBRD reduced its interest waiver on existing loans, introduced a front-end fee on new loans and earned higher loan spreads on the special adjustment loans disbursed during the year.
>■ Offset in part by an increase of $247 million in net noninterest expense due primarily to a decrease in pension and postretirement income.
We have audited the special purpose statements of sources and applications of development resources of the Interim Trust Fund as of June 30, 2000 and 1999, including the summary statement of interim fund credits and statement of contributions as of June 30, 2000, and the related special purpose statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2000. Such special purpose financial statements and our report thereon dated July 31, 2000, expressing an unqualified opinion and including an explanatory paragraph concerning the basis of accounting used to prepare the special purpose financial statements which are not intended to be a presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or International Accounting Standards (which are not included herein), are included in The World Bank Annual Report 2000: Financial Statements and Appendixes to the Annual Report. The accompanying condensed special purpose financial statements are the responsibility of the International Development Association’s management as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on such condensed special purpose financial statements in relation to the complete special purpose financial statements.
In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed special purpose financial statements of the Interim Trust Fund is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic special purpose financial statements from which it has been derived.
This report is intended for the information and use of the Board of Governors, the International Development Association's management as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund, and contributors to and borrowers from the Interim Trust Fund. However, under the International Development Association’s Board of Governors’ resolution establishing the Interim Trust Fund, this report is included in the Annual Report of the Executive Directors to the Board of Governors of the International Development Association and is therefore a matter of public record and its distribution is not limited.
Cover Art
Animas Anonimas [Anonymous Souls], 1994-Double exposure. Lucia Chiriboga Vega (Ecuador).
Lucia Chiriboga Vega was born in Quito, Ecuador, in 1954. Chiriboga is a sociologist, a photographer, and a researcher on the history of photography. She has exhibited her photographic work and collections of historical images in several Latin American countries, China, and Denmark. Her publications include Retrato ie la Amazonia, Ecuador and Identiiades Desnudas:
La Temprana Fotografia del Indio de los Andes. Chiriboga’s work is included in the collection of the World Bank Art Program, which makes particular efforts to identify artists from developing nations and to make their work available to a wider audience.
The World Bank Mission
To fight poverty with passion and professionalism for lasting results.
To help people help themselves and their environment by providing resources, sharing knowledge, building capacity, and forging partnerships in the public and private sectors.
To be an excellent institution able to attract, excite, and nurture diverse and committed staff with exceptional skills who know how to listen and learn.






1.	FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization established in 1945 and is owned by its member countries. IBRD’s main goal is reducing poverty by promoting sustainable economic development. It pursues this goal primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for projects and programs in its developing member countries. IBRD’s ability to intermediate funds from international capital markets for lending to its developing member countries is an important element in achieving its development goals. IBRD’s objective is not to maximize profit, but to earn adequate net income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities. Box 1 presents selected financial data for the last five fiscal years.
The financial strength of IBRD is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices. Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members and in the record of its borrowing members in meeting their debt-service obligations to it. IBRD’s financial policies and practices have led it to build reserves, to diversify its funding sources, to hold a large portfolio of liquid investments, and to limit a variety of risks, including credit, market and liquidity risks.
IBRD’s principal assets are its loans to member countries. The majority of IBRD’s outstanding loans are priced on a cost pass-through basis, in which the cost of funding the loans, plus a lending spread, is passed through to the borrower.
To raise funds, IBRD issues debt securities in a variety of currencies to both institutional and retail investors. These borrowings, together with IBRD’s equity, are used to fund its lending and investment activities, as well as general operations.
IBRD holds its assets and liabilities primarily in U.S. dollars, euro (and its national currency units), and Japanese yen, IBRD mitigates its exposure to exchange rate risks by matching the currencies of its assets with those of its liabilities and reserves; however, the reported levels of its assets, liabilities and income in the financial statements are affected by exchange rate movements of major currencies compared to IBRD's reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. This financial statement reporting effect does not impact IBRD’s risk bearing capacity.
FY 1998 and FY 1999 were marked by unprecedented growth in the loan portfolio as IBRD responded to the financial crisis that had begun in East and Southeast Asia and spread to other parts of the developing world. While the global financial crisis led to an increase in lending activity in FY 1998 and FY 1999, the number of loans and the volume of lending commitments fell sharply in FY 2000, returning to pre-crisis levels. This decline was due partly to the
recovery from financial crises and country specific circumstances. Many of the borrowers directly affected by the financial crisis have stabilized, in part because of the quick and flexible response of the international community. Lower commitments also reflected a general trend in demand from borrowers for smaller average lending operations.
In the context of assessing changes in IBRD’s operating environment, it is management’s practice to recommend each year the allocation of net income to augment reserves, waivers of loan charges to eligible borrowers, and grants from net income to support developmental activities.
As part of this annual review, in July 1998, IBRD’s Executive Directors took several actions to augment its financial capacity. These measures included increasing the contractual charges on new loans, and reducing the interest waiver for FY 1999 from 25 basis points to 5 basis points on old loans. These pricing changes effectively brought the net spread for FY 1999 to 45 basis points on old loans and to 50 basis points on new loans. Also, a front-end fee of 100 basis points, payable for each such loan at the time it becomes effective, was introduced. In July 1999, the Executive Directors allocated $955 million of FY 1999 income to reserves and maintained the FY 1999 loan pricing strategy and interest waivers for FY 2000.
FY 2000 net income was $1,991 million, $473 million higher than the preceding year. An FY 2000 reduction in the loan loss provision contributed $412 million to this increase. Income was further bolstered by the impact of interest rate resets on loans. These increases to net income were partially offset by the absence in FY 2000 of a one time gain of $237 million, resulting from the liquidation in FY 1999 of the held-to-matu-rity portfolio.
On August 1, 2000, the Executive Directors approved the allocation of $1,280 million of FY 2000 net income to reserves, and recommended to IBRD’s Board of Governors the transfer of $635 million from unallocated net income to other development purposes, and that the remainder be retained as surplus. For FY 2001, an increase to 15 basis points in the interest waiver was approved for old loans so that the net lending spread will be 35 basis points. For new loans, the interest waiver of 25 basis points was maintained. FY 2001 waivers of commitment charges were also maintained at the FY 2000 level.
IBRD continues to evaluate alternative strategies to enhance its risk-bearing capacity to ensure that it can respond to borrowers as needed, while preserving its financial strength.
2.	DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
IBRD offers loans, related hedging products, and guarantees to its borrowing member countries to help meet their development needs. It also provides tech-
nical assistance and other services to support poverty reduction in these countries,
Loans
From its establishment through June 30, 2000, IBRD had approved loans, net of cancellations, totaling $309,839 million to borrowers in 129 countries. The loans held by IBRD, including loans approved but not yet effective, at June 30, 2000, totaled $164,858 million, of which $ 120,104 million was outstanding and $44,754 million was undisbursed. Cumulative loan repayments at June 30, 2000, based on U.S. dollar equivalents at the time of receipt, were $141,265 million.
The amount of loans outstanding at June 30, 2000 was $2,876 million higher than that at June 30,1999. The increase is primarily attributable to net disbursements of $2,750 million.
During FY 2000, commitments of new loans to member countries were $10,919 million, down from $22,182 million in FY 1999. In FY 1998 and FY
1999,	IBRD’s commitments had reached unprecedented levels. FY 2000 commitments have declined from these levels, most notably in adjustment lending. Three types of factors have contributed to this decrease in lending commitments:
•	Cyclical Factors: Emerging market economies have stabilized after the global financial crisis;
•	Long-term Factors: There is a continuing trend toward smaller average project size;
•	Country-specific Factors: A number of country-specific factors such as political transitions, conflicts, and country performance.
Compared to the preceding fiscal year, the relative regional composition of commitments in FY 2000 shifted away from East Asia and slightly more towards Eastern Europe, Central Asia and Latin America.
Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement (the Articles), as applied, the total amount outstanding of direct loans made by IBRD, participation in loans and callable guarantees may not exceed the statutory lending limit. At June 30, 2000, outstanding loans and callable guarantees (net of the accumulated loan loss provision) totaled $117,181 million, equal to 57% of the statutory lending limit.
IBRD’s lending operations have conformed generally to five principles derived from its Articles. These principles, taken together, seek to ensure that IBRD loans are made to member countries for financially and economically sound purposes to which those countries have assigned high priority, and that funds lent are utilized as intended. The five principles are described in Box 2. Within the scope permitted by the Articles, application of these principles must be developed and adjusted in light of experience and changing conditions.
The process of identifying and appraising a project and approving and disbursing a loan often extends over several years. However, on numerous occasions IBRD has shortened the preparation and approval cycle in response to emergency situations such as natural disasters in Turkey and Central America, as well as the financial crisis in Asia.
Generally, the appraisal of projects is carried out by IBRD’s operational staff (engineers, financial analysts, economists and other sector and country specialists). With certain exceptions, each loan must be approved by IBRD’s Executive Directors (See Box 3, Adaptable Program Loans and Learning and Innovation Loans). Loan disbursements are subject to the fulfillment of conditions set out in the loan agreement. During project implementation, IBRD staff with experience in the sector or the country involved periodically visit project sites to review progress, monitor compliance with IBRD policies and assist in resolving any problems that may arise. After completion, projects are evaluated by an independent unit and the findings reported directly to the Executive Directors to determine the extent to which the project’s major objectives were met. Similar appraisal, approval, supervision and evaluation procedures apply in the case of IBRD adjustment and other non-project loans.
Lending Instruments
IBRD lending generally falls into one of two categories: investment or adjustment lending. Historically, most IBRD loans have been for investment projects or programs. Figure 1 presents IBRD lending by category for the last eight fiscal years, as a percentage of total loans approved.
Figure 1:
IBRD Lending Commitments
Percent
(i)	IBRD makes loans to governments, governmental authorities or private enterprises in the territories of member countries. A loan that is not made directly to the member in whose territories the project is located must be guaranteed as to principal, interest and other charges by the member or its central bank or a comparable agency of the member acceptable to IBRD. A guarantee by the member itself has been obtained in all such cases to date.
(ii)	IBRD’s loans are designed to promote the use of resources for productive purposes in its member countries. Projects financed by IBRD loans are required to meet IBRD’s standards for technical, economic, financial, institutional and environmental soundness.
(iii)	In making loans, IBRD must act prudently and pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Decisions to make loans are based upon, among other things, studies by IBRD of a member country’s economic structure, including assessments of its resources and ability to generate sufficient foreign exchange to meet debt-service obligations.
Civ) IBRD must be satisfied that in the prevailing market conditions (taking into account the member’s overall external financing requirements), the borrower would be unable to obtain financing under conditions which, in the opinion of IBRD, are reasonable for the borrower. IBRD is intended to promote private investment, not to compete with it.
(v) The use of loan proceeds is supervised. IBRD makes arrangements to ensure that funds loaned are used only for authorized purposes and, where relevant, with due attention to considerations of cost-effectiveness. This policy is enforced primarily by requiring borrowers (a) to submit documentation establishing, to IBRD’s satisfaction, that the expenditures financed with the proceeds of loans are made in conformity with the applicable lending agreements and (b) to maximize competition in the procurement of goods and sendees by using, wherever possible, international competitive bidding or, when it is not appropriate, other procedures that ensure maximum economy and efficiency.
Current operating guidelines state that adjustment lending, excluding debt and debt-service reduction loans, will normally not exceed 25% of total IBRD lending. This guideline was established w'ith the understanding that it was likely to be exceeded if world economic conditions worsened. This guideline is not a rigid limit but rather a trigger for a reevaluation of such lending. As a result of several large adjustment loans made by IBRD during FY 1999, 63% of IBRD’s lending in that year consisted of such loans (47% for FY 1998). In FY 2000, this proportion decreased to 41% as fewer adjustment loans were necessary. The lower commitments for adjustment lending reflect the general improvement in global financial circumstances compared to the two prior fiscal years. The Executive Directors are aware that, in light of recent financial circumstances in the world, the guideline has been exceeded in recent years, and may possibly be exceeded again in subsequent years.
Investment Lending
IBRD has several lending instruments that support investment activities, either discrete projects or programs of investment. Investment lending committed for FY 2000 totaled $6,493 million ( $8,245 million— FY 1999; $11,151 million—FY 1998). Box 3 presents a description of each investment lending instrument and a breakdown of IBRD’s investment lending approved in FY 2000 and in each of the two preceding fiscal years.
Adjustment Lending
IBRD also makes adjustment loans designed to support the introduction of basic changes in economic, financial and other policies of key importance for the economic development of member countries. Disbursements on these loans are conditioned on certain performance objectives. Adjustment lending committed for FY 2000 totaled $4,426 million ( $13,937 million—FY 1999; $9,935 million—FY 1998.) Box 4 provides a description of each adjustment lending instrument and the details of IBRD’s adjustment lending approved in FY 2000 and each of the two preceding fiscal years.
Enclave Lending
On rare occasions, IBRD will lend for a large, foreign exchange generating project in a member country usually eligible only for loans from the International Development Association (IDA). In these circumstances appropriate risk mitigation measures are incorporated (including off-shore escrow accounts and debt-service reserves acceptable to IBRD) to ensure that the risks to IBRD are minimized. At June 30,
2000,	IBRD had $170 million in outstanding loans for enclave projects. In FY 2000, IBRD approved enclave loans totalling $93 million.
Specific Investment Loans fund the creation, rehabilitation and maintenance of economic, social and institutional infrastructure.
Emergency Recovery Loans restore assets and productivity immediately after a major emergency (such as war, civil disturbance, or natural disaster) that seriously disrupts a member country’s economy.
Adaptable Program Loans provide phased support for longterm development programs through a series of operations. Succeeding operations are committed on the basis of satisfactory performance on agreed milestones, indica tors, periodic reviews, and the evaluation of implementation progress and emerging needs. Authority for approval of subsequent adaptable program loans under programs approved by the Executive Directors is with IBRD’s management, subject to oversight and review by the Executive Directors.
Financial Intermediary Loans provide long-term resources to local financial institutions, helping to develop sound financial sector policies and institutions, promoting the operational efficiency of those institutions, and improving the terms of credit available to enterprises and households.
Sector Investment and Maintenance Loans aim to bring sector expenditures, policies and performance in line with a country’s development priorities.
Technical Assistance Loans are used to build institutional capacity in the borrowing country. They are used to build capacity in entities concerned with promoting economic and social development, as well as public sector reform.
Learning and Innovation Loans support small, pilot-type investment and capacity-building projects that, if successful, could lead to larger projects that would mainstream the learning and results of the loan. These loans do not exceed $5 million and are normally implemented over two to three years. Approvals of specific individual loans are at the management level rather than at the Executive Director level.
Structural Adjustment Loans support specific policy changes and institutional reforms. These loans require agreement on a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and policy actions that can be monitored on a specific schedule. FY 1998 commitments included a $3,000 million economic reconstruction loan.
Special Structural and Sector Adjustment Loans are fast-disbursing loans which provide support to countries facing a sectoral or economy-wide crisis with a substantial structural dimension. These instruments were introduced in
FY 1999.
Sector Adjustment Loans support comprehensive policy changes and institutional reforms in major sectors. They also require agreement on a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and its implementation, and a specific program that can be monitored.
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loans support governmental programs of structural and social reforms that involve continuous, incremental policy changes and institution building through a series of loans. These loans rely on a solid foundation of completed or parallel analytic and advisory work in related areas. The first of these instruments was approved in FY 2000.
Debt Reduction Loans help eligiblej highly-indebted member countries reduce commercial debt and debt service to a manageable level as part of a medium-term financing plan. IBRD did not make any commitments of this type during FY 1998-FY 2000.
Rehabilitation Loans support government policy reform programs to assist the private sector where foreign exchange is required for urgent rehabilitation of key infrastructure and productive facilities. IBRD did not make any commitments of this type during FY 1998-FY 2000.
Financial Terms of Loans
In recent years, IBRD has offered new loans with three types of financial terms: multicurrency pool loans, variable-spread single currency loans, and fixed-rate single currency loans. Beginning September 1,
1999,	IBRD also made available a new LIBOR-based fixed spread loan product and, effective December 1,
1999,	the offer of fixed-rate single currency loans was terminated. This choice of financial terms is intended to provide borrowers with the flexibility to select terms that are both compatible with their debt management strategy and suited to their debt-servicing capability. Most multicurrency pool loans and variable spread single currency loans mature over a period that ranges from fifteen to twenty years and carry a three- to five-year grace period for principal. While fixed-spread loans offer more flexible repayment terms, this flexibility is subject to limits aimed at maintaining a similar average loan maturity across all loan products for a given borrower.
For most products, IBRD charges a lending rate composed of its average cost of borrowings plus a spread. Until July 31, 1998, that spread was 50 basis points. However, during the first quarter of fiscal year 1999, the lending spread was increased to 75 basis points for new loans. Also, a front-end fee of 100 basis points, payable for each such loan at the time it becomes effective, was introduced. In addition, most loans carry a commitment charge of 75 basis points on undisbursed amounts. However, the fixed-spread loans carry a commitment charge of 85 basis points for the first four years and 75 basis points thereafter.
Waivers of a portion of interest owed by all eligible borrowers are determined annually and have been in effect for each of the previous nine fiscal years. Waivers of a portion of the commitment charge owed on the undisbursed portion of loans are also determined annually and have been in effect for each of the last eleven fiscal years. For interest periods beginning during FY 2000, the interest waiver was 5 basis points for old loans and 25 basis points for new loans. The commitment charge waiver for FY 2000 was 50 basis points on all loans. Interest waivers for FY 2001 are 25 basis points for new loans and 15 basis points for old loans. Commitment charge waivers for FY 2001 remain at 50 basis points. Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note C.
Multicurrency Pool Loans
The currency composition of multicurrency pool loans is determined on the basis of a pool, which provides a currency composition that is the same for all loans in the pool. Pursuant to a policy established by the Executive Directors and subject to their periodic review, at least 90% of the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the pool is in a fixed ratio of one U.S. dollar to 125 Japanese yen to one euro.
The lending rate on these cost pass-through loans is variable, adjusted every six months to reflect the previous semester’s average cost of outstanding borrowings allocated to fund these loans, weighted by the average currency composition of the pool. IBRD adds its lending spread to that average cost.
Multicurrency Pool Loan Conversion Options
In FY 1997, in response to borrower demand for broader currency choice, the Executive Directors approved the offer of currency choice for all IBRD multicurrency pool loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued before September 1, 1996. The purpose of this invitation was to provide borrowers the flexibility to amend the terms of their existing multicurrency pool loans to reflect their choice of the offered currencies by converting multicurrency pool loans to single currency loan terms or single currency pool terms. Those options expired on July 1, 1998 Single currency pool terms are not available for new commitments.
Single Currency Loans
For new commitments, borrowers may select LIBOR-based, variable spread single currency terms. Fixed-rate single currency loan terms were available for loans if the invitation to negotiate was issued before December 1, 1999.
Variable-Spread Single Currency Loans
IBRD currently offers variable-spread single currency loans in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, euro, pounds sterling and Swiss francs, and will consider borrower requests for loans in other currencies. Variable-spread single currency loans carry a lending rate that is reset semi-annually. The lending rate consists of a base rate, which is LIBOR for the applicable currency plus a spread. The spread consists of: (a) IBRD’s weighted average cost margin for funding for the preceding semester allocated to these loans relative to LIBOR; and (b) IBRD’s lending spread. These variable rate loans are designed to pass IBRD’s funding spread to LIBOR through to its borrowers. This spread is set every six months, in January and July. At June 30,
2000,	the proportion of outstanding variable-spread single currency loans denominated in U.S. dollars was 96.1% (92.3% at June 30, 1999],
Non-standard Single Currency Loans
In response to the global financial crises, IBRD approved and disbursed several large loans totaling $7,000 million on non-standard single currency loan terms during FY 1998 and FY 1999. These loans carry a six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR interest rate plus a fixed spread ranging from 75 to 100 basis points and a front-end fee. None of these loans is eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges.
Subsequent to the disbursement of these loans, during FY 1999 IBRD introduced a new type of loan tailored
to be part of a broad financial support package for borrowing countries. These special structural and sector adjustment loans also carry non-standard single currency loan terms. As of June 30, 2000, IBRD had approved a total of $5,051 million of special structural or sector adjustment loans. At June 30, 2000, $4,051 million of this amount had been disbursed. Their terms include a six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR interest rate plus a minimum fixed spread, currently set at 400 basis points, which may vary for new loans over time depending on IBRD’s overall risk-bearing capacity and market conditions. These loans have a five year maturity with a three-year grace period on principal, and a front-end fee of one percent of the principal amount payable on effectiveness. Special structural and adjustment loans are not eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges.
Fixed-rate Single Currency Loans
As of December 1, 1999, fixed-rate single currency loans were no longer available for new commitments. Fixed-rate single currency loans carry lending rates that are set on specified semi-annual rate fixing dates for amounts disbursed during the preceding six months. The lending rate consists of a base rate, which reflects market interest rates for the applicable currency on the rate-fixing date for the equivalent loan maturity, plus a spread. The spread consists of:
(a]	IBRD’s funding cost margin relative to the base rate for these loans; (b) a risk premium to compensate IBRD for market risks it incurs in funding these loans; and (c) IBRD’s lending spread.
Fixed-Spread Loans
During the first quarter of FY 2000, IBRD introduced the fixed-spread loan, designed in response to the borrowers’ desire for more flexible financial products. Fixed-spread loans can be tailored to meet the needs of individual projects and programs and support borrowers’ debt management strategies. Fixed-spread loans are currently offered in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and euro. Requests for other currencies will also be considered.
These fixed-spread loans carry an interest rate of LIBOR, plus a spread that is fixed at loan signing for the life of the loan. At June 30, 2000, the fixed spread was 55 basis points for U.S. dollar and euro denominated loans and 45 basis points for Japanese yen. The fixed spread consists of (a) IBRD’s projected funding cost margin relative to U.S. dollar LIBOR,
with a basis swap adjustment for non-U.S. dollar loans;
(b)	a market risk premium of 5 basis points; and (c) IBRD’s standard lending spread. The fixed-spread offered will be evaluated from time to time and may be reset when market changes warrant. Fixed-spread loans carry IBRD’s standard loan charges for newT commitments, including a 100 basis point front-end fee on the loan amount and a 75 basis point commitment fee on undisbursed loan amounts. In addition, these loans carry a commitment charge risk premium of 10 basis points on undisbursed loan amounts for the first four years of the loan’s life. This premium, along W'ith the market risk premium in the interest spread, compensates IBRD for funding and refinancing risk.
Borrowers selecting this product may change the currency or interest rate basis over the life of the loan and have more flexibility in selecting loan maturities. Effective February 1, 2000, a borrower may choose to include the following conversion features in the loan contract:
•	option to change the currency at market rates of all or a part of the undisbursed or disbursed loan amounts (for a fee);
•	option to fix the interest rate at market rates on all or a part of the disbursed amounts (without charge) for rate fixings for up to the full maturity of the loan, and for amounts up to the outstanding loan amount;
•	option to unfix or re-fix the interest rate at market rates on all or part of disbursed loan amounts (for a fee);
•	option to cap or collar the floating interest rate on all or a part of disbursed loan amounts (for a fee).
Transaction fees range from 12.5 to 25 basis points of the notional transaction amount. Repayment terms are more flexible than for prior products, subject to certain constraints on the average repayment maturity and final maturity on a country basis. Within these constraints, borrowers have flexibility to configure grace periods and maturity profiles in a manner consistent with the purpose of the loan. Repayment profiles may be level repayment of principal, an annuity type schedule, a bullet repayment or a customized schedule. Repayment profiles cannot be changed after a loan is signed. Table 1 presents a breakdown of IBRD's loan portfolio by loan product.
a.	Of which single currency loans with non-standard terms represent $10,801 million outstanding ($9,035 million—June 30, 1999 and
$5,000 million—June 30, 1998). At June	30, 2000, $1,000 million	was undisbursed.
b.	Includes fixed-rate single currency loans for which the rate had not yet	been fixed at fiscal year-end.
*	Indicates amounts less than 0.5%.
**	May differ from the sum of individual figures due to rounding.
For more information, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note C.
Hedging Products
Along with the approval of the introduction of the fixed-spread loan product, IBRD also approved the offer of new hedging products for its borrowers to respond to their needs for access to better risk management tools. These products assist borrowers in hedging their risks on individual loans made to them by IBRD. These hedging products include interest rate and currency swaps, and interest rate caps and collars. On a case-by-case basis, commodity-linked swaps may also be considered.
Each request from a borrower for execution of a hedging product must include an explanation of its suitability for risk management purposes. IBRD will serve as a financial intermediary, passing through the market cost of the instrument to the borrower, and will charge an administrative fee which varies from 12.5 to 37.5 basis points of the notional principal involved. These instruments may be executed either under a master derivatives agreement which substantially conforms to
industry standards, or in individually negotiated transactions. IBRD is in the process of making these instruments available.
Guarantees
IBRD offers guarantees on loans from private investors for projects in countries eligible to borrow from IBRD. In exceptional cases, IBRD may offer enclave guarantees for loans for foreign-exchange generating projects in a member country usually eligible only for credits from IDA. IBRD guarantees are flexible instruments that provide the credit enhancement required to mobilize private sector financing for individual projects through targeted and limited support, thus enhancing IBRD’s developmental impact by catalyzing private sector participation. On a pilot basis, guarantees are being made available to support agreed-upon policies and reforms in certain member countries. IBRD applies the same country creditworthiness and project evaluation criteria to guarantees as it applies to loans. Projects in any member country that is eligible for IBRD lending are also eligible for IBRD guarantees.
IBRD guarantees can be customized to suit varying country and project circumstances. They can be targeted to mitigate specific risks, generally risks relating to political, regulatory and government performance, which the private sector is not normally in a position to absorb or manage. Three basic types of guarantees are offered:
•	Partial risk guarantees cover debt-service defaults on a loan that may result from nonperformance of government obligations. These are defined in the contracts negotiated between the government or a government-sponsored entity and the private company responsible for implementing the project. The IBRD guarantee is limited to backing the government’s obligations; the obligations of the private company contained in the project agreements are not covered and thus the private lenders assume the risk of nonperformance by the private company.
•	Partial credit guarantees are used for public sector projects when there is a need to extend loan maturities and guarantee specified interest or principal payments on loan to the government or its instrumentalities. This approach may be most appropriate when the lenders are not willing to accept the sovereign risk of the host government for a term long enough to meet the needs of the project. By guaranteeing later maturities, such partial credit guarantees help induce the market to extend the term to the maximum risk it can bear.
•	Policy-based guarantees are partial credit guarantees that cover a portion of debt-service on a borrowing by an eligible member country from private foreign creditors in support of agreed structural, institutional and social policies and reforms. These guarantees are an extension of partial credit guarantees for projects. The guaranteed portion of the debt-service could consist of a combination of interest and principal payments, but the actual structure is determined on a case-by-case basis. Eligibility for IBRD adjustment lending is a necessary condition for eligibility for this type of instrument. The terms of this instrument are the same as project-based partial credit guarantees. Maturity and level of fees will be standard if the guarantee is made in situations comparable to those under which a structural adjustment loan would be made; however, if the guarantee is made in connection with a special structural adjustment loan, then it will be at special structural adjustment loan equivalent terms. This guarantee product was launched in FY 1999. Initially, IBRD is proceeding with a pilot program of up to $2,000 million. Once the $2,000 million level is reached, the Executive Directors will review the program. At June 30, 2000, IBRD had approved guarantees of $250 million under this program.
IBRD may also provide partial risk guarantees for export-oriented projects in an IDA-only country (enclave guarantees) if the project is expected to generate foreign exchange outside the country, and IBRD determines that the country will have adequate foreign exchange to meet its obligations under the counter-guarantee if the guarantee is called. A project covered by an enclave guarantee includes security arrangements with appropriate risk mitigation measures, such as offshore revenue escrow accounts and debt-service reserves acceptable to IBRD, to minimize IBRD’s exposure and the risk of a call on the guarantee. The commitment of enclave guarantees is initially limited to an aggregate guaranteed amount of $300 million.
Each guarantee requires the counter-guarantee of the member government. Guarantees are priced within a limited range to reflect the risks involved, and preparation fees may be charged where there are exceptional costs involved for IBRD. IBRD prices guarantees consistent with the way it prices its loans.
IBRD’s exposure at June 30, 2000 on its guarantees (measured as their present value in terms of their first call date) was $1,376 million. For additional information see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note C.
Other Activities
Consultation: In addition to its financial operations, IBRD provides technical assistance to its member countries, both in connection with, and independently of, loan operations. There is a growing demand from borrowers for strategic advice, knowledge transfer, and capacity building. Such assistance includes assigning qualified professionals to survey developmental opportunities in member countries, analyzing their fiscal, economic and developmental environment, assisting member countries in devising coordinated development programs, appraising projects suitable for investment and assisting member countries in improving their asset and liability management techniques.
Research and Training: To assist its developing member countries, IBRD—through the World Bank Institute— provides courses and other training activities related to economic policy development and administration for governments and organizations that work closely with IBRD. The World Bank Institute also makes contributions for research and other developmental activities.
Trust Fund Administration: IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, funds restricted for specific uses. These funds are held in trust and are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements-Note H.
Investment Management: IBRD has leveraged its treasury management capacity and infrastructure to provide investment management services to an external institution for a fee. These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD.
3.	FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
IBRD assumes various kinds of risk in the process of providing development banking services. Its activities can give rise to four major types of financial risk: credit risk; market risk (interest rate and exchange rate]; liquidity risk; and operating risk. The major inherent risk to IBRD is country credit risk, or loan portfolio risk.
The risk management governance structure includes an Asset/Liability Management Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. This committee makes decisions and recommendations to senior management in the areas of financial policy, the adequacy and allocation of risk capital, and oversight of financial reporting. The Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee reports to the Asset/Liability Management Committee. This subcommittee develops and monitors the policies under which market and commercial credit risks faced by IBRD are measured, reported and managed. The subcommittee also monitors compliance with policies governing commercial credit exposure and currency management. Specific areas of activity include establishing guidelines for limiting balance sheet and market risks, the use of derivative instruments, and monitoring matches between assets and their funding.
For the day-to-day management of financial risk, IBRD’s risk management structure extends into its business units. Risk management processes have been established to facilitate, control and monitor risk-taking. These processes are built on a foundation of initial identification and measurement of risks by each of the business units.
The processes and procedures by which IBRD manages its risk profile continually evolve as its activities change in response to market, credit, product, and other developments. The Executive Directors periodically review trends in IBRD’s risk profiles and performance, as well as any significant developments in risk management policies and controls.
Credit Risk
Credit risk, the risk of loss from default by a borrower or counterparty, is inherent in IBRD’s development activities. Under the direction of the Asset/Liability Management Committee, policies and procedures for measuring and managing such risks are formulated, approved and communicated throughout IBRD.
Senior managers represented on the committee are responsible for maintaining sound credit assessments, addressing transaction and product risk issues, providing an independent review function and monitoring the loans, investments and borrowings portfolios.
Country Credit Risk
Country credit risk is the primary risk faced by IBRD and is overseen by the Chief Credit Officer who leads
the Country Credit Risk Deparment. It has three components as described below. Probable expected losses from all three components are covered by the accumulated provision for loan losses, while unexpected losses are covered by IBRD’s income generating capacity and risk-bearing capital. IBRD continuously reviews the creditworthiness of its borrowing member countries and adjusts its overall country programs and lending operations to reflect the results of these reviews.
(i)	The first component is idiosyncratic risk. This is the risk that individual countries will accumulate extended debt-service arrears, or move closer to accumulating extended debt-service arrears, for country specific reasons.
(ii)	The second component is covariance risk. This is the risk that one or more borrowers will accumulate extended payment arrears, or move closer to accumulating extended payment arrears, as a result of a common external shock. This shock could be, for example, a regional political crisis or an adverse change in the global environment (such as a fall in commodity prices or a rise in global interest rates).
(iii)	The third component is portfolio concentration risk, which arises when a small group of borrowers account for a large share of loans outstanding. Portfolio concentration increases the potential financial impact of idiosyncratic and covariance risk. Portfolio concentration risk is managed using the portfolio concentration limit described below.
In 1997, the Executive Directors approved an approach to portfolio concentration under which IBRD’s largest loan portfolio exposure to a single borrowing country is restricted to the lower of an equitable access limit or a concentration risk limit. The equitable access limit is equal to 10% of IBRD’s subscribed capital, reserves and unallocated surplus. Th ; concentration risk limit is based on the adequacy of IBRD’s risk-bearing capacity relative to its largest loan portfolio exposure to a single borrowing country. The concentration risk limit takes into account not only current exposure (loans outstanding, plus the present value of guarantees), but also projected exposure over the ensuing three- to five-year period. The limit is determined by the Executive Directors each year at the time they consider IBRD’s reserves adequacy and the allocation of its net income from the preceding fiscal year. For FY 2001 the concentration risk limit is $13.5 billion, unchanged from FY 2000. The equitable access limit is $20.7 billion. IBRD’s largest loan portfolio exposure (including the present value of guarantees) to a single borrowing country was $11.8 billion at June 30, 2000.
Overdue and Non-performing Loans
It is IBRD’s policy that if a payment of principal, interest or other charges on an IBRD loan or IDA credit becomes 30 days overdue, no new loans to that member country, or to any other borrower in that country, will be presented to the Executive Directors for approval, nor will any previously approved loan be signed, until payment for all amounts 30 days overdue or longer has been received. In addition, if such payment becomes 60 days overdue, disbursements on all loans to or guaranteed by that member country are suspended until all overdue amounts have been paid. Where the member country is not the borrower, the time period for suspension of the approval and signing of new loans to or guaranteed by the member country is 45 days and the time period for suspension of disbursements is 60 days. It is the policy of IBRD to place all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD in nonaccrual status, if principal, interest or other charges on any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for loan losses to recognize the risk inherent in the portfolio. The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for loan losses is discussed in the following paragraphs. Additional information on IBRD's loan loss provisioning policy and status of nonaccrual loans can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies, and Note C.
In 1991, the Executive Directors adopted a policy to assist members with protracted arrears to IBRD to mobilize sufficient resources to clear their arrears and to support a sustainable growth-oriented adjustment program over the medium term. Under this policy, IBRD will develop a lending strategy and will process loans, but not sign or disburse such loans, during a preclearance performance period with respect to members that: (a) agree to and implement a medium-term, growth-oriented structural adjustment program endorsed by IBRD; (b) undertake a stabilization program, if necessary, endorsed, or financially supported, by the International Monetary Fund; (c) agree to a financing plan to clear all arrears to IBRD and other multilateral creditors in the context of a medium-term
structural adjustment program; and (d) make debt-service payments as they fall due on IBRD loans during the performance period. The signing, effectiveness and disbursement of such loans will not take place until the member’s arrears to IBRD have been fully cleared.
Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses
IBRD’s accumulated provision for loan losses reflects the following:
•	Management’s assessment of the overall collectibility risk on accruing loans (which includes callable guarantees); and
•	The present value losses on nonaccruing loans. Such losses are equal to the difference between the discounted present value of the debt-service payments on a loan at its contractual terms and the expected cash flows on that loan.
Management determines the adequacy of the accumulated provision for loan losses by assessing the amount required to cover probable expected losses in the accrual portfolio and losses inherent in the nonaccrual portfolio as of the balance sheet date. The amount required to cover probable expected losses in the accrual portfolio is related to the mean of the distribution of losses facing the institution over the next three years, which has been developed to estimate the probable losses inherent in the accrual portfolio at the balance sheet date. This is calculated using a risk-adjusted capital allocation framework that takes into account the concentration and covariance risk in the portfolio. The amount required to cover losses inherent in the nonaccrual portfolio is based on the calculation of the discounted present value of future cash flows.
Estimating probable expected losses is inherently uncertain and depends on many factors. IBRD periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for loan losses accordingly. Actual losses may differ from expected losses due to unforeseen changes in general macroeconomic and political conditions, unexpected correlations within the portfolio, and other external factors.
IBRD’s commercial credit risk is concentrated in investments in debt instruments issued by sovereigns, agencies, banks and corporate entities. The majority of these investments are in AAA and AA rated instruments.
In the normal course of its business, IBRD utilizes various derivatives and foreign exchange financial instruments to meet the financial needs of its borrowers, to generate income through its investment activities and to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency rates.
Derivative and foreign exchange transactions involve credit risk. The effective management of credit risk is vital to the success of IBRD's funding, investment and asset/liability management activities. The monitoring and managing of these risks is a continuous process due to changing market environments.
IBRD controls the credit risk arising from derivatives and foreign exchange transactions through its credit approval process, the use of collateral agreements and risk limits, and monitoring procedures. The credit approval process involves evaluating counterparty creditworthiness, assigning credit limits and determining the risk profile of specific transactions. Credit limits are calculated and monitored on the basis of potential exposures taking into consideration current market values, estimates of potential future movements in those values and collateral agreements with counterparties. If there is a collateral agreement with the counterparty to reduce credit risk, then the amount of collateral obtained is based on the credit rating of the counterparty. Collateral held includes cash and government securities.
IBRD treats the credit risk exposure as the replacement cost of the derivative or foreign exchange product. This is also referred to as replacement risk or the mark-to-market exposure amount. While contractual principal amount is the most commonly used volume measure in the derivative and foreign exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit or market risk.
Mark-to-market exposure is a measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes IBRD and, therefore, creates an exposure for IBRD. When the mark-to-market is negative, IBRD owes tne counterparty and does not have replacement risk.
When IBRD has more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty, and there exists a legally-enforceable master derivatives agreement with the counterparty, the “net” mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with the same counterparty. If this net mark-to-market is negative, then IBRD’s exposure to the counterparty is considered to be zero. Net mark-to-market is, in IBRD’s view, the best measure of credit risk when there is a legally enforceable master derivatives agreement between IBRD and the counterparty which contains legally enforceable close-out netting provisions. For the contractual value, notional amounts ar.d related credit risk exposure amounts by instrument, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note E.
Table 2 provides details of IBRD’s estimated credit exposure on its investments and swaps, net of collateral held, by counterparty rating category. The swap credit exposure, net by counterparty, of $440 million, for swap activity associated with investments and borrowings, is offset by collateral of $329 million, which results in a total net swap exposure of $111 million.
The FY 2000 decline in credit exposure parallels the decrease in the size of the investment portfolio. The credit exposure from swaps, net of collateral held, declined from $230 million to $111 million during the year.
The FY 1999 increase in credit exposure over that of FY 1998 reflected the growth in the size of the investment portfolio. The net credit exposure from swaps declined from FY 1998 to FY 1999 by $387 million to $230 million.
Asset/Liability Management
The objective of asset/liability management for IBRD is to ensure adequate funding for each product at the most attractive available cost, and to manage the currency composition, maturity profile and interest rate sensitivity characteristics of the portfolio of liabilities supporting each lending product in accordance with the particular requirements for that product and within prescribed risk parameters. IBRD’s Risk Management Department is charged with identifying, measuring and monitoring market risks, liquidity risks, and counterparty credit risks in IBRD’s financial operations.
Interest Rate Risk
There are two potential sources of interest rate risk to IBRD. The first is the interest rate sensitivity associated with the net spread between the rate IBRD earns on its assets and the cost of borrowings which fund those assets. The second is the interest rate sensitivity of the income earned from funding a portion of IBRD assets with equity. The borrowing cost pass-through formulation incorporated in the lending rates charged on most of IBRD’s existing loans has traditionally helped limit the interest rate sensitivity of the net spread earnings on its loan portfolio. Such cost passthrough loans currently account for more than 84% of the existing outstanding loan portfolio (82% at the end of FY 1999). However, the majority of cost passthrough loans do entail some residual interest rate risk, given the lag inherent in the lending rate calculation.
If new borrowings are at interest rates above the average of those already in the debt pool, the higher average debt costs would not be passed through to the lending rate charged to the borrowers and thus would not affect the interest income generated on cost passthrough loans until the following semester. The reverse is true when market interest rates decline.
Another potential risk arises because the cost passthrough currency pool products have traditionally been funded with a large share of medium- and longterm fixed rate borrowings, to provide the borrowers with a reasonably stable interest basis. Given that the cumulative impact of interest rate changes over the last decade has resulted in a decline in the level of interest rates, the cost of these historical fixed-rate borrowings in the multicurrency pool and the single currency pools is currently considerably higher than IBRD’s new borrowing costs. Recent interest rate increases in the market have mitigated this difference to some extent. However, the amount of "above market” debt allocated to the multicurrency pool debt, in aggregate terms, still exceeds the outstanding multicurrency pool loans beyond FY 2011, i.e. the pool is over-funded beyond FY 2011. The present value of this over-funded portion of the above-market debt is about $230 million as of June 30, 2000. Over-funding reaches a maximum of approximately $5.6 billion in FY 2015. Strategies for managing this risk include changing the rate fixity of the overfunded portion of the debt from fixed to floating rates. During FY 2000,
IBRD completed two forward interest rate swap transactions and plans to enter into additional swap transactions until the over-funded portion of the abovemarket fixed-rate debt is completely swapped to floating rates. A portion of the loss attributable to the combined position will be passed as a rate adjustment to the multicurrency pool loans.
Interest rate risk on non-cost pass-through products, which currently account for 16% of the existing loan portfolio (18% at the end of FY 1999), is managed by using interest rate swaps to closely align the rate sensitivity characteristics of the loan portfolio with those of their underlying funding. As the portfolio of fixed-spread loans increases, the proportion of non-cost pass-though products will grow. The interest rate risk on IBRD’s liquid portfolio is managed within specified duration-mismatch limits and is further limited by stop-loss limits.
Because equity funds a portion of outstanding loans, IBRD’s level of net income is sensitive to movements in the level of nominal interest rates. In general, lower nominal interest rates result in lower lending rates which, in turn, reduce the nominal earnings on IBRD’s equity.
Interest rate risk also arises from a variety of other factors, including differences in the timing between the contractual maturity or repricing of IBRD’s assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments. On floating rate assets and liabilities, IBRD is exposed to timing mismatches between the re-set dates on its floating rate receivables and payables.
As part of its asset/liability management process,
IBRD employs interest rate swaps to manage and align the rate sensitivity characteristics of its assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments to adjust the interest rate repricing characteristics of specific balance sheet assets and liabilities, or groups of assets and liabilities with similar repricing characteristics.
Exchange Rate Risk
In order to minimize exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment, IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by the Articles. In addition, IBRD’s policy is to minimize the exchange rate sensitivity of its reserves-to-loans ratio. It carries out this policy by undertaking currency conversions periodically to align the currency composition of its reserves to that of its outstanding loans. This policy is designed to minimize the impact of market rate fluctuations on the reserves-to-loans ratio, thereby preserving IBRD’s ability to better absorb potential losses from arrears regardless of the market environment. IBRD is constantly evaluating alternative strategies to better manage its exchange rate risk.
Figure 2 presents the currency composition of significant balance sheet components (net of swaps) at the end ofFY 2000 and FY 1999.
Operating risk is the potential for loss arising from internal activities or external events caused by breakdowns in information, communication, physical safeguards, business continuity, supervision, transaction processing, settlement systems and procedures and the execution of legal, fiduciary and agency responsibilities. IBRD, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operating risks, including the risk of fraud by staff or outsiders. IBRD attempts to mitigate operating risk by maintaining a system of internal controls that is designed to keep operating risk at appropriate levels in view of the financial strength of IBRD and the characteristics of the activities and markets in which IBRD operates. In the past, IBRD has suffered certain minor financial losses from operating risk and while it maintains an adequate system of internal controls, there can be no absolute assurance that IBRD will not suffer such losses in the future.
In FY 1996, IBRD adopted the COSO3 control framework and a self-assessment methodology to evaluate the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting, and it has an on-going program in place to assess all major business units. In each of the last four fiscal years, IBRD obtained an attestation report from its external auditors that IBRD’s assertion that, as of June 30 of each of these fiscal years, its system of internal control over its external financial reporting met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in COSO, is fairly stated in all material respects.
Economic and Monetary Union in Europe
Since January 1, 1999, in the normal course of business as a multicurrency organization, IBRD has been conducting euro-denominated transactions in paying and receiving, investments, bond issuance, loan disbursements, loan billing and new lending commitments.
IBRD has adopted a gradual approach to redenominate national currency unit balance sheet items and IBRD-administered donor trust funds to euro during the transition period, before their automatic conversion to euro on January 1, 2002.
Year 2000 Update
The Year 2000 issue was the result of computer programs using two digits rather than four to define the applicable year. Without remediation or replacement, this could have resulted in a system failure or miscalculations causing disruptions of operations, including, among other things, a temporary inability to process transactions. Modification and replacement of software and hardware and coordination with third party
a. In 1992, the Committe of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) issued its Internal Control-Integrated Framework, which provided a common definition of internal control and guidance on judging its effectiveness.
providers enabled IBRD to operate normally across the globe without experiencing any material interruptions in any critical systems during the roll over and thereafter. The total cost of Year 2000 preparation was estimated at approximately $17 million. The cost of certain major systems replacements and enhancements already planned were not considered Year 2000 costs.
While ongoing tracking continues, no latent Year 2000 issues have arisen. Nor have there been indications from any borrowers that they have experienced any serious disruptions to national infrastructure or public administration due to Year 2000 problems which could affect their ability to continue to service IBRD loans.
4.	LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
Liquidity risk arises in the general funding of IBRD’s activities and in the management of its financial positions. It includes the risk of being unable to fund its portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price. The objective of liquidity management is to ensure the availability of sufficient cash flows to meet all of IBRD’s financial commitments.
The cumulative performance of the liquid asset portfolio in FY 2000 compared to FY 1999 is presented in Table 3. These returns exclude investment assets funding certain other postemployment benefits.
Table 3:
The returns for FY 1999 were heavily affected by IBRD’s liquidation, in FY 1999, of the sterling U.K. government securities in the held-to-maturity portfolio. At the time of liquidation the securities in the held-to-maturity portfolio had a fair value of $1,389 million and a carrying value of $1,152 million. This liquidation resulted in a realized gain of $237 million.
Under IBRD’s liquidity management policy, aggregate liquid asset holdings should be kept at or above a specified prudential minimum. That minimum is equal to the highest consecutive six months of debt service obligations for the fiscal year, plus one-half of net approved loan disbursements as projected for the fiscal year. The FY 2001 prudential minimum liquidity level has been set $18.4 billion, representing a $400
million increase over that for FY 2000. IBRD also holds liquid assets over the specified minimum to provide flexibility in timing its borrowing transactions and to meet working capital needs.
IBRD’s liquid assets are held principally in obligations of governments and other official entities, time deposits and other unconditional obligations of banks and financial institutions, asset-backed securities, and futures and options contracts pertaining to such obligations.
Liquid assets are held in three distinct sub-portfolios: stable; operational; and discretionary, each with different risk profiles, funding, structures and performance benchmarks. The stable portfolio is principally an investment portfolio holding the prudential minimum level of liquidity, which is set at the beginning of each fiscal year. The operational portfolio provides working capital for IBRD's day-to-day cash flow requirements. The discretionary portfolio provides flexibility for the execution of IBRD’s borrowing program and can be used to take advantage of attractive market opportunities. The discretionary portfolio was gradually liquidated over the first half of FY 2000. This liquidation provided the funding necessary to meet an unusually large concentration of debt service payments during this period. Figure 3 represents IBRD's liquid asset portfolio size and structure at the end of FY 2000 and FY 1999, excluding investment assets associated with certain other postemployment benefits.
At the end of FY 2000, the aggregate size of the IBRD liquid asset portfolio stood at $24,193 million, a decrease of $5,817 million over FY 1999. The higher volume of liquid assets at June 30, 1999 included the
Figure 3:
proceeds from the borrowing program undertaken to pre-fund the large amount of debt maturing in FY
2000.	The IBRD liquid asset portfolio is largely composed of U.S. dollars, with the currency composition of the operational portfolio varying the most as a result of the cash flows generated by disbursements, debt-service payments, new borrowings and reserves
conversions.
5.	FUNDING RESOURCES Equity
Total shareholders’ equity at June 30, 2000 was $29,289 million compared with $28,021 million at June 30, 1999. The increase from FY 1999 primarily reflects the increase in retained earnings of $1,318 million, the reduction in restricted paid-in capital o: $180 million due primarily to encashments of demand obligations, and the increase in paid-in capital of $23 million. Table 4 presents the composition of equity at June 30, 2000 and 1999.
IBRD’s equity base plays a critical role in securing its financial objectives. By enabling IBRD to absorb risk out of its own resources, its equity base protects shareholders from a possible call on callable capital. The adequacy of IBRD’s equity capital is judged on the basis of its ability to generate future net income sufficient to absorb plausible risks and support normal loan growth, without reliance on additional shareholder capital. IBRD uses the equity capital-to-loans measure as a summary statistic for financial capacity. Cash flow analysis is the basis by which IBRD measures its income generating capacity and its capital adequacy. IBRD continues to consider additional methodologies for evaluating its risk-bearing capacity.
As a result of higher net income and the increase in reserves, shareholders’ equity grew at a faster pace than the loan portfolio, compared to the prior year. As a result, the ratio of equity capital-to-loans rose to 21.23% at June 30, 2000, from 20.65% one year earlier. In accordance with the financial policy defining this ratio, the amount of transfer to general reserves of $1,114 million approved on August 1, 2000 was included in this ratio at June 30, 2000 [$700 million— June 30, 1999). Figure 4 depicts this ratio over the last five years.
Figure 4:
Capital
The authorized capital of IBRD at June 30, 2000 was $190,811 million, of which $188,606 million had been subscribed. Of the subscribed capital, $11,418 million had been paid in and $177,188 million was callable. Of the paid-in capital, $8,168 million was
available for lending and $3,250 million was not available for lending. The terms of payment of IBRD’s capital and the restrictions on its use that are derived from the Articles and from resolutions of IBRD’s Board of Governors are:
(i) $2,563 million of IBRD’s capital was initially paid in gold or U.S. dollars or was converted by the subscribing members into U.S. dollars. This amount may, under the Articles, be freely used by IBRD in its operations.
(ii)	$8,855 million of IBRD’s capital was paid in the currencies of the subscribing members. Under the Articles this amount is subject to maintenance of value obligations and may be loaned only with the consent of the member whose currency is involved. In accordance with such consents, $5,301 million of this amount had been used in IBRD’s lending operations at June 30, 2000.
(iii)	$150,885 million of IBRD’s capital may, under the Articles, be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it. This amount is thus not available for use by IBRD in making loans. Payment on any such call may be made, at the option of the particular member, either in gold, in U.S. dollars or in the currency required to discharge the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made.
(iv)	$26,303 million of IBRD’s capital is to be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it, pursuant to resolutions of IBRD’s Board of Governors (though such conditions are not required by the Articles). Of this amount, 10% would be payable in gold or U.S. dollars and 90% in the cur-
rencies of the subscribing members. While these resolutions are not legally binding on future Boards of Governors, they do record an understanding among members that this amount will not be called for use by IBRD in its lending activities or for administrative purposes.
No call has ever been made on IBRD’s callable capital. Any calls on unpaid subscriptions are required to be uniform, but the obligations of the members of IBRD to make payment on such calls are independent of each other. If the amount received on a call is insufficient to meet the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made, IBRD has the right and is bound to make further calls until the amounts received are sufficient to meet such obligations. However, no member may be required on any such call or calls to pay more than the unpaid balance of its capital subscription.
At June 30, 2000, $103,115 million (58%) of the uncalled capital was callable from the member countries of IBRD that are also members of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. This amount was equal to 90.4% of IBRD's outstanding borrowings after swaps at June 30, 2000. Table 5 sets out the capital subscriptions of those countries and the callable amounts.
Table 5:
a.	See details regarding the capital subscriptions of all members of IBRD at June 30, 2000 in Financial Statements-Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power.
The United States is IBRD’s largest shareholder.
Under the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, the Par Value Modification Act and other U.S. legislation, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury is permitted to pay up to $7,663 million of the uncalled portion of the subscription of the United States, if it were called by IBRD, without any requirement of further congressional action. The balance of the uncalled portion of the U.S subscription, $22,303 million, has been authorized by the U.S. Congress but not appropriated. Further action by the U.S. Congress would be required to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay any portion of this balance. The General Counsel of the US Treasury has rendered an opinion that the entire uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription is an obligation backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, notwithstanding that congressional appropriations have not been obtained with respect to certain portions of the subscription.
For a further discussion of capital stock, restricted currencies, maintenance of value and membership refer to the Notes to Financial Statements-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note A.
Borrowings Source of Funding
IBRD diversifies its sources of funding by offering its securities to institutional and retail investors globally on terms acceptable to IBRD. Under its Articles, IBRD may borrow only with the approval of the member in whose markets the funds are raised and the member in whose currency the borrowing is denominated, and only if each such member agrees that th« proceeds may be exchanged for the currency of any other member without restriction.
Funding Operations
In FY 2000 medium- and long-term debt raised directly in financial markets by IBRD amounted to $15,789 million compared to $22,443 million in FY
1999.	Table 6 summarizes IBRD’s funding operations for FY 2000 and FY 1999. Funding raised in any given year is used for IBRD’s general operations, including loan disbursements, refinancing of maturing debt and prefunding of future lending activities. All proceeds from new funding are initially invested in the liquid asset portfolio and subsequently allocated to the different debt pools funding loans as necessary in accordance with operating guidelines. In FY 2000, IBRD followed a strategy of selective bond issuance, composed of cost-effective private placements, largely presold institutional public issues and retail targeted transactions.
IBRD strategically repurchases or prepays its debt to reduce the cost of borrowings and to reduce exposure to refunding requirements in a particular year or meet other operational needs. During FY 2000, IBRD
Use of Derivatives
IBRD engages in a combination of interest rate and currency swaps to convert direct borrowings into a desired interest rate structure and currency composition. Interest rate and currency swaps are also used for asset/liability management purposes to match the pool of liabilities as closely as possible to the interest rate and currency characteristics of liquid assets and loans.
In FY 2000 the majority of new funding continued to be initially swapped into floating rate U.S. dollars, with conversion to other currencies or fixed rate funding being carried out subsequently in accordance with funding requirements.
Composition of Borrowings
Of the borrowings outstanding after swaps at June 30, 2000, 55% was at variable rates (54% at June 30, 1999). The currency composition continues to be concentrated in U.S. dollars, with its share at the end of June 30, 2000 at 80% of the borrowings portfolio (79% at June 30, 1999). This reflects IBRD borrowers’ preference for U.S. dollar-denominated loans and the corresponding currency composition of the liquid asset portfolio.
A more detailed analysis of borrowings outstanding is provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D.
6. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
IBRD’s net income can be seen as broadly comprising a spread on earning assets, plus the contribution of equity, less provisions for loan losses and administrative expenses. Table 7 shows a breakdown of income, net of funding costs.
FY2000 versus FY 1999
FY 2000 net income was $1,991 million, $473 million higher than in FY 1999. The majority of this change was due to the following:
•	A $412 million reduction in loan loss provision expense resulting primarily from a reassessment of the possible losses inherent in the loan portfolio. That assessment concluded that a general improvement in credit quality for certain large borrowers, as well as for the accrual portfolio as a
whole, warranted a $243 million reduction in the accumulated provision for loan losses. The remaining $ 169 million decrease in expense is attributable to a reduction in the growth of the loan portfolio.
•	A $345 million increase in loan interest income, net of funding costs, resulting from an increase in the average outstanding loan balance, especially in the higher-yielding special adjustment loans, as well as the improved net returns from the single currency pool loans. Net returns from the single currency pool loans recovered because the higher U.S. dollar borrowing costs wrere not fully passed through to borrowers in FY 1999. The lower interest waivers and higher front-end fees in effect for the full FY 2000 also contributed to the increase in net returns from the loan portfolio.
•	A $208 million reduction in investment income, net of funding costs, primarily as a result of the non-recurring $237 million gain realized in FY
1999	from the liquidation of the held-to-maturity portfolio.
•	A $66 million increase in net noninterest expenses, due primarily to a decrease in pension and postretirement income.
FY 1999 versus FY 1998
FY 1999 net income was $1,518 million, $275 million higher than FY 1998. This increase was primarily attributable to:
•	A $237 million gain realized upon liquidation of the held-to-maturity portfolio during the first quarter of the fiscal year.
•	A $233 million increase in loan interest income, net of funding costs, resulting from the changes in loan pricing. During the year IBRD reduced its interest waiver on existing loans, introduced a front-end fee on new loans and earned higher loan spreads on the special adjustment loans disbursed during the year.
•	Offset in part by an increase of $247 million in net noninterest expense due primarily to a decrease in pension and postretirement income.
Net Interest Income
IBRD’s primary interest earning assets are its loans and liquid asset investments. Table 8 provides a breakdown of the gross interest income on earning assets (including other loan income). Table 9 provides a breakdown of gross borrowing costs.
FY2000 versus FY 1999
Loan interest income increased by $504 million to $8,153 million in FY 2000 due primarily to the higher average balance of loans outstanding during the year. This increased volume resulted in an additional $354 million of net income. Additionally, an increase in the average return from loans contributed another $ 150
million to the increase in income. This increase in the weighted average return were mainly due to four factors: i) a higher average rate on the LIBOR-based loans in a rising interest rate environment; ii) the full year effect of the pass through of higher U.S. dollar borrowing costs funding single currency pool loans, iii) a larger proportion of the higher-yielding special adjustment loans during the year; and iv) having lower interest waivers and higher front-end fees in effect for the full fiscal year.
Investment income decreased by $95 million in FY
2000	to $1,589 million primarily due to two factors.
In FY 1999, a $237 million one-time gain was realized upon liquidation of the securities in the held-to-maturity portfolio. This was partially offset by $165 million increase in income from higher returns achieved in the increasing interest rate environment seen over the past year.
The cost of borrowing increased by $282 million to $7,128 million in FY 2000, due to higher average borrowings outstanding. The maturity of higher-cost debt in FY 2000 just offset the increase in borrowing costs resulting from interest rate resets on variable rate debt.
Table 7:
In millions of U.S. dollars
FY 1999 versus FY 1998
The main factor contributing to the increase in loan interest income of $768 million was the higher average balance of loans outstanding in terms of U.S. dollars. A higher volume of loans outstanding, representing $607 million of the increased income, was the result of increased net disbursements and the effect of translation into U.S. dollar terms for reporting purposes. Additionally, increases in loan pricing contributed $161 million.
Two significant factors contributed to the increase of $451 million in investment income. In FY 1999 a gain of $237 million was realized upon liquidation of the securities in the held-to-maturity portfolio. Additionally, income increased by $214 million reflecting increases in the average investment balance, offset by the effect of slightly lower market interest rates.
The cost of borrowings increased $702 million. While a falling interest rate environment reduced the cost of borrowings from 6.01% to 5.92%, total costs increased because of the higher average borrowings balance.
Net Noninterest Expense
The main components of net noninterest expense are presented in Table 10.
FY 2000 versus FY 1999
Overall gross administrative expenses decreased by $33 million (see Notes to Financial Statements—Note G). Net noninterest expense increased $66 million. The major factor was that the contribution of income from pension and postretirement benefits dropped by $89 million, as a result of the decrease in the actuarially determined Staff Retirement Plan income.
Table 10:
In millions of U.S. dollars
Overall gross administrative expenses increased only slightly. From FY 1998 to FY 1999 net noninterest expense increased by $243 million, generally returning to FY 1997 levels. Staff costs increased 15%; however, the majority of the increase in expense is attributable to the FY 1998 non-recurring reduction in expense realized as a result of the change in accounting for other postretirement benefits. See Notes to the Financial Statements—Note I for a detailed discussion of those changes.
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed by a trust.
Cross-Currency Interest Rate Swaps: Cross-currency interest rate swaps are currency swaps where one set of cash flows reflects a fixed rate of interest and the other reflects a floating rate of interest.
Currency Swaps: Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal.
Equity Capital-to-Loans: This ratio is the sum of usable capital plus the special and general reserves, cumulative translation adjustment and the proposed transfer from unallocated net income to general reserves divided by the sum of loans outstanding, the present value of guarantees, net of the accumulated provision for loan losses.
Forward Interest Rate Swaps: A forward interest rate swap is an agreement under which the cash flow exchanges of the underlying interest rate swaps would begin to take effect from a specified date.
Futures and Forwards: Futures and forward contracts are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on U.S. and international regulated exchanges.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time.
LIBOR: London interbank offer rate.
Maintenance of Value: Agreements with members provide for the maintenance of the value, from the time of subscription, of certain restricted currencies. Additional payments to (or from) IBRD are required in the event the par value of the currency is reduced (or increased) to a significant extent, in the opinion of IBRD.
Net Disbursements: Loan disbursements net of repayments and prepayments.
New Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998.
Old Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued prior to July 31, 1998.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans: Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Return on Equity: This return is computed as net income divided by the average equity balance during the year.
Risk Bearing Capacity: The ability to absorb risks in the balance sheet while continuing normal operations without having to call on callable capital.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller’s portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
Statutory Lending Limit: Under IBRD's Articles of Agreement, as applied, the total amount outstanding of loans, participations in loans, and callable guarantees may not exceed the sum of subscribed capital, reserves and surplus.
Swaptions: A swaption is an option that gives the holder the right to enter into an interest rate or currency swap at a certain future date.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
NOTES
1.	Loans totaling $4,754 million ($4,371 million—June 30, 1999) have been approved by IBRD, but the related agreements have not been signed. Loan agreements totaling $1,006 million ($3,984 million—June 30, 1999) have been signed, but the loans do not become effective and disbursements thereunder do not start until the borrowers and guarantors, if any, take certain actions and furnish certain documents to IBRD.
2.	Of the undisbursed balance, IBRD has entered into irrevocable commitments to disburse $1,165 million ($1,301 million—June 30, 1999).
3.	See Notes to Financial Statements—Notes A and C.
4.	These loans are for the benefit of The Bahamas, Barbados, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, and territories of the United Kingdom (Associated States and Dependencies) in the Caribbean Region, that are severally liable as guarantors to the extent of subloans made in their territories.
5.	May differ from the sum of individual figures shown due to rounding.
Notes to Financial Statements
PURPOSE AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development [IBRD] is an international organization which commenced operations in 1946. The principal purpose of IBRD is to reduce poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in its member countries, primarily by providing loans and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. The activities of IBRD are complemented by those of three affiliated organizations, the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency [MIGA]. IBRD, IDA, IFC, and MIGA are collectively known as the World Bank Group. Each of these other organizations in the World Bank Group is legally and financially independent from IBRD, with separate assets and liabilities, and IBRD is not liable for their respective obligations. IDA’s main goal is to reduce poverty through promoting economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership by providing financing on concessionary terms. IFC’s purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member’s guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes among member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
IBRD’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and with International Accounting Standards.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgements have been used in the computation of estimated and fair values of loans and borrowings, the determination of the adequacy of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses, the determination of net periodic income from pension and other postretirement benefits plans, and the present value of benefit obligations.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform to the current year’s presentation.
Translation of Currencies: IBRD’s financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IBRD’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. IBRD’s resources are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in those various currencies. IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at minimizing exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment. IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swaps] with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by holding or lending the proceeds of its borrowings (after swaps) in the same currencies in which they are borrowed. In addition, IBRD periodically undertakes currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its Retained Earnings with those of the outstanding loans.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates on which they are recognized or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
Valuation of Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of IBRD is expressed in terms of “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944” (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IBRD have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944” in Article II, Section 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of IBRD are interpreted to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being $1.20635 for one SDR.
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of the value (MOV), at the time of subscription, of such restricted currencies (see Note A), requiring (1) the member to make additional payments to IBRD in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of IBRD, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2) IBRD to reimburse the member
in the event that the par value of its currency is increased.
Since currencies no longer have par values, maintenance of value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value of a member’s currency against the standard of value of IBRD capital based on the 1974 SDR. Members are required to make payments to IBRD if their currencies depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the Executive Directors have adopted a policy of reimbursing members whose currencies appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value.
The net MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan, and amounts that have been reclassified from receivables for those countries that have been in arrears for two years or more, are included in Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings. For amounts on loan, these MOV amounts are shown as a component of Equity since MOV becomes effective only as such currencies are repaid to IBRD.
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings consists of allocated amounts (Special Reserve, General Reserve, Pension Reserve and Surplus) and unallocated Net Income.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6 of the Articles of Agreement, which are to be held in liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by IBRD. The Special Reserve assets are included under Investments held in the Trading portfolio, comprising obligations of the United States Government, its agencies, and other official entities. The allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in 1964 with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
The General Reserve consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which, in the judgment of the Executive Directors, should be retained in IBRD’s operations.
The Pension Reserve consists of the difference between actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) and the SRP’s accounting income. This Pension Reserve would be reduced if in any future fiscal year pension accounting expenses were to exceed the actual funding of the SRP.
Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are retained by IBRD until a further decision is made on their disposition or the conditions of transfer for specified uses have been met.
Unallocated Net Income consists of earnings in the current fiscal year. Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the unallocated Net Income has been allocated to the General Reserve after an assessment by the
Executive Directors of IBRD’s reserve needs. Upon recommendation by the Executive Directors, the Board of Governors, consisting of one Governor appointed by each member, periodically approves transfers out of unallocated Net Income and Surplus to various entities for development purposes consistent with IBRD’s Articles of Agreement.
Loans: All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans to IFC. The majority of IBRD’s loans have repayment obligations based on specific currencies. IBRD also offers multicurrency loans which have repayment obligations in various currencies determined on the basis of a currency pooling system.
Any loan origination fees incorporated in a loan’s terms are deferred and recognized over the life of the loan as an adjustment of yield. However, incremental direct costs associated with originating loans are expensed as incurred as such amounts are considered immaterial. The unamortized balance of loan origination fees is included as a reduction of Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet, and the loan origination fees amortization is included in Interest under Income from Loans on the income statement.
It is IBRD’s practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. In exceptional cases, however, such as when implementation of a financed project has been delayed, the loan amortization schedule may be modified to avoid substantial repayments prior to project completion. Delays in receiving loan payments result in present value losses to IBRD since it does not charge fees or additional interest on any overdue interest or loan charges. These present value losses are equal to the difference between the present value of payments for interest and charges made according to the related loan’s contractual terms and the present value of its expected future cash flows. Such present value losses are considered in the determination of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses. IBRD has not written off any of its outstanding loans.
It is the policy of IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines that the over due amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if development credits made by IDA to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all loans made to or guaranteed by that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IBRD. On the date a member’s loans are placed in nonaccrual status, unpaid interest and other charge;, accrued on loans outstanding to the member are deducted from the income of the current period. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are
included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IBRD. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member's loans may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new loans may have been restored. A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance.
IBRD determines the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses based on an assessment of collectibility risk in the total loan and callable guarantees portfolio, including loans in nonaccrual status. The accumulated provision is periodically adjusted based on a review of the prevailing circumstances. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or addition to income. In the context of determining the adequacy of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses, IBRD considers the present value of expected cash flows relative to the contractual cash flow's for loans.
Investments: Investment securities are classified based on management’s intention on the date of purchase. Securities which management has the intention and ability to hold until maturity are classified as Held-to-maturity and reported at amortized cost. Securities designated for other postretirement benefits are carried and reported at market value or at their estimated fair values. The changes in the values of the securities designated for other postretirement benefits are included in the determination of net income. All other investment securities are held in a Trading portfolio and classified as an element of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows due to their nature and IBRD’s policies governing the level and use of such investments. Investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD’s Trading portfolio are carried and reported at market value. Unrealized gains and losses for investment securities and related financial instruments held in the Trading portfolio are included in income. Derivative instruments are used in liquidity management to take advantage of profitable trading opportunities and as a proxy for cash securities. These instruments include short-term, over-the-counter foreign exchange forwards, currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, interest rate swaps, and exchange-traded futures and options on fixed income instruments. These derivatives are carried at market value. From time to time, IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of commitment.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and Payable for Cash Collateral Received: Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IBRD takes possession of securities purchased
under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, requires additional collateral.
Borrounngs: To ensure funds are available for lending and liquidity purposes, IBRD borrows in the worldwide capital markets offering its securities to private and governmental buyers. IBRD issues short-term and medium- and long-term debt instruments denominated in various currencies with both fixed and adjustable interest rates. Borrowings are carried on the balance sheet at their par value (face value) adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts. Issuance costs associated with a bond offering are deferred and amortized over the period during which the related indebtedness is outstanding. The unamortized balance of the issuance costs is included in Other Assets on the balance sheet, and the issuance costs amortization is presented as a separate element under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement. Amortization of discounts and premiums is included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
IBRD uses derivatives in its borrowing and liability management activities to create synthetic debt instruments to take advantage of cost saving opportunities across capital markets and lower its funding costs, to delink the time at which its borrowing costs are fixed from the timing of the actual market borrowings, and to establish an appropriate match between the currency and interest rate characteristics of its assets and liabilities. These instruments include currency and interest rate swaps, swap spread-locks, foreign exchange forwards, exchange-traded futures and options. These derivatives are used to modify the interest rate and/or currency characteristics of the borrowing portfolio and are linked to the related borrowings at inception and remain so throughout the terms of their contracts. The interest component of these derivatives is recognized as an adjustment to the borrowing cost over the life of the derivative contract and included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement. Upon termination, the change in the derivative’s market value is recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of the underlying borrowing and recognized as an adjustment of the borrowing cost over the remaining life of the borrowing. In instances where the underlying borrowing is prepaid, the change in the associated derivative’s market value is recognized immediately as an adjustment to the cost of the underlying borrowing instrument and accordingly in the determination of net income. Currency swap payables and receivables are recorded on a historical cost basis and are separate items on the balance sheet. The notional principal on interest rate swaps is treated as an off-balance sheet item.
Fair Value Disclosures: Financial instruments for w'hich market quotations are available have been valued at the prevailing market value. Financial instruments for which market quotations are not readily
available have been valued using methodologies and assumptions that necessarily require the use of subjective judgments. Accordingly, the actual value at which such financial instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction or whether they are actually exchangeable is not determinable.
Accounting and Reporting Developments
In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”. This statement will significantly change accounting and reporting standards for all derivative instruments, and hedging activities. It requires a company to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and to measure those instruments at fair value. The effective date of this standard was delayed by one year, to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000 by the issuance of SFAS No. 137. In June 2000, SFAS No. 133 was further amended by SFAS No. 138 “Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities” which addresses a limited number of implementation issues.
In addition, in December 1998, the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) issued International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”. IAS 39 requires that all financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives, be included on the balance sheet and is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2001 although earlier application is permitted. IBRD intends to adopt the provisions of IAS 39 in fiscal year 2001. Therefore, for IBRD, IAS 39 and SFAS No. 133 along with its amendments under SFAS No. 138 will be effective for the fiscal year beginning July
1,	2000. IBRD is currently in the process of evaluating the potential impact, including transition adjustment, of these standards on its financial statements.
NOTE A—CAPITAL STOCK, RESTRICTED CURRENCIES, MAINTENANCE OF VALUE, AND MEMBERSHIP
Capital Stock: At June 30, 2000, IBRD’s capital comprised 1,581,724 (1,581,724—June 30, 1999) authorized shares, of which 1,563,443 (1,560,243—June 30, 1999) shares had been subscribed. Each share has a par value of 0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1.20635 per 1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $11,418 million ($11,395 million—June 30, 1999) has been paid in, and the remaining $177,188 million ($176,825 million—June 30, 1999) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans.
Currencies Subject to Restrictions: A portion of capital subscriptions paid in to IBRD has been paid in the local currencies of the members. These amounts, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by IBRD in its lending operations, only with the consent of the respective members, and for administrative expenses-.
Maintenance of Value: Of the total amount of $52/ million ($453 million—June 30, 1999) included in Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings, which has been deducted from equity, $ 169 million ($87 million—June 30, 1999) represents MOV receivables for countries that have amounts in arrears for two years or more. IBRD still considers these MOV receivables in arrears as obligations due from the members concerned. The remaining $353 million ($366 million—June 30, 1999) represents net MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan that become payable under the same terms as other MOV obligations only after such currencies are repaid to IBRD.
Membership: In February 1993, IBRD’s Executive Directors decided that the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) had ceased to be a member of IBRD and that the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (now called Bosnia and Herzegovina), the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Fec -eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (FRY) are authorized to succeed to the SFRY's membership when certain requirements are met, including entering into a final agreement with IBRD on IBRD’s loans made to or guaranteed by the SFRY which the particular successor Republic would assume. Four of the five successor Republics—Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Slovenia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia—have become members of IBRD. The paid-in portion of the SFRY’s subscribed capitd allocated to the FRY is included under Payments on Account of Pending Subscriptions until the requirements of succession are met.
NOTE B—INVESTMENTS
As part of its overall portfolio management strategy IBRD invests in government and agency obligations, time deposits, asset-backed securities, repurchase agreements, securities loans, resale agreements and related financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk including futures, forward contracts, currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, interest rate swaps, options and short sales.
For government and agency obligations, IBRD may only invest in obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries with a mir i-mum credit rating of AA; however, if such obligations are denominated in the home currency of the issue r,
no rating is required. IBRD may only invest in obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity with a minimum credit rating of AA. For asset-backed securities, IBRD may only invest in securities with a AAA credit rating.
With respect to futures and options, IBRD generally closes out most open positions prior to maturity. Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly lim-
ited to the change in market value of the futures and options contracts. Futures contracts generally entail daily settlement of the net cash margin.
For options, IBRD only invests in exchange-traded options. The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount. IBRD does not write uncovered option contracts as part of its investment portfolio strategy.
Held-to-maturity portfolio: During fiscal year 1999, IBRD liquidated the securities in the held-to-maturity portfolio and thereby realized a gain of $237 million.
Assets designated for other postretirement benefits plans: During fiscal year 1999, the Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) was modified and as a result, the assets and liabilities designated for the health and life insurance accounts were removed from the balance sheet.
NOTE C—LOANS, COFINANCING AND GUARANTEES
IBRD’s loan portfolio includes multicurrency loans, single currency pool loans, single currency loans, and fixed spread loans. Each of these is described below.
Multicurrency Loans
Fixed rate loans: On loans negotiated prior to July 1982, IBRD charges interest at fixed rates.
Adjustable rate loans: In 1982, IBRD mitigated its interest rate risk by moving from fixed rate to adjustable rate lending. This rate, reset twice a year, is based on IBRD’s own cost of qualified borrowings plus a lending spread3, resulting in a pass-through of its average borrowing costs to those members that benefit from IBRD loans.
Single Currency Pool Loans
In fiscal year 1997, IBRD offered its borrowers the opportunity to convert their existing multicurrency pool loans to single currency pools. These pools were available in four currencies (U.S. dollar, Japanese yen, Deutsche mark, or Swiss franc). At inception, each single currency pool reflected the composition of the multicurrency pool. However, as of June 30, 1999, all of the pools had exceeded the 90% target in the designated currency. All adjustable rate multicurrency pool loans that were converted to single currency pools carry the applicable pool’s adjustable lending rate, reset semi-annually to reflect the previous semester average cost of outstanding borrowings allocated to fund that pool weighted by the shares of currencies in the pool, plus a spread of 50 basis points. Any fixed rate multicurrency pool loans that were converted to single currency pools continued to carry their fixed rate.
a.	Until July 31, 1998, the lending spread was 50 basis points. However, during the first quarter of fiscal year 1999, the lending spread charged by IBRD to its borrowers was increased by 25 basis points to 75 basis points for loans where the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998. In addition, a front-end fee of 100 basis points, payable for each such loan at the time it becomes effective, was introduced.
Single Currency Loans
Fixed rate loans: IBRD introduced fixed rate single currency loans in 1995. The rates charged on fixed rate single currency loans are set on semi-annual rate fixing dates for loan amounts disbursed during the preceding six-month period and remain fixed for such disbursed amounts until they are repaid. For the interim period from the date each disbursement is made until its rate fixing date, interest accrues at a variable rate equal to the rate on LIBOR-based single currency loans applicable for such interim period. The fixed lending rate comprises a base rate reflecting medium- to long-term market rates on the semiannual rate-fixing date for loan amounts disbursed during the preceding six-month period, plus a total spread consisting of (a) IBRD’s funding cost margin for these loans in the loan currency, (b) a market risk premium (intended to compensate IBRD for market risks incurred in funding these loans), and (c) a lend ing spread.
Variable Spread loans: IBRD introduced variable spread single currency loans in 1993. The rates charged on variable spread single currency loans are i pass-through of IBRD’s cost of funding for these loans, and are reset semi-annually. They comprise a base rate equal to the six-month reference interbank offered rate for the applicable currency on the rate reset date and a total spread consisting of (a) IBRD’s average funding cost margin for these loans and (b) a lending spread.
Certain variable spread single currency loans, including the Special Structural and Sector Adjustment Loans introduced in fiscal year 1999, have non-standard terms. These loans have a fixed spread ranging from 75 to 400 basis points over LIBOR, a front-enc fee, and are not eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges.
Fixed Spread Loans
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2000, IBRD introduced fixed-spread loans. These loans have an interest rate based on LIBOR plus a spread that will be fixed for the life of the loan. The spread is currently 55 basis points for U.S. dollar and euro denominated loans, and 45 basis points for Japanese yen denominated loans. A commitment charge premium of 10 basis points over the standard 75 basis points charged on other IBRD loans will be included for the first four years from the date the commitment charge begins to accrue.
Borrowers selecting this product have the flexibility to change the currency or interest rate basis over the life of the loan, subject to certain conditions.
Waivers of Loan Interest and Commitment Charges
For payment periods beginning during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, an interest waiver of five basis points on disbursed and outstanding loans to eligible borrowers was in effect, except that for new loans where the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998, which carry- a 75 basis points lending spread, the interest waiver was 25 basis points. A similar waiver was in effect for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1999. For the fiscal year ended June 30,
1998,	a waiver of 25 basis points was in effect. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, the combined effect of these waivers was to reduce Net Income by $59
A summary of IBRD’s outstanding loans by currency and product at June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999 follows:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
million ($102 million—June 30, 1999, $241 million— June 30, 1998).
A one-year commitment charge waiver of 50 basis points was in effect on all eligible undisbursed loans to all borrowers for all payment periods commencing in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2000. A similar waiver of 50 basis points was in effect for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1999 and June 30, 1998. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, the effect of the commitment charge waiver was to reduce Net Income by $207 million ($229 million—June 30, 1999, $211 million—June 30, 1998).
Total loans	$	117,228
Less accumulated provision for loan losses and deferred loan income	3,923
Net loans outstanding	$113,305
a.	Effective January 1, 1999, the euro was introduced. For reporting purposes, amounts in the	eleven national currencies that are	considered
national currency units of the euro have been aggregated with the euro and reported as euro	in both the current and prior year.
b.	Average Maturity - Multicurrency loans. IBRD maintains a targeted currency composition in its multicurrency loans. The present target ro tio is one U.S. dollar for every 125 Japanese yen and one euro. These three major currencies comprise at least 90% of the multicurrency loans' U.S. dollar equivalent value, with the remainder in other currencies. This ratio was changed in January 1999 as a result of the introduction of the euro.
The composition of the multicurrency loans is affected by the selection of currencies for disbursements on those loans and by the currencies selected for the billing of the principal repayments. Along with the selection of disbursement currencies, IBRD manages the selection of repayment currencies to maintain the alignment of the multicurrency bans’ composition with the target ratio. The selection of currencies for repayment billing by IBRD precludes the determination of average maturity information for multicurrency loans by individual currency. Accordingly, IBRD only discloses the maturity periods for its multicurrency loans on a combined U.S. dollars equivalent basis.
c.	Excludes effects of any waivers of loan interest.
Estimated Value of Loans
All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD, except for those loans made to IFC. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor is there a market for loans comparable to those made by IBRD.
The estimated value of all loans is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted by the applica-
ble market yield curves plus IBRD’s relevant basis point lending spread adjusted for waivers.
The following table reflects the carrying and estimated values of the loan portfolio at June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999:
a. Amount includes carrying value of $10,800 million ($9,035 million—June 30, 1999) and estimated value of $10,789 million ($9,024 million—June 30, 1999) for non-standard single currency loans.
Cofinancing and Guarantees
IBRD has taken direct participations in, or provided partial guarantees of, loans syndicated by other financial institutions for projects or programs also financed by IBRD through regular loans. IBRD also has provided partial guarantees of securities issued by an entity eligible for IBRD loans. IBRD’s partial guarantees of bond issues are included in the guarantees amount mentioned below. IBRD’s direct participations in syndicated loans are included in the reported loan balances.
Guarantees of loan principal of $1,661 million at June 30, 2000 ($1,973 million—June 30, 1999}, were not included in reported loan balances. At June 30, 2000, $467 million of these guarantees were subject to call ($466 million—June 30, 1999). In some cases, IBRD guarantees have included interest payments in addition to principal. At June 30, 2000, interest guarantees of $10 million ($3 million—June 30, 1999) were subject to call.
Overdue Amounts
At June 30, 2000, in addition to those loans referred to in the following paragraph, principal installments of $3 million and charges of $2 million payable to IBRD on loans, were overdue by more than three months.
At June 30, 2000, the aggregate principal amounts outstanding on all loans to any borrower, other than those referred to in the following paragraph, with any loan overdue by more than three months, was $460 million.
At June 30, 2000, the loans made to or guaranteed by certain member countries and the FRY with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $2,031 million ($2,053 million—June 30, 1999), of which $1,302 million ($1,249 million—June 30, 1999) was overdue, were in nonaccrual status. At such date, overdue interest and other charges in respect of these loans totaled $1,060 million ($1,011 million—June 30, 1999). If these loans had not been in nonaccrual status, income from loans for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, would have been higher by $52 million ($55 million— June 30, 1999, $84 million—June 30, 1998).
a.	Represents interest and charges overdue.
During fiscal year 1999, Sudan reached an understanding with IBRD and IDA under which Sudan agreed to make regular monthly payments of $1 million commencing in July 1999. These payments are being applied first to IBRD arrears and then to arrears with IDA. As of June 30, 2000, Sudan had paid off all of its arrears to IBRD.
During fiscal year 1998, the Syrian Arab Republic and IBRD entered into an agreement covering, among other things, the application of payments by Syria of its overdue principal, interest, and charges. Under this agreement, Syria paid the overdue principal to IBRD in one payment of $263 million on September 2, 1997 and has been making monthly payments to IBRD since then.
In connection with the cessation of the membership of the SFRY discussed in Note A, in February 1993, IBRD reached an agreement with the FRY for the apportionment and service of debt due to IBRD on loans made to or guaranteed by the SFRY and assumed by the FRY, which confirmed a February 1992 interim agreement between the SFRY (then consisting of the Republics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia) and IBRD pertaining, among other things, to such loans. As of the date hereof, no debt-service payments have been received by IBRD from the FRY.
In June 1996, the accumulated arrears on loans to the former SFRY assumed by Bosnia and Herzegovina were cleared through three new consolidation loans extended by IBRD. These new loans consolidated all outstanding principal and overdue interest on the loans assumed by Bosnia and Herzegovina. This resulted in an increase in loans outstanding of $168 million and the deferral of the recognition of the related interest income.
The average recorded investment in nonaccruing loans during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, was $2,057 million ($2,084 million—June 30, 1999, $2,138 million—June 30, 1998).
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2000, and June 30, 1999, no loans went into or came out of nonaccrual status.
Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses
IBRD has never suffered a loss on any of its loans, with the exception of losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of expected payments for interest and charges according to the related loan’s contractual terms and the actual cash flows. Certain borrowers have found it difficult to make timely payments for protracted periods, resulting in their loans being placed in nonaccrual status. Several borrowers have emerged from nonaccrual sta-
tus after a period of time by bringing up-to-date all principal payments and all overdue service payments, including interest and other charges. In an attempt to recognize the risk inherent in these and any other potential overdue payments, IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for loan losses. Of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses of $3,400 million at June 30, 2000 [$3,560 million—June 30, 1999), $700 million is attributable to the nonaccruing loan portfolio ($700 million—June 30, 1999).
Changes to the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2000, June 30, 1999 and June 30, 1998 are summarized below:
During fiscal year 2000, an assessment of the probable losses inherent in the portfolio at June 30, 2000, compared to June 30, 1999, resulted in a reduction of the provisioning requirements, due to a decline in the credit risk of certain large borrowers. As a result, the corresponding reduction in the accumulated provision for loan losses for this fiscal year resulted in an increase in net income.
IBRD has endorsed a multilateral initiative for addressing the debt problems of a group of countries, identified as heavily indebted poor countries (HIPCs), to ensure that the reform efforts of these countries will not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. Under this initiative, creditors are to provide debt relief for those countries that demonstrated good policy performance over an extended period to bring
their debt burdens to sustainable levels. IBRD has taken the situation of these countries into account in its review of the adequacy of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses.
Fifth Dimension Program
Under IDA’s Fifth Dimension program established in September 1988, a portion of principal repayments to IDA are allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988 and have in place an IDA-supported structural adjustment program. Such supplementary IDA credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions, in proportion to each country’s interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for such IDA supplemental credits, a member country must meet IDA’s eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan approved within the last twelve months. To receive a supplemental credit from the program, a member country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA. At June 30, 2000, IDA had approved credits of $1,659 million ($1,623 million— June 30, 1999) under this program from inception, of which $1,630 million ($1,604 million—June 30, 1999) had been disbursed to the eligible countries.
NOTE D—BORROWINGS
Providing liquidity and minimizing the cost of funds are key objectives to IBRD’s overall borrowing strategy. IBRD uses swaps in its borrowing strategy to lower the overall cost of its borrowings for those members who benefit from IBRD loans. IBRD undertakes swap transactions with a list of authorized counterparties. Credit limits have been established for each counterparty. Swaps include currency swaps, interest rate swaps, forward interest rate swaps, and swaptions.
a. The carrying value is net of unamortized issuance costs of borrowings.
The estimated fair values are based on quoted market prices where such prices are available. Where no quoted market price is available, the fair value is estimated based on the cost at which IBRD could currently undertake borrowings with similar terms and remaining maturities, using the secondary market yield curve. The fair value of swaps represents the estimated cost of replacing these contracts on that date.
NOTE E—CREDIT RISK
Country Credit Risk: This risk includes potential losses arising from protracted arrears on payments from borrowers. IBRD manages country credit risk through individual country exposure limits according to creditworthiness. These exposure limits are tied to performance on macroeconomic and structural policies. In addition, IBRD establishes absolute limits on
the share of outstanding loans to any individual borrower. The country credit risk is further managed by financial incentives such as pricing loans using IBRD’s own cost of borrowing and partial interest charge waivers conditioned on timely payment that give borrowers self-interest in IBRD’s continued strong intermediation capacity. Collectibility risk is covered by the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses. IBRD also uses a simulation model to assess the adequacy of its equity including reserves in case a major borrower, or group of borrowers, stops servicing its loans for an extended period of time.
Commercial Credit Risk: For the purpose of risk management, IBRD is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk in excess of the amount recorded on the balance sheet. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by
obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. Additionally, the nature of the instruments involve contract value and notional principal amounts that are not reflected in the basic financial statements. For both on- and off-balance sheet securities, IBRD limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit risk is controlled through application of eligibility criteria and volume limits for transactions with individual counterparties and through the use of mark-to-market collateral arrangements for swap transactions. IBRD may require collateral in the form of cash or other approved liquid securities from individual counterparties in order to
mitigate its credit exposure. In addition, IBRD has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable close-out netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. Credit risk with financial assets subject to a master derivatives arrangement is eliminated only to the extent that financial liabilities to the same counterparty are settled after the assets are realized. Because the exposure is affected by each transaction subject to the arrangement, the extent of the reduction in exposure may change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
The contract value/notional amounts and credit risk exposure, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999 (prior to taking into account any master derivatives or collateral arrangements that have been entered into] are given below:
In millions
*	Less than $0.5 million.
NOTE F—RETAINED EARNINGS, ALLOCATIONS AND TRANSFERS
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings comprises the following elements at June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999:
On July 29, 1999, the Executive Directors allocated $700 million of the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1999 to the General Reserve and $255 million to the Pension Reserve, representing the difference between actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) and its accounting income for the fiscal year 1999. This Pension Reserve would be reduced if, in any future fiscal year, pension accounting expenses were to exceed the actual funding of the SRP.
On September 30, 1999, the Board of Governors approved the following transfers out of unallocated Net Income: an amount equivalent to $273 million in SDRs (valued at June 30, 1999) to IDA, $200 million to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative Trust Fund, $60 million to the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank, and $30 million for capacity building in Africa. In addition, the Board of Governors approved the following transfers out of Surplus: $75 million in SDRs (valued at June 30, 1999) to IDA and $25 million for
emergency rehabilitation assistance for Kosovo. Of the total amount of these transfers by IBRD to IDA ($348 million in SDRs valued at June 30, 1999) $300 million is to be drawn down in fiscal year 2005; the remaining $48 million was transferred in October
1999	as a reimbursement of IDA’s share of the fiscal year 1999 cost of implementing the Strategic Compact of IBRD and IDA. On March 13, 2000, the Board of Governors approved a $10 million transfer out of Surplus to the Trust Fund for East Timor.
The aggregate transfers and amounts payable for these Board of Governors-approved transfers at June 30, 200C and June 30, 1999 are included in the following table:
In millions of US dollars equivalent
a. All amounts are approved in an equivalent amount of SDRs.
NOTE G—ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES, CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL PROGRAMS, AND OTHER INCOME
In fiscal year 1995 the Executive Directors authorized expenditures for costs associated with planned staff reductions. The cost of this program charged through fiscal year 1997 was $112 million, of which $45 million was allocated to IDA. During fiscal year 1998 all remaining staff previously identified for separation under this program began receiving severance payments. The total cost under this program was $87 million. The difference of $25 million was taken back into income as a reduction of administrative expenses, for fiscal year 1998, of which $10 million had been allocated to IDA as a reduction of the management fee charged to IDA. At June 30, 2000, $86 million ($86 million—June 30, 1999, $82 million—June 30, 1998) had been charged against the accrual of $87 million. This accrual included costs associated with job search assistance, training, outplacement consulting, pension plan contributions, medical insurance contributions and related tax allowances.
In March 1997 the Executive Directors approved a multiyear program of institutional renewal to improve IBRD’s and IDA's business processes, products and services, strengthen their human resources through more skilled and better trained staff, and achieve a higher level of development effectiveness. Implementation of this program resulted in costs associated with
staff reductions during the fiscal years 1997 through
2000.	Through June 30, 2000, 745 staff had been identified for separation at a cumulative cost of $114 million. Included in the total charge of $114 million are costs associated with outplacement consulting, job search assistance, training, medical insurance plan contributions and related tax allowances. Of the total cumulative charge of $114 million, $45 million has been charged to IDA. Of the total fiscal year charge of $36 million, $15 million has been charged to IDA for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, consistent with normal cost apportionment procedures applied in the calculation of the management fee.
Administrative Expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000 are net of the management fee charged to IDA of $549 million ($518 million—June 30, 1999, $474 million—June 30, 1998).
Contributions to special programs represent grants for agricultural research, and other developmental activities.
IBRD recovers certain of its administrative expenses by billing third parties for services rendered. Prior ts fiscal year 2000, these amounts were included as a reduction to Administrative Expenses. However, in fiscal year 2000, it was decided that these amounts should be included in Other Income. The prior years’ figures have been restated to reflect this change. For the fiscal years ending June 30, 2000, June 30, 1999,
During fiscal year 2000 IBRD began offering investment management services to an institution outside the World Bank Group. Under this arrangement, IBRD is responsible for managing investment account assets on behalf of this institution, and in return receives a quarterly fee based on the average value of
the portfolio. This fee income is included in service fee revenues noted previously. At June 30, 2000, the assets managed under this agreement had a value of $5,158 million. These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD.
NOTE H—TRUST FUNDS
IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses which include the cofinancing of IBRD lending projects, debt reduction operations, technical assistance for borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs and research and training programs. These funds are held in trust and are not included in the assets of IBRD. The trust fund assets by executing agent at June 30,
2000	and June 30, 1999 are summarized below:
The responsibilities of IBRD under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, IBRD received $17 million ($19 million—June 30,
1999	and $14 million—June 30, 1998) as fees for administering trust funds. These fees have been recorded as Other Income.
NOTE I—PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
IBRD has a defined benefit Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) that covers substantially all of its staff. The SRP also covers substantially all the staff of IFC and MIGA. In addition, IBRD provides other postretirement benefits for eligible active and retired staff through a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) and a Post-Employment Benefits Plan (PEBP).
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998, IBRD reviewed the status of the RSBP and PEBP accounts and determined that the assets and liabilities did not qualify for off-balance sheet accounting. At June 30,
1998,	the assets and liabilities were recorded on IBRD’s balance sheet, resulting in net income to IBRD of $113 million, of which $56 million related to the
cumulative effect of prior periods on retained earnings at June 30, 1997, and has been included in Effect of Accounting Change on the income statement.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 1999, the RSBP was modified so that some of the assets designated for other postretirement benefits met the requirements for plan assets prescribed under SFAS 106 “Employer’s Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions”. Accordingly, the RSBP assets and liabilities were removed from the balance sheet. As a result, the assets and liabilities designated on the balance sheet for other postretirement benefits were reduced by $806 million and $620 million, respectively. The $650 million of assets that remained on the balance sheet were incorporated into Trading investments. At June 30, 2000, liabilities of $119 million ($103 million—June 30, 1999) for the PEBP shown on the balance sheet represent pension benefits administered outside the SRP.
The difference between the RSBP assets and liabilities represents a prepaid postretirement benefits cost. The portion of this asset that is attributable to IBRD has been included in Other Assets on the balance sheet.
The following table summarizes the benefit costs associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2000, June 30, 1999, and June 30, 1998:
The portion of the SRP income related to IBRD that has been included in income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000 is $166 million ($255 million—June 30, 1999; $182 million—June 30, 1998]. The balance has been included as a payable to IDA. The portion of the
cost for the RSBP and PEBP related to IBRD that has been included in income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000 is $10 million ($10 million—June 30, 1999; $50 million—June 30, 1998). The balance has been included as a receivable from IDA.
The following table summarizes the benefit obligations, plan assets, funded status and rate assumptions associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for the World Bank Group for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2000, June 30, 1999, and June 30, 1998:
Of the $1,355 million prepaid SRP cost at June 30, 2000 ($1,028 million —June 30, 1999), $712 million was attributable to IBRD ($546 million—June 30, 1999) and is included in Miscellaneous Assets on the balance sheet. The remainder has been attributed to IDA, IFC and MIGA.
Of the $191 million prepaid RSBP cost at June 30, 2000 ($190 million—June 30, 1999), $106 million was attributable to IBRD ($105 million—June 30, 1999) and is included in Miscellaneous Assets on the balance sheet. The remainder has been attributed to IDA, IFC and MIGA.
Assumptions
The actuarial assumptions used are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management’s best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. Changes in these assumptions
will impact future benefit costs and obligations. The weighted-average assumptions used in determining expense and benefit obligations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2000, June 30, 1999, and June 30,
1998	are as follows:
a.	The effect of projected compensation levels was calculated based on a scale that provides for a decreasing rate of salary increase depending on age, beginning with 12.25% (11.75%—June 30, 1999; 11.00%—June 30, 1998) at age 20 and decreasing to 5.75% (5.25%—June 30, 1999; 4.50%—June 30, 1998) at age 64.
The medical cost trend rate can significantly affect the	effects of a one-percentage-point change in the
reported postretirement benefit income or costs and	assumed healthcare cost trend rate:
benefit obligations. The following table shows the
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998, health care cost trend rates were reduced after completing a five years’ experience study, reducing the accrued liability at June 30, 1998, from $808 million to $619 million. This change in the health care cost trend rate resulted in income of $104 million for IBRD, which has been included in Effect of Accounting Change on the income statement. The balance was attributable to IDA, IFC, and MIGA.
NOTE J—SEGMENT REPORTING
Based on an evaluation of IBRD’s operations, management has determined that IBRD has only one report-
able segment since IBRD does not manage its operations by allocating resources based on a determination of the contribution to net income from individual borrowers. In addition, given the nature of IBRD, the risk and return profiles are sufficiently similar among borrowers that IBRD does not differentiate between the nature of the products or services provided, the preparation process, or the method for providing the services among individual countries.
For fiscal year 2000, loans to two countries individually generated in excess of 10 percent of loan income. Loan income from these two countries was $916 million and $852 million respectively.
NOTE K—COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting equity that, under generally accepted accounting principles, are excluded from net income. For IBRD, comprehensive income comprises currency translation adjustments and net
income. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The following table presents the changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income balances for the fiscal years ended June
30,	2000, June 30, 1999, and June 30, 1998:
a. The total accumulated other comprehensive income represents the cumulative translation adjustment.
President and Board of Governors International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 2000 and 1999, including the summary statement of loans and the statement of subscriptions to capital stock and voting power as of June 30, 2000, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2000. These financial statements are the responsibility of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 2000 and 1999, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal yean in the period ended June 30, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Accounting Standards.
Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements
NOTE A—ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES Purpose and Affiliated Organizations
The International Development Association (IDA) is an international organization established on September 24, 1960. IDA’s main goal is reducing poverty through promoting economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership, by providing financing on concessionary terms. IDA has three affiliated organizations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). IDA, IBRD, IFC and MIGA are collectively known as the World Bank Group. Each of these other organizations is legally and financially independent from IDA, with separate assets and liabilities, and IDA is not liable for their respective obligations. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote the economic development of its member countries, primarily by providing loans and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. IFC’s purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member's guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes among member countries and, in particular, to help developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Due to the nature and organization of IDA, these financial statements have been prepared for the specific purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of member subscriptions and contributions and other development resources. These financial statements are not intended to be a presentation in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America or with International Accounting Standards. These special purpose financial statements have been prepared to comply with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA, and are prepared in accordance with the accounting policies outlined below.
The preparation of these special purpose financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgements have been used in the computation of estimated fair values of development credits and allowances for the HIPC Debt Initiative.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform to the current year’s presentation.
Basis of Accounting
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. That is, the effects of transactions and other events are recognized when they occur (and not as cash or its equivalent is received or paid) and are recorded in the accounting records and reported in the financial statements of the periods to which they relate.
Translation of Currencies
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IDA’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IDA is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. Applications of development resources and sources of development resources are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period, except Member Subscriptions and Contributions which are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates of income and expense recognition, or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of development credits denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Other translation adjustments are shown in the Statement of Income.
Member Subscriptions and Contributions Recognition
Member Subscriptions and Contributions committed for each IDA replenishment are recorded in full as Subscriptions and Contributions Committed upon effectiveness of the relevant replenishment. Replenishments become effective when IDA has received Instruments of Commitments (IoCs) from members for subscriptions and contributions of a specified portion of the full replenishment. Amounts not yet paid in, at the date of effectiveness, are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable and shown as a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed. These receivables come due throughout the replenishment period (generally three years) in accordance with an agreed maturity schedule. The actual payment of receivables when they become due from certain members is conditional upon the respective member’s budgetary appropriation processes.
The Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable are settled through payment of cash or deposit of nonnego-tiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes. The notes are encashed by IDA as provided in the relevant replen-
ishment resolution over the disbursement period of the credits committed under the replenishment.
In certain replenishments, donors have had the option of paying all of their subscription and contribution amount in cash before it becomes due and receiving a discount. In addition, some replenishment arrangements have incorporated an accelerated encashment schedule. In these cases, IDA and the donor agree that IDA will invest the cash and retain the income. The related subscription and contribution is recorded at the full undiscounted amount. The discount is recorded in Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable and amortized over the projected encashment period.
Under the provisions governing replenishments, IDA must encash the notes or similar obligations of contributing members on an approximately pro rata basis. As discussed in the previous paragraph, donors sometimes contribute resources on an advanced or an accelerated basis. IDA holds these resources until they become available for disbursement on a pro rata basis.
Transfers to IDA from IBRD are recorded as Sources of Development Resources and are receivable upon approval by IBRD’s Board of Governors.
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which make payments of subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations and (2) Part II members, which make payments of ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies, and the remaining ninety percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II members provide a portion of their subscriptions and contributions in the same manner as mentioned in (1] above. IDA’s Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA and located outside the territory of the member except by agreement between the member and IDA. The cash paid and notes deposited in nonconvertible local currencies for the subscriptions of Part II members are recorded either as currencies subject to restriction under due from banks, or as restricted notes included under nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligations on account of member subscriptions and contributions. Restricted notes at June 30, 2000 were $35 million ($35 million, June 30, 1999).
Valuation
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed in terms of “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” (1960 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or
any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IDA have decided, with effect on that date and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “US. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” in Article II, Section 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being equal to $1.20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and have also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors.
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market value of the SDR.
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the Fourth Replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members’ currencies or SDRs and are payable in members’ currencies. Beginning July 1, 1986, subscriptions and contributions made available for disbursement in cash to IDA are translated at market exchange rates in effect on the dates they were made available. Prior to that date, subscriptions and contributions which had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market exchange rates in effect on dates of disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period.
Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA’s Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member’s currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the member’s territories, so long as, and to the extent that, such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the Third Replenishment, but are not applicable to those of the Fourth and subsequent replenishments.
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987 that settlements of maintenance of value, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements. These amounts are shown as Deferred Amounts Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings.
All development credits are made to or guaranteed by member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for development credits which have been made to regional development banks for the benefit of members or territories of members of IDA], In order to qualify for lending on IDA terms, a country’s per capita income must be below a certain level and the country may have only limited or no creditworthiness for IBRD lending. Development credits carry a service charge of 0.75 percent and generally have 35- or 40-year final maturities and a 10-year grace period for principal payments. Development credits are carried in the Special Purpose Financial Statements at the full face amount of the borrowers’ outstanding obligations.
It is the practice of IDA to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such development credit are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA’s management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if loans by IBRD to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IDA. On the date a member’s development credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued on development credits outstanding to the member which remained unpaid are deducted from the income from development credits of the current period. Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received byr IDA. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s credits may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new credits may have been restored. A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance.
In fulfilling its mission, IDA makes concessional loans to the poorest countries, therefore there is significant credit risk in the portfolio of development credits. Management continually monitors this credit risk. No provision for credit losses, other than allowances under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, has been established. This is because it is not practicable to determine a provision for credit losses in view of the nature and maturity structure of the credit portfolio. Should probable losses occur, they would be included in the Statement of Income.
The repayment obligations of IDA’s development credits funded from resources through the Fifth Replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars. In June 1987 the Executive Directors decided to value those development credits at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis. Development credits funded from resources provided under the Sixth Replenishment and
thereafter are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed.
Development Grants
The Eleventh and Twelfth Replenishment Resolutions authorize the use of Eleventh and Twelfth Replenishment donor funds to finance IDA development grants in the context of the HIPC Debt Initiative. The net income transfers from IBRD for fiscal years 1997, 1998 and 1999 also authorizes the use of such funds for IDA development grants.
Development grants are accrued by IDA upon their commitment.
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
The HIPC Debt Initiative was launched in 1996 as a joint effort by bilateral and multilateral creditors to ensure that reform efforts of HIPCs would not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. As a part of this process, the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund was established on November 7, 1996, administered by IDA and constituted by funds of donors including the IBRD, to help beneficiaries reduce their overall debt, including IDA debt.
Under the Initial Framework of the initiative, eligible countries received relief on IBRD and IDA debt through three mechanisms:	(i] partial financing of
lending operations with development grants; (ii) purchase and cancellation of IDA credits by the World Bank component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund; and (iii) in certain cases, the provision of debt service on selected IDA credits by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund.
Under the Enhanced Framework of the initiative, which was approved by IDA's Executive Directors on January 27, 2000, implementation mechanisms also include: (i) partial forgiveness of IDA and Interim Trust Fund debt sendee as it comes due, to be reimbursed to IDA by the World Bank Group component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund; and (ii) in the case of countries with a substantial amount of outstanding IBRD debt, partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt.
Investments
IDA carries its investment securities and related financial instruments at market value. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in Income from Investments.
Accounting Changes
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2000, IDA changed its accounting policy related to the HIPC Debt Initiative and restated its financial statements of prior years to apply retroactively the new policy. A summary of the new accounting policy and details of debt relief provided under the HIPC Debt Initiatives are presented in Note I.
Under the new accounting policy, development grants and any impairments of IDA’s outstanding development credits in connection with the HIPC Debt Initiative are recognized as charges to income. This recognition occurs when IDA either approves the development grants or determines that impairments to IDA’s credits are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Previously, development grants and such impairments were not charged to income. Instead, they were directly reported in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources, as a separate line item titled Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. The new accounting policy will better reflect the impact of the HIPC Debt Initiative on IDA’s financial position and operating activities.
The effect of the accounting change on income of fiscal year 2000 and on income as previously reported for fiscal years 1999 and 1998 is a reduction of $7,829 million, $154 million and $168 million, respectively.
In the third quarter of fiscal year 2000, all investment securities were included as an element of liquidity in the Statements of Cash Flows due to their nature, and IDA’s policies governing the level and use of such investments. As a result, Statements of Cash Flows of prior years have been restated to reflect this change, for which there is no income effect.
Interim Trust Fund
The Interim Trust Fund (ITF), established by IDA's Board of Governors in June 1996 as a part of the Eleventh Replenishment, is administered by IDA to help fund operations approved during the period July 1, 1996 to June 30, 1997, as well as certain additional operations approved after July 1, 1997. The development resources of the ITF have a separate legal, procurement and accounting status. Credits financed by the ITF are made on the same terms and conditions as those of IDA credits with two exceptions. First, eligibility for procurement under the Interim Fund Credits is extended only to nationals of countries that either have contributed to the ITF or are eligible to borrow from IBRD or IDA. Second, the Interim Fund Credits are approved by IDA’s President after consultation with a committee of IDA's Executive Directors representing the donors and eligible borrowers. Effective December
31,	1997, procurement restrictions were lifted from SDR 700 million in ITF contributions that were unallocated.
Charges paid by borrowers on ITF credits are directly paid to IDA as compensation for its services as administrator of the ITF. These charges are included under Income from development credits. The ITF is expected to be terminated when the credits it financed have been substantially disbursed. Upon termination, the assets and liabilities of the ITF will be transferred to IDA.
NOTE B—INVESTMENTS
As part of its portfolio management strategy, IDA invests in the following financial instruments.
Currency Swaps: Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal. IDA is authorized to enter into currency swaps for periods not exceeding one year, including covered forwards.
Forwards and Futures: Futures and forward contracts are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument, at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on regulated United States and international exchanges. IDA generally closes out most open positions in futures contracts prior to maturity. Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures contracts. Futures contracts gene rally entail daily settlement of the net cash margin.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments. Obligations issued sr unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries require a minimum credit rating of AA if denominated in a currency other than the home currency sf the issuer, otherwise no rating is required. Obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity require a credit rating of AAA.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bea's the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option. IDA invests only in exchange-traded options. The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount. IDA does not write uncovered option contracts.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans: Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller's portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
A summary of IDA’s investments, by instrument, at June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999 is as follows: In millions of U.S. dollar equivalent
a. Effective January 1, 1999, the euro was introduced. For reporting purposes, holdings in the eleven national currencies that are considered national currency units of the euro have been aggregated with the euro and reported as euro, in both the current and prior year.
For the purpose of risk management, IDA is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk in excess of the amount reflected in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. Additionally, the nature of the instruments involve contract value and notional principal amounts that are not reflected in the basic financial statements. For both on- and off-balance sheet securities, IDA limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit limits have been established for each counterparty by type of instrument and maturity category.
The credit risk exposure and contract value, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999 (prior to taking into account any master derivatives agreements or collateral arrangements that have been made) are given below.
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
__
NOTE C—MEMBER SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable: At June 30, 2000, receivables from subscriptions and contributions were $6,624 million ($165 million—June 30, 1999) of which $54 million ($12 million—June 30, 1999) was due and $6,570 million ($153 million— June 30, 1999) was not yet due.
Subscriptions and contributions due at June 30, 2000 were as follows:
Twelfth Replenishment: On April 8, 1999, the Board of Governors of IDA adopted a resolution authorizing the Twelfth Replenishment of IDA’s resources. The Twelfth Replenishment, which provides IDA with resources of SDR 15,343 million to fund concessional lending during the period July 1, 1999 to June 30,
2002, became effective on March 23, 2000. Of this amount, new contributions from donor countries, including supplementary contributions provided by certain members and discounts on accelerated encashments, total SDR 8,640 million. Certain procurement restrictions apply to Twelfth Replenishment credits financed by donor funds.
As of June 30, 2000, IDA had received Instruments of Commitments (IoCs) totaling SDR 7,431 million, and has yet to receive IoCs representing donor contributions totaling SDR 621 million, out of the total expected donor contributions of SDR 8,052 million.
Membership: In February 1993 the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia ceased to be a member of IDA. due to the cessation of its membership in IBRD. Four of the five successor Republics—Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia ar.d the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia—have since become members of IDA. At June 30, 2000, the subscription and contributions allocated to the other successor country, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), are included under Payments on Account of Pending Membership.
NOTE D—TRANSFERS AND RECEIVABLES FROM IBRD
IBRD’s Board of Governors has approved aggregate transfers to IDA totaling $6,435 million through June 30, 2000 ($6,087 million—June 30, 1999). The aggregate transfers reported in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources may differ from the amount of aggregate transfers approved due to exchange rate movements.
Of the aggregate transfers, $348 million in SDRs valued at June 30, 1999 was approved by IBRD’s Board of Governors on September 30, 1999. Of this amount, $300 million will be drawn down in fiscal year 2005, which is the end of the defined encashment schedule for donor contributions to IDA's Twelfth Replenishment. The remaining $48 million in SDRs valued at June 30, 1999 was transferred on October 14,
1999.	The transfer reported in the Statement of Cash Flows is different due to exchange rate movements.
Of the aggregate transfers, $352 million in SDRs valued at June 30, 1998, which was approved by IBRD’s Board of Governors on October 8, 1998, will be drawn down by IDA after all other resources available to IDA for purposes of the Eleventh Replenishment have been drawn down.
The receivable of $650 million ($354 million—June 30, 1999) from IBRD reported in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources is different from the amounts approved due to exchange rate movements.
NOTE E—DEVELOPMENT CREDITS Accumulated Allowance for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
Development credits outstanding are presented in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Develop-
ment Resources before any allowance in connection with either the Enhanced or Initial HIPC Framework (see Note I).
The nominal value of the principal component of the debt relief to be provided under the Enhanced HIPC Framework is included under accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative in the Statement of Sources and Application of Development Resources. This amount is net of any debt relief delivered to date.
Upon approval by the Executive Directors of IDA in connection with the sales of IDA credits to the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund, the estimated write-down, representing the difference between the carrying value and the net present value (see Note F) of the development credits identified for sale, is recorded under accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative in the Statement of Sources and Application of Development Resources.
a.	This allowance is the sum of the principal component of the best estimate available of the amount of debt relief which is expected to be provided by IDA to eligible countries, and the actual amount of debt relief committed by IDA to those countries that have reached their decision points, and in certain cases their completion points.
Overdue Amounts
At June 30, 2000, charges of $0.1 million (principal of $nil) payable to IDA on development credits, other than those referred to in the following paragraph, were overdue by more than three months. At June 30, 2000, the aggregate principal amounts outstanding on all development credits to any borrower, other than those referred to in the following paragraph, with any devel-
opment credits overdue by more than three months was $443 million.
At June 30, 2000, development credits made to or guaranteed by certain member countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $4,190 million ($4,213 million—June 30, 1999), of which $284 million ($222 million—June 30, 1999) was overdue, were
such members during the period, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000 would have been higher by $29 million ($35 million—June 30, 1999 and $24 millior.— June 30, 1998).
in nonaccrual status. At such date, overdue charges in respect of these development credits totaled $185 million ($157 million—June 30, 1999). If these development credits had not been in nonaccrual status, income from development credits net of charges received from
A summary of borrowers with development credits or guarantees in nonaccrual status follows: In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
a.	Development credits are in non-accrual status consistent with the policies of IBRD and IDA, by which all Bosnia and Herzegovina debt to these organizations is in nonaccrual status.
b.	Development credits are in nonaccrual status due to overdues to IBRD.
During fiscal year 1998, the Syrian Arab Republic and IDA entered into an agreement covering, among other things, the application of Syria’s overdue principal and charges. Under this agreement, Syria paid all its overdue principal and charges by October 31, 1997.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, Comoros paid off all its arrears to IDA. Its development credits came out of nonaccrual status on January 6, 2000. As a result, income from development credits for the year ended June 30, 2000 increased by $1 million, corresponding to income that would have been accrued in the previous fiscal year had these development credits not been in nonaccrual status.
During fiscal year 1999, Sudan reached an understanding with IBRD and IDA under which Sudan agreed to make regular monthly payments of $1 million to clear its arrears beginning in July 1999. These payments are being applied first to IBRD arrears and then to arrears with IDA. As of June 30, 2000, Sudan had paid off all of its arrears to IBRD.
As a result of development credits coming out of ncn-accrual status during the fiscal year ended June 30,
1999,	the income for that year was increased by $3 million.
Fifth Dimension Program
Under the Fifth Dimension program established in September 1988, a portion of principal repayments to IE A is allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA development credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988 and have in place an IDA-supported structural adjustment program. Such supplementary IDA credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions, in proportion to each country’s interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for such IDA supplemental credits, a member country must meet IDA's eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan approved within the last twelve months. To receive a supplemental
credit from the program, a member country' cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA.
A summary of cumulative IDA credits committed and disbursed under this program from inception, at June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999 is given below:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
2000	1999
Guarantees
The guarantee of a development credit of $30 million at June 30, 2000 ($30 million—June 30, 1999) was not included in the Total Resources Used for Development Credits. At June 30, 2000, no amounts were subject to call.
Concentration of Income
For fiscal year 2000, development credits to two countries individually generated in excess of ten per cent of total income from these credits, amounting to $141 million and $66 million.
NOTE F—FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Investments: Since IDA carries its investments at market value, the carrying amount represents the fair value of the portfolio. These fair values are based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted market prices
are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments. The fair value of short-term financial instruments approximates their carrying v'alue.
Development Credits: IDA's development credits have a significant grant element because of the concessional nature of IDA’s terms. Discounting the future cash flows from IDA’s development credits using government reference rates represented by interest rates ol government securities having similar duration to the portfolio of development credits, provides an estimate for the grant element. Under the Initial HIPC Debt Initiative, development credits identified for sale to the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund are written down to their estimated net present value using currency specific Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRRs) published monthly by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Using the six months average CIRR as a discount rate provides an alternative estimate for the grant element.
Since IDA’s development credits are denominated either in U.S. dollars or SDRs, currency specific rates have been used to discount the corresponding future cash flows for each currency component of the development credits, before being aggregated to provide the composite results. The prior year’s fair value of development credits has been restated using government reference rates to conform to the current year’s presentation.
The grant element calculations consider interest rates, maturity structures and grace periods for the credits. They do not consider credit risk, portfolio seasoning, multilateral and sovereign credit preferences and other risks or indicators that would be relevant in calculating fair value. Estimating the impact of these factors is not practicable.
However, under either alternative, the estimated fair values of development credits outstanding are substantially lower than the $85,852 million reflected on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources at June 30, 2000 ($83,158 million—June 30, 1999), as shown in the following table:
a. Implies weighted average government reference rates of the component currencies contained in the SDR.
Discounting the future cash flows from IDA’s development credits using the standard 10 percent discount rate of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD, provides another alternative for the grant
NOTE G—NET MANAGEMENT FEE
IDA receives charges paid by borrowers on Interim Fund Credits as compensation for its services as administrator of ITF, and pays a management fee to IBRD representing its share of the administrative expenses incurred jointly by IBRD and IDA.
element. The estimated grant element based on this standard DAC rate for IDA’s development credits is 68 percent as of June 30, 2000 (69 percent—June 30, 1999).
The following table shows the management fee, net of IDA’s share of income from pension plan and other postretirement benefits plans:
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998, the status of the other postretirement benefits was reviewed by IBRD and it was determined that the assets and liabilities associated with these postretirement benefits did not qualify for off-balance sheet accounting.
NOTE H—TRUST FUNDS ADMINISTRATION
IDA, alone or jointly with IBRD, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses which include the cofinancing of IDA lending projects, debt reduction operations for IDA members, technical assistance for
At June 30, 1998, these assets and liabilities were recorded on IBRD’s balance sheet. As a result of this change, the management fee for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998 was reduced by $133 million.
borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs and research and training programs. These funds are placed in trust and are not included in the development resources of IDA.
At June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999, the allocation of trust fund assets by executing agent were as follows:
The responsibilities of IDA under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services. IDA receives fees for administering trust funds as a reduc-
NOTE I—IMPACT FROM HEAVILY INDEBTED POOR COUNTRIES DEBT INITIATIVE
Enhanced HIPC Framework
On January 27, 2000, the Executive Directors of IDA gave approval for IDA to provide debt relief under the enhanced HIPC framework by forgiving a portion of an eligible country’s IDA and ITF debt service obligations as they become due. Amounts of IDA and ITF debt service forgiven are expected to be reimbursed by the World Bank Group component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund on a pay-as-you-go basis.
Upon approval of the Enhanced HIPC Framework by the Executive Directors of IDA, the nominal value of the principal component of the estimated debt relief costs is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding development credits under accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative, and as a charge to income. This estimate is subject to periodic revision.
Upon signature by IDA of the country specific legal notification, immediately following the decisions by the Executive Directors of IDA to provide debt relief to the country (the decision point), a receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created (to the
tion of the management fee charged by IBRD. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, IDA received $7.4 million ($5.6 million—June 30, 1999, $8.9 million— June 30, 1998) as fees for administering trust funds.
extent that funds are available) and income is recognized. This receivable is limited to the nominal value equivalent of one-third of the net present value of the principal component of the total debt relief committed to the specific country. This is the maximum debt relief that can be provided before the country reaches its completion point (see below).
A receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created and income is recognized when the country reaches its completion point (that is when the conditions specified in the legal notification are met), and the country's other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative. This receivable represents the remaining principal component of the total debt relief committed which was not recognized at the decision point.
A summary of changes to the receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is presented below.
The accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative is reduced when debt relief is provided by IDA. A sum-
Debt relief composed of $11 million in principal repayments and $6 million in charges has been delivered to date by IDA since the start of the Enhanced HIPC, all of which was reimbursed by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund.
Receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund
Development grants disbursed as shown in the Statement of Cash Flows differ from the amounts shown above, due to any outstanding payables and exchange rate movements in the period between the date of approval and the subsequent transfer of the funds.
IDA sells specific development credits to the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund for cash at a price equivalent to the net present value (see Note F) of the development credits, as calculated using the methodology agreed under the Initial HIPC Framework. Upon approval by the Executive Directors of IDA, the estimated write-down, representing the difference betw een the carrying value and the net present value of the development credits identified for sale, is recorded under accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative in the Statement of Sources and Application of Development Resources. On the settlement date, the estimated write-down is adjusted to reflect the actual difference between the cash received and the carrying value of the development credit sold. The HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund subsequently cancels these development credits.
At June 30, 2000, the cumulative position of the sales of IDA development credits under the Initial HIPC Framework is as follows:
Debt Service on Development Credits
The HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund also services	amounts are not recorded in the Statement of Sources
selected IDA development credits as they come due	and Applications of Development Resources of IDA, as
over a period of years. From inception through June 30,	the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is a legally sepa-
2000,	S52 million for Uganda and $54 million for	rate and separately administered entity.
Bolivia had been approved for this purpose. These
A summary table of debt relief provided as of June 30, 2000, and estimated to be provided, under both the Enhanced and Initial HIPC Framework follows:
HIPC Debt Initiative
a. The debt relief relates only to the World Bank Group component of this trust fund, and includes amounts approved up to June 30, 2000 by the Board of Executive Directors of IDA.
NOTE J—COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting sources of development resources that, under generally accepted accounting principles, are excluded from net income. For IDA, comprehensive income comprises currency translation adjustments on development credits and income after
a. The total accumulated other comprehensive income represents the cumulative translation adjustment on development credits.
HIPC Debt Initiative. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The following table presents the changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income balances for the years ended June 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998:
President and Board of Governors International Development Association
We have audited the accompanying special purpose statements of sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30, 2000 and 1999, including the summary statement of development credits and statement of voting power, and subscriptions and contributions as of June 30, 2000, and the related special purpose statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2000. These special purpose financial statements are the responsibility of the International Development Association’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these special purpose financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The accompanying special purpose financial statements were prepared to reflect the sources and applications of development resources, operations, and cash flows of the International Development Association to comply with Article VI, Section 11(a) of the Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association, as discussed in Note A to the special purpose financial statements, and are not intended to be a presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or International Accounting Standards.
As discussed in Note A to the financial statements, during fiscal year 2000 the International Development Association changed its accounting policy for the HIPC Debt Initiative and, retroactively, restated the financial statements for the change. Under the new accounting policy, development grants and any impairments of outstanding development credits in connection with the HIPC Debt Initiative are recognized as charges to income.
In our opinion, such special purpose financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30, 2000 and 1999, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2000 in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the special purpose financial statements.
Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements
NOTE A—ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
Purpose
The Interim Trust Fund (ITF] became effective on November 14, 1996.
The Interim Trust Fund, established by IDA’s Board of Governors in June 1996, is administered by IDA to help fund operations approved during the period July 1, 1996 to June 30, 1997, as well as certain additional operations approved after July 1, 1997. The funds of the Interim Trust Fund have a separate legal, procurement and accounting status. Credits financed by the Interim Trust Fund are made on the same terms and conditions as those of IDA credits with two exceptions. First, eligibility for procurement under the Interim Fund Credits is extended only to nationals of countries that either have contributed to the Interim Trust Fund or are eligible to borrow from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) or IDA. Second, the Interim Fund Credits are approved by IDA’s President after consultation with a committee of IDA’s Executive Directors representing the donors and eligible borrowers. Effective December 31, 1997, procurement restrictions were lifted from SDR 700 million in Interim Trust Fund contributions that were unallocated. Charges paid by borrowers on Interim Fund Credits, currently 0.75 percent on balances outstanding, are received directly by IDA to compensate it for its services as administrator.
The Interim Trust Fund is expected to be terminated when the credits it financed have been substantially disbursed. Upon termination, its assets and liabilities will be transferred to IDA. Voting rights in IDA on account of contributions made to the Interim Trust Fund will be allocated to contributors upon termination of the Interim Trust Fund.
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Due to the nature of the Interim Trust Fund, these financial statements have been prepared for the specific purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of contributions and other development resources. These financial statements are not intended to be a presentation in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America or with International Accounting Standards. These special purpose financial statements have been prepared consistent with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA, and Section 2(e) of the Board of Governors’ Resolution establishing the Interim Trust Fund.
The preparation of these special purpose financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgements have been used in the computation of estimated fair values of development credits and allowances for the HIPC Debt Initiative.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform to the current year’s presentation.
The Interim Trust Fund’s special purpose financial statements are prepared in accordance with the accounting policies outlined below.
Basis of Accounting
The Interim Trust Fund’s special purpose financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. That is, the effects of transactions and other events are recognized when they occur (and not when cash or its equivalent is received or paid) and are recorded in the accounting records and reported in the financial statements of the periods to which they relate.
Translation of Currencies
The Interim Trust Fund’s special purpose financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing the Interim Trust Fund’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its donors and other interested parties.
The Interim Trust Fund conducts its operations in the various currencies contributed to it. Development resources are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period. Contributions are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are translated either at the market exchange rates in effect on the dates of income and expense recognition, or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of Interim Fund Credits denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Other translation adjustments are shown in the Statement of Income.
Contributions
Contributions to the Interim Trust Fund are paid in cash and nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes. The demand notes are encashed by IDA, on behalf of the Interim Trust Fund, on an approximately pro rata basis among donors, at reasonable intervals over the projected encashment period (approximately seven years) to meet the Interim Trust Fund’s operational commitments.
Interim Trust Fund contributions are expressed and are payable in contributors’ currencies, freely convertible currencies and SDRs. Contributions made available for disbursement in cash are translated at market exchange rates in effect on the dates they were made available. Contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period.
Interim Fund Credits finance specific development projects or programs. The policies, practices and procedures governing the allocation of Interim Trust Fund resources, the selection and appraisal of projects or programs to be financed out of such resources and the approval and administration of Interim Fund Credits, including the terms and conditions thereof, are the same as those applicable with respect to development credits made under IDA’s Eleventh Replenishment with the two aforementioned exceptions.
Interim Fund Credits are denominated in SDRs and are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed. They are carried in the Special Purpose Financial Statements at the full face amount of the borrowers' outstanding obligations. Principal repayments of Interim Fund Credits will be part of the resources of the Interim Trust Fund until it is terminated.
In fulfilling its mission, ITF makes concessional loans to the poorest countries, therefore there is significant credit risk in the portfolio of development credits. Management continually monitors this credit risk. No provision for credit losses, other than allowances under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, has been established. This is because it is not practicable to determine a provision for credit losses in view of the nature and maturity structure of the credit portfolio. Should probable losses occur, they would be included in the Statement of Income.
It is the practice to place in nonaccrual status all Interim Fund Credits made to a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such Interim Fund Credits are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if loans by IBRD or development credits by IDA to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all Interim Fund Credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by the Interim Trust Fund. On the date a member’s Interim Fund Credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued by IDA, as administrator, on Interim Fund
Credits outstanding to the member which remained unpaid are deducted from IDA’s income from development credits of the current period. Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in IDA’s income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance the member’s Interim Fund Credits may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though its eligibility for new Interim Fund Credits may have been restored. A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance.
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
The HIPC Debt Initiative was launched in 1996 as a joint effort by bilateral and multilateral creditors to ensure that reform efforts of HIPCs would not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. As a part of this process, the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund was established on November 7, 1996, administered by IDA and constituted by funds of donors including the IBRD, to help beneficiaries reduce their overall debt, including IDA debt.
Under the Enhanced Framework of the initiative, which was approved by IDA's Executive Directors on January 27, 2000, implementation mechanisms also include: (i) partial forgiveness of IDA and ITF debt service as it comes due, to be reimbursed to IDA and ITF by the World Bank Group component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund; and (ii) in the case of countries with a substantial amount of outstanding IBRD debt, partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt.
A summary of the accounting policy and details of any debt relief provided under the Enhanced HIPC Framework are included in Note F.
Investments
The Interim Trust Fund carries its investment securities and related financial instruments at market value. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in Income from Investments.
Interim Trust Fund resources are invested in time deposits including certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations. A summary of the Interim Trust Fund’s investment portfolio by instrument at June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999 is as follows:
a. Effective January 1, 1999, the euro was introduced. For reporting purposes, holdings in the eleven national currencies that are considered national currency units of the euro have been aggregated with the euro and reported as euro, in both the current and prior year.
NOTE C—DONOR CONTRIBUTIONS
At June 30, 2000, receivables from donor contributions were $2.3 million ($2.3 million—June 30, 1999), of which $0.8 million ($nil June 30, 1999) was due and $1.5 million ($2.3 million June 30, 1999) was not yet due. The $0.8 million of contributions due at June 30,
2000	were subsequently received in July 2000. Contributions not yet due at June 30, 2000 will become due as follows:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent Period
NOTE D—FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Investments: Since the Interim Trust Fund carries its investments at market value, the carrying amount represents the fair value of the portfolio. These fair values are based on quoted market prices, where available. The fair value of short-term financial instruments approximates their carrying value.
Interim Fund Credits: Interim Fund credits, which are denominated only in SDRs, have a significant grant element because of the concessional nature of ITF’s terms. Discounting the future cash flows from Interim Fund credits using government reference rates represented by interest rates of government securities having similar duration to the portfolio of Interim Fund credits, provides an estimate for the grant element. Currency specific Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRRs) are published monthly by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Using the average of six months as a discount rate provides an alternative estimate for the grant element. CIRR currency specific rates for the SDR have been used to discount the future cash flows from the Interim Fund Credits. The prior year’s fair value of Interim Fund credits has been restated using government reference rates to conform to the current year’s presentation.
The grant element calculations consider interest rates, maturity structures and grace periods for the credits. They do not consider credit risk, portfolio seasoning, multilateral and sovereign credit preferences and other risks or indicators that would be relevant in calculating fair value. Estimating the impact of these factors is not practicable. However, under either alternative, the estimated fair values of Interim Fund credits outstanding are substantially lower than the $790.5 million reflected
a. Implies weighted average government reference rates of the component currencies contained in the SDR.
Discounting the future cash flows from Interim Fund credits using the standard 10 percent discount rate of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD, provides another alternative for the grant ele-
NOTE E—INTERIM FUND CREDITS
Accumulated Allowance for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
Interim Fund credits outstanding are presented in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources before any allowance in connection with the Enhanced HIPC Framework (see Note F).
The nominal value of the principal component of the debt relief to be provided under the Enhanced HIPC
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
Balance, beginning of the fiscal year
Enhanced HIPC Framework
Allowance for principal component of debt relief a Principal component of debt relief delivered
Balance, end of the fiscal year
ment. The estimated grant element based on this standard DAC rate for Interim Fund credits is 71 percent as June 30, 2000 (73 percent—June 30, 1999).
Framework is shown as accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative in the Statement of Sources and Application of Development Resources. This amount is net of any debt relief delivered to date.
Changes to the accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000 ire summarized below:
a.	This allowance is the sum of the principal component of the best estimate available of the amount of debt relief which is expected to be provided by IDA to eligible countries, and the actual amount of debt relief committed by IDA to those countries that have reached their decision points, and in certain cases their completion points.
Service Charges and Overdue Amounts
Charges on Interim Fund Credits, currently 0.75 percent of balances outstanding, are directly received from borrowers by IDA as compensation for its services as administrator of the ITF. Therefore, the Statement of Income does not report any income from Interim Fund Credits, or expenses for management fee.
At June 30, 2000, Interim Fund Credits made to or guaranteed by Bosnia and Herzegovina with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $73.6 million, ($65.0 million—June 30, 1999] none of which were overdue, were in nonaccrual status, consistent with the policies of IBRD and IDA by which all Bosnia and Herzegovina debt to these organizations is in nonaccrual status.
NOTE F—IMPACT FROM HEAVILY INDEBTED POOR COUNTRIES DEBT INITIATIVE
Enhanced HIPC Framework
On January 27, 2000, the Executive Directors of IDA gave approval for IDA to provide debt relief under the enhanced HIPC framework by forgiving a portion of an eligible country’s IDA and ITF debt service obligations as they become due. Amounts of IDA and ITF debt service forgiven are expected to be reimbursed by the World Bank Group component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund on a pay-as-you-go basis.
Upon approval of the Enhanced HIPC Framework by the Executive Directors of IDA, the nominal value of the principal component of the estimated debt relief costs is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding Interim Fund credits under accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative, and as a charge to income. This estimate is subject to periodic revision.
Upon signature by IDA of the country specific legal notification, immediately following the decisions by the Executive Directors of IDA to provide debt relief to the country (the decision point), a receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created (to the extent that funds are available) and income is recognized. This receivable is limited to the nominal value
equivalent of one-third of the net present value of the principal component of the total debt relief committed to the specific country. This is the maximum debt relief that can be provided before the country reaches its completion point (see below).
A receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created and income is recognized when the country reaches its completion point (that is when the conditions specified in the legal notification are met), and the country's other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative. This receivable represents the remaining principal component of the total debt relief committed which was not recognized at the decision point.
A summary of changes to the receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is presented below.
The accumulated allowance for Enhanced HIPC Framework is reduced when debt relief is provided by ITF. A summary of changes to the accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative is presented under Note E.
Since no Interim Fund Credits outstanding are due for repayment at least until June 30, 2005, no debt relief composed of principal repayments has been delivered to date by ITF. Charges on Interim Fund Credits are directly received from borrowers by IDA and therefore any debt relief delivered on such charges are recorded in the financial statements of IDA.
Receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting sources of development resources that, under generally accepted accounting principles, are excluded from net income. For ITF, comprehensive income comprises currency translation adjustments on Interim Fund Credits and income after
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
Balance, beginning of the fiscal year Changes from period activity
Balance, end of the fiscal year
HIPC Debt Initiative. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The following table presents the changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income balances for the years ended June 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998:
a.	The total accumulated other comprehensive income represents the cumulative translation adjustment on Interim Fund Credits.
President and Board of Governors International Development Association as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund
We have audited the accompanying special purpose statements of sources and applications of development resources of the Interim Trust Fund as of June 30, 2000 and 1999, including the summary statement of interim fund credits and statement of contributions as of June 30, 2000, and the related special purpose statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2000. These special puipose financial statements are die responsibility of the International Development Association’s management as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these special purpose financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The accompanying special puipose financial statements were prepared to reflect the sources and applications of development resources, operations, and cash flows of the Interim Trust Fund to comply with Article VI, Section 11(a) of the Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association, as discussed in Note A to the special puipose financial statements, and are not intended to be a presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or International Accounting Standards.
In our opinion, such special purpose financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the sources and applications of development resources of the Interim Trust Fund as of June 30,
2000	and 1999, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2000 in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the special puipose financial statements.
This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Governors, the International Development Association’s management as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund, and contributors to and borrowers from the Interim Trust Fund. However, under the International Development Association’s Board of Governors’ resolution establishing the Interim Trust Fund, this report is included in die Annual Report of the Executive Directors to the Board of Governors of the International Development Association and is therefore a matter of public record and its distribution is not limited.
Note to Appendixes 7-11
disbursements and procurement
The procurement rules and procedures to be followed in the execution of each project depend on individual circumstances. Four considerations generally guide the Bank’s requirements:
•	economy and efficiency in the execution of a project;
•	opportunity for all eligible bidders from borrowing and nonborrowing member countries to compete in providing goods, works, and services financed by the Bank;
•	development of local contractors, manufacturers, and consulting services in borrowing countries; and
•	transparency in the procurement process.
Appendix 7A shows consolidated foreign and local disbursements for the ibrd and IDA through the end of fiscal 1995 and for period fiscal 1996 through fiscal 2000. Advance disbursements consist of payments made into special accounts of borrowers, from which funds are paid to specific suppliers as expenditures are incurred. Because balances in these accounts cannot be attributed to any specific supplying country until expenditures have been reported to the Bank, these are shown as a separate category.
Appendix 7B provides details on foreign disbursements by countries eligible to borrow from the World Bank and nonborrowing countries1 for the IBRD and IDA separately.
Appendix 7C shows disbursements made in fiscal 2000 by the IBRD and IDA for local procurement by current borrowing countries and disbursements made for goods, works, and services procured from them by other Bank borrowers (foreign procurement) for projects funded by the Bank.
Appendix 8 shows the amounts disbursed from the ibrd and IDA separately for foreign procurement of goods, works, and services from selected
member countries in fiscal 2000 and cumulatively through fiscal 2000.
Appendix 9 shows the proportion of foreign disbursements from the ibrd and IDA for specific categories of goods and services provided by selected member countries in fiscal 2000.
Appendix 10 provides a summary listing of the amounts paid to eligible World Bank borrowing country suppliers and nonborrowing country suppliers in each fiscal year from 1998 to 2000 under investment projects. Amounts disbursed are compared with respect to significant categories of goods procured from foreign suppliers. The extent to which eligible borrowing countries and nonborrowing countries participated in supplying these major categories of goods in each of the past three fiscal years is also compared.
Under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans approved by the executive directors in fiscal 1996, disbursements are no longer directly linked to procurement under adjustment loans disbursed using simplified procedures. Thus, while appendixes 7b to 10 report on disbursements from the ibrd and IDA, they do not include disbursements under adjustment loans disbursed using simplified procedures. The information in Appendix 11 reflects simplified adjustment loan disbursements to each borrower as pro-rata shares of that borrower’s eligible imports from supplying countries using import data drawn from United Nations trade statistics.
In all these tables and appendixes, ibrd figures exclude disbursements for loans to the ifc and "B” loans. IDA figures include Special Facility for SubSaharan Africa and Interim Trust Fund credits. Disbursements for Project Preparation Facility advances are excluded for both the ibrd and ida.
1. Appendix 6 lists countries eligible for borrowing from the World Bank.
Note: Foreign expenditures are expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the borrower or guarantor, for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the territory of the borrower or guarantor. Local expenditures are expenditures in the currency of the borrower or guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the borrower or the guarantor. Amounts may not add to totals because of rounding.
a.	Amounts exclude debt-reduction disbursements of $3,693 million through fiscal 1995, $213 million in fiscal 1997 and $82 million in fiscal 1998. Amounts include disbursements under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans of $556 million in fiscal 1996, $3,333 million in fiscal 1997, $9,540 million in fiscal 1998, $10,423 million in fiscal 1999, and $5,329 million in fiscal 2000. Amounts include HIPC initiative grant disbursements of $74 million in fiscal 1998 and $149 million in fiscal 1999.
b.	Net advance disbursements are advances made to special accounts net of amounts recovered (amounts for which the Bank has applied evidence of expenditures to recovery of the outstanding advance).
c.	Disbursements for fiscal 1996 include the refinancing/rescheduled overdue charges of $168 million for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Note: Amounts exclude disbursements for debt reduction, net advance disbursements, and disbursements under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans and disbursements under HIPC Initiative grants. Countries eligible to borrow from IBRD and IDA are listed in Appendix 6. For consistency of comparison, the Republic of Korea is included as a country eligible to borrow for all periods covered by this table. Korea (a former graduate) again became eligible to borrow in December 1997. Amounts may not add to totals because of rounding.
Appendix 16: Development Committee Communiques, Fiscal 2000
1.	The 60th meeting of the Development Committee was held in Washington, D.C., on September 27, 1999 under the chairmanship of Mr. Tarrin Nimmanahaeminda, Minister of Finance of Thailand.
2.	Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative (HIPC) and Enhanced Poverty Focus of IDA and ESAF Supported Programs. Ministers expressed their appreciation to the Bank and the Fund for the transparent and participatory manner in which they conducted the 1999 HIPC Initiative review. They welcomed the important role played by civil society in the development of proposals designed to make the debt relief under the HIPC Initiative deeper, broader, and faster.
3.	Ministers endorsed—subject to the availability of funding—the enhancements to the HIPC Initiative framework for countries pursuing sound policies and committed to reform. In this context, they expressed support for: (a) a lowering of the debt sustainability thresholds to provide a greater safety cushion and increased prospects for a permanent exit from unsustainable debt; (b) the provision of faster debt relief through interim assistance; (c) the introduction of floating completion points that would shift the focus of assessment toward positive achievements and outcomes rather than the length of track record; and (d) the resulting increase in the number of countries expected to be eligible for debt relief.
4.	Ministers also endorsed the proposed framework for strengthening the link between debt relief and poverty reduction, while recognizing that debt relief alone would be insufficient to achieve this goal. In this context, they welcomed the proposed Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, to be prepared by national authorities in close collaboration with Bank and Fund staff. They stressed that the Poverty Paper should be in place by the decision point; they recognized, however, that on a transitional basis the decision point could be reached without agreement on a Poverty Paper, but in all cases demonstrable progress in implementing a poverty reduction strategy would be required by the completion point.
5.	Ministers also welcomed and endorsed the proposals developed by the Bank and the Fund to extend the same approach to enhance the poverty focus of all IDA and ESAF supported
programs, and to strengthen collaboration between the two institutions. The Committee emphasized that the strategies set out in the new Poverty Papers should be country-driven; be developed transparently with broad participation of elected institutions, stakeholders including civil society, key donors, and regional development banks; and have a clear link with the agreed international development goals— principles that are embedded in the Comprehensive Development Framework. They stressed, in particular, the need to develop macroeconomic, structural, and social policies that will contribute to long-term poverty reduction, and the need to develop measurable intermediate and outcome indicators to monitor progress. Ministers stressed the crucial role good governance plays for HIPC implementation in establishing a framework that discourages corruption and provides more effective monitoring and quality control over fiscal expenditures. Ministers called on the Bank and the Fund, in accordance with their respective mandates and expertise, to give all possible assistance to countries in bringing together the necessary social, structural, and macroeconomic policies required in developing poverty reduction strategies, recognizing the countries’ capacity constraints. The Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers would provide the basis for all IDA and Fund lending to low-income countries. Ministers also encouraged regional development banks and donors to use the Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers to guide their support.
6.	Ministers welcomed the proposed reform of the ESAF aimed at giving greater prominence to the goal of supporting countries’ poverty reduction efforts, and the proposed renaming of the facility as the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility. Recognizing that the new approach will involve substantial changes in Bank and Fund operations to combat poverty, and the need to tailor the approach to individual country circumstances and to learn quickly from experience in early cases, the Committee strongly welcomed the commitments of the President and Managing Director to its effective implementation. Ministers looked forward to receiving reports on progress achieved.
7.	Ministers reaffirmed the importance of implementing the enhanced HIPC Initiative framework in accordance with the principles
that have guided the Initiative since its inception, including [a] additionality of debt relief (b) the maintenance of the financial integrity of multilateral financial institutions, and (c) the importance of burden-sharing on a fair and equitable basis, including of the costs to multilateral institutions. They agreed that financing of debt relief should not compromise the financing made available through concessional windows such as IDA. Ministers expressed appreciation for the many contributions to the HIPC Initiative made thus far, and for the efforts made by multilateral development institutions to provide funding for the Initiative from their own resources. Ministers recognized that most of these institutions will need bilateral support on an urgent basis in order to meet the additional costs resulting from the proposed enhanced framework, and to enable them to implement the Initiative rapidly. The Committee welcomes the agreement on the financing of the Fund’s participation in the HIPC Initiative and continued concessional lending by the Fund for growth and poverty reduction in low income member countries.
8.	Ministers also welcomed agreement on the elements of a financing plan for multilateral development banks that respect the above principles. This will permit the enhanced HIPC Initiative framework to be launched and the delivery of debt relief to begin for those countries requiring retroactive relief and those expected to reach their decision points over the near term. They asked the World Bank to work actively and closely with the whole group of donors and other MDBs to ensure that financing is mobilized to fully fund HIPC debt relief over the longer term.
9.	Ministers also welcomed the agreement by the Paris Club to increase its debt relief under the enhanced framework by providing increased debt reduction in NPV terms up to 90 percent or more, if needed, on commercial loans as well as additional relief on ODA claims—up to full cancellation—on a bilateral basis.
10.	Ministers welcomed the continuing progress in the implementation of the Initiative, noting that, to date, 14 countries have been considered under the Initiative—with four brought to their completion points. The Committee urged the speedy implementation of the enhanced
Initiative so that as many countries as possible qualify for assistance under the Initiative by end-2000.
11.	IBRD Capital Adequacy. Ministers reviewed a report from the World Bank that reflected ongoing discussions by the Bank’s Executive Board and management on options to maintain and support the IBRD’s financial capacity. The Committee agreed with the report’s finding that the Bank’s finances remain sound. Ministers also recognized that the Bank’s financial capacity may limit its ability to respond to future demands, especially when there is a deterioration in the global financial environment. Ministers requested management and the Executive Board to continue their examination of the level of financial capacity needed to preserve the IBRD’s financial integrity while permitting it to help meet, within its mandate, the development needs of borrowing member countries. Ministers requested that the Bank report regularly to the Committee on these issues.
12.	Developing and Transition Countries and the International Trade Agenda. The Committee noted that effective development and trade policy have become increasingly intertwined. They emphasized the importance of trade to development, poverty alleviation, and sustained global economic recovery. Ministers also emphasized that the next round of trade negotiations needed to deliver early and substantial benefits for developing and transition countries, in particular for the least developed countries. This would require improved market access and further reduce barriers to trade. They stressed that if developing and transition countries are to use the international trading system effectively to promote growth and reduce poverty, they will need to become active partners in the next round of trade negotiations. Ministers welcomed the commitment of the new Director-General of the World Trade Organization (WTO), Mr. Mike Moore, to achieve this goal and urged the World Bank, the Fund, WTO, UNCTAD, and other agencies to help developing and transition countries build their capacity to participate in further rounds of negotiations. The Committee called on the Bank, the Fund, and WTO to cooperate with other parties in developing effective programs of capacity building for trade, including through the Integrated Framework for
Trade Related Technical Assistance for the Least Developed Countries. The Bank, in particular, could provide financial and technical support to improve trade-related infrastructure and institutions, helping to build capacity in domestic institutions involved in trade policy and negotiations, and undertaking research on trade barriers to developing countries’ exports.
13.	World Bank Support for Strengthening International Financial Architecture.
Ministers welcomed the role the World Bank Group is playing to help strengthen the global financial architecture to reduce the risk and severity of financial crises, and to reduce the vulnerability of developing countries to crises when they occur. The Committee stressed that at the country level, the Bank's primary focus, given the objective of preventing crises, should be on assisting developing countries to strengthen their domestic financial markets and their integration with the global financial system. This should be done through helping countries to overcome structural and social sources of vulnerability and build the needed policy and institutional capacity. Given the breadth and complexity of the agenda, Ministers encouraged the Bank and the Fund to focus on their areas of comparative strength while developing partnerships with other international institutions. Ministers welcomed progress in the joint Bank/Fund program of financial sector assessments and the Bank’s program of Social and Structural Reviews. They also welcomed the proposed enhanced collaboration with the Fund in assisting interested countries to assess their progress in implementing a range of international norms and good practices, with due consideration to differing country conditions. The Committee encouraged the Bank to continue to bring developing country experience and perspectives to the international debate. In this context, they noted the establishment of a global forum on corporate governance, launched in collaboration with the OECD, and the Bank’s supportive role for work on insolvency, accounting, and auditing.
14.	Ministers welcomed the Bank’s help to developing countries on social issues, as well as its report on managing the social dimensions of crises and good practices in social policies. They encouraged the Bank to continue to develop this work and to draw on it in supporting
countries’ poverty reduction efforts. The Bank should accumulate and disseminate knowledge of good practices to help guide countries seeking to create institutions and implement policies that will forestall and mitigate the social costs of economic shocks and protect the most vulnerable.
15.	Ministers welcomed the steps being taken to strengthen the work of the Development and Interim Committees, both to better reflect the enhanced level of cooperation between the Bank and the Fund and to reduce duplication in the committees’ agendas. They encouraged the Bank and Fund to continue to review experience in this area.
16.	Next Meeting. The Committee's next meeting is scheduled for April 17, 2000 in Washington, D.C.
COMMUNIQUE
1.	The 61st meeting of the Development Committee was held in Washington, D.C., on April 17, 2000 under the chairmanship of Mr. Tarrin Nimmanahaeminda, Minister of Finance of Thailand. The Committee’s deliberations took place against the background of growing public debate about the appropriate roles of international institutions at a time when governments and people throughout the world confront the opportunities and rapid changes brought about by globalization. In their discussions of how to strengthen efforts to reduce poverty, to intensify the attack on HIV/ AIDS, and to expand the benefits of trade to all countries, Ministers emphasized the importance they attach to preserving and further strengthening the family of multilateral institutions as a powerful force for global progress, equity, and stability.
2.	Intensifying action against HIV/AIDS. Ministers emphasized that the HIV/AIDS epidemic, which has already infected about 50 million people, is not only a very serious public health concern and the cause of great human suffering, but a severe danger to development progress itself. Ministers recognized that HIV/AIDS weakens economic growth, governance, human capital, labor productivity, and the investment climate, thereby undermining the foundations of development and poverty reduction. Ministers
noted that the epidemic now poses not only an acute danger to development in Sub-Saharan Africa, but is a rapidly growing threat in Asia and the Caribbean, and a probable threat in many Eastern European countries and elsewhere as well. As HIV/AIDS spreads quickly, even countries with currently low infection rates cannot afford to delay strengthening anti-HIV/ AIDS programs.
3.	In view of this alarming situation, the Committee called for rapid intensification of international action on the global HIV/AIDS crisis. Given the urgency of prevention and the vast needs for care and treatment, the Committee stressed the importance of effective partnerships to encourage each actor in the international system to focus on its comparative strength. Ministers urged governments, international agencies, civil society, the media and the private sector, including the pharmaceutical industry, to step up their efforts, building on experience gained in on-going activities. They urged developing and transition countries to increase their political and economic commitment to combating HIV/AIDS, to address the epidemic on a multisectoral basis, to scale up programs to nationwide— and in some cases regional - scope, to strengthen the primary health care systems needed for effective delivery of services, and to provide more resources directly to local communities. The Committee encouraged industrialized countries and international organizations to mainstream HIV/AIDS in their development programs and to devote increased financial and institutional resources on a scale commensurate with the scope of the crisis. Ministers recognized that support for capacity building is particularly important in addressing this long-lasting development problem.
4.	Ministers welcomed the World Bank’s expanded efforts against HIV/AIDS, in particular its active participation in the UNAIDS partnership, its new HIV/AIDS strategy for Africa, and its work with the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations (G AVI). They urged the Bank to intensify its HIV/AIDS work on a global basis, focusing on its areas of expertise, and called on the Bank and the Fund to take full account of HIV/AIDS in their support for poverty reduction strategies and the HIPC Initiative.
5.	Trade, Development and Poverty Reduction. Ministers emphasized the critical importance of trade for development and poverty reduction. They noted that accelerated and sustainable growth is a necessary condition for reducing poverty, and that more open economies tend to grow faster than closed ones; evidence suggests that substantial benefits could be gained from further liberalization of trade regimes in both developed and developing (including transition] countries. Ministers recognized that developed countries have much to do to improve market access for developing countries’ exports (e.g. agriculture, textiles). Developing countries need to implement appropriately sequenced outward-oriented reforms that will permit trade expansion to promote development and poverty reduction. Ministers noted that the majority of the poorest countries lag behind in their integration into the world trading system. Additional domestic and international reforms are needed, including special consideration of enhanced market access for these countries (e.g., by extending comprehensive and predictable duty-and quota-free market access). Ministers also noted the potential of regional integration to help developing countries increase their share in global markets. Ministers strongly endorsed a timely initiation of WTO multilateral trade negotiations that address, inter alia, issues of most concern to developing countries.
6.	Ministers emphasized that countries should ensure that their efforts to expand trade are integrated into a comprehensive framework for development that includes the necessary complementary reforms and investment in institutions, infrastructure, and social programs. Ministers endorsed the commitment of the World Bank and the Fund to use their programs to support these efforts, which are increasingly reflected in countries’ poverty reduction strategies. Ministers reiterated their call on the Bank, the Fund, and WTO to cooperate with other parties in developing effective programs of capacity building for trade, including through an improved Integrated Framework for Trade Related Assistance for the Least Developed Countries. The Committee urged the Bank to mainstream trade in its country assistance programs by providing greater financial and technical support to improve trade-related
infrastructure and institutions, including building domestic capacity for trade policy and negotiations. The committee also urged the Bank to undertake a strengthened research program on, inter alia, trade barriers to developing country exports, the issues developing countries face in implementing the Uruguay Round Agreement, and the complex links between trade and poverty.
7.	Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative (HIPC). Ministers noted the progress made in implementing the enhanced HIPC Initiative framework endorsed by the Committee at its last meeting. Five countries—Bolivia, Mauritania, Mozambique, Tanzania and Uganda—have thus far reached their decision points under this new framework, bringing total committed debt relief under the HIPC Initiative to more than $14 billion; moreover, up to 15 additional country cases could be considered by the Bank and Fund Executive Boards this year. Ministers encouraged the governments of HIPC-eligible countries to continue to work closely with the Bank and Fund and other partners in pursuing sound policies and delivering effective reform programs so that the delivery of HIPC debt relief and the related poverty reduction strategies, can move forward as swiftly as possible. The Committee welcomed the establishment by the Bank and the Fund of a joint implementation committee (JIC) to facilitate effective implementation of the enhanced HIPC Initiative and the new poverty reduction strategy approach.
8.	Ministers appreciated that participation in the enhanced framework had now been approved by the governing bodies of a majority of multilateral institutions, although they recognized that successful implementation of the Initiative will depend upon the timely availability of adequate financing to meet their full debt relief costs. While these institutions were encouraged to utilize their own resources for this purpose to the greatest extent possible, Ministers recognized that many multilateral institutions needed additional bilateral support on an urgent basis. Ministers welcomed donor pledges and commitments of resources, including those announced since September, and urged that these pledges be turned into actual commitments as soon as possible. They also recognized that even with these pledges, the Initiative remains under-
funded. Donors that had not yet done so were urged to make generous contributions to the HIPC Trust Fund. Ministers reiterated the need to ensure that debt relief does not compromise the financing from concessional facilities such as IDA. Ministers also reiterated the importance of the principle that all bilateral creditors should participate fully in the provision of relief under the enhanced Initiative, while recognizing the need for flexibility in exceptional cases.
9.	Poverty Reduction Strategies. Ministers welcomed the progress in the implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy approach. The Committee had endorsed this approach at its last meeting as a means to strengthen the link between debt relief (and external assistance more generally) and poverty reduction, and to enhance the poverty focus of all Bank and Fund concessional lending. Ministers noted that many governments in developing countries had begun to develop, through transparent and participatory processes, country-owned, comprehensive strategies that addressed key issues in tackling poverty, such as equitable growth, governance and corruption, and institution and capacity building. Ministers welcomed the steps taken by governments to develop and implement interim strategies that permit HIPC debt relief and concessional lending to be provided while governments prepare more comprehensive poverty reduction strategies.
10.	Recognizing that this approach involves new ways of assisting developing countries, Ministers urged the Fund and the Bank to allocate adequate resources to support the PRSP process. The institutions were urged to continue to work collaboratively with member countries and other development partners to develop full poverty reduction strategies, integrated with macroeconomic and fiscal policies. These strategies should incorporate lessons learned as implementation proceeds, including concentration on a limited number of clear, realistic, and measurable performance targets and including those related to the International Development Goals. As poverty reduction strategies need to be mainstreamed, Ministers emphasized they should be fully integrated into countries’ budget cycles. They also emphasized the importance of increased efforts, including both technical assistance and funding, to improve statistics and
other data and the analytical skills at the country level needed to make the approach a success. Moreover, they encouraged bilateral and multilateral agencies to support governments in the preparation of their strategies. These agencies were also encouraged to participate in the discussion of the design of these strategies with the objective of increasingly aligning their assistance programs to these strategies as they are put in place, thereby strengthening donor coordination and reducing excessive burdens on developing country governments.
11.	Report of the Commonwealth Secretariat/ World Bank Joint Task Force on Small States. Ministers welcomed the report to the Development Committee and its analysis of the special characteristics of small states that make them particularly vulnerable, while noting that a number of larger states shared some or all of the same characteristics. They noted the report’s conclusions that tackling small states’ development challenges will take a combination of correct domestic policy action, continued external assistance, and where achievable, improvements in the external environment. They also noted the report’s recommendation that the circumstances of small states should be taken into account in the policies and programs of the multilateral trade, finance, and development organizations. The Committee supported World Bank and the Fund proposals for their future work programs on the issues of small states, as
set out in the report, and agreed that these steps could make a valuable contribution in helping small states face their development challenges.
12.	International Financial Architecture: the Role of the World Bank. Ministers welcomed the Bank’s continuing contribution to global efforts to reduce the risk—and mitigate the impact—of future financial crises, noting that actions and policies that reduce vulnerability to crises also support successful development. The Committee welcomed the close collaboration that had developed between the Bank and the Fund on the program of financial sector assessments, the reports on the observance of standards and codes, and the work on debt management. Ministers encouraged the Bank to make systematic use of these assessments in designing, delivering, and mobilizing support for capacity building.
13.	IBRD Financial Capacity. Ministers reviewed an updated report on this subject from the World Bank and confirmed that the Bank’s finances remain sound. At the same time, Ministers recognized that the Bank's financial capacity may at some point limit its ability to respond to future demands. Ministers requested management and the Executive Board to keep this subject under review and to continue to report regularly to the Committee.
14.	Next Meeting. The Committee’s next meeting is scheduled for September 25, 2000 in Prague, Czech Republic.
Summaries of Projects Approved for IBRD, IDA, IDA I nterim Trust Fund, and Trust Fund for the West Bank and Gaza Assistance in Fiscal 2000
The following section contains projects approved by the Board in fiscal 2000. Projects are listed according to their primary sector classification. Lending totals obtained by adding up loan amounts for projects listed correspond to sector data classified on a loan-by-loan basis, rather than a loan component basis (see Table 1.1, p. 3 3 and Annex Tables pp. 150 to 161 of the World Bank Annual Report 2000: Annual Review and Summary Financial Information].
§ denotes projects included in the Program of Targeted Interventions (pti). A project is included in the PTI if it has a specific mechanism for targeting poor people and/or if the proportion of poor people among its beneficiaries is significantly larger than the proportion of poor in the total population.
t denotes adjustment operations categorized as poverty-focused. An operation is considered poverty-focused if it eliminates distortions that disadvantage poor people, reorients public expenditures toward them, and/or supports programs that provide safety nets or target specific groups of poor people.
0 denotes various levels of civil society involvement in Bank-supported projects from design to monitoring and evaluation of results.
ida—$42 million. This credit will prevent the decline of water supply to Baku and areas along the Samur-Apsheron Canal, and improve drainage and reduce waterlogging along the Main Mill-Mugan Collector. Total cost: $46.9 million.
ida—$5 million. This learning and innovation credit supports further testing and development of improved technology transfer programs to increase responsiveness to local requirements and to improve cooperation with nongovernmental organizations. Total cost: $14.4 million.
ida—$28 million. Approximately 12 million fishermen, including poor people and women, will benefit from this program to create about
440,000	jobs and to increase fish production for domestic and international consumption. Total cost: $60.8 million.
ibrd—$136 million. This loan will increase the sustainable water supply for multiple uses, improve Ceara’s integrated water resource management system efficiency, and decrease poor people’s vulnerability to cyclical drought. Total cost: $247.2 million. ida—$4.8 million. This learning and innovation credit will benefit government revenues, the environment, and poor communities in or near forests through strengthened management, concession operations control, and improved forest-law enforcement. Total cost: $5.4 million.
ibrd—$93.5 million. A total of about 140,000 participating rural households in four provinces will benefit from this project to improve cattle production and marketing in existing crop farming areas. Total cost: $180.8 million.
ibrd—$210 million. Two provinces will benefit from this project to protect riverbanks against erosion and floods. Critical sections of existing main dikes along the Yangtze River will be improved. Total cost:
$545.5 million.
ibrd—$50 million. This project supports the second phase of Egypt’s national drainage program through subsurface drainage development, open agricultural drains remodeling, and support of Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects. Total cost: $278.4 million.
IDA—$7.6 million. This project will help initiate the development of an agricultural knowledge system that will increase sustainable agricultural production and reduce pollution of natural resources in Georgia. Total cost: $12.4 million.
ibrd—$13 million; ida—$5 million. This project will help farmers to participate in the district-level integrated agricultural and forestry extension systems, to improve farming practices and increase income. Total cost: $23.6 million.
ida—$20 million. This project will increase crop production through reliable and sustainable water distribution on about 160,000 hectares of irrigated land across seven oblasts in the Kyrgyz Republic. Total cost:
$29 million.
ida—$115.1 million. This adaptable program credit will help the government improve irrigation and rural transport infrastructure, and supply water and sanitation services to some of Mali’s poorest rural areas. Total cost: $139.3 million.
IDA—$38.1 million. This project will help establish appropriate policies, provide public infrastructures, and supply necessary services to develop a private sector-driven agriculture sector in the Senegal Valley. Total cost: $46.0 million.
IBRD—$55 million. This second adaptable program loan will improve the well-being and income of smallholders in the poorest areas through sustainable increases in productivity, and better food security. Total cost: $73 million.
IDA—$23.6 million. This project supports the first phase of a competitive grant program to share technology, knowledge, and innovations among small and medium-scale farmers to improve farming practices. Total cost: $38.3 million.
IDA—$10.4 million. This specific investment credit will help the government boost agricultural and livestock exports by giving private sector enterprises and producers the tools for increased production and profitability. Total cost: $12.1 million.
IBRD—$9.6 million. This adaptable program loan establishes a private sector-led agricultural technology innovation system to increase environmentally sound technology by permitting farmers to perform research and obtain technical advice. Total cost: $13.8 million.
IBRD—$27.5 million. Approximately 600,000 poor rural people will benefit from the first phase of this adaptable program loan through rehabilitation of rural infrastructure, small community-based subprojects, and strengthened local governments. Total cost: $41 million.
IBRD—$11 million. This project will benefit private farmers and agroprocessors by providing technology, information, and training, as well as by improving the management of research and extension. Total cost: $17.8 million.
ibrd—$60 million. This project will: improve public sector management of forests through policy reform and land-use management; regenerate forested areas; and develop a favorable environment for private investment in forestry. Total cost: $74.5 million.
IDA—$5 million. This learning and innovation credit will help farmers, private traders, local communities, and consumers benefit from a revitalized agricultural and rural economy resulting from improved policies and institutional mechanisms. Total cost: $5.6 million.
IDA—$27 million. Communities affected by ethnic conflict in the northeast region will benefit from this project to increase agricultural production, irrigation schemes, rural roads, access to drinking water, and community capacity-building activities. Total cost: $32.4 million.
ida—$20 million. The project will increase water supply to irrigation channels that service farms, develop institutional capability in managing water resources, and increase the quality of water in selected villages. Total cost: $24 million.
IBRD—$103 million. This project will promote integrated water resource development and demand management, including physical water storage works, groundwater exploration and monitoring, small-scale irrigation, ground water management, and water studies. Total cost: $258 million. ida—$5 million. About 1,000 poor rural families will benefit from this learning and innovation credit to sustain increases in income and standards of living through acquisition of farm land. Total cost: $7 million.
IDA—$30 million. This structural adjustment credit will support government reforms in improving public resource management, enhancing public sector management, and formulating a strategy for enhancing governance and fighting corruption. Total cost: $30 million.
IDA—$8 million. Within a fragile post-conflict context this project will help the Central African Republic government implement its reform program, in particular the privatization program and poverty reduction strategy. Total cost: $8.5 million.
IDA—$45 million. This technical assistance credit will provide the government of Uttar Pradesh with technical expertise to implement fiscal and public sector restructuring and to improve the monitoring of poverty trends. Total cost: $55 million.
IDA—$5 million. This technical assistance credit will provide consulting, audits, training, materials, and equipment to strengthen the government’s capacity to improve the business environment, mobilize revenue, and reform the energy sector.Total cost: $5.5 million.
IDA—$20.9 million. This technical assistance credit will support efforts to improve transparency and efficiency in public sector management through information systems, data and voice telecommunications networks, computer technology, and training. Total cost: $28.2 million.
IDA—$20 million. The project will promote good governance and will address the needs of the population regarding the efficient use of public sector resources and optimal delivery of services. Total cost: $45.7 million. IDA—$30 million. This economic rehabilitation and recovery credit will assist the transition from war to peace, and will help revive basic public services and restore credibility to public sector performance. Total cost: $30 million.
ida—$190 million. The programmatic structural adjustment credit is part of a two-phase program to help create conditions for sustained private sector development. This is key to accelerate poverty reduction. Total cost: $190 million.
IBRD—$759.6 million. This economic reform loan will support Turkey’s reforms in public expenditure management, social security, agriculture, telecommunications, and energy. The project also supports the disinflation program and acceleration of privatization. Total cost:
$759.6 million.
IDA—$140 million. This fiscal sustainability credit will support Zambia’s reform program to reduce poverty by restoring macroeconomic stability, promoting sustained diversified growth, improving governance, and enhancing vital social services’ delivery. Total cost: $140 million.
IDA—$12 million. This project will support the ministry of education and sciences in the planning and management of educational services delivery and it will strengthen its accountability to stakeholders. Total cost:
$14.9 million.
IDA—$1.8 million. This learning and innovation credit will help civil servants, the private sector, and community leaders design economic and social development policies through distance learning, training, and state-of-the-art communications. Total cost: $3 million.
ida—$5 million. This learning and innovation credit will help the government test a pilot program aimed at increasing the availability, quality, and cost effectiveness of labor force training. Total cost: $6.2 million.
ida—$10.6 million. This project will enhance the professional capacity of teachers, promote efficient and equitable use of scarce public resources for education, and promote cooperation and coordination within the sector. Total cost: $14.6 million.
IDA—$5 million. This learning and innovation credit will help develop a participatory model for improvement of school quality and performance-based resource management to benefit educators and students in three provinces. Total cost: $5.5 million.
ibrd—$20 million. This adaptable program loan will improve access to quality education in rural areas by supporting primary education, decentralization, and teacher training, which will benefit 176,000 students in the poorest areas. Total cost: $40 million.
IDA—$5 million. This learning and innovation credit will help about
30,000	women and girls in the north—where school enrollments are the lowest—to develop literacy skills. Total cost: $5.7 million.
IDA—$2 million. This learning and innovation credit will test the viability of distance learning to increase decisionmakers’ access to cost-effective training and improve their capacity to design and manage policies. Total cost: $3.6 million.
IDA—$182.4 million. About 10.8 million children in 42 disadvantaged districts will benefit from this project to construct new school facilities, improve quality of instruction, and increase teacher training and retention. Total cost: $214.7 million.
IBRD—$34.7 million. Improvements to Jordan’s higher education system will be achieved by this project to establish a countrywide modern information technology, management information system, and library infrastructure. Total cost: $65.8 million.
IBRD—$56.6 million. This project will benefit over 100,000 primary and secondary students through school construction and the introduction of new technologies, and 20,000 teachers through in-service training. Total cost: $70.9 million.
IDA—$17.6 million. About 2,200 children will benefit from this project to improve education quality and efficiency, increase equitable access, strengthen institutional capacity, and improve in-country and overseas teacher training. Total cost: $19.7 million.
IDA—$3.8 million. This learning and innovation credit will assist the government to further develop and assess the merits of bilingual education in Mali, in terms of its financial and educational sustainability. Total cost: $5.5 million.
IDA—$52.5 million. This project will expand on the Basic Education I Project to improve the quality of preschool and primary education, targeting rural areas, including those with predominantly indigenous populations. Total cost: $58.4 million.
IDA—$55 million. The project will support one of the government’s top priorities: to improve and make basic education universal by providing resources to 740 focus primary schools and 900 self-help schools. Total cost: $61.1 million.
IDA—$35 million. This credit will help Rwanda develop and implement a sustained capacity-building program promoting education and skills development, by addressing human resource deficiencies and training professionals. Total cost: $37.1 million.
IDA—$2.1 million. This learning and innovation credit will build public and private sector capacity by increasing access to training for decisionmakers and implementers of education projects and establishing a center for distance learning. Total cost: $3.5 million.
IDA—$50 million. This adaptable program credit will support the goal of increasing Senegal’s primary enrollment from 65 percent in 1998-99 to 100 percent in 2008-09, while improving learning. Total cost: $926 million.
ibrd—$99 million. This adaptable program loan will support government efforts to ensure universal basic education, provide more students with post-basic education, and modernize the education sector, to improve quality. Total cost: $206.7 million.
IBRD—$5 million. This learning and innovation loan will help foster science and technology research, increase Venezuela’s knowledge access, and increase its knowledge base in economic and social development. Total cost: $15 million.
IDA—$28.9 million. About 560,000 children under age 5 and 600 women of childbearing age in low-income districts will have improved access to health care and nutrition through this project’s direct interventions. Total cost: $45.3 million.
ELECTRIC POWERAND OTHER ENERGY
0 Bolivia	IDA—$4.8 million. This learning and innovation credit will strengthen
Bolivia’s capacity to evaluate the hydrocarbon sector’s impact, increase oil companies’ compliance, and facilitate flows of transparent, timely information. Total cost: $5.8 million.
0 China	ibrd—$320 million. Two provinces will benefit from the increased power
supply and the improved investment and operating efficiency through the introduction of a competitive power market and supporting institutional and physical infrastructure. Total cost: $904 million.
ibrd—$80 million; ida—$50 million. This project will reduce power shortages and greenhouse gas emissions through environmentally sustainable investments in power generation through hydro resources and will finance energy management. Total cost: $300 million.
ibrd—$ 150 million. This project will support power sector reform processes by establishing new legal, regulatory, and institutional frameworks; creating new power corporations; and launching preparatory work for privatizing distribution. Total cost: $236 million.
I3RD—$140 million. This project will improve the reliability of electricity supply, develop competition in electricity markets, and restructure the grid company. Total cost: $258.4 million.
IDA—$9.9 million. This technical assistance project will help to create an enabling environment for sustainable development of the electricity and water sectors to improve quality and increase access to services. Total cost: $10.9 million.
ibrd—$38.2 million. This project, one of the largest renewable energy projects in the Europe and Central Asia region, will help reduce air pollution in the Podhale region. Total cost: $96.7 million.
ida—$33 million. This supplemental credit will help provide adequate and reliable power that will result in increased economic activity, productivity, and growth. Total cost: $38.6 million.
ibrd—$18.3 million. The project will improve energy efficiency of key public buildings, mainly schools and hospitals, in Kiev through cost-effective measures and sound heat tariff policies. Total cost: $30.4 million.
ida—$150 million. About 2.5 million rural poor in 32 provinces in Vietnam will benefit from this program for extension of rural electrification networks to 671 communes. Total cost: $201.3 million.
Trust Fund for the West Bank and Gaza—$ 15 million. Palestinian electricity consumers in central and southern regions will benefit from sustainable improvements in the quality and quantity of utility-grade electrical services. Total cost: $91 million.
ibrd—$15 million. This adaptable program loan aims to increase the environmental institutions’ effectiveness at local, state, and national levels and to improve the quality of priority environmental assets. Total cost: $30 million.
ibrd—$50 million. This structural adjustment loan will support reform of environmental policies, incorporate environmental issues in privatization, and accelerate implementation of the European Union Directive on Pollution Prevention and Control. Total cost: $50 million.
IDA—$ 1.9 million. This learning and innovation credit will improve the capacity of the Ministry of Environment to develop a national protected areas system, and will promote global conservation projects benefiting Ratanakiri Province. Total cost: $4.9 million.
ida—$5.8 million. This technical assistance credit will help the government develop and establish national capacity in Cameroon for the environmental management and monitoring of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project. Total cost: $11 million.
IBRD—$349 million. About 5.3 million residents of Beijing will benefit from sustained alleviation of environmental pollution, promotion of energy conservation, and strengthened environmental management institutions. Total project cost: $1.3 billion.
ibrd—$5 million. This learning and innovation loan supports strategies developed by residents and others to conserve the diversity of the Sierra Nevada region and to use its natural resources sustainably. Total cost:
$6.3 million.
ibrd—$32.6 million. This technical assistance loan will provide financial incentives to small and medium-sized landowners to conserve primary forests, encourage sustainable management of secondary forests, and promote reforestation efforts. Total cost: $49.2 million.
IDA—$9.4 million. This project will support the development of markets for land and real estate, and the introduction of a well-functioning registration system. Total cost: $11.8 million.
IDA—$5 million. This learning and innovation credit will assist the government in testing appropriate methods to determine how to safeguard and enhance the cultural heritage of the country. Total cost:
$5.5 million.
IDA—$5.6 million.This project will help the government achieve sustainable economic development of coastal zone resources by balancing ecological, social, and physical values with varying interests in the coastal zone. Total cost: $10.6 million.
ibrd—$2.5 million. This learning and innovation loan will provide technical assistance, infrastructure, and equipment to help farmers in target areas apply environmentally responsible farming practices. Total cost: $15.8 million.
IDA—$.5 million. This project will help prepare vulnerable people for possible disasters associated with the flooding of Lake Sarez, as well as less catastrophic natural disasters. Total cost: $4.3 million.
IDA—$31.8 million. Environmental degradation and poverty will be reduced in four southern provinces by replanting mangroves, developing food production technologies, implementing community-based programs, and supporting policy and institutional development. Total cost: $65.6 million.
IDA—$6.5 million. This technical assistance project strengthens the financial sector, focusing on banking and insurance industries in Albania. Technical assistance will be offered for implementation of a financial sector strategy. Total cost: $7.5 million.
IDA—$46.9 million. This project will develop medium- and long-term financing for industrial projects by strengthening nonbank financial institutions and improving the external environment for fund mobilization. Total cost: $57.7 million.
ibrd—$50 million. This loan increases access to formal financial services in northeastern Brazil by supporting expansion of a microfinance program. The program should benefit at least 150,000 low-income informal entrepreneurs. Total cost: $100 million.
IBRD—$100 million. This sector adjustment loan will support privatization of enterprises, financial discipline, banking reform, and energy restructuring. Total cost: $100 million.
IBRD—$506 million. This financial sector adjustment program will support implementation of recent legislation reforms, promote efficient resolution of banks facing solvency problems, and provide funds for bank restructuring and recapitalization. Total cost: $506 million.
IBRD—$151.5 million. This structural adjustment loan supports economic recovery and social services for the poorest. It supports fiscal reforms and public financial management, while restoring confidence and helping to maintain needed spending. Total cost: $151.5 million.
IBRD—$10 million. This technical assistance loan aims to strengthen the superintendency of banks, increasing the efficiency of its regulation and supervision of the banking industry, and modernizing the Deposit Guarantee Agency. Total cost: $14.09 million.
IDA—$5.1 million. This project will help strengthen financial services for approximately 14 million people by developing an environment for increased rural investment through support of a functional rural financial sector. Total cost: $23 million.
IDA—$21 million. The objective of this technical assistance credit is to improve the soundness, performance, and competitiveness of the financial sector and to enable it to support broad-based private sector growth.
Total cost: $23.1 million.
ibrd—$4.8 million. This project will improve government's cash management by supporting financial system infrastructure and capacity building to enhance debt management and interaction with the financial markets. Total cost: $6.1 million.
IBRD—$505.1 million. This bank restructuring adjustment loan will provide funds to Mexico’s bank-deposit insurance agency to finance debt-servicing needs arising from its mandate to restructure, sell, or liquidate five banks.Total cost: $505.1 million.
ida—$32 million. This sector adjustment credit will support measures to create a more sound and efficient financial system, and will support macroeconomic stability consolidation, faster growth, and higher living standards. Total cost: $32 million.
ida—$8 million. This technical assistance credit will: help make old-age income security more equitable and sustainable; help develop the capacity to regulate the system; and strengthen financial markets. Total cost: $10.6 million.
ida—$18.2 million. This project provides technical assistance to improve the efficiency, predictability, and transparency of the Sri Lankan legal and judicial system. Total cost: $21.1 million.
IDA—$27.5 million. Through government banking reforms, small savers and microentrepreneurs will have improved access to a sound and competitive financial system. Total cost: $32.1 million. ida—$2 million. This learning and innovation credit will build microfinance institutions’ capacities in rural and urban areas by strengthening their business planning capacity and providing training and access to information. Total cost: $2.5 million.
ibrd—$252.5 million. This loan will strengthen financial intermediation by providing short- and medium-term funds to private exporters, as well as technical assistance to the TurkExIm Bank. Total cost: $253 million.
ibrd—$80.9 million. This structural adjustment loan will help implement policy reforms to increase competition among banks, thereby strengthening the financial system and protecting the country’s fiscal balance from external shocks. Total cost: $80.9 million.
ibrd—$4.9 million. This learning and innovation loan will pilot the development of health insurance for poor people in selected provinces and will help extend a health insurance model regionally. Total cost:
$7.1 million.
IBRD—$52.5 million. This project will strengthen national, provincial, municipal, and local public health surveillance and disease control capacity to protect poor people from tuberculosis, dengue fever, and hospital-acquired infections. Total cost: $75 million.
ida—$92 million. More than 5 million children and 1 million mothers will benefit from an extension of community services that support children’s growth monitoring, counseling, nutrition education, and supplementary food. Total cost: $124.5 million.
ibrd—$63.3 million. This project will help the government implement a fundamental reform of its health sector, improve access to quality health services, and ensure financial and operational sustainability. Total cost:
$87 million.
IDA—$41.5 million. This credit will help the government provide better health care services, for poor women and children, in disease prevention and reproductive health. Total cost: $56.4 million.
ibrd—$29 million. This project will increase the efficiency, effectiveness, and financial sustainability of Croatia’s health care system through sector reforms, health promotion, cardiovascular care, and information technology. Total cost: $40 million.
ibrd—$20.2 million. Nearly 2 million people, especially mothers and children, will benefit from this supplemental loan that will expand basic health services, nutrition programs, and basic sanitation services. Total cost: $45 million.
IDA—$142.6 million. Millions of children countrywide will benefit from intensified efforts to eradicate polio and reduce vaccine-preventable diseases through social mobilization activities including training, communication surveys, and evaluations. Total cost: $158.8 million.
IDA—$110 million. About 600,000 inpatients will benefit from planned improvements in existing facilities that will strengthen health system performance, accountability, and efficiency, and improve clinical service quality. Total cost: $127.6 million.
IDA—$38 million. About 10 million people in two provinces, including about 4 million poor people, will benefit from improved curative and public health services through institutional reforms and improved financing. Total cost: $79.1 million.
IDA—$77.4 million. About 3.5 million rural poor people will benefit from improved health behavior and services and safe and adequate water supply and sanitation through community participation. Total cost:
$106.7 million.
ibrd—$87 million. This project will improve primary health care services and family planning through facilities rehabilitation and equipment replacement. It will improve nutrition services through training, institutional strengthening, and strategy development. Total cost: $124 million. IDA—$6.5 million. This adaptable program credit will assist the Kingdom of Lesotho to improve access to high-quality preventive, curative, and rehabilitative health care services for its population. Total cost:
$20.4 million.
ibrd—$21.2 million. This project will improve equity and efficiency of health care financing, restructure hospitals, and improve access to general practitioner services in four pilot regions. Total cost: $34.2 million.
IDA—$40 million. This project will help improve living conditions of the rural population, especially women and children, through better health care services in reproductive health, nutrition, and epidemic disease prevention. Total cost: $44.4 million.
ibrd—$80 million. This adaptable program loan will improve maternal and child health, and help reduce morbidity and death from communicable diseases and inadequate environmental conditions through health care system improvements. Total cost: $239.3 million.
ibrd—$40 million. This adaptable program loan will strengthen capacity for planning and policy development in the fields of public health, health service infrastructure, and human resources by financing investments and training staff Total cost: $69.8 million.
ibrd—$9.5 million. The first phase of this health sector management program will improve health services through the development of appropriate policies, information standards, and a unified information management system. Total cost: $13.3 million.
IDA—$4 million. This project will benefit rural families through improved management and control of malaria, increased access to trained midwives, increased community participation, and capacity building for health managers. Total cost: $4.4 million.
IDA—$5.4 million. This project will test a model of health care in two pilot regions based on primary health and per capita resource allocation. Total cost: $6.2 million.
IDA—$22 million. This adaptable program credit is designed to improve access to quality health services, especially for women and children. Total cost: $654 million.
Trust Fund for the West Bank and Gaza—$7.9 million. This project will upgrade 40 rural primary health care clinics, provide staff training, and establish a national health information center. Total cost: $8.9 million.
ibrd—$10 million. This technical assistance loan will strengthen the government’s capacity to attract private mining investment; improve environmental and social sustainability; and improve fiscal receipts and benefits transfers to communities. Total cost: $11.5 million.
ibrd—$44.5 million. About 60,000 unemployed miners and their families will benefit from efforts to close uneconomic mines in a socially and environmentally sustainable manner. Total cost: $61.5 million.
IBRD—$83.5 million. This emergency recovery loan will strengthen institutional capacity for emergency management, assist the government in reconstructing permanent housing in earthquake-affected areas, and restore essential infrastructure in damaged municipalities. Total cost:
$112.9 million.
IDA—$35 million. This credit will assist the government in preparing an environment for economic recovery and restore essential services to facilitate and support the ongoing negotiations for peace and reconciliation. Total cost: $97.5 million.
ibrd—$225 million. This project will support the reconstruction of approximately 80,000 dwellings and Colombia’s coffee-growing infrastructure, benefiting more than 560,000 individuals who sustained losses in the 1995 earthquake. Total cost: $377 million.
IDA—$25 million. This rehabilitation and recovery credit will provide urgent financing to support the government’s program for peace building, promote the economy's revival, and encourage reforms to reduce poverty. Total cost: $25 million.
IDA—$100.5 million. More than 1.6 million people living in Rajasthan’s most economically disadvantaged areas will benefit from improved economic and social opportunities through community-driven participatory approaches and demand-based investment decisions. Total cost: $124.8 million.
IDA—$30 million. This project will help the government maintain macroeconomic stability through the financing of imports to rebuild social and economic infrastructure following the floods that started in early 2000. Total cost: $30 million.
ibrd—$252.5 million. This project will support private sector import requirements and social protection for victims of the Marmara earthquake as part of an international assistance package of about $3 billion. Total cost: $252.5 million.
ibrd—$43.4 million. This adaptable program loan will support Brazil’s Energy Efficiency Program (ee) to demonstrate ee products, services, and delivery, and to remove barriers to sustainable capture of ee opportunities. Total cost: $125.5 million.
Cameroon: ibrd—$53.4 million; Chad: IBRD—$39.5 million. The project will transform oil wealth into benefits for poor and vulnerable people, and the environment. It includes programs to support the two countries’ economic and social development programs. Total cost: $3.7 billion.
IDA—$23.7 million.This technical assistance project will help the government strengthen the petroleum resources’ management capacity within environmentally and socially sound practices, and establish a framework for private sector petroleum investments. Total cost: $26.2 million.
ibrd—$7 million. The project will help strengthen institutional capacity for efficient gas sector development, resulting in economic enhancement and supporting poverty alleviation for people below the poverty line. Total cost: $7.5 million.
ibrd—$5 million. This learning and innovation loan will support implementation of a privatization program through a capacity building and transactions assistance, and will also close a set of pilot transactions. Total cost: $5.5 million.
IDA—$30.4 million. This technical assistance credit will help the government create a stable business environment for economic growth and employment opportunities for approximately 200 firms and associations, and the consultancy industry. Total cost: $55.5 million.
IDA—$20.9 million. This technical assistance credit will contribute to economic growth and employment creation. Consumers will receive more efficient infrastructure, and services will be extended to areas not previously served. Total cost: $26 million.
ida—$20 million. In a fragile post-conflict situation, this fiscal consolidation credit will help to put the country back on the development path and assist with payment of civil servant and military salaries. Total cost: $20 million.
ida—$4.8 million. This technical assistance credit will consolidate reforms, including privatizing state-owned enterprises, introducing private management of financial institutions, improving the regulatory financial sector framework, and modernizing procurement and auditing. Total cost: $5.6 million.
IDA—$28.9 million. The objective of this technical assistance credit is to help the government improve the quality of—and access to—economic and physical infrastructure for private sector development. Total cost: $32.2 million.
IDA—$26 million. Approximately 200 small to medium businesses in the manufacturing, agroprocessing, and handicraft sectors will benefit from programs that address a variety of continuing weaknesses in the business environment.Total cost: $47.6 million.
IDA—$28.5 million. This adaptable program credit will help strengthen local government structures to deliver improved services to about 1.3 million people living in rural areas. Total cost: $42.9 million.
IDA—$45.9 million. This project will support the government’s efforts to create a more stable business environment by improving economic efficiency and expanding private investment and production in the economy. Total cost: $76.8 million.
IDA—$10.9 million. This technical assistance credit will help develop institutional capacity to manage and implement a privatization program, and also provide assistance for the pre-privatization work of three large enterprises. Total cost: $16 million.
IDA—$9 million. This project will strengthen governance capacity to enforce laws and regulations through technical assistance and training for legal and judicial reforms. Total cost: $9.5 million.
IDA—$8.5 million. This project will strengthen public administration by improving public expenditure and human resource management, policy formulation, and coordination and monitoring capacity. Total cost:
$9 million.
ibrd—$505.1 million. This single-tranched sector adjustment loan will support Brazil’s program to improve its fiscal performance, with an emphasis on administrative reform. Total cost: $505.1 million.
IDA—$25 million. This third structural adjustment credit will support economic reforms that will help create an environment conducive to private sector-led economic growth, job creation, and poverty reduction. Total cost: $25 million.
IDA—$3 million. The population will benefit from strengthened government services ranging from water and sewerage to property registration, business licenses, and social services.Total cost: $3.5 million.
IDA—$17.5 million. This credit will significantly strengthen Chad’s public financial management system, its poverty information base, and its ability to more efficiently and transparently deploy public resources for poverty reduction. Total cost: $19.4 million.
IDA—$19 million. This adaptable program credit will help the rural population—about 87 per cent of Guinea’s poor—to access improved public services by strengthening local government and communities’ structures. Total cost: $21 million.
ibrd—$126.2 million; ida—$125 million. This adjustment operation will support comprehensive reforms in public expenditure management—tax policy, administration, civil service, anticorruption, deregulation, decentralization, public enterprise and privatization. Total cost: $251.3 million.
ibrd—$40.4 million. This structural adjustment loan will help modernize governance structures in order to facilitate Latvia's accession to the European Union. Total cost: $40.4 million.
IDA—$4.6 million. This learning and innovation credit will assist the government and the country's economic regions to develop relevant tools that will promote regional development and facilitate investment opportunities. Total cost: $5.1 million.
IDA—$30 million. This fiscal reform credit will help Mauritania maintain macroeconomic stability and improve the private sector environment, while pursuing a vigorous social and poverty reduction agenda. Total cost: $30 million.
ibrd—$606.1 million. This structural adjustment loan will help the government bring market-driven order and accountability to Mexico’s decentralization process, focusing on the budget, subnational borrowing and expenditures, and fiscal and financial management. Total cost:
$606.1 million.
IBRD—$3.1 million. This learning and innovation loan will work toward equitable access to poverty alleviation programs by promoting balanced gender roles and developing models to guard against gender discrimination. Total cost: $3.87 million.
IBRD—$5.3 million. This project will support judicial capacity in handling commercial cases through modern court management; management and dissemination of legal, judicial, and regulatory information; and training programs for judges. Total cost: $6.7 million.
ibrd—$90 million. This governance promotion adjustment loan will redress policy and governance shortcomings through fiscal and debt management, governance and civil service effectiveness, forestry management, and financial services. Total cost: $90 million. ibrd—$30 million. This project will assist subnational governments by strengthening federal or regional fiscal legislation, debt monitoring, accounting, budgeting, and public expenditure management. Total cost: $36.2 million.
ida—$41.2 million. This adaptable program credit will help the government improve accountability, transparency, and resource management for the delivery of quality services to the general population. Total cost: $91 million.
IBRD—$400 million. This programmatic structural adjustment loan will enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the public sector by establishing performance management frameworks, enhancing service delivery, and promoting accountability and transparency. Total cost: $400 million.
IDA—$80.9 million. This specific investment credit will support the government’s national development strategy to benefit communities, local governments, and the private sector. Total cost: $89.9 million.
IDA—$34 million. This technical assistance credit will improve the effectiveness of public expenditure management, including government planning and budgeting, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation. Total cost: $42.3 million.
IDA—$30 million. This technical assistance credit will help the government create capacity, institutions, and systems for improved and sustained utilization of human and financial resources of the Yemen civil service. Total cost: $33 million.
IDA—$28 million. This capacity building operation will assist the Zambian government in making public service delivery processes more effective and efficient in order to facilitate economic growth and reduce poverty. Total cost: $45 million.
IDA—$33 million. This project will help the government restore basic social and economic services through demand-driven, community-oriented projects that will target over 1 million poor people. Total cost: $47 million.
ida—$20 million. This project will improve living standards and strengthen institutions at the local level by improving basic social and economic infrastructure and local capacity building, and creating shortterm employment opportunities. Total cost: $29.3 million.
ida—$15 million. This project will provide ex-soldiers of Bosniac, Croat, and Serb armies with means for self-reliance by helping them find employment and create sustainable jobs and businesses. Total cost:
$17.5 million.
ibrd—$505.1 million. This single-tranched sector adjustment loan supports the second phase of Brazil’s Social Security Reform Program. Total cost: $505.1 million.
IBRD—$5 million. This learning and innovation loan will support the design and implementation of institutional and legal reforms needed for the second phase of Brazil’s Social Security and Pension Reform. Total cost: $10.1 million.
IDA—$12 million. This project will assist poor communities to plan and realize projects that improve their economic productivity and social development. Total cost: $13.2 million.
ibrd—$100 million. This project will create about 90,000 temporary jobs in small-scale infrastructure works, and will benefit some 171,000 people by improving basic public services and providing economic recovery opportunities. Total cost: $193 million.
IDA—$22.5 million. This supplemental credit will increase access by poor people to small-scale social and economic infrastructure and basic social services. Total cost: $22.5 million.
IDA—$111 million. Some 620,000 poor will benefit from the creation of grass roots institutions, training in established local institutions, support of investment-promoting economic activity, and improving access to girls’ education. Total cost: $134.8 million.
IDA—$4.7 million. This learning and innovation credit will explore how community fund mechanisms can be used to serve about 900,000 poor people living in rural areas. Total cost: $10.4 million. ibrd—$5 million. This learning and innovation loan will strengthen indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations—and participating government agencies—to enhance their ability to design and implement community development subprojects. Total cost: $6.7 million.
ibrd—$ 100 million. About 5 million poor people dependent on public social services will benefit from the streamlining of inputs for basic education and social programs, and improved social expenditure management.Total cost: $107.7 million.
ida—$25 million. This project will support the government’s strategy to help reintegrate approximately 45,000 ex-combatants and rebuild the social and economic infrastructure destroyed by more than eight years of conflict. Total cost: $25 million.
ibrd—$1.5 million; ida—$1.5 million. This learning and innovation loan will pilot a social fund model to improve basic social services among vulnerable populations by building capacity for community-led development. Total cost: $6.5 million.
ida—$75 million. This second operation will improve services for poor people through community development, capacity building, and microfinance programs, and will expand the scope of the Yemen Social Fund for Development. Total cost: $175 million.
ida—$64.7 million. This adaptable program credit will help the government provide basic quality services to poor communities. Total cost:
$74.2 million.
ibrd—$9 million. This technical assistance loan will help to improve access to communications services by opening the telecommunications and postal sectors to competition, and by privatizing the telecommunications operator. Total cost: $10 million.
ibrd—$12.3 million. This project will improve telecommunications services in underserved rural areas for pricing services, obtaining and issuing licenses, resolving disputes between telecommunications companies, and clarifying interconnection agreements. Total cost: $21.7 million.
ibrd—$62 million. This technical assistance loan will help the government improve the management of the frequency for radio stations, cellular phones, satellite communications, and long-distance telephone and data traffic. Total cost: $72 million.
IDA—$15.9 million. This project will improve the regulatory environment of telecommunications, promote commercially sustainable expansion of services, and finance the upgrading of all nonY2K compliant software in the telephone system. Total cost: $18 million.
IDA—$10.2 million. This project will assist the government in its efforts to prevent disruptions in the country’s economic and financial sectors as a result of the Y2K bug. Total cost: $15.2 million.
ida—$13.6 million. Through this emergency recovery credit, Albanian rural poor and the population of Kosovo will benefit from the rehabilitation of critical roads damaged during the Kosovo crisis. Total cost:
$14.5 million.
ida—$40 million. This project will improve the main road network in Armenia, strengthen road and railway management organizations, and improve rail service between the capital—Yerevan—and Georgia. Total cost: $47 million.
IDA—$11.6 million. This project will improve rural access for four rural districts, and will also provide the first major model in Bhutan for environmentally friendly rural road construction methods. Total cost: $14.9 million.
ibrd—$7.4 million. This sector investment loan will foster trade by promoting more efficient and less costly trade flows across borders in South East Europe and provide European Union-compatible customs standards. Total cost: $12.5 million.
IBRD—$150 million. Henan, China’s largest province, will benefit from a more efficient transport infrastructure through completion of the trunk highway system, enhanced rural road access, and improved provincial road management. Total cost: $360 million.
IBRD—$200 million. About 4 million people in landlocked provinces in southwestern China will benefit from safe and cost effective interprovincial transport links and a program to improve road networks. Total cost: $567 million.
IDA—$21.2 million. This project will help improve the condition and efficiency of the transport sector; improve its capacity for planning, programming, and mobilizing funding; and strengthen its legal and regulatory framework. Total cost: $21.2 million.
IDA—$15 million. This project will support road rehabilitation, maintenance, and technical assistance to aid institutional development in the transport sector and trade-related economic development between Djibouti Port and Ethiopia. Total cost: $18 million.
IBRD—$25 million. This project will benefit the country with more efficient, safer, and improved administration of road transport, and more cost-effective trade that will support infrastructure and services. Total cost: $49.5 million.
IDA—$40 million. This project will reduce road transport costs, improve access to major traffic corridors, help establish funding for road maintenance, and improve management of the entire road network. Total cost: $55 million.
IBRD—$516 million. The project will finance civil works for widening and strengthening 475 kilometers of national highway in support of the National Highway Authority of India (nhai). Total cost: $650 million.
IBRD—$35.4 million. This project will increase the competitiveness of Klaipeda’s port facilities and improve environmental conditions by preventing spills, improving waste reception facilities, and facilitating monitoring of environmental conditions. Total cost: $56.9 million.
IDA—$65 million. This adaptable program credit will support the government’s comprehensive eight-year program of reforms and development of the country’s transport sector, benefiting both urban and rural dwellers. Total cost: $67.5 million.
ida—$100 million. This specific investment credit to restructure Mozambique’s port and railway systems should lead to an increase in the operating efficiency and quality of services delivered in the region. Total cost: $ 120 million.
ida—$54.5 million. The poorest regions of western Nepal will benefit from improved mobility and access, as well as sustainable funding and management of road assets. Total cost: $65.9 million. ibrd—$25.3 million.This adaptable program loan will restore livelihoods and enhance economic opportunities for the people who were left homeless following the 1994 eruption of the Rabaul volcano. Total cost: $39.5 million.
ibrd—$150 million. This adaptable program loan will establish management systems to improve the national roads system by enhancing access and reliability of transport to poor areas, thus increasing economic efficiency and generating revenues. Total cost: $305.4 million.
IBRD—$17.1 million. This project will foster trade by promoting more efficient and less costly trade flows across the borders in South East Europe and provide European Union-compatible customs standards. Total cost: $27.2 million.
ida—$70 million. This adaptable program credit will help improve road safety, efficiency, and environmental quality of urban mobility in Senegal. Total cost: $103.0 million.
ibrd—$29 million. This project will improve quality, reliability, and sustainability of urban transport services in five cities in Uzbekistan, home to 1.4 million residents. Total cost: $31.5 million.
ida—$103.9 million.Through this credit about 5 million rural people will have improved access to social and economic services located in the district centers, as well as to off-farm opportunities. Total cost:
$145 million.
ida—$10.8 million. Ten district towns will benefit from effective urban planning and sustainable investments in essential services, including safe drinking water, sanitation facilities, solid waste-management, and transport systems. Total cost: $12.2 million.
ida—$10.8 million. This adaptable program credit will help approximately 964,000 people in the poorest regions access improved municipal services such as roads, drainage, sanitation, solid waste-management, and water supply. Total cost: $22.3 million.
IDA—$10.8 million. This technical assistance credit will strengthen Honduras’ capacity to respond to natural disasters and reduce the loss of life and property through mapping, monitoring, and planning appropriate land use. Total cost: $12 million.
ibrd—$80 million. This project will address urgent municipal works while preparing for local assumption of municipal services. It will restore basic municipal infrastructure and address infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation needs. Total cost: $ 100 million.
ibrd—$2.2 million. This learning and innovation loan will propose, test, and evaluate institutional frameworks and contractual procedures for managing public-private partnerships to promote sustained development of coastal sites in Morocco. Total cost: $2.64 million.
IDA—$2 million. Rural residents of flood-stricken areas will benefit from this supplementary emergency flood assistance to restore access and better flood protection through rehabilitation of flood-damaged infrastructure. Total cost: $2.2 million.
ibrd—$505 million. This emergency recovery loan supports earthquake survivors by reconstructing areas affected by the Marmara earthquake through financing for housing and physical infrastructure. Total cost: $737.1 million.
IDA—$10 million. This project will help to improve health conditions and water system efficiency in four cities. Total cost: $14.6 million.
ida—$12 million. This project will establish a modem planning and management system, carry out major improvements in financial management and bill collection, and rehabilitate water and sewerage networks. Total cost: $13.4 million.
ibrd—$30.3 million. Under the framework of the prosanear national low-income project, this technical assistance loan will achieve integrated and demand-driven water supply and sanitation service delivery to urban poor. Total cost: $49.3 million.
ibrd—$200 million. About 6 million urban residents will benefit from improved wastewater and solid waste management, expanded water supply, enhanced administrative capacity, stronger financial viability, and service providers’ institutional autonomy. Total cost: $535.9 million.
ibrd—$150 million. This program will benefit about 1.6 million people by recovery from past degradation through the provision of a safe water supply, control of pollution, and strengthening of institutions. Total project cost: $293 million.
ibrd—$85 million. This project will expand water supply and sewerage services, improve living standards for over 750,000 poor residents, reduce urban pollution, and facilitate environmental cleanup of urban water bodies. Total cost: $117.2 million.
ibrd—$5 million. This learning and innovation loan will pilot technology for environmentally safe disposal of wastewater from coastal towns, enabling the private sector to provide disposal services in tourist centers. Total cost: $7.6 million.
ida—$25 million. This adaptable program credit will assist the government to provide basic drinking water facilities for about 550,000 rural people, and will promote household sanitation and hygiene practices. Total cost: $28 million.
IBRD—$31.6 million. The urban population will benefit from reduced pollution in the Danube River, increased compliance with national and European Union environmental standards, and more efficient wastewater operations. Total cost: $88.9 million.
ibrd—$145 million. This loan will support the extension of wastewater collection and disposal facilities for Tehran, serving an area of 16,500 hectares and 2.1 million people. Total cost: $340 million.
IDA—$5 million. This learning and innovation credit will help improve delivery of community water and sanitation facilities to small towns that lack access to potable water and safe sanitation. Total cost: $9 million.
IBRD—$120 million. This project will provide medium-term support to development of the rural sector in Poland and will assist in building institutional capacity to absorb European Union preaccession and structural funds. Total cost: $301 million.
IDA—$20 million. This specific investment credit will provide basic drinking water facilities to about 370,000 people in rural areas, and will also improve household sanitation and hygiene practices. Total cost:
$21.4 million.
ibrd—$27 million. This adaptable program loan will help expand water and sanitation services, help improve the efficiency and sustainability of these services, and upgrade and rehabilitate water and sewerage plants. Total cost: $48.1 million.
ida—$37.7 million. Through this credit approximately 320,000 people will have access to more reliable and better water services through repair and rehabilitation, as well as cost recovery and cost containment mechanisms. Total cost: $38 million.