The past year has been one of extraordinary global anxiety and uncertainty, including the continuing economic slowdown, the conflict in Iraq, and the impact of a new disease, sudden acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). In this context it is more important than ever that we work with our development partners to redouble efforts to reduce world poverty.
The pledges made at the International Conference on Financing for Development at Monterrey in March
2002	underscored the importance of the collective effort needed to attain the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), including the goal of reducing poverty by half by the year 2015. The Monterrey Consensus provides a framework of actions and accountabilities for all parties, developed and developing countries alike. All are agreed that we must now focus on implementation and augment the impact of our collective efforts.
For the World Bank this has translated into a special focus on implementation in four priority sectors that are key to meeting some of the MDGs—education for
all, HIV/AIDS, water and sanitation, and health. Working with our partners in these areas we have learned a number of lessons that can be applied going forward. First, support must be based on country-driven programs set in a sound policy environment. Second, where the right policy environment exists, the international community needs to be ready to provide the additional support to help countries meet their targets. Third, resources must reach countries in the right form—that is, aligned with their budget cycles, untied from donor-driven imperatives, and with simplified and harmonized donor procedures. Meeting the MDGs not only will require more development assistance but also will require that assistance to be used even more effectively.
The approach embedded in the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) and Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs) helps us all respond to the challenge of improving development effectiveness— and that approach is increasingly taking root in many of the poorest countries. We also have begun to better
understand how the CDF principles can be applied in middle-income countries to address issues of poverty and equity. In addition, we are making special efforts to assist the group of low-income countries that suffers from weak policies and governance, including those with long-standing conflicts. Without progress in those countries, the MDGs will not be met.
In partnership with others, the Bank’s support to the poorest countries has included debt relief through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. Over time this will reduce debt stocks and debt-service burdens by an estimated $40 billion from all creditors. In the past year our own internal review of HIPC has indicated that there are areas where we can improve the initiative even further—and action is under way to implement the changes. The 13 th Replenishment of the International Development Association (IDA-13) agreement to provide grants to the poorest and debt-vulnerable countries is also a significant step forward.
Monterrey underscored the central importance of trade in attaining the MDGs. At the Doha meeting on trade last year, the international community made a commitment to collective action that holds the promise of truly integrating trade with development.
As we approach the halfway mark of the Doha Round, the challenge of translating that commitment into concrete results looms large. Agriculture is the most crucial and most difficult issue on the agenda—and market restrictions and subsidies in agriculture are the most important external impediments to tackling poverty in the developing countries. In fact, the amounts of aid needed globally by all the developing countries to reach the MDGs represent a fraction of what is spent on agricultural subsidies by developed countries. Action on the trade agenda is a top priority for the international community.
Private sector investment and productivity are also needed to accelerate growth and achieve the MDGs.
For vital investments in sectors of the economy such as infrastructure, for example, much of the investment continues to come from the public sector, which funds 75 percent to 80 percent of the estimated $250-$300 billion of annual infrastructure investment in developing countries. Throughout the developing
world, more than 1.2 billion people lack access to safe water, and nearly twice as many do not have improved sanitation. Given the scale of the needs, the World Bank Group, with the support of our Board and in partnership with many other development actors, will increase our investment in infrastructure. And through our focus on policy reform and capacity building we will aim to leverage additional financial support from both public and private sources.
Our actions must lead to development that is sustainable. The World Summit on Sustainable Development held last year in Johannesburg, South Africa, emphasized the need to move toward a sustainable future, combining environmental responsibility with social equity. The Bank Group will continue to take fully into consideration the effect of our development programs on future generations.
Strengthening our partnerships has become a core objective of the Bank in recent years. Two principles have been key in our search for better coherence and cooperation. First, in the interests of efficiency and effectiveness the Bank has sought to work increasingly closely with all relevant partners, deferring to their work and judgments in areas where they have comparative advantage. Second, at the country level we have stressed the principle that all partners must align behind country-owned strategies. Ultimately, increased effectiveness and a better chance for sustainable and successful development can be ensured when the countries truly steer their own development with the full support of the international community.
During the past year we have made important inroads in that regard. But we all must step up our efforts if we are to meet our joint goal of cutting poverty in half by the year 2015. I can assure you that the dedicated and talented staff of the World Bank Group is committed to this endeavor in the period ahead.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the conduct of the World Bank’s general operations, performing their duties under powers delegated by the Board of Governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement,
5 of the 24 Executive Directors are appointed by the member countries having the largest number of shares; the rest are elected by the other member countries, which form constituencies in an election process conducted every two years.
Executive Directors consider and decide on International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) loan and guarantee proposals and International Development Association (IDA) credit, grant, and guarantee proposals made by the President, and they decide on policies that guide the Bank’s general operations. They are also responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors, at the Annual Meetings, an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and an annual report (this report) on the Bank’s operations and policies as well as other matters. In shaping Bank policy, the Board of Executive Directors (the Board) takes into account the evolving
perspectives of member countries on the role of the Bank Group as well as the Bank’s operational experience. In this regard, an important role is played by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED), which is accountable directly to the Board to perform evaluations as set out in OED Board-approved policies, strategies, and work program. OED provides independent advice to the Board on the relevance, sustainability, efficiency, and effectiveness of operations.
During fiscal 2003 the Board regularly met at Bank headquarters to carry out its responsibilities. Directors also serve on one or more standing committees: Audit, Budget, Personnel, Development Effectiveness (CODE), and Committee on Executive Directors’ Administrative Matters (CODAM). CODAM’s mandate was expanded this year to include areas of governance, and it was renamed the Committee on Governance and Executive Directors’ Administrative Matters (COGAM). The committees help the Board discharge its oversight responsibilities through comprehensive examinations of policies and practices. Specifically, the Audit Committee advises the Board
on financial management, corporate governance, and oversight issues to enhance Board decisionmaking in those areas. The Budget Committee considers certain aspects of business processes, administrative policies, standards, and budget issues that have a significant impact on the cost-effectiveness of Bank Group operations. CODE advises the Board on selected issues concerning operations and policy evaluation and development effectiveness with a view to monitoring progress toward the Bank’s mission of poverty reduction. The Personnel Committee advises the Board on compensation and other significant personnel policies. COGAM advises and makes recommendations to the Board on issues of governance and administrative policy relating to the Executive Directors, Alternates, and their staff; the issues considered may be referred to COGAM by the Board or identified by the Committee itself. Among other issues this year, COGAM considered ways to strengthen the Executive Directors’ offices that would enhance their voice and participation in the decisionmaking process of the World Bank Group.
Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors periodically visit borrowing countries to review Bank assistance in progress. They meet a wide range of people, including project managers, beneficiaries, and government officials, as well as representatives of nongovernmental organizations, the business community, other development partners, financial institutions, and resident Bank staff. This year Directors visited the Dominican Republic, Uruguay, and the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela.
Directors play an active role in preparing the agenda and issues papers for the semiannual meetings of the Joint World Bank-International Monetary Fund (Bank-Fund) Development Committee. Directors do this by reviewing, discussing, and providing input to staff who prepare the issues papers to be discussed by the Development Committee. In fiscal 2003 the Committee reaffirmed its commitment to poverty reduction, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and the Monterrey Consensus by addressing the World Bank’s strategy in monitoring policies and actions for achieving the goals; promoting market access for developing-country exports; making progress on the Monterrey Consensus; continuing the effort to harmonize the operational policies, procedures, and practices of multilateral and bilateral donors; and making progress on the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative, debt sustainability, assistance to low-income countries under stress, the Bank’s safeguard
policies, and other issues. (See appendix 13 in volume 2 of this Annual Report.)
STRATEGIC ISSUES
The Board emphasized the following areas during the fiscal year.
Strategic Framework
The Board’s work during fiscal 2003 continued to be based on the Strategic Framework and Strategic Directions (and Management Action Plan) papers discussed in fiscal 2001 and reaffirmed and updated in fiscal
2002.	Directors stressed the need to move forward with implementation, focusing on developing the procedures and tools to meet the development challenges embodied in the MDGs. Within this context Directors reviewed a number of papers prepared to help the Bank sharpen its policies, programs, and instruments to support its central mission of reducing poverty. These papers included a strategy for better measuring, monitoring, and managing for development results and for the harmonization of operational policies, procedures, and practices among donors. Furthermore, the Board considered other issues, such as the Bank’s role in the reconstruction of Iraq, the introduction of the grants component in the 13th Replenishment of IDA, OED’s review of the HIPC Initiative, methods for combating terrorist financing and money laundering, and market access for exports from developing countries.
The Bank Group’s Role in Reducing Poverty
The Board’s agenda emphasized the Bank’s contributions toward attaining the Millennium Development Goals. In that connection the Board reviewed the paper, “Achieving the MDGs and Related Outcomes: A Framework for Monitoring Policies and Actions.” The Board also continued to closely monitor the implementation of the Bank’s mandate to reduce poverty.
It considered 15 Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs), and 7 PRSP Progress Reports, pointing out areas where further refinement would be useful.
Meanwhile, the Board focused attention on the enhanced HIPC Initiative. It considered two HIPC completion-point documents.1 The Board also
1. The completion point is the point at which all creditors unconditionally provide the remainder of their share of debt relief agreed on at the decision point. The completion point is tied to implementation of key reforms and policies outlined in a country’s PRSP.
considered a number of joint Bank-Fund papers, including “HIPC Initiative: Status of Implementation,” “HIPC Initiative: Creditor Participation Issues,” and “HIPC: Calculation for Completion Point Topping Up.” Moreover, the Board reviewed a progress report on the Bank’s poverty reduction activities in fiscal 2002.
Country Programs
Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) remained the cornerstone of Bank Group work at the individual client level, including the Comprehensive Development Framework principles of ownership, partnership, and a focus on results. Directors also intensified their call for a closer link between the assistance strategy and the PRSP process. The Board reviewed 24 CASs and CAS products during the fiscal year. It took an active role in ongoing work to refine the Bank’s lending and nonlending instruments and it provided guidance on the CAS retrospective and future directions, the implementation challenge of modernizing operational policies and instruments, and other pertinent topics. In the context of future directions for Country Assistance Strategies, and given the demands emerging from the results agenda and the often missing link between the CAS objectives and the instruments to be used in attaining those objectives, the Board called for future CASs to include intermediate outcomes and associated monitoring indicators so as to make the strategies more “results based” by enhancing their performance reporting and accountability. The Sri Lanka CAS was the first results-based CAS discussed this year.
Global Programs and Partnerships
The Bank Group continued to strengthen cooperation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), other multilateral development banks, and the United Nations system as it increased its outreach to civil society. Directors considered priorities in relationships with other development partners. Collaboration with the IMF was especially prominent in the work on public expenditure review, financial sector assessment programs, and anti-money-laundering activities, as well as ongoing work on implementing HIPC and PRSP initiatives. This collaboration included a joint Bank-Fund paper on efforts to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism, a joint paper on informal funds transfer systems, and a progress report on Bank-Fund collaboration on country programs and
conditionality. Other papers examined public expenditure work and reviewed both the Financial Sector Assessment Program and Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSCs). The Bank also worked on implementing the Monterrey Consensus by reviewing the previously mentioned paper, “Achieving the MDGs and Related Development Outcomes: A Framework for Monitoring Policies and Actions,” and continued its work on the harmonization of operational policies, procedures, and practices with other multilateral development banks and bilateral aid agencies.
With regard to the ongoing review of the Bank’s policy on information disclosure, the Board discussed a paper on strengthening the Public Information Centers.
OVERSIGHT AND FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY
The Board exercises oversight and fiduciary responsibility on behalf of its shareholders through its Audit Committee. The Audit Committee has reviewed its terms of reference to reflect the evolving scope and responsibilities of audit committees’ roles in oversight and risk management. The Committee advises the Board on financial management and other financial governance issues to strengthen the Board’s decisionmaking on financial policy and control issues.
OPENNESS AND TRANSPARENCY
Building on previous efforts to make more information publicly available, the 2001 revisions to the Bank policy on information disclosure called for the release of a greater number of project-related documents (including documents dealing with adjustment lending) and a more systematic approach to accessing historical information. (See The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information, 2002.)
To address the need for proactive outreach and targeted information dissemination, the Bank made plans in fiscal 2003 to improve access to information through its Public Information Centers in developing countries. In January 2003 the Board endorsed a Bank management paper titled “Strengthening Public Information Centers.” Implementation will span fiscal years 2004 and 2005. The Board also discussed a paper titled “A Document Translation Framework for the World Bank,” which takes into
account the scope of information available under the revised disclosure policy.
ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET
The total administrative budget for fiscal 2003, reviewed by the Budget Committee and approved by the Executive Directors, was $1,672.6 million, net of reimbursements, and it included $157 million for the Development Grant Facility. The net administrative budget represented a 0 percent real increase over the fiscal
2002	budget (or a 3.1 percent nominal increase). In June 2003 the Executive Directors approved a total administrative budget, net of reimbursements, of $1,870 million for fiscal 2004.
INSPECTION PANEL
In 1993 the Board created an independent Inspection Panel to address more closely the concerns of people affected by Bank projects and to ensure that the Bank adheres to its operational policies and procedures in the design, preparation, and implementation of projects. Any group of individuals that believes it may be harmed by a Bank-supported project may ask the Panel to investigate complaints that such harm stems from the Bank’s failure to abide by its policies and procedures. On the basis of the Panel’s recommendation, the Executive Directors decide whether to authorize an investigation.
In fiscal 2003 the Panel received and registered one new Request for Inspection related to the Cameroon portion of the Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project and the Cameroon: Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement
Project. The request came from Cameroon nongovernmental organizations and individual citizens. The Board approved the Panel’s recommendation for an investigation in December 2002. The Panel’s report, sent to the Board in May 2003, will be considered by the Board in July 2003, along with Bank management’s recommendations on the Panel’s findings.
Also in fiscal 2003 the Panel submitted to the Board its Eligibility Report on the Request for Inspection related to the Paraguay: Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunications Sectors, and the Argentina: SEGBAV Power Distribution Project (which provides partial financing for the Argentina/Paraguay: Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project). The Board approved the Panel’s recommendation for an investigation in September 2002, and that investigation is currently under way.
The Board considered an investigation report on a Request for Inspection related to the Chadian portion of the Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (the request was received in fiscal 2001), and in September 2002 it approved Bank management’s recommendations. In July 2003 the Board will consider the Panel’s investigation report and management’s recommendations on the India Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project.
Twenty-seven Requests for Inspection have been filed since the Panel was established, 9 from Africa, 9 from Latin America and the Caribbean,
7 from South Asia, and 2 from East Asia and the Pacific. Of the 27 formal requests received, the Panel has recommended investigations in 13 cases, 6 under the rules that applied prior to the April 1999 clarifications to the resolution that established the Panel, and 7 since that time.
The World Bank Group
IBRD aims to reduce poverty in middle-income and creditworthy poorer countries by promoting sustainable development through loans, guarantees, and (nonlending) analytical and advisory services. IBRD does not maximize profit but has earned a net income each year since 1948. Its income funds several developmental activities and ensures financial strength, which enables low-cost borrowings in capital markets and good terms for its borrowing clients. IBRD’s 24-member Board represents its 184 members and is made up of 5 appointed and 19 elected Executive Directors.
Contributions to IDA enable the World Bank to provide $7 billion to $8 billion a year in highly concessional financing to the world’s 81 poorest countries (home to 2.5 billion people). IDA’s interest-free credits and grants are vital because these countries have little or no capacity to borrow on market terms. In most of these countries, the great majority of people live on less than $2 a day. IDA’s resources help to support country-led Poverty Reduction Strategies in key policy areas, including helping to raise productivity, providing accountable governance, improving the private investment climate, and improving access to education and health care for the poor.
IFC promotes economic development through the private sector. Working with business partners, IFC invests in sustainable private enterprises in developing countries without accepting government guarantees. It provides equity, longterm loans, loan guarantees, risk management products, and advisory services to its clients. IFC seeks to reach businesses in regions and countries that would otherwise have limited access to capital. It provides finance in markets deemed too risky by commercial investors in the absence of IFC participation and adds value to the projects it finances through its corporate governance, environmental, and social expertise.
MIGA helps encourage foreign direct investment in developing countries by providing guarantees to foreign investors against losses caused by noncommercial risks, such as expropriation, currency inconvertibility and transfer restrictions, war and civil disturbance, and breach of contract. In addition, MIGA provides technical assistance and advisory services to help countries strengthen the capacity of investment promotion intermediaries and disseminate information on investment opportunities. MIGA also provides investment dispute mediation services on request.
1. Amounts include funds leveraged through the Cooperative Underwriting Program.
ICSID helps encourage foreign investment by providing international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes, thereby helping foster an atmosphere of mutual confidence between states and foreign investors. Many international agreements concerning investment refer to ICSID’s arbitration facilities. ICSID also conducts research and publishing activities in the areas of arbitration law and foreign investment law.
Chapter 1
Strategy and Action
The World Bank consists of IBRD and IDA, international financial organizations whose common mission is to fight world poverty. The Bank comprises 184 shareholder countries. To assist its client countries in achieving sustainable development it harnesses resources and forms partnerships with others, including development lending institutions and civil society organizations (CSOs).
Development involves change. It requires learning about what works and what does not work in a particular circumstance, and then building the capacity for applying that knowledge throughout an economy. By taking what has been learned and using the available instruments and resources, the Bank can achieve outcomes that are appropriate to the challenges at hand. In its decades of experience, the Bank has recognized several common factors associated with overall progress in development. These factors—the basis for the Bank’s strategy—are the following:
■	An active state with good governance in both the public and private sectors fosters an environment where contracts are enforced and markets can function; basic infrastructure works; there are
provisions for adequate health, education, and social protection; and people are able to participate in decisions that affect their lives.
■	Empowerment ensures that all people have the ability to shape their own lives, by providing opportunity and security and by fostering effective participation and social inclusion.
■ Economic growth is essential because countries that have reduced poverty most effectively are those that have grown the fastest. There has been no example of successful development without sustained periods of high per capita growth of output.
■	It is necessary to have a vital private sector to drive sustained economic growth, with small and medium enterprises playing a particularly important role in generating employment opportunities for poor people.
■	A financial sector policy that is rational and appropriate to the country is essential, as is the removal of barriers to international trade so that developing-country exports can contribute to growth.
■	Finally, the country and society need to have ownership of the development agenda to reflect the country’s specific circumstances and political economy.
TWO PILLARS FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
Recognition of those factors has led the Bank to adopt a strategy for development built on two pillars, which are described below.
Building the Climate for Investment, Jobs, and Sustainable Growth
The first pillar is creating a good investment climate that fosters entrepreneurship by encouraging small and large firms to invest, create jobs, and
increase productivity. This pillar comprises several elements:
■	Stable macroeconomic conditions that promote the confidence of firms to make production decisions and engage in production; and trade policies that foster open trade, innovation, and entrepreneurship
■	Governance and institutions that are without corruption, excessive bureaucracy, or organized crime, and where the enforcement of contracts and regulations is known to be ethical and reliable
■	Physical and financial infrastructure (e.g., transportation systems, utilities, and banking systems) of good quality and quantity, both affordable and reliable, so that individuals and firms can participate in economic activities.
Investing in Poor People and Empowering Them to Participate in Development
It is important to expand the opportunities for people to participate in decisions that affect their lives and the lives of their families. This is the second pillar in the Bank’s development strategy. Essential are human and legal rights that protect livelihoods and assets and enable poor people to invest in their futures and be included in the society in which they live.
Although there is still much to learn about empowerment, the Bank’s studies and project experience indicate that successful efforts to empower poor people and increase their freedom of choice share four elements: access to information, so that poor people can make informed decisions; participation, which gives poor people a voice in public programs; accountability, which ensures that public officials and institutions are
responsive to their citizens; and local organizational capacity, so that public institutions run effectively. These elements help foster an informed populace capable of contributing to its country’s development plans.
There is an essential link between empowering poor people and attaining the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). To meet the education, gender equality, health, and environment goals, in particular, investment in people is key. Empowering people to have an impact on the local delivery of services can pave the way toward meeting the MDGs. Examples of such empowerment at work include community involvement in running schools, local health groups, and water users’ associations. All of these activities can play a powerful role in tailoring such services to the needs of poor people and thereby improving their lives.
In many communities, empowering women is the most important challenge. Empirical evidence shows that expanding opportunities for girls and women not only improves their position in society but also has a major impact on the overall effectiveness of development. Studies show that education of mothers has a powerful effect on the health of their children. Also, when women have more control over the family’s income, productive assets, or transfers, the family as a whole benefits.
The Bank’s Strategy and the Multisectoral Nature of the Millennium Development Goals
The twin pillars of the Bank’s strategic framework are critical to success in achieving sustainable poverty reduction and helping countries meet the goals. Different groups of client countries have different needs. Working with the Bank on the MDGs is the priority in most low-income countries, whereas middle-income clients more often seek to work with the Bank on building the investment climate.
During fiscal 2003 the Bank analyzed its regional strategies and country demands and examined its capacity and limitations against the needs of the development goals. It recognized that a multisector chain of activities is needed to meet the goals. The Bank is now moving to align its programs to support activities that go beyond strictly defined sectors such as health, education, and environment. For example, although infrastructure is not explicitly mentioned in the MDGs, infrastructure investments are crucial to attaining the goals. Roads and electricity are essential to building
proper schools so that a country can achieve universal primary education; and they are essential to building health care facilities so that child mortality can be reduced, maternal health can be improved, and communicable diseases such as HIV/AIDS can be treated. The involvement of poor people in identifying their countries’ infrastructure needs also is vital.
The Bank’s own contribution to achieving any specific development goal must be identified realistically, taking into account the demands of Bank clients, their options to work with other partners, and the limitations of Bank financing and staff capacity. The Bank recognizes that gaps also exist in the wider development community—in both funding and capacity—that impede overall progress toward the MDGs. The compact between developing and developed countries can play an important role in addressing those gaps. To better define its own contribution the Bank has examined the alignment between its
potential commitments and its client-driven work programs, and discussions have been intensified among networks, country directors, and clients to enhance this alignment. That examination is helping clarify what the Bank can contribute to the MDG agenda. It is clear that some of the goals are unlikely to be achieved in certain countries without a major effort by developing countries, developed countries, and the entire development community. The Bank seeks to energize a concerted focus on these countries both through the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) approach for country-owned poverty strategies and through its monitoring reports to the Development Committee (DC).
Monitoring Policies and Actions toward the Millennium Development Goals
The DC, at its meeting in September 2002, stated its intention to regularly monitor developing- and
developed-country policies and actions needed to achieve the MDGs and related outcomes. It requested that the Bank and the Fund develop proposals for taking this forward, while recognizing the role of the United Nations (U.N.) in monitoring the goals. In response to the DC request, Bank and Fund staff, working in consultation with the staff of the U.N., other multilateral development banks (MDBs), the World Trade Organization (WTO), and the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), have designed a monitoring framework and carried out an initial application of that framework.
The proposed monitoring envisages regular reporting to the DC to anchor and provide continuity to its assessment of progress on policy implementation and areas for priority attention. Underpinning the reporting will be an open data platform, posted on
the Development Gateway (see box 1.2), which is designed to facilitate transparent monitoring and enable countries to benchmark their performance vis-a-vis comparators. This monitoring also will help ensure that development partners live up to the commitments they make toward attaining the MDGs. The monitoring proposals were submitted to the April 2003 meeting of the DC, and they received broad support from ministers. In light of the guidance provided by the ministers, the Bank and the Fund, in collaboration with partner agencies, are now implementing the monitoring framework.
Results
An essential building block for effective monitoring is the ability to measure results. During fiscal 2003 the Bank developed its results agenda into an action plan aimed at increasing management attention to
I	results.	See chapter 3 for a full discussion of the
results agenda.
PARTNERSHIPS: INCREASING THE IMPACT OF DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS
Partnership has become a core element of the Bank’s business approach. By working with partners in the international community to identify the areas in which each has a comparative advantage, the effect of each development dollar can be magnified. With careful attention to what does and does not work in a particular situation, proven approaches can be brought together and appropriate projects carried out to produce better results. At the same time, the growing importance of partnerships in the Bank’s work makes it important to ensure strong alignment of new partnerships with the Bank’s strategic priorities and with country-driven development strategies.
Institutional Partnerships
The Bank partners with other international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the U.N., other multilateral development banks, OECD, the European Union (EU), and the WTO.
International Monetary Fund. The Bank’s foremost institutional alliance is with the IMF, with which it collaborates on a number of initiatives aimed at reducing poverty. The Bank and the IMF further strengthened their collaboration in fiscal 2003. Each organization concentrates on its area of comparative advantage: the IMF is responsible for the dialogue with country authorities on macroeconomic issues, and the World Bank takes the lead on social and structural issues.
In addition to the continuous delivery of debt relief to eligible countries under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC), the executive boards of the two institutions approved the achievement of completion-point status for two HIPC countries during fiscal 2003. The Bank’s Executive Directors also reviewed “Strengthening IMF-World Bank Collaboration on Country Programs and Conditionality— Progress Report"
Under the PRSP framework for low-income countries supported by the Fund’s Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, the Fund and the Bank worked closely
together in fiscal 2003 to support common country strategies and to focus their efforts on their respective areas of responsibility. For middle-income countries, greater efforts were made to improve coordination between the Fund and the Bank through consultation between the two staffs on emerging structural issues in individual country programs.
Two other joint programs of the Bank and the Fund are the Financial Sector Assessment Program and the Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) initiative. In March 2003 the Bank and Fund Boards reviewed joint Bank-Fund papers and discussed the two programs.
United Nations. The Bank and the U.N. are committed to carrying out the universally accepted framework for development established by the international community. The Bank has established strong relationships with the specialized agencies, programs, and funds of the U.N. system.
In fiscal 2003 the Bank-U.N. partnership advanced in its commitment to a coordinated approach that supports country efforts in creating poverty reduction strategies. This has involved identifying complementarities between the MDGs and the PRSP process. The Bank and the United Nations Development Group have maintained an open dialogue on the harmonization of policies, procedures, and practices (see box 1.1). Attention is now being placed on better development effectiveness and deeper country ownership.
The Bank has supported the parallel process taking place at the intergovernmental level. In the 2002 meetings of the Bank’s Development Committee, ministers called for a focus on the global monitoring of actions and policies to achieve the MDGs. Many of the Bank’s senior managers are involved in the ongoing dialogue on these issues between the U.N. and the Bank, a dialogue that strengthens the understanding of respective roles and responsibilities in carrying out the development agenda.
The increasingly complex political, social, economic, and international dimensions of conflict adversely affect the ability of countries to work toward the MDGs. The U.N. and the Bank, in close partnership, are pursuing ways to strengthen cooperation among themselves and other key stakeholders during conflict emergencies and all phases of postconflict reconstruction.
Following an MDB-hosted roundtable on measuring, monitoring, and managing for development results, multilateral development banks have continued consultations on development results. In February 2003 the MDBs and OECD/DAC cosponsored an international forum on the harmonization of policies, procedures, and practices to increase development effectiveness. The bulk of the international donor community (bilateral and multilateral) and almost 30 developing countries came together at a very senior level for the conference, which was hosted in Rome by the Italian government. The closing document, "The Rome Declaration on Harmonization," is the most comprehensive statement on harmonization produced to date by the international community. (See www.worldbank.org.) The Declaration sets out an ambitious program of activities to ensure that harmonization efforts are adapted to the country context and that donor assistance is aligned with the recipient's priorities; to expand country-led efforts to streamline donor procedures and practices, including enhancing demand-driven technical cooperation; to review and identify ways to adapt institutions' and countries' policies, procedures, and practices to ease harmonization;
and to implement progressively the principles and standards of good development practice formulated by the MDBs and by the OECD/DAC as the foundation for harmonization of the policies, procedures, and practices of donors and partner countries.
Significant progress also has been made in the preparation of agreed-on principles or standards for environmental assessments, evaluations, financial management and reporting, and procurement. These are key international reference documents for harmonization at the country level. Coordination of operational activities, primarily around PRSPs, has also improved, including increased coordination of Country Assistance Strategies (CASs).
The harmonization focus has now shifted to in-country implementation. Building on efforts in the three formal harmonization pilot projects supported by the bank (in Ethiopia, Jamaica, and Vietnam),
14 additional partner countries have stepped forward to initiate country-led harmonization efforts (Bangladesh, Bolivia, Cambodia, Honduras, Kenya, the Kyrgyz Republic, Morocco, Nicaragua, Niger, the Pacific Islands, the Philippines, Senegal, Tanzania, and Zambia).
Multilateral Development Banks. The Bank’s collaboration with other multilateral development banks, such as the African Development Bank (see www.AfDB.org), the Asian Development Bank (see www.ADB.org), the Inter-American Development Bank (see www.IADB.org), the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (see www.EBRD.com), and the Islamic Development Bank (see www.ISDB.org), remained strong and intensified significantly in several areas, as highlighted in the jointly produced report, “Recent Progress in Cooperation among Multilateral Development Banks.”
Building on their joint statement on development effectiveness issued at the Monterrey International Conference on Financing for Development in 2002, the presidents of the MDBs maintained their regular consultations on policy and operational issues, with a particular focus on global and regional uncertainties facing various MDBs, and on further strengthening the MDB system. To inform MDB shareholders of
the considerable progress made in cooperation in recent years, they circulated an “Update on Progress in MDB Cooperation” to all MDB boards and governors. On International Women’s Day the MDB presidents and the managing director of the IMF issued a joint statement on the importance of gender equality in MDB-IMF operations and within the organizations.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and Its Development Assistance Committee. The Bank’s partnership with OECD accelerated in May 2000 when the heads of the two institutions signed a joint statement of cooperation. Since that time the two institutions have established clear focal points for proactive collaboration.
The Bank and OECD work together on the OECD/ DAC agenda, aligning donor support for the Comprehensive Development Framework and PRSPs, sharpening the focus on results, improving harmonization of donor policies and practices, and dealing
I	with	the problems of low-income countries under
stress.
A systematic effort has been under way to strengthen collaboration on the non-DAC agenda as well. Priorities include governance and public sector management, tax policy and administration, trade, corporate governance, sustainable development, agriculture, and the knowledge economy. The Bank and OECD together with the IMF also have launched an International Tax Dialogue aimed at sharing experience and fostering multilateral communication on tax systems.
In addition to work in these areas, the Bank is collaborating with OECD in countries where both institutions are active. This collaboration includes developing countries that are members of OECD, such as Mexico and Turkey, the EU accession countries, and nonmember countries that are the special focus of OECD:
Brazil, China, and Russia. These efforts have allowed the Bank and OECD to avoid duplication and gain synergy from their respective work.
European Union. The European Union is a natural partner for the World Bank Group. Its multilateral aid program, managed by the European Commission, is the world’s third largest.
The EU provides 55 percent of the total official development assistance in the world—more than $26 billion in 2001—and is the developing world’s most important trading partner, absorbing 21 percent of its exports and extending preferential arrangements to developing regions. Expected to take in 10 new member states—or 100 million more people—in 2004, the EU works toward political and economic reform and poverty reduction in the world, especially in neighboring regions such as the Middle East and North Africa, with which it has active trade, investment, and migration links.
Collaboration between the EU and the World Bank Group has expanded on many fronts in recent years, including the PRSP process, the HIPC Initiative, postconflict reconstruction in the Balkans and Afghanistan, and the Strategic Partnership with Africa, as well as in policy dialogue on trade and development.
World Trade Organization. Strengthening the Bank’s capacity on trade and establishing the new Trade Department has enabled an expanded partnership with the WTO, based on the shared objectives of open trade and development. An initial visit to the WTO by the
president of the World Bank led to the preparation of a strategy for institutional collaboration, which focuses on (a) cooperation in the sharing of policy research and knowledge; (b) joint work in implementing the Integrated Framework for Technical Assistance for the Least-Developed Countries; (c) cooperation in the delivery of trade training and capacity building by the World Bank Institute (WBI) and the WTO; and (d) cooperation in promoting a stronger global dialogue on trade and development.
Global Civil Society
Beyond institutional partnerships the Bank interacts with the broader international civil society, private foundations, parliamentarians, and the private sector.
Civil Society. The emergence and growth of civil society during the past two decades have been two of the most significant trends in international development. The World Bank recognizes that civil society plays an especially critical role in ensuring that the voices of the poorest people are heard, holding governments and policymakers accountable, and improving development effectiveness and sustainability. At present the Bank consults and collaborates with thousands of CSOs throughout the world, including community-based organizations, indigenous peoples’ organizations, labor unions, faith-based groups, and foundations.
The World Bank engages CSOs in three ways. First, it facilitates dialogue and partnership between civil society and governments by providing resources, training, and technical support, and often by playing a convening role, such as in the process of formulation of the country PRSPs now under way in more than 40 developing countries. Second, the Bank consults with CSOs on issues, policies, and programs, listening to their perspectives and inviting suggestions. During fiscal 2003 the Bank held global consultations with civil society on adjustment lending policy and extractive industry investments, as well as on the forthcoming World Development Report 2004 on basic service provision. Third, the Bank partners with CSOs by contracting technical assistance and training services, funding civil society initiatives, and managing joint programs. The Africa Stockpiles Programme, for example, was recently launched by governments, CSOs, and donor agencies to clean up and safely dispose of all obsolete pesticide stocks from Africa, and to establish preventive measures to avoid future accumulation.
The foundation's mission is to reduce poverty and support sustainable development through the use of information and communication technologies. As a founding member, the World Bank Group is represented on the foundation's board by President James D. Wolfensohn, Managing Director Mamphela Ramphele, and Mohamed Muhsin, vice president and chief information officer. Alan Rossi was appointed chief executive officer in December 2002.
The foundation's key objectives are to:
■ Improve public sector transparency. To foster government transparency and efficiency, the global online dgMarket provides turnkey e-tendering solutions to partners and governments in developing countries. The foundation and the government of Italy have established an e-government program to deploy promising e-government applications rapidly.
■	Enable aid effectiveness. The AiDA (Accessible Information on Development Activities) database is the largest online source of information on
development projects in the world. The foundation's Development Gateway portal addresses pressing global issues by providing a platform to exchange ideas and coordinate activities.
■	Increase knowledge sharing. The Development Gateway portal is the preeminent source for resources on sustainable development and poverty reduction. To promote the exchange of information, the portal builds interactive communities around key development topics. The foundation's annual Development Gateway Forum brings global leaders together to share experiences and improve development impact.
■	Empower local communities. The 44 country gateways in the foundation's network are locally owned, partnership-based initiatives that pursue the foundation's mission on a local level. The Development Gateway portal can provide platforms for dialogue among local organizations. The dgMarket includes national procurement portals in local languages, offering tender opportunities that may be of interest to local suppliers.
CSO involvement in Bank-funded projects has risen steadily during the past decade-plus, from 21 percent of the total number of projects in fiscal 1990 to an estimated 71 percent in fiscal 2003.
The Bank’s evolving partnerships with faith communities have continued to expand and deepen across a broad range of issues, including HIV/AIDS, education, health, conflict resolution, and gender. The Bank maintains ongoing dialogue with a worldwide network of faith and interfaith leaders, including the World Faiths Development Dialogue (www.wfdd.org.uk), the World Council of Churches, and the World Conference on Religion and Peace. In October 2002 the president of the World Bank and the Archbishop of Canterbury convened a meeting of world faith and development leaders in Canterbury, England, to discuss the challenges of poverty, globalization, and social justice, with a particular emphasis on the MDGs. It attracted a diverse group of leaders from development agencies, the world’s major faiths, business, foundations, and the arts.
Civil society dialogue and relations with the international labor union movement have improved steadily over the last few years. The Bank and the IMF
agreed this year to a joint work plan with the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions and the World Confederation of Labour, which included a meeting of senior Bank and Fund managers and labor leaders in October 2002, joint research projects, and staff exchanges. (See www.worldbank.org/ civilsociety.)
Foundations. The Bank works in partnership with foundations to strengthen the development impact of assistance in member countries. Such partnerships help mobilize external technical and financial resources and identify business process innovations, thereby strengthening the Bank’s learning process. (See also box 1.2, “The Development Gateway Foundation.”)
At local levels, the Bank’s partnership with foundations, such as Ford, Gulbenkian, Hewlett, MacArthur, Mott, Packard, Rockefeller, Soros, and Eurasia, is helping promote the PRSP process, supporting thematic initiatives that complement the MDGs, and sponsoring CSO participation in such Bank consultations as the World Development Report. A new initiative with the Ford and Mott Foundations and the Council on Foundations will explore the concept of community
I	foundations	as	a vehicle for building the capacity for
community-driven development in Bank client countries.
At the regional and global levels, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Rotary International, the United Nations Foundation, and the World Bank are sponsoring an innovative financial effort to acquire polio vaccine through buy-down loans in order to help eradicate polio worldwide by 2005. (See also “Fiscal Year Highlights,” chapter 2, and “Investing in People,” chapter 4.)
Parliamentarians. The Parliamentary Network on the World Bank (PNoWB) is an independent organization of more than 400 parliamentarians from approximately 60 developed and developing countries. Created in 2000 by a small group of European parliamentarians, its purpose is to increase their role in international development and poverty alleviation. The PNoWB’s many initiatives include a Parliamentarians’ Implementation Watch to promote and monitor action to meet the MDGs, a program of field visits, and the creation of a special committee on HIV/AIDS. Its annual meeting has become a major platform for interaction on development issues among the parliamentarians themselves and between parliamentarians and the Bank. (See www.pnowb.org.)
Private Sector. Increasing numbers of private businesses are engaging in corporate social responsibility—open and transparent business practices that meet or exceed the ethical, legal, commercial, and public expectations of society. This trend coincides with the World Bank Group’s increasing focus on its relationships with the private sector, as it does what it can to make private flows bigger, better, and of greater benefit to the poor. Units across the World Bank Group are implementing private sector partnership approaches designed to maximize development gain while acknowledging participating companies’ needs to maximize their own business benefits. The most successful of these approaches are not stand-alone activities; rather, they build partnerships into World Bank Group global and regional programs or country-based activities. This stronger link to core operational business, along with tighter alignment and focus between partner objectives, enhance both development impact and business benefit.
For example, in Angola the World Bank Group is exploring the alignment between local content, revenue transparency, and social development activities in the oil sector, and public sector priorities for postwar Angola. This is a joint project between the Angola country team, the Fundo de Apoio Social, the Bank Group’s Oil and Gas division, and the Bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility Practice. The World Bank Group is working with civil society, the major national oil companies and multinational organizations active in Angola, and the Angolan ministries of petroleum and planning.
Global Partnerships in Action
Global programs complement the Bank’s country assistance activities. These programs respond to new and emerging challenges such as environmental degradation, the spread of communicable diseases, financial instability, and international insecurity. They require concerted international action as a vital complement to policies at the national and local levels. Global programs cut across all client groups and are a critical part of Bank operations. Consistent with its mandate, the Bank participates in global programs and partnerships where global action can complement and reinforce country programs and where the Bank can work with partners to provide public goods that cannot be generated at the country level alone. To augment this effort the Bank is active in country programs that are the essential complement to global action. Communicable disease is an outstanding example, with programs in HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis (TB), and polio under way in many countries, thereby reinforcing global efforts. The Bank is involved as founding member, financier, administrator, or participant in 70 global programs, the majority of which are less than 5 years old, although 12 of the 70 are 10 to 30 years old.
Examples of the Bank’s partnerships in action include the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), energy partnerships, the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and other environment partnerships; and global efforts in health, nutrition, and population; knowledge networks; and urban development.
Agricultural Research. The CGIAR is a strategic alliance of countries, international and regional organizations, and private foundations supporting 16 international agricultural research centers that work with national
agricultural research systems, the private sector, and civil society. The alliance mobilizes agricultural science to reduce poverty, foster human well-being, promote agricultural growth, and protect the environment. CGIAR scientists develop improved technologies in every critical component of the agricultural sector, including agroforestry, biodiversity, food, forage and tree crops, fisheries, forestry, livestock, and food policies, and they strengthen agricultural research services. The benefits of such public goods research are significant: CGIAR scientists are providing seeds and technical assistance for rehabilitating agriculture in Afghanistan, the New Rices for Africa (NERICA) program is boosting agricultural production and farmer incomes in Sub-Saharan Africa, and new techniques are increasing rice and fish production in Asia. Innovative “Challenge Programs” are helping tackle micronutrient deficiencies, water scarcity, and other problems of global significance. CGIAR scientists have won the World Food Prize three years in a row. (See www.cgiar.org.) In fiscal 2003 the Operations Evaluation Department delivered to the Board a special report on the CGIAR, the findings of which are discussed in chapter 3.
Energy. The Bank’s Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership has visited client countries and company stakeholders to discuss details of their cooperation and to identify practical and economic solutions that would overcome the barriers currently inhibiting investments in flaring reduction. The first steering committee meeting, which was held in December 2002, approved a three-year work program and budget.
The original partnership formed by the Bank, Shell, BP, Sonatrach of Algeria, and the governments of Ecuador, Nigeria, and Norway has since been joined by the governments of Angola, Cameroon, and the United States, as well as by ChevronTexaco and TotalFinaElf.
The Global Village Energy Partnership works to increase delivery of modern energy services to those who are unserved or underserved. The partnership is managed by the Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme, a joint program of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the World Bank. Currently 150 organizations have committed to the partnership’s Statement of Principles. They range from BP Solar to the United Republic of Tanzania and represent a wide range of stakeholders involved in modern energy service delivery. In fiscal 2003 the
An important goal of the Bank's Environment Network is to ensure that actions taken today to promote development and reduce poverty do not result in environmental degradation and greater poverty tomorrow.
partnership’s technical secretariat coordinated regional energy-poverty workshops in Addis Ababa and Dakar, which involved 13 different country delegations, and it is planning follow-up workshops in Ghana, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia to develop and coordinate further strategies to increase access.
Environment. The World Bank plays a key role in the success of the GEF, a dynamic partnership that channels multilateral funds to developing countries for projects that have local and global partnership benefits. GEF supports efforts to conserve biodiversity, reduce the risks of climate change, protect the ozone layer, clean up international waters, combat land degradation, and phase out toxic organic pollutants.
Since its creation in 1991, GEF has produced impressive results that address key global environmental problems—for example, significantly reducing ozone-depleting substances in Eastern Europe and Central Asia, combating deforestation and desertification in Sub-Saharan Africa, and bringing renewable energy to people in developing countries who live far from existing power grids.
As one of three GEF-implementing agencies, the Bank helps its client countries prepare and supervise GEF projects. More than 370 Bank-GEF projects, including some joint projects with other implementing agencies, are being carried out in 129 countries. The
I	projects	are	financed by $2.7 billion in GEF grants and
more than $12.2 billion in additional funding from public and private partners. The Bank’s GEF Secretariat plays a key role in managing Bank-GEF projects.
The Bank also serves as the trustee of the GEF Trust Fund and provides administrative support for the GEF Secretariat. (See www.theGEF.org or www.worldbank.org/gef.)
The Trust Fund for Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development (www.worldbank.org/ tfessd) is a new type of partnership between the participating donors and the Bank. It provides grant resources for World Bank activities that incorporate the environmental, social, and poverty dimensions of sustainable development in their project design.
The World Bank launched a new carbon fund in fiscal 2003 at the World Summit on Sustainable Development: the Community Development Carbon Fund (www.communitycarbonfund.org), a partnership between the World Bank and the International Emissions Trading Association that is expected to raise $100 million. This collaboration will provide financing for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in projects such as small-scale and rural renewable energy, energy efficiency, solid-waste-to-energy conversion, and agroforestry in developing countries. The effort will complement the Prototype Carbon Fund (www.prototypecarbonfund.org).
Health, Nutrition, and Population. Partnerships are key to achieving the health, nutrition, and population-related MDGs. Reducing child mortality is central to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, which administers $12 billion reaching 64 countries to increase access to vaccines. The Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition works to reduce micronutrient deficiencies. Improved maternal health is fundamental to partnerships such as the Nutrition and Gender Initiative, which emphasizes improved nutrition outcomes throughout the life cycle, and the Human Reproduction Program, a 30-year effort to help ensure the safety of widely used contraceptives. Finally, because reliable data are essential for monitoring MDG achievements, partnerships such as INDEPTH (the international network of field sites in developing countries that performs continuous demographic evaluations of populations and their health) are helping improve the availability and flow of information about disease and health, including nutrition and reproductive health, to policymakers and others.
The Bank is playing a key role in shaping the global response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic as one of eight cosponsors of the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS. During fiscal 2002-03 the World Bank chaired the group’s Committee of Cosponsoring Organizations. The Bank is actively working with these cosponsors, national governments, and others to improve the quality of monitoring and evaluation of AIDS-related projects and programs at the country level. (See www.worldbank.org/hivaids.)
Working with private sector partners, the Bank is helping to accelerate and improve access to drug treatment for people with HIV through such mechanisms as the International Treatment Access Coalition. (See www.who.int.)
The Bank has been an active partner in establishing the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. (See www.globalfundatm.org.) The fund is an independent public-private partnership, which so far has committed $1.5 billion to the fight against those three diseases. The Bank continues to be involved in two other long-standing partnerships: Stop TB and Roll Back Malaria.
Together with UNDP and the World Health Organization, the Bank supports development of improved tools for control of other communicable diseases, such as leprosy and schistosomiasis, through the Tropical Disease Research Program.
Knowledge Networks. The World Bank Institute works with an alliance of partner organizations that provide funding, content, and training facilities to support knowledge networks that enhance the capacity of countries to carry out development projects. Increasingly, donor partners such as the governments of Belgium, Canada, Finland, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, and Switzerland are making multiyear financial commitments and offering innovative means of support (see box 1.3, “Switzerland and the World Bank Institute: Partners in Enhancing Capacity”). Partnership arrangements strengthen the impact of our capacity-building efforts. WBI now has formal partnership agreements with more than 115 organizations and informal agreements with some 250 more.
Urban Development. The Cities Alliance is a global partnership of cities and their development partners. Launched by the World Bank and the United Nations
BOX 1.3 SWITZERLAND AND THE WORLD BANK INSTITUTE: PARTNERS IN ENHANCING CAPACITY
The Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation and WBI have formed a partnership for capacity enhancement that enables WBI to draw on the comparative advantages of the agency and on Swiss technical institutions through a three-year commitment of SFr 3.5 million to support fiscal decentralization, sustainable development, and community empowerment. WBI draws on the expertise of the agency's counterparts in Switzerland and in its field offices, and on the capabilities of Swiss universities and CSOs.
Human Settlements Programme (UN-HABITAT) in 1999, the Cities Alliance now has 18 members, including all Group of Seven countries, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, the four international associations of organized local government, the United Nations Environment Programme, and the Asian Development Bank.
The alliance has focused on two areas: first, supporting comprehensive city development strategies for cities that wish to fundamentally reassess the way they do business and, second, providing support to cities and countries undertaking citywide and nationwide programs to upgrade slums. One of the Cities Alliance’s first products was the Cities Without Slums action plan. The Alliance undertakes its work through its members and is supported by a small secretariat based at the World Bank.
ACTION ON COUNTRY PRIORITIES
In carrying out its strategy the Bank tailors its approach to each country’s particular needs. The CAS is centered on the country’s vision for development, a good diagnosis of the policies proposed, a Bank program to support the vision, and a focus on results. (See box 1.4, “Comprehensive Development Framework.”) This translates into specific approaches for low-income countries, low-income countries under stress, and middle-income countries.
Country Assistance Strategies
Building on and incorporating existing country knowledge, the CAS is the business plan that guides Bank Group activities in a client country. Prepared in
consultation with the government, CSOs, development partners, and other stakeholders, the CAS sets out a program of lending and of knowledge and advisory services linked to the country’s development strategy as defined in a PRSP, a Comprehensive Development Framework, or other country-owned process.
During fiscal 2003 the Bank aligned its CASs for IDA-borrowing countries with those countries’ PRSPs. CASs for Azerbaijan, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, the Kyrgyz Republic, Malawi, Nicaragua, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Vietnam, and the Republic of Yemen followed this model. Also in fiscal 2003 the Bank introduced a new CAS product, the Country Re-engagement Note (CRN), to support work in low-income countries under stress (LICUS).
In fiscal 2003 the Board discussed 41 CAS products, including a Country Brief/CRN for Haiti, a CRN for Somalia, and 4 transitional support strategies for postconflict countries, including Afghanistan, Angola, Kosovo, and Serbia and Montenegro (formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia). In fiscal 2003 the Bank prepared 15 CAS documents jointly with the International Finance Corporation (IFC). All of the fiscal 2003 CAS products have been, or are in the process of being, disclosed.
The third CAS Retrospective, completed in fiscal
2003,	focused on improving the results orientation of the CAS. The challenge will be to substantially strengthen the monitoring and evaluation frameworks so that the country governments and the Bank can assess periodically the progress made in carrying out the strategy, ultimately measuring the results achieved. To this end, in fiscal 2003 the Board discussed the first pilot of a results-based CAS, for the government of Sri Lanka. Pilot projects are introducing the CAS completion report, a CAS annex that presents a comprehensive self-evaluation to be reviewed by the Bank’s Operations Evaluation Department that assesses the extent to which results were achieved under the previous CAS and draws lessons for the next strategy. An assessment of experience with pilot results-based CASs is expected to be carried out in fiscal 2004.
Low-Income Countries
Carrying out the Bank’s two-pillar strategy in low-income countries, where the vast majority of the world’s poorest people live, presents special challenges. The investment climate in these countries may not be conducive to sustainable growth. Limited institutional,
The Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) forms the basis for the Bank Group's work in all countries. In low-income countries, CDF principles serve as the foundation for the country's PRSP. The CDF fosters more effective and sustained poverty reduction at the country level, based on four key interrelated principles: a long-term holistic development agenda; broad-based country ownership by which countries identify priorities; a much stronger country-based partnership among government, civil society, the private sector, and donors in implementing the country's strategy; and a transparent focus on achieving development results.
In spring 2003 an analysis of 48 low-income countries that had prepared either a PRSP or an I-PRSP showed that, overall, action on the CDF principles is helping countries achieve their national development goals and make progress toward the Millennium Development Goals. Governments are increasingly involving a wider range of stakeholders in policy and strategy formulation to foster country ownership.
The analysis found, however, that this involvement is sometimes done only reluctantly and with inconsistent follow-up. The systematic involvement of lawmakers and the private sector needs to be strengthened.
The PRSP process is helping countries focus on a more balanced institutional and socioeconomic agenda, but many countries still need greater
alignment between PRSP actions and the overall budget process. There is growing progress by external partners in aligning their assistance with the PRSP, and several of them are providing programmatic support. Several harmonization and aid coordination initiatives are being pursued, but external partners need to do much more, particularly at the institutional level. The incentive structure for Bank staff, and staff skills, need to be adapted to the different way of working required by the CDF principles.
In fiscal 2003 a series of roundtables was held to discuss using CDF principles in Latin American middle-income countries. There was also a roundtable to consider the CDF in relation to African countries affected by conflict. Participants included representatives from government, the private sector, and civil society. Many of these countries are using CDF principles in developing and implementing their national development strategies to address the issues of growth, poverty reduction, and social justice. This effort is leading to a commitment to stronger partnership, especially between the private sector and local government, and to a sharper focus on achieving results. (See www.worldbank.org/cdf.)
A number of bilateral and multilateral aid agencies conducted a joint evaluation of CDF, which culminated in June 2003 in the publication of "Toward Country-Led Development: A Multi-Partner Evaluation of the Comprehensive Development Framework."
human, and physical resources can keep poor people from participating in development.
A key tool in the Bank’s support for low-income countries is the PRSP, which was introduced at the end of calendar 1999. PRSPs are country-authored, results-oriented, comprehensive road maps that are based on broad consultation with internal and external partners and stakeholders. PRSPs are intended to serve as the framework for domestic policies and cross-sectoral programs to reduce poverty and for development aid. The process emphasizes country ownership in forming plans that reflect each country’s special circumstances and needs. The Bank plays an active role in helping clients strengthen the role of stakeholders in the PRSP process. (See “Poverty Reduction and Economic Management” in chapter 4.) The Bank also encourages countries to integrate the MDGs into their strategy
paper preparation, considering the cross-sectoral actions needed to achieve the goals. This approach will ensure that the tradeoffs inherent in achieving the MDGs are addressed by country strategies.
Because of the country-owned nature of strategy papers and because the process can be complex and time consuming, Interim PRSPs (I-PRSPs), which use a simpler format, were introduced to avoid delaying poor countries’ access to IDA concessional lending and HIPC debt relief. Countries can also seek support for poverty reduction strategy preparation from the Poverty Reduction Strategy Trust Fund, which was initially funded by a $20 million contribution from the Netherlands and Japan. The Trust Fund provides grants of up to $500,000.
PRSP-based IDA assistance to low-income countries includes Poverty Reduction Support Credits, which are
designed to support country-owned poverty reduction priorities. These credits focus on building government capacity and institutions, particularly those serving poor people. As of June 30, 2003, the Executive Directors of the World Bank had approved 7 credits in 7 countries. There is also a new provision to allow the use of IDA funds for projects in the private sector.
Low-Income Countries under Stress
In an era of performance-based lending, the Bank and other donors have realized that many of the poorest countries have been left behind. They have recognized the need to engage much more actively in low-income countries with the most chronically weak policy and governance environments. In June 2002 the Task Force on Low-Income Countries Under Stress recommended to the Board of Executive Directors that the Bank work in close cooperation with its partners to expand and improve its analytical work, invest in capacity building, and identify innovative project mechanisms to improve governance and deliver basic social services in LICUS.
Work on the LICUS Task Force recommendations began in fiscal 2003 and is centered at the country level, as each country has different defining characteristics and each moves ahead at its own speed. Currently, seven Bank country teams have volunteered to pilot the LICUS initiative in their work for fiscal 2003, and more will be added in fiscal 2004. At the country level,
LICUS principles have been incorporated in CASs. Examples of these strategies include a highly selective program in Angola that focuses on natural resource revenue management, demobilization of combatants, and community-driven social action; activities to rebuild the knowledge base and donor-government dialogue in Haiti; completion of a multidonor mission in the Central African Republic; demonstration projects for the provision of public goods in Somalia; policy dialogue and capacity building in support of the peace process in Sudan; and sectoral programs that combine top-down public finance management with community-driven initiatives to support improved governance in Tajikistan.
Partnerships are critical to success in LICUS. Research has shown that the most effective way for
development partners to significantly affect these difficult and risky environments is to join forces to work on priority reforms. The Bank is working with OECD/DAC to establish a learning and advisory group that brings together donors and representatives of developing countries to share ideas, research, and lessons learned. Four of the pilot LICUS country teams are developing joint strategies with UNDP; the other three are in close cooperation with bilateral partners. The pilot LICUS teams have found that increased engagement with our partners early in the strategy development cycle is vital.
Middle-Income Countries
Poverty remains a challenge for middle-income countries, which are home to three-quarters of the world’s poor people. These countries face significant and diverse development challenges.
The crucial roles for the Bank here are to assist the countries with reforms that improve the investment climate, support economic restructuring and investment needs while their access to long-term capital is limited, help them reduce the remaining concentrations of poverty and mitigate their vulnerability to economic shocks, and support country-level action on the global public goods agenda.
The Bank continues to help middle-income countries achieve growth in the private sector by helping them complete fundamental market-opening reforms that make the country more attractive for investment, and by supporting ensuing structural and social reforms. Toward these ends the Bank uses a number of tools to advance its policy dialogue with countries and to continue engagement with inactive borrowers.
One of these tools is the more effective use of diagnostic reports, which deepen the understanding of a country’s development priorities and of the cross-sectoral links and implications for reducing poverty. Furthermore, the Bank offers partial-credit and partial-risk guarantees to mobilize private sector financing for individual projects. The Bank’s support for financial sector development draws on the complementary roles of IBRD, IFC, and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA).
FISCAL 2003 HIGHLIGHTS
■	IBRD lending totaled $11.2 billion this year, with robust lending of $5.7 billion to Latin America underlying the lending program. IDA commitments of $7.3 billion are the third highest on record, with the largest share, $3.7 billion, going to Africa.
■	At the Annual World Bank Conference on Development Economics (ABCDE) held in May in Bangalore, India, with the theme of "Accelerating Development," more than 300 researchers, academics, development practitioners, and students from across India, South Asia, and around the world exchanged ideas for speeding poverty reduction based on research and practical development experience. This year marked the first time the conference has been held in a developing country. (See www.econ.worldbank.org/abcde.)
■	In April, the Bank and three partner organizations launched an innovative financing program supporting the eradication of poliomyelitis worldwide by 2005. The Investment Partnership for Polio—comprising the Bank, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Rotary International, and the United Nations Foundation—will "buy down"
an IDA credit supporting polio eradication, and convert it to a grant, once the government successfully achieves the objectives outlined in the project. (See www.worldbank.org/hnp.)
■	The Bank's involvement in the Education for All (EFA) and the EFA Fast-Track Initiative (FTI) continued, along with strong efforts to support early childhood development, basic education, girls' education, and addressing the needs of children with disabilities, orphans, and vulnerable children. In March 2003, the FTI donors made additional pledges of more than $200 million in support of universal primary completion for 2003-05. At
the same time, new analytical work urged countries to recognize the crucial role of tertiary education in creating dynamic knowledge societies that are key to economic survival. (See "Investing in People," chapter 4.)
■	The Bank's Development Marketplace (DM) promotes innovative development ideas, providing seed funding that links entrepreneurs with innovative approaches to poverty reduction to partners with resources. In fiscal 2003, the DM held nine decentralized Country Innovation
Day (CID) competitions throughout the world and awarded a total of $2.5 million in grant money, $1.5 million of which was mobilized by the Bank's coordinating Country Offices. The nine CIDs were held in Brazil, Burkina Faso, Central Asia, Egypt, Ethiopia/Sudan, Guatemala, and,
Peru, Ukraine/Belarus/Moldova, and Vietnam.
They identified innovative project ideas ranging from organic fertilizer made from coffee waste in Guatemala to a motorcycle-based fire engine for the old cities of Vietnam.
Since 1998, the Development Marketplace has awarded over $16 million to public and private organizations, including civil society organizations (CSOs), universities, and private sector companies, for over 230 groundbreaking projects in more than 50 countries. (See www.developmentmarketplace.org.)
■	In December 2002, the Bank sponsored the first Urban Research Symposium, where 280 attendees including Bank staff, researchers, representatives of public and private organizations, and members of research networks from around the world reviewed recent research relevant to urban poverty in developing and transition countries. The event marked the Bank's renewed commitment to urban poverty research and highlighted the richness and diversity of research being conducted worldwide. Material from the symposium, and announcements regarding the 2003 symposium, can be accessed at the symposium Web site: www.worldbank.org/ urban/symposium2003.
■	The Johannesburg Summit 2002—the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD).
This 10-year follow-up to the Rio Earth Summit took place in Johannesburg, South Africa, from August 26 to September 4, 2002. The Summit brought together tens of thousands of participants, including heads of state and government, national delegates, and leaders from CSOs and businesses to focus the world's attention on improving people's lives through environmentally and socially responsible growth strategies in a world with a growing population and ever-increasing demands for food, water, shelter, sanitation, energy, health services, and economic security. (See www.worldbank.org/ sustainabledevelopment.)
Chapter 2
Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2003
The sustainable global growth that was predicted to occur as a result of renewed investment spending in high-income countries has not materialized. The threat of war in Iraq was one factor that had a negative impact on worldwide growth in the first half of 2003 as oil prices rose and investor confidence fell. The growth in output for low- and middle-income countries was 3.3 percent in calendar 2002, up from 2.8 percent in 2001. Growth in developing countries was affected by the lack of a strong recovery in the industrial countries and by financial and political uncertainties in several large emerging markets.
The demand for developing-country exports grew by only 2.5 percent, whereas prices for non-oil commodities rose by 5.1 percent. Net debt flows were weak, especially to Latin America, and foreign direct investment declined by $16 billion.
During 2002 growth differed considerably across the major regions of the developing world, largely as a result of domestic conditions.
East Asia’s growth was 6.7 percent, fueled by China’s growth of 8 percent and conducive policies in other countries. At the other end of the spectrum, gross domestic product (GDP) growth in Latin America and the Caribbean dropped by 0.8 percent because of the banking collapse and government debt default in Argentina, uncertainty regarding Brazilian elections, a worsening of conditions in the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela, and a decrease of over $30 billion in financial market flows. In Europe and Central Asia, growth was 4.6 percent, resulting from a sharp recovery of activity in Turkey following its 2001 crisis, as well as continued gains linked to higher oil prices in Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States countries. The continued strength of domestic demand in India led to gains of 4.2 percent in South Asia, despite the disruptions in regional conditions associated with the war on terrorism. Growth in Africa and in the Middle East and North Africa was sluggish, with the
regions both registering growth rates of 2.8 percent and 3.1 percent respectively.
Growth in developing countries overall is projected to accelerate to 4 percent in 2003 and to 4.9 percent in
2004.	This forecast partly reflects the end of crisis conditions in several countries where output was severely compressed in 2002. But it is also founded on a number of crucial assumptions about the conditions facing developing countries, including some disruptions from military action in Iraq but no severe, lasting effects; the expansion of world trade by 4.6 percent in 2003 (double the 2.3 percent growth in global GDP); and a slight rebound in the flows of foreign direct investment as well as in modestly positive net debt flows from private sources.
In this context the World Bank continued to adapt its activities in responding to country needs for knowledge and advisory services, and for lending.
KNOWLEDGE SHARING AND LEARNING SERVICES
The Bank’s store of development knowledge has always been an important element of its assistance to client countries. Knowledge activities range from carrying out country research, to developing analytical and conceptual frameworks for country assistance, to initiating outreach that enables client countries to access the available global knowledge. The Bank’s knowledge activities in fiscal 2003 are described below.
Research
Country research forms the core of the Bank’s knowledge base, and it culminates in a number of knowledge products, including policy research working papers, development data, development prospects analysis, and a wide range of development publications. Three of these research activities are highlighted here.
A construction project in Senegal demonstrates the importance of strengthening the capacity of poor communities to design and manage development activities that have an impact on their welfare.
Investment Climate. The Development Economics Group (DEC) works closely with other Bank units and local partners to carry out investment climate surveys—large, random surveys of private firms in specific sectors, such as garments, electronics, and information technology. This research helps clients understand the main problems in their investment climates, identify the reforms that would effect the biggest results, and implement those changes.
The surveys focus on the key bottlenecks that firms face, such as poor infrastructure, inefficient government bureaucracy, and corruption. Because these samples are large, Bank researchers can relate differences in firm performance to various investment climate indicators. From this work, they can conduct thought
experiments: for example, estimating what Bangladeshi firms would experience in terms of faster growth if Bangladesh’s investment climate reached the mean level of China’s investment climate. Thus, one aspect of the Bank’s work is to measure the investment climate objectively and link it to firm performance so that countries (and cities within countries) can gauge their progress and identify priority areas for reform.
A more important objective, however, is to stimulate real change. These surveys can only be done with the close cooperation of the business community— both local and foreign—in each country. A second stage in the survey process is to work with these private sector partners to bring this information into the political debate and to identify specific reforms that are priorities for private sector development. The World Bank and other donor assistance can then support the identified reforms. (See also “Supporting Private Sector Development and Infrastructure” in chapter 4.)
World Development Report. This annual flagship publication incorporates research from across the Bank. World Development Report 2004: Making Services Work for Poor People examines how education, health, water, energy, and sanitation services are failing poor people because of inadequate access, insufficient quantity, and poor quality. The service delivery chain involves three sets of actors: poor people as clients, the providers of services, and the politicians who set policy for service delivery. Improving services for poor people requires reforming and strengthening the three relationships in the chain—between poor people and providers, between poor people and policymakers, and between policymakers and providers. Governments, citizens, and donors can make services work by putting poor people at the center of service provision, by enabling them to monitor service providers, by amplifying their voices in policymaking, and by strengthening the incentives for providers to serve poor people.
Poverty Research. Since 1993 the Bank’s Poverty Reduction and Economic Management network has produced an annual poverty progress report, Poverty Reduction and the World Bank. The report reviews the effect of the Bank’s activities on poverty reduction.
(See www.worldbank.org/poverty.) Economic and Sector Work
The Bank’s approach to creating, sharing, and applying knowledge helps augment its IBRD and IDA lending
activities, generating a greater impact on development. Bank advisory services include economic and sector work (ESW). ESW products include core diagnostic reports that underpin the analysis for the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the Bank’s overall policy dialogue; other diagnostic work that provides upstream analysis for formulating and implementing effective lending programs and assessing their results; country advisory and regional reports that provide advice on special topics; and other more informal products, including policy notes, and events such as workshops and conferences. As the main analytical and advisory tool, the ESW program is closely monitored by the Bank. Table 2.1 shows ESW products delivered by all regions from fiscal 1998 through fiscal 2003.
In recent years core diagnostic work has been a fairly constant share of the Bank’s ESW program, reflecting the high priority assigned to this product line (see table 2.1). At the same time there has been a pronounced shift from other diagnostic and advisory reports to informal products, the result of an increased emphasis in Bank work on capacity building, knowledge dissemination, and the provision of“just-in-time” advice to clients. Financial and private sector development, public sector governance, and economic management were themes with the largest share of total ESW output in fiscal 2003. The Bank also carried out substantial ESW focusing on human development, social protection, risk management, trade, and rural development, which help provide the diagnostic bases for project design and country programming. More than 25 percent of the fiscal 2003 program was delivered by Africa, followed by Europe and Central Asia (24 percent), and East Asia and the Pacific (14 percent). Country reports were supplemented by regional reports concentrating on such issues as regional
trade and transportation, health, income distribution, and achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). ESW is being more tightly integrated into the overall country assistance program, with increasing emphasis on country ownership, participatory processes, partnerships, and capacity building. For example, the Middle East and North Africa region and East Asia and the Pacific focused systematically on programmatic ESW, and the Middle East and North Africa deepened its involvement in the reimbursable Technical Cooperation Program along with its existing and more traditional ESW portfolio. In fiscal 2003,
591 products were delivered to country clients, compared with 457 products delivered in fiscal 2002. Of these, 120 were core diagnostic reports, such as poverty assessments, public expenditure reviews, country economic memoranda and development policy reviews, country financial accountability assessments, and country procurement assessments. These help underpin CASs, Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), and other adjustment lending, and help facilitate policy dialogue with clients.
Sector Strategy Papers
Sector Strategy Papers (SSPs) examine the major economic sectors and thematic areas in which the Bank is engaged. These comprehensive reports are crafted after thorough research and extensive dialogue among staff and major stakeholders, and they represent a comprehensive body of knowledge. They provide strategic options and guidance for operations staff. In addition, they identify the Bank’s strategic priorities for each of the areas of work and present a plan for carrying out the SSP in the context of CASs. Bank management regularly monitors how well the SSPs are being implemented.
BOX 2.1 THE GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT LEARNING NETWORK
The Global Development Learning Network (www.gdln.org) represents a growing partnership of public and private organizations committed to development and poverty reduction. In more than 50 distance learning centers around the world, partners use interactive technologies for knowledge sharing, coordinating, consulting, and training with the goal of capacity building. Recently the network provided a forum on the stigma and discrimination related to HIV/AIDS for decisionmakers and community leaders across regions. The forum enabled participants in Barbados, China, Moldova, Tanzania, Thailand, and Uganda to address the challenges of living with HIV/AIDS and to explore various initiatives to raise awareness and combat discrimination.
In fiscal 2003 the Bank produced three SSPs: “Reaching the Rural Poor,”“Water Resources Sector Strategy: Strategic Directions for World Bank Engagement,” and “A Revised Forest Strategy for the World Bank Group.”
“Reaching the Rural Poor” renewed the Bank’s approach to agriculture and rural development by adopting holistic pro-poor rural development; fostering rural economic growth not only through agricultural but also through nonfarm economic activities and the private sector; promoting cross-sectoral, long-term approaches by addressing the entire rural space; and increasing broad-based stakeholder participation in projects and programs.
The water resources SSP emphasized the critical role of water resources management and development in poverty reduction and sustainable economic growth, and called for engaging in both management and development of water resources infrastructure; taking the political economy of reform into account; developing and maintaining appropriate stocks of well-performing hydraulic infrastructure mobilizing both public and private financing; and meeting appropriate environmental and social safeguards.
The revised forest strategy, aimed at making an effective contribution to poverty reduction and environmental management, was built on three interrelated pillars: harnessing the potential of forests to reduce poverty, integrating forests in sustainable economic
development, and protecting vital local and global environmental services and values.
Capacity Building: The World Bank Institute
The World Bank Institute (WBI) builds capacity in client countries through training courses, policy advice, knowledge products, and services aimed at helping countries achieve their development goals. WBI’s services are designed to help government and civil society stakeholders upgrade their skills, acquire global knowledge from multiple sources, and then adapt the new knowledge to their country institutions and policies. WBI also helps World Bank operations teams design and deliver the capacity-building components of lending projects. In fiscal 2003 WBI delivered programs in the key corporate priority areas of human development, poverty reduction and economic management, environmentally sustainable development, and finance and private sector development.
In fiscal 2003 WBI adopted a country-focused business model, customizing its capacity-building programs to countries’ priority needs, applying best-practice pedagogy, maintaining a sustained presence at the country level, and collaborating with key figures who can implement policy decisions. The Bank identified 41 countries for customized learning and knowledge programs. Among them were Afghanistan, Somalia, and Sudan, where knowledge and learning activities dominate the Bank’s engagement strategy; Albania, Kenya, and the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, where learning programs are particularly important to complement and support other Bank activities; and Brazil, China, and India, large countries where many people live in poverty and where there is a strong demand for strategic management of the knowledge economy.
Capacity-enhancement needs assessments— comprehensive, country-owned reviews of capacity gaps and priorities—are being pilot-tested in countries such as Burkina Faso, Nigeria, and Tajikistan. When gaps and needs have been assessed, WBI prepares a strategy for how best to address them and to define WBI’s role, which becomes part of the Bank’s CAS.
Among WBI’s other products is the Knowledge for Development Program, which provides client countries with an analysis of their preparedness for the knowledge economy, using a set of 69 structural and qualitative variables to benchmark how an economy compares with its neighbors, competitors, and those countries it
wishes to emulate. This knowledge assessment helps identify the problems and opportunities that a country faces.
To increase its reach, WBI works with partners and makes use of distance learning tools and technologies. It helps clients gain access to information resources through e-learning, Web-casting facilities (B-SPAN), Web sites, and the Global Development Learning Network, which reached more than 36,000 participants in fiscal 2003 via videoconference-based distance learning (see box 2.1). WBI also helps its clients gain access to global knowledge through knowledge-sharing services and tools for building communities of learning and practice. The Bank’s Knowledge and Learning Advisory Service, managed by WBI, provides Bank staff with access to best practices across the institution.
WORLD BANK LENDING IN FISCAL 2003
The World Bank comprises cooperative institutions that mobilize financing from member shareholder equity, by borrowing from the international capital markets (for IBRD), and by means of outright
contributions from the richer member countries (for IDA). It channels these resources for the benefit of poor people in borrowing countries.
The Bank’s lending focuses on work at the country level and reflects the Bank’s focus on achieving the MDGs. Lending is tailored to individual country needs, with lending instruments that are becoming increasingly flexible.
The clients of IBRD are generally the middle-income countries and, because of the limitation on IDA resources, some of the larger low-income countries that are deemed creditworthy for borrowing.
IBRD offers loans that have long maturities and reflect its own favorable market costs. In fiscal 2003 IBRD provided loans totaling $11.2 billion in support of 99 projects in 37 countries.
The clients of IDA are the poorest countries, which usually cannot afford to borrow on commercial terms. IDA offers concessional, no-interest loans (called “development credits”) to these countries, which are normally repayable in 35 to 40 years including a 10-year grace period. In fiscal 2003 IDA provided $7.3 billion in financing for 141 projects in 55 low-income countries.
Poverty reduction is at the core of lending from both IBRD and IDA, through investments that support growth as well as investments in basic public services. Through partnerships with other institutions, cofinancing and trust funds also are made available for projects. Figure 2.1 shows the typical cycle of a Bank project. Figures 2.2 to 2.4 show IBRD/IDA lending by region, theme, and sector. Table 2.2 shows World Bank lending by theme and sector. A detailed explanation of the Bank’s financing is contained in volume 2 of this Annual Report.
The Role of IBRD
Countries with a per capita income of less than $5,115 that are not IDA-only borrowers are eligible to borrow from IBRD. Countries with higher per capita incomes may borrow under special circumstances or as part of a graduation strategy. It is important to note, however, that the amount that IBRD is prepared to lend to eligible countries at any given time depends on their creditworthiness as individual IBRD borrowers. Thus, countries may be eligible to borrow but may not have access to IBRD resources because of poor creditworthiness. In addition, net IBRD loans outstanding to any individual borrower, irrespective of the borrower’s creditworthiness, currently may not exceed $13.5 billion.
Seventy-five percent of people who live on less than $1 a day live in countries that receive IBRD lending. The borrowers typically are middle-income countries that enjoy some access to private capital markets. Some countries are eligible for IDA lending as a result of their low per capita incomes, but they are also creditworthy for some IBRD borrowing.
These countries are known as “blend borrowers.”
Even excluding IBRD loans to the blend countries, a full 25 percent of those who live on less than $1 a day live in countries that are IBRD borrowers. IBRD provides important support for poverty reduction by helping clients gain access to capital in larger volumes, on good terms, with longer maturities, and in a more sustainable manner than the market provides.
IBRD is a AAA-rated financial institution—with some unusual characteristics. Its shareholders are sovereign governments. Its member borrowers have a voice in setting its policies. IBRD loans (and IDA credits) typically are accompanied by nonlending services to ensure more effective use of funds. And, unlike commercial banks, IBRD is driven by development impact rather than profit maximization.
Note: Lending is summarized in the 11 main theme categories and 10 main sector categories in the new thematic-sectoral coding system, which includes 68 themes and 57 sectors. Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. Please see appendix 11 in volume 2 for detailed IBRD and IDA lending by theme and country. Lending numbers exclude guarantees.
a.	Bank lending amounts in fiscal 1998 and 1999 are presented together, the two years being exceptional due to the East Asian financial crisis.
b.	Due to a recoding of one project there is a discrepancy between these figures and the figures in the 2002 annual report (table 2.2). This discrepancy of 2.2 million shows up in the commitment amounts in fiscal 2002 for Social Protection and Risk Management and Rural Development (with the two themes showing 2.2 million higher and 2.2 million lower, respectively).
IBRD Lending
New lending by IBRD in fiscal 2003 was $221 million less than the previous year’s level, whereas the number of new operations approved was higher than last year’s, at 99. The new approvals reflect
smaller average commitment volumes per operation, as the share of adjustment lending returned to normal levels after a record high last year. The decline in adjustment lending commitments was offset somewhat by investment lending commitments, which
grew to $7 billion, representing the largest volume since fiscal 1999.
Underlying the IBRD lending program in fiscal
2003	was robust lending to Latin America, with $5.7 billion or 50 percent of total lending, followed by Europe and Central Asia with $2 billion and East Asia and Pacific with $1.8 billion. Lending was not as concentrated as it was in fiscal 2002. Whereas only two countries, Brazil and Turkey, made up roughly 45 percent of total lending last year, 5 countries, including Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia, and Mexico had a combined commitment volume equaling 49 percent of total lending in fiscal 2003.
Law and Justice and Public Administration was the leading sector for IBRD lending, receiving $2.6 billion, or 23 percent of the total. Lending to Health and Other Social Services was second, representing $2.1 billion, or 18 percent of the total.
The thematic distribution of lending in fiscal 2003 was led by Financial and Private Sector Development and Human Development. Figures 2.5 through 2.7 show IBRD lending by region, theme, and sector.
Table 2.3 shows World Bank adjustment commitments in fiscal 2000-03.
IBRD Resources
As part of its regular financing operations, IBRD raised $17 billion at medium- to long-term maturities in international capital markets in fiscal 2003. This funding volume was below the $23 billion raised in fiscal 2002. IBRD issued loans with a wide range of maturities and structures in fiscal 2003. Product diversification helps IBRD expand its investor base and reduce lending rates on its loans. IBRD’s financial strength is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and
IBRD Financial Strength. IBRD’s operating income in fiscal 2003 was $3,021 million, and allocable net income (that can be allocated to reserves and development activities) was $3,050 million. IBRD retained $2,410 million out of allocable net income in its general reserve—higher than the previous year, when $1,291 million was retained—in keeping with IBRD’s strategy to preserve long-term financial strength and support other development needs. IBRD also added $100 million of the fiscal 2003 income to the surplus account. IBRD maintained adequate liquidity in fiscal 2003 to ensure sufficient cash flow to meet its obligations. As of June 30,2003, the liquid asset portfolio was about $27 billion.
Managing Returns to Maintain Strength. As a cooperative institution IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn a return on assets sufficient to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities on an ongoing basis. IBRD achieved an annual net return on assets of about 1 percent per year. The net return on assets for fiscal 2003, however, rose above the 2 percent level due to a reduction in the provision for loan loss. Figure 2.8 shows the net return on average earning assets for fiscal 1999-2003.
Managing Risk. Consistent with its development mandate, the principal risk taken by IBRD is the country risk inherent in its portfolio of loans and guarantees. Risks related to interest and exchange rates are minimized, although the Bank remains highly active in global credit markets to deliver financial instruments on the finest terms that are best suited to the needs of borrowers. One summary measure of the Bank’s risk profile is the ratio of loans to balance sheet equity, which is closely managed in line with the Bank’s financial and risk outlook.
Figure 2.9 shows the equity-to-loans ratio as of June 30, 2003.
Achieving Efficient Intermediation. IBRD enjoys an exceptional franchise in capital markets, thus reflecting the capital commitments of its sovereign shareholders and the preferred creditor status accorded by its borrowing members that provide it with a high credit rating (AAA) and allow it to borrow for long maturities on favorable terms. This is reflected
in the relatively low cost basis of its new lending, an average spread of about 37.8 basis points (1 basis point equals 0.01 percent) below London InterBank Offered Rate in fiscal 2003, and the high volumes it can intermediate relative to its paid-in capital and retained earnings.
In fiscal 2003 the Bank’s outstanding borrowings from capital markets exceeded $103 billion (net of swaps), and its total disbursed and outstanding loans were approximately $116 billion. The size of borrowings was about three times the size of its equity. Figure 2.10 shows the Bank’s borrowings and investments as of June 30,2003. Table 2.4 shows select IBRD financial data for fiscal years 2002 and 2003.
Generation and Distribution of IBRD’s Net Income
IBRD earns income from the interest margin on its loans (returns on loans less cost of borrowings), interest margin on investments, and contribution from its equity. Barring unexpected credit events, IBRD generates net income after allowing loan loss-provisioning
expenses and administrative expenses, including its contribution to the staff retirement accounts.
IBRD’s allocable net income serves several purposes related to the Bank’s mission. A portion of net income is retained annually to ensure IBRD’s financial integrity. The general reserve allows IBRD to assume credit risk in lending to countries at the lowest funding costs, which in turn benefits borrowers. Income retention has enabled IBRD to maintain financial soundness through past periods of both deteriorating loan quality and surging loan demand.
Support to IDA has consistently been a priority. Over the last five years $1.570 billion (or about 18 percent of IBRD’s net income) has been transferred to IDA.
Support for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative has also been important. Over the last five years, transfers to the HIPC Trust Fund have amounted to a total of about $1,030 million, averaging about 12 percent of annual IBRD net income.
IBRD’s allocable net income helps meet other development needs from time to time. It enables IBRD to respond to unforeseen humanitarian crises and provide grants or other support for worthy causes. IBRD also regularly shares income with its borrowing members through partial waivers of the commitment fees and, for qualifying borrowers, through waivers of contractual interest charges on loans.
Financial strength and standing in the markets allow IBRD to leverage its equity by four times in the international bond markets. This leverage increases IBRD’s ability to lend for development activities.
Figure 2.11 shows the proposed allocation of the Bank’s net operating income.
The Role of IDA
IDA is the world’s largest single source of concessional financial assistance for the poorest countries, and it invests in basic economic and human development projects. Eligibility for access to IDA resources is governed by two basic criteria: a country’s relative poverty (as measured by per capita income) and its lack of creditworthiness for IBRD resources. The operational income cutoff for IDA eligibility in fiscal 2003 was a per capita gross national income of $875. The amount of IDA resources that countries receive depends on the quality of their policies to promote growth and reduce poverty, which are assessed on an annual basis. In exceptional circumstances IDA extends eligibility to countries that are above the income cutoff but are not fully creditworthy to borrow from IBRD, such as small island economies.
IDA recipient countries face complex challenges in striving for progress toward the MDGs. Policy priorities include strengthening the fight against the spread of communicable diseases, including HIV/AIDS; building a healthy investment climate as a prerequisite for private sector investment; promoting gender equality; and improving the quality of basic education and poor people’s access to it.
IDA assistance is in the form of highly concessional credits, and since the beginning of fiscal 2003 the Association has also introduced an expanded use of grants, in line with the arrangement for the 13th Replenishment of IDA (IDA-13) that governs IDA operations in financial years 2003 to 2005. The grants are specifically to address hardships faced by the poorest and most vulnerable IDA countries. On this basis the grants are used to finance operations in the poorest and most debt-vulnerable countries and in countries recently emerging from conflict, and to finance HIV/AIDS programs and natural disaster reconstruction.
IDA is financed by its own resources and by donor governments, which come together every three years to decide on the amount of new resources required to fund IDA’s future lending program and to discuss lending policies and priorities. Since 2001, senior-level borrower representatives also participate in these replenishment discussions. Thirty-eight countries are now IDA donors.
Donor contributions historically have been determined on the basis of countries’ relative economic
IDA Commitments
IDA commitments in fiscal 2003 totaled $7.3 billion for 141 operations, consisting of $6.1 billion in credits (not including an IDA guarantee of $75 million to Vietnam), and $1.2 billion in grants. Although below last year’s record high, IDA lending commitments in fiscal 2003 still represent the third highest on record and are above the average annual total for the last five years.
The largest share of IDA resources went to Africa, with $3.7 billion for 60 operations, constituting 51 percent and 43 percent of total IDA commitments and operations, respectively. South Asia followed with $2.1 billion for 29 operations. Among countries, Bangladesh, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, India, and Uganda represent the largest single recipients of IDA financing.
In fiscal 2003 about 17 percent of total IDA operational financing came in the form of grants in the following categories: operations benefiting the poorest countries, $241 million; poorest and debt-vulnerable countries, $406 million; postconflict countries,
$306 million; HIV/AIDS projects and components, $214 million; and natural disasters reconstruction projects, $65 million.
Health and social services and law and justice and public administration were the leading sectors for IDA support, each receiving $1.4 billion, or 19 percent of the total.
The most prominent theme of resource commitments in fiscal 2003 was human development, which accounted for 21 percent of commitments. Major attention was also paid to social protection and risk management; rural development; public sector governance; and financial and private sector development.
IDA Resources
Fiscal 2003 marked the first year of IDA-13, which will fund commitments for fiscal years 2003 through 2005. IDA-13 will provide a total of special drawing rights (SDRs) 18 billion (about $24 billion) of concessional resources to IDA-eligible borrowers over the three-year period. This amount includes SDR 10 billion (approximately $13 billion) of new donor contributions; IDA internal resources, including repayments of principal from past credits and service charges on the order of SDR 7.3 billion (about $10 billion); IBRD net income transfers (if available) of SDR 0.7 billion; and a small carryover of donor resources from the previous replenishment. Figure 2.15 shows the sources
of IDA’s funding over the last three replenishments. Figure 2.16 shows IDA’s stepped-up efforts in the social sectors.
Under IDA-13 arrangements a major initiative was launched to strengthen IDA’s focus on results. This included the development of a system to measure and monitor the results of IDA’s assistance across countries and to track the contribution made by IDA programming to country outcomes.
TRUST FUNDS
Trust funds, which are separate from the Bank’s own resources, are financial and administrative arrangements with external donors that lead to grant funding of high-priority development needs, such as technical assistance, advisory services, debt relief, postconflict transition, and cofinancing. Trust funds help the Bank leverage its poverty reduction programs by promoting innovative approaches for projects, forging partnerships, and expanding the scope of development collaboration.
Many industrial countries, a few of the larger developing countries, the private sector, and foundations make trust funds available to the Bank for specific agreed-on purposes. The Bank also provides some of its own grant resources to selected trust funds.
Contributions, Disbursements, and Balances
The Bank’s trust fund portfolio expanded in fiscal
2003.	The contributions received from donors totaled $4.44 billion, an increase of $1.83 billion, or 70 percent over fiscal 2002, and funds held in trust rose from $5.33 billion to $6.89 billion (a 30 percent increase). These figures reflect contributions received on a cash basis for all trust funds except HIPC, the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria (GFATM), for which contributions are accounted on an accrual basis (starting in fiscal 2003 for GEF and GFATM). The top 10 donors, shown in table 2.5, accounted for 79 percent of all contributions.
Disbursements during the year totaled $2.56 billion, an increase of $0.63 billion, or 33 percent over fiscal 2002. The five programs with the largest disbursements were HIPC ($751 million), GEF ($409 million), Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund ($182 million), Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research ($118 million), and GFATM
($64 million), totaling $1.52 billion, or 60 percent of total disbursements. Disbursements for all trust funds are reported on a cash basis. Figure 2.17 shows trust fund contributions and disbursements for fiscal years 1999-2003.
Major New Trust Fund Programs
Responding to emerging development challenges, the donor community agreed to establish several major new trust fund programs for Bank administration during fiscal 2003. These included the Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening Initiative, the
Global International Comparison Program, the Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis, and the Least Developed Countries Fund for Climate Change.
Donor Consultations and Trust Fund Policy Reforms
During fiscal 2003 the Bank continued its consultations with trust fund donors on the ongoing trust fund policy reforms and launched a new framework for managing consultant trust funds. The main thrust of these trust fund-related reforms is aimed at standardizing trust fund policies and procedures; aligning trust fund activities with Bank strategies and priorities; improving staff accountability in managing trust funds through a trust fund learning and accreditation program; enhancing the financial controls over trust funds; improving access to financial reporting; and simplifying and standardizing audit arrangements for trust funds.
COFINANCING
Cofinancing describes funds committed to specific Bank-funded projects by official bilateral and multilateral partners, export credit agencies, and private sources. It enables the Bank to leverage its resources with additional financing, at concessional terms, to benefit the recipient country. In fiscal 2003 IBRD and IDA financing was supplemented by $3.0 billion from such sources. Major cofinancing partners in fiscal 2003 included the Inter-American Development Bank, the Global Environment Facility, and the European Investment Bank.
In fiscal 2003 the largest share of cofinancing funds went to the following regions: Latin America and the Caribbean ($0.87 billion), Africa ($0.85 billion), and East Asia and Pacific ($0.64 billion). Figure 2.18 shows cofinancing funds allocated by region.
Major Project Cofinancing in Fiscal 2003
A total of 103 projects were cofinanced by the Bank and its partners during fiscal 2003. Examples of projects with significant cofinancing include (a) the Colombia Social Sector Adjustment Program ($390 million); (b) the Ghana Health Sector Program Support Project II ($310 million); (c) the Mexico Rural Finance Development Structural Adjustment Loan ($300 million); and (d) the Jordan Education Reform for Knowledge Project ($120 million).
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE IN FISCAL 2003
Accelerated Debt Relief
Efforts to provide debt relief to the world’s poorest and most heavily indebted countries continued to make good progress in fiscal 2003. As one part of a comprehensive development strategy, the HIPC Initiative is well on the way to achieving its fundamental goal of giving a fresh start to HIPC by cutting their external debt to a manageable level. Twenty-six countries—
two-thirds of the eligible HIPC—are now receiving relief that will amount to more than $40 billion from all creditors over time. Of these countries, Benin and Mali recently completed the program, bringing to eight the total number of countries that have reached the point of program completion. The other six countries that have completed the program are Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Mauritania, Mozambique, Tanzania, and Uganda.
Key challenges facing the HIPC Initiative include (a) encouraging countries, many of which are conflict-affected, to reach the decision point while maintaining the policy performance standards in the framework; (b) encouraging countries in the interim period to proceed expeditiously toward meeting the requirements of the completion point; (c) working within the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) framework after the completion point to achieve the MDGs in heavily indebted countries while maintaining long-term debt sustainability; (d) improving participation by certain non-Paris Club official bilateral, commercial, and some small multilateral creditors; and (e) continuing to support heavily indebted countries’ pro-poor growth strategies, recognizing that the Initiative is one instrument that will contribute to achieving this objective. Figure 2.20 shows HIPC debt relief. Trends in social spending before and after HIPC relief are shown in figure 2.21.
A major focus of attention in fiscal 2003 has been to develop strategies that ensure that low-income countries do not relapse into problems of indebtedness. Workshops have been organized in collaboration with bilateral donors to address longer-term issues of debt sustainability, and it is expected that those initiatives will become a continuing feature of Bank work. Complementary to those efforts, the Bank’s CASs for HIPC and some other low-income countries now include assessments of debt sustainability.
Most of the countries that are still unable to participate in the program have been affected by conflict. The HIPC Unit is working closely with the Low-Income Countries Under Stress (LICUS) Initiative to address the special problems of these countries. The Bank is also supporting other initiatives, including a Transitional Support Strategy in Burundi; country reengagement strategies in both the Central African Republic and Sudan; postconflict funds in the Republic of Congo; and the Somalia Aid Coordination Body.
Countries eligible for HIPC debt relief must prepare Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (I-PRSPs) to reach completion points. The PRSP
5
0
For those countries, Bank CASs are now normally expected to be based on country-owned PRSPs.
Poverty Reduction Support Credits
The PRSP approach enables development strategy and development assistance to be grounded in a broad-based, participatory, and country-owned process. PRSCs are designed to support this process in countries with good policies and sound public institutions. PRSCs provide customized support to country-developed and country-owned reform programs after extensive consultations among stakeholders. They focus on building government capacity and institutions, particularly those that serve poor people.
PRSCs have been approved this year for Burkina Faso, Ghana, Guyana, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Uganda, and Vietnam. Continued dialogue with representatives from PRSP countries, development partners, and civil society organizations reinforces the importance of adapting PRSP processes to specific country circumstances, setting realistic priorities and targets in country-owned PRSPs, and supporting their implementation through improved harmonization of donor policies.
Afghanistan
The $108 million Emergency Transport Rehabilitation Project financed by an IDA credit will help remove transportation bottlenecks and promote rehabilitation of the country’s highway and aviation networks. The fiscal 2002 $42 million Emergency Public Works and Community Empowerment Project provided for the rehabilitation of the Salang Tunnel. The tunnel covers a critical section of the highway connecting the city of Kabul to eight provinces and is Kabul’s only entry point for humanitarian aid and other goods and for refugees returning from the north.
provides a nationally owned framework within which savings from debt relief can be redirected to support programs for reducing poverty. These programs reflect locally established priorities prepared on the basis of a broad consultative process that incorporates the views of country stakeholders, including civil society organizations. The PRSP process, with its emphasis on propoor growth, long-term poverty reduction, and working toward achieving the MDGs, has extended beyond countries eligible for the HIPC Initiative to cover a wider group of countries that receive IDA financing.
Iraq
In line with Development Committee discussions in April 2003, the Bank’s Board authorized its management to undertake a needs assessment for Iraq, including dispatching fact-finding missions to Iraq to assess rebuilding needs. The Bank is assessing the most pressing needs for the country’s reconstruction, working with the United Nations, the Islamic Development Bank, and the European Union, among others. (See “Middle East and North Africa” in chapter 5 of this report.)
Chapter 3
Improving Development Effectiveness
The world in which development organizations work has changed. The new era of global interconnectedness and deeper concern for global stability and prosperity requires development efforts that go beyond process to achieve results through measurable outcomes. Such outcomes include greater numbers of families lifted out of poverty, higher levels of education reached by adults, and lowered infant mortality rates. Countries need to focus on results so that they can make better policy decisions and design better strategies for country-led development. The new partnership for development that emerged from the Monterrey, Johannesburg, and Doha summits emphasizes results in order to accelerate and monitor progress toward achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The World Bank’s results agenda is an action plan to enhance the Bank’s effectiveness as a development agency. It involves several components: setting clear objectives, establishing indicators that can be monitored, linking activities with intended results, and using that information in making management decisions.
THE RESULTS AGENDA
The Bank’s agenda for results is based on the simple idea that results can be improved by increasing management attention to them. This approach proved successful in recent years with respect to quality. In the mid-1990s the Bank began to track the quality of its loan approvals and analytical work. This has led to progressive improvements in the quality of products and services to contribute to improvements in country outcomes. This agenda recognizes that we need to examine results throughout the development cycle: early on, for strategic planning and program design; during the life of the project, for day-to-day management and corrections to strategy; and toward the end, for ex post evaluation and feedback for future work.
The Bank’s action plan includes these components: building country capacity to focus on results in policy and management decisions, including results-based monitoring and evaluation; fine-tuning Bank incentives, instruments, and procedures, and strengthening the Bank’s capacity to focus on results; and promoting a global partnership on managing for results to enhance impact through collective action.
Building Country Capacity
Ultimately it is the countries that achieve results, with support from development agencies and other partners. But many countries lack appropriate monitoring and evaluation systems to enable policymakers to track progress toward results; demonstrate the outcomes and effects of a given policy, program, or project; and feed these findings back into policy decisions. In many countries the basic statistics to assess changes in such core areas as poverty, health, and education during a three-to-five-year period of a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) are weak or missing. The Bank’s action plan focuses first on fostering countries’ demand to measure and monitor results, and on building their capacity to derive and use results information. This can be achieved by strengthening the results focus of PRSPs in low-income countries; strengthening public sector focus on results through public sector management programs; and supporting improved national statistical systems through a simplified lending program for statistical capacity building.
Tracking Progress toward Results
It is not enough to have well-designed projects that achieve their objectives—the objectives must contribute to growth, social welfare, and poverty reduction at the country level. The Bank’s strategies and instruments will need to reflect the shift from focusing solely on project-level results to measuring country-level results. This will include strengthening the focus on
outcomes; incorporating a clearer definition of country outcomes and how the Bank’s program contributes to them in Country Assistance Strategies (CASs), sector strategies, investment lending, and policy-based lending; and simplifying the required documents and processes. It also calls for an integrated architecture that allows better tracking of progress through measurable indicators at the project, country, sector, and global levels.
Keeping track of progress toward results is important in helping the borrowers achieve results, managing the Bank’s work, and demonstrating the effectiveness of efforts. A number of improvements are planned that will incorporate systematic assessment of results into Bank review processes, including the annual portfolio review process (see the discussion of the Bank’s Quality Assurance Group, below), the IDA measurement system, and the strategy and budget processes.
Simplifying Policies and Procedures
To enhance its contribution to country results, the Bank worked this year in three areas to simplify and modernize its internal policies and procedures (which, at the same time, will complement its harmonization agenda). In the area of financial management, it developed major changes to its audit policies, agreed with donors on harmonized processes for financial reporting and auditing, and began a review of the rules on eligibility of expenditures.
In the area of lending policy and procedures, the Bank undertook extensive consultations on the proposed update of the Bank’s operational policy on adjustment lending and the procedures for approving retroactive extensions of closing dates; established streamlined procedures for additional financing (repeater projects) and simple, low-risk projects; completed simplified and modernized templates and guidelines for the main investment lending documents; and activated a hotline to help staff quickly resolve operational issues.
In the area of procurement, the Bank is working with other multilateral development banks to harmonize policy, procedures, and standardized bidding documents. In this area, Bank management is in consultations with donors, borrowers, the industry, and civil society on a proposal for modifications to the Bank’s procurement guidelines to be submitted for Board approval. The revised guidelines will enable the Bank to move toward use of electronic procurement systems support to simplify procedures and harmonize
policies. In addition to the higher thresholds already implemented for delegation to field offices, prior review of borrowers’ actions, and increased use of national competitive bidding, this effort will help lower transaction costs for partner countries. Country Procurement Assessment Reports and Country Financial Accountability Assessments are now economic and sector work products.
Forming Partnerships for Better Results
Getting better results at the country level requires the collaborative action of a community of practitioners among agencies and countries. One of the key challenges for the Bank and its partners is to coordinate international results reporting so that a core set of country outcome indicators is aligned with PRSP priorities and linked to the MDGs. Another challenge is to identify country-level data gaps and offer coordinated support to address statistical capacity building in countries.
Within the Bank the results agenda is an evolutionary process. Many Bank units have already achieved progress. For example, a revised PRSP Sourcebook (published in two volumes as A Sourcebook for Poverty Reduction Strategies) for use by client countries contains strengthened chapters on setting targets, monitoring and evaluation, and the role of civil society in tracking progress. More public sector analytical work and loans are addressing the use of results-based monitoring and evaluation as a tool for better management. A number of country teams, such as those in Cameroon and Ukraine, are pilot-testing the results-based CASs. The Bank has developed a new lending application—StatCap—to encourage a multidonor approach to building statistical capacity on the basis of a statistical master plan. Ukraine is the first country to use this application. Additional funding is now available for other countries and country teams interested in the program. (See “data” in “About Us” at www.worldbank.org.)
The results agenda is aimed at producing more effective outcomes and adding to the progress already made toward the MDGs.
THE CHALLENGE OF ACHIEVING THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The MDGs commit the international community to an expanded vision of development, one that vigorously promotes human development as the key to sustaining
social and economic progress in all countries, and recognizes the importance of creating a global partnership for development. For the World Bank, the MDGs present both opportunities and challenges—to rise to a higher level of operational effectiveness and to deliver higher quality products and services to our clients.
Poverty and Hunger
The first of the MDGs calls for cutting the proportion of people living in extreme poverty and those suffering from hunger to half the 1990 level by 2015. Children experience malnutrition when they consume too little food energy to meet the body’s needs. Adding to the problem are diets that lack essential nutrients, illnesses that deplete those nutrients, and undernourished mothers who give birth to underweight children. Regional trends show high malnutrition rates in South Asia and rising rates in Sub-Saharan Africa. Many countries in these regions may have difficulty achieving the target based on current trends. (See figure 3.1.)
Universal Primary Education
Figure 3.2 shows progress toward universal primary education, measured by primary school completion
rates: the proportion of children successfully completing the last year of primary school. Three regions— East Asia and Pacific, Europe and Central Asia, and Latin America and the Caribbean—are close to being on track for achieving the goal of universal primary education. But three more regions, with 150 million primary-school-age children, are in danger of falling short. Sub-Saharan Africa lags farthest behind, with little progress made since 1990. South Asia has had chronically low enrollment and completion rates, and the Middle East and North Africa has made little progress since 1990, although a few countries in both regions have made large gains. Removing impediments and reducing costs can help boost enrollments.
Gender Equality
Gender disparities exist everywhere in the world. Women are underrepresented in local and national decisionmaking bodies. They earn less than men and are less likely to participate in paid employment. And in many low-income countries girls are less likely to attend school. All regions, except Latin America and the Caribbean, are still short of the target, which is set for 2005. (See figure 3.3.) The differences between
boys’ and girls’ schooling are greatest in regions with the lowest primary school completion rates and lowest average incomes. In Sub-Saharan Africa the ratio of girls’ to boys’ enrollments in primary and secondary school has barely changed since 1990. In 1998 it stood at 80 percent. Progress has been greater in South Asia, but girls’ enrollments reached only 78 percent of those of boys in 1998.
Child Mortality
Rapid improvements before 1990 gave hope that mortality rates for children under five could be cut by two-thirds in the following 25 years. But progress slowed almost everywhere in the 1990s. And no region, except possibly Latin America and the Caribbean, is on track to achieve that target. (See figure 3.4.) Progress has been particularly slow in Sub-Saharan Africa, where civil disturbances and the human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) epidemic have driven up child mortality rates in several countries. In 2001 the average under-five mortality rate was 121 deaths per 1,000 live births in low-income countries, 41 in lower-middle-income
countries, and 27 in upper-middle-income countries. In high-income countries the rate was less than 7. Improvements in infant and child mortality have come slowly in low-income countries, where mortality rates have fallen by only 12 percent since 1990. Upper-middle-income countries have made the greatest improvement, reducing average mortality rates by 36 percent. But even this falls short of the rate needed to reach the target.
Maternal Health
To reduce maternal mortality rates women need access to modern health services. The share of births attended by skilled health staff provides a good index of where the need is greatest. Only 58 percent of women in developing countries give birth with the assistance of a trained midwife or doctor. In Latin America, where the share of births attended by skilled health personnel is high, maternal mortality is relatively low. And many countries in Europe and Central Asia and in the Middle East and North Africa appear to be making progress fast enough to achieve the target. But in Africa, where skilled attendants and health facilities are
not readily available, maternal mortality is very high and progress toward the target is slow. (See figure 3.5.)
HIV/AIDS
In Africa the spread of HIV/AIDS has reversed decades of improvements in life expectancy and left millions of children orphaned. It is draining the supply of teachers and eroding the quality of education. In 2002, 42 million people, including 3.2 million children, were living with HIV/AIDS—more than 95 percent of them in developing countries and 70 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa. There were almost a million new cases in South and East Asia, where more than 7 million people are now living with HIV/AIDS. Current projections suggest that, by 2010, 45 million more people in low- and middle-income countries will become infected unless the world mounts an effective campaign to halt the disease’s spread. (See figure 3.6.)
Environmental Sustainability
An improved water source is any form of water collection or piping used to make water regularly available. It is not the same as “safe water,” but there is no practical
measure of whether water supplies are safe. Connecting all households to a reliable source of water that is reasonably protected from contamination would be an important step toward improving health and reducing the time spent collecting water. In 2000, 1.2 billion people still lacked access to an improved water source, 40 percent of them in East Asia and the Pacific region and 25 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa. Meeting the MDGs will require providing about 1.5 billion people with access to safe water between 2000 and 2015. Although many countries in South Asia appear to be on track to achieve the goal, the Middle East and North Africa—with water a scarce resource—will struggle. (See figure 3.7.)
Global Partnership
Goal eight complements the first seven. It commits wealthy countries to work with developing countries to create an environment in which rapid, sustainable development is possible. It calls for an open, rule-based trading and financial system, more generous aid to countries committed to poverty reduction, and relief for the debt problems of developing countries. Aid is
most effective in reducing poverty when it goes to poor countries with good economic policies and sound governance. Aid levels have been falling, both in comparison with the size of donor country economies and in nominal terms. (See figure 3.8.) To help the poorest countries reach the MDGs, official development assistance will need to double from its current level of $52 billion a year.
ASSESSING THE QUALITY OF BANK ACTIVITIES
The Bank’s Quality Assurance Group (QAG) has a mandate to monitor the current quality of the Bank’s projects and analytical work. It reports directly to senior management but shares its synthesis reports with the Board. (These are posted at www.worldbank.org.) Its assessments involve peer review panels and draw every year on several hundred senior staff as well as external seasoned professionals.
This approach provides both credibility and a fast learning cycle back to front-line Bank operations. QAG assesses the quality of new projects in “real time”: it gives immediate feedback to task teams and their managers when a project is approved (quality-at-entry) and in midcycle (quality of supervision). It also assesses Bank analytical and advisory services known as economic and sector work (ESW), just after delivery to clients. Its flagship “Annual Report on Portfolio Performance” explores the scale, structure, performance, and quality of the active portfolio. It also presents an analytical perspective on one or two key challenges to ongoing Bank operations. This year its focus was on the MDGs and the shift to a results perspective.
A composite index of quality, combining all three QAG quality indicators, shows a 90 percent satisfactory rating for fiscal 2002, a very solid advance on the first set of assessments for fiscal 1998 that showed a 79 percent satisfactory rating. There was some slippage this
fiscal year on one important indicator, quality-at-entry, which was rated 86 percent satisfactory. The most significant deterioration was in the quality of project implementation arrangements, which can critically affect the chances of projects achieving their development objectives. The QAG exercises identified other points of vulnerability: monitoring and evaluation arrangements, risk assessment, and realism and candor in reporting.
Riskiness, a measure of the likelihood of reaching development objectives, is a central portfolio indicator. A key message, agreed on with the Board, is that there is an optimal level of this indicator, one that balances innovation and calculated risk taking with concerns for fiduciary responsibility. A “balanced” Bank portfolio implicitly must often contain projects deemed “risky.” For fiscal 2002, using an enhanced set of leading indicators that QAG hoped would correct for some possible overestimating in recent years, projects-at-risk rose to 19 percent of the active portfolio, comfortably within the target range of
15-20 percent. These results were judged to be in part the result of more candid reporting, but QAG also notes that even greater realism is needed in these assessments. Over the last decade improvements in this measure of development impact imply that some $10 billion more of Bank-supported projects are meeting their goals.
Worldwide, 115 million children do not attend primary school. Education is the backbone of society and the foundation for a strong economy. How can countries achieve universal primary education and reach the international goal of Education for All (EFA) by 2015?
Twenty case studies from Brazil, Guinea, India, and Uganda illustrate key factors for accelerating progress toward EFA. Guinea's experience shows that EFA success can be achieved through sustained, long-term commitment to results, even under adverse circumstances. Uganda highlights how important it is to have political commitment and flexible donor support. Brazil's experience demonstrates that a country can reach the 10-15 percent of the out-of-school population through a concerted focus on equity and quality.
India shows that achieving
such EFA goals as equity and quality is possible even in a very large country. Moreover, India underscores the importance of country-specific solutions, donor flexibility, and country ownership.
After reviewing these country case studies the Bank found several elements necessary for achieving EFA:
■	Strong political commitment, sound policy, and an effective strategy
■	Concerted efforts to mobilize and efficiently use domestic resources
■	Focus on results, which means addressing the inequitable distribution of educational opportunities. Poor people, rural dwellers, girls, indigenous groups, and disabled people often have
less access to high-quality education
■	Emphasis on the school and the classroom as essential components for educational change, along with more attention to middle managers in the educational system.
In 2002 the international community endorsed the EFA Fast-Track Initiative to accelerate progress toward EFA goals. The Fast-Track Initiative has already led to many positive developments: intensified collaboration among the World Bank and various United Nations (U.N.) agencies; renewed interest among international nongovernmental organizations and civil society organizations in universal primary education; and a greater focus on the development agenda and policy debate in fast-track countries.
A high level of riskiness is inherent in the development process. This reflects the continuing reality of frequently difficult global and regional economic conditions, including those in several large borrowing countries. Over the years, crisis-related lending has increased, with the Bank joining international assistance packages, often in partnership with the International Monetary Fund. There has been an increase in the estimated riskiness of the adjustment lending portfolio; this is judged to reflect crisis context and often sensitive country circumstances rather than poor preparation or supervision.
Although supervision was rated 85 percent satisfactory, the “Quality of Supervision” report suggested that Bank staff sometimes do not pay sufficient attention to the riskier elements of the portfolio, which often makes it difficult to remedy project deficiencies during implementation. The report suggested that incentives for seasoned managers and staff to work on risky projects—and in more vulnerable countries— need to be improved.
Over the past two years QAG has been adding a more integrated and client-focused dimension to its work. Based on a pilot program in 2002, QAG is now carrying out a baseline assessment of the quality of support provided by each sector board to the operations of the Bank. It has just completed a pilot program to assess the quality of analytical support and policy advice provided to a country across a full CAS cycle. The forthcoming “Annual Review of Portfolio Performance” will add a results dimension to its assessment of the overall portfolio.
INDEPENDENT EVALUATION
The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) is independent of Bank management and reports directly to the Executive Directors. It tracks the Bank’s development performance; analyzes the effectiveness of Bank projects, programs, and processes; draws lessons of operational experience; and advises the Board based on
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB), and malaria pose serious challenges to the developing world. In 2001 malaria caused
1	million deaths, TB nearly 2 million, and AIDS 3 million, of which 2.2 million were in Sub-Saharan Africa. These deadly diseases touch all segments of the economy and society, leaving children without parents and countries without their most productive workers. The international community has made combating these diseases an urgent priority.
Bank case studies in Brazil,
China, Tanzania, and Uganda demonstrate that developing countries can effectively fight against these seemingly intractable diseases. In Brazil, for example, the adult rate of prevalence for HIV/AIDS has been contained at less than
1	percent. In China malaria
has declined from 30 million cases in 1950 to 20,000 cases in 2000.
A country needs four key elements to confront these diseases successfully:
1.	Sound public policies
2.	Strong health care capacity
3.	Adequate financing
4.	Effective monitoring and evaluation of results.
The foundation for these key elements is strong national leadership. Development assistance can play a vital role in these efforts by shaping better policies, building national capacity, injecting more financial resources, and strengthening the focus on results.
Development assistance already has made a difference in achieving success. If we are
to save millions of lives—achieve the MDG of reversing AIDS,
TB, and malaria epidemics by 2015—the international community must continue to devote significant resources to this battle.
evaluations at the project, country, sector, and global levels.
Development Effectiveness Review OED’s evaluations provide the basis for its Annual Review of Development Effectiveness (ARDE). The ARDE 2002 identified three important messages related to the Bank’s contribution toward achieving the MDGs:
1.	Having endorsed the MDGs, the Bank has put in place a corporate strategy aligning Bank Group efforts with the MDGs and providing an overall framework for addressing them. The Bank, however, needs to assess and address the implications of the MDGs more fully, especially for its use of lending and administrative resources.
2.	The Bank’s country, sector, and global programs are consistent with the MDG themes and have increasingly focused on poverty reduction. This focus can be greatly enhanced by defining quantified and time-bound country targets for poverty
reduction and other relevant outcomes, and helping client countries design strategies to achieve them.
3.	The performance of Bank-financed projects
continues to exceed the Strategic Compact target of 75 percent satisfactory (see figure 3.10). The MDGs now challenge the Bank to demonstrate improvements at the country level—in terms of economic well-being, human development, and environmental sustainability. This will require outcome-focused, cross-sectoral strategies that capitalize on the comparative advantage of partners. “Business as usual” by countries and donors will not suffice.
Opportunities, Risks, and Challenges. Endorsed by all 189 United Nations member states in the
2000	Millennium Declaration, the MDGs represent an unprecedented agreement among the development community about key development outcomes. The themes embedded in the MDGs are not new to the Bank. The first of the goals—poverty reduction—has
One billion people living in rural areas have no access to clean potable water, and nearly 2 billion people have no access to sanitation. As a result, more than 5 million people die each year from water-related diseases. Agriculture, the primary economic activity of poor rural people, is also the largest user of fresh water on the planet. Improved water management can lead to better health and greater livelihoods for rural people.
Bank case studies in Albania, Brazil, Ghana, India, the Nile Basin, and Turkey demonstrate that using a community-driven development approach to water management results in greater likelihood that water resources will be sustainable, user fees will be collected, and water management will be equitable and efficient. A successful community-driven water
program needs to follow these
10	guidelines:
1.	Ensure that the host country government and community groups feel ownership in the process.
2.	Adapt the program design to local conditions rather than to internationally generalized models.
3.	Use an approach that is responsive to local demands instead of a top-down approach.
4.	Involve multiple stakeholders in comanaging programs and services.
5.	Support a policy environment that helps deliver water to the community.
6.	Link water and its management up the resource chain and the chain of government. For example, a water-user association manages a community water pump, the local government collects
fees, and the national government sets water policy.
7.	View monitoring and evaluation as management and learning tools.
8.	Emphasize capacity building of all stakeholders.
9.	Plan for a long-term presence.
10. Harmonize approaches among the Bank, other donors, and civil society organizations.
Note: Includes only lending operations. a. Figures represent partial FY02 sample.
Source: OED calculations.
been the Bank’s overarching objective since 1990. The newness of the MDGs lies in their focus on outcomes, on quantitative and time-bound development targets, and on developed-country obligations in a global partnership for development. These new aspects of the MDGs present an opportunity to increase the results focus of country and donor programs, to address the multisectoral determinants of outcomes, and to improve the measurement and monitoring of outcomes. They also should facilitate evaluation by providing better data on baselines and achievements.
At the same time, adopting the goals entails risks and challenges for the Bank. Based on current progress trends, many countries will not achieve the MDGs by 2015, which poses a risk of disappointment and cynicism. There are also challenges: localizing the global goals to country conditions, harnessing the contribution of sectors without an explicit goal, focusing on outcomes among poor countries and population groups rather than on global outcomes, and identifying the results chain and monitoring appropriate intermediate indicators. The Bank’s effectiveness in addressing the development goals will depend on how well it manages these risks and challenges.
Findings. ARDE 2002 finds that the Bank’s country, sector, and global programs are consistent with the MDG themes and that the Bank’s support for them has been continuous. Moreover, performance at the individual project level shows an upward trend. The Bank must now scale up impact to the country level.
Although CASs have increasingly focused on poverty reduction, their goals are often expressed in terms of directions of change rather than in achieving specific targets. Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, on the other hand, provide a clearer set of targets, although the realism and achievability of their targets can be improved. The Bank needs to define the objectives and targets of its country programs with greater specificity, deriving these from national targets established by countries in light of global development goals, and using PRSPs where applicable. It requires better analytical work, including stronger poverty analysis.
The Bank’s sector strategies show increasing attention to poverty linkages. Although they also increasingly recognize the multisectoral determinants of outcomes, they do not yet provide guidance on how to develop multisectoral strategies to achieve specific outcomes in various country settings. The strategies need a more effective institutional mechanism to foster the design and implementation of cross-sectoral strategies.
All Bank-supported global programs broadly support the MDGs. But few involve developing countries in their governance and management, and few focus on global public policy formulation involving developed-country policies. Complementary country-level investments have received insufficient attention. Global programs are no better than other development efforts at monitoring and evaluating their activities—typically monitoring funds inputs but not outcomes.
The monitoring of both project outcomes and the effectiveness of Bank programs in addressing the MDGs needs strengthening. The Bank should pay greater attention to helping clients improve the quantity and quality of relevant data to measure and improve progress toward the goals.
Country Evaluation Findings
Country Assistance Evaluations (CAEs) carried out by OED concentrate on the development effectiveness of the Bank’s entire program of assistance to each country. They provide opportunities to assess lending and advisory services in the context of the CAS. OED undertook seven country evaluations in fiscal 2003.
Results from these evaluations confirm that the Bank’s country programs pay significant attention to poverty reduction, primary education, and primary health services. A number of OED CAEs noted improved treatment of poverty in the Bank’s country programs. Those CAEs also observed that even in some countries with low levels of poverty, poverty reduction has been a major focus of the Bank’s country
programs. Country programs in transition countries, however, have been less successful at incorporating goals for poverty reduction.
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Findings
OED sector and thematic evaluations address issues that cut across Bank operations, such as the effectiveness of dialogue between borrowers and the Bank on policies and on project selection, design, and implementation. OED bases many of these studies on portfoliowide evaluations, country case studies, and assessments of nonlending services, including economic and sector work. The studies draw on external advisory panels and incorporate such participatory features as public consultations, workshops, Web-based discussion groups, and enhanced dissemination. Sector and thematic evaluations will feed into the revision or formulation of a Sector Strategy Paper.
A Joint Review on Private Sector Development in Electricity (PSDE) conducted by OED, IFC’s Operations Evaluation Group, and MIGA’s Operations Evaluation Unit found that outcomes of IFC and MIGA transactions were positive but that the Bank’s PSDE project-level outcomes were disappointing. The study also found that much work remained to be done to integrate poverty reduction and environmental mainstreaming into the design of power sector reforms and PSDE strategies.
Corporate Evaluation Findings
OED’s Debt Relief for the Poorest: An OED Review of the HIPC Initiative found that the core purpose of the Ini-tiative—to reduce the elevated debt levels in eligible countries—was highly relevant from both political economy or aid effectiveness perspectives. HIPC, as a group, are receiving an increasing share of declining global aid resources; transfers to other poor (but not highly indebted) countries appear to be declining correspondingly. In absolute terms, however, HIPC are receiving less than they did in 1995. The HIPC Initiative’s emphasis on expenditures in the social services has led to increased health and education spending in national budgets, but more focus on growth-enhancing programs is warranted.
Global Evaluation Findings
The Bank now supports about 70 global programs with financial contributions in fiscal 2003 in excess of $150 million. At the request of the Board, in fiscal
2001	OED initiated an independent review of the
BOX 3.1 AID EFFECTIVENESS AND CAPACITY BUILDING
The World Bank Institute (WBI) worked closely with several external partners in 2003 to forge a consensus on what capacity enhancement means for development outcomes and the implications for training institutes worldwide. Participants at a symposium in Manila, the Philippines, cosponsored with the United Nations Development Programme, the Japan International Cooperation Agency, and the Canadian International Development Agency, identified three levels of capacity building: individual, institutional, and organizational. As a follow-up, WBI cosponsored a workshop with InWEnt (Capacity Building International, Germany) on what the new emphasis on results-oriented capacity building means for individual training institutions.
A broad agenda for improving collaboration and coordination among training institutions at global, regional, and country levels was identified, including issues of rationalizing courseware, clarifying matters of intellectual property rights, and joint staff training. (See www.worldbank.org/wbi/ RCET/berlin_workshop.)
development effectiveness of the Bank’s growing portfolio of such programs, assessing the Bank’s performance at three levels: corporate strategy, programmatic management, and individual programs. The review has resulted in two reports. The first, “The World Bank’s Approach to Global Programs: An Independent Evaluation,” focused on the Bank’s strategic and programmatic management of its portfolio global programs. The report already has resulted in a senior management proposal to improve management and strengthen Bank-wide strategies and priorities.
The second, The CGIAR at 31: An Independent Meta-Evaluation of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (forthcoming), examined the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). According to the report the CGIAR’s productivity-enhancing research has had sizeable impacts on reducing poverty by increasing employment, raising incomes, lowering food prices, and releasing land from agricultural use. The report noted, however, that the Consultative Group is less focused on enhancing agricultural productivity than it used to be, and it has not responded sufficiently at the system level
to the biotechnology revolution, the increasing importance of intellectual property rights, and the growth of private sector research.
Committee on Development Effectiveness
The mandate of the Committee on Development Effectiveness (CODE) is to monitor and assess the Bank Group’s effectiveness in fulfilling its mission of reducing poverty. The Committee reviews the work of the OED, management’s responses thereto, and selected reports from management to satisfy itself that the Bank’s operations evaluation and self-evaluation activities are adequate and efficient. The Committee also prepares for Board review of and decisions on selected operations evaluation and high-priority development effectiveness issues, and it monitors the implementation of Board decisions with a view to ensuring that the overall purpose of reducing poverty is being served.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Bank faces a wide range of increasingly complex risks, and the challenge is ensuring that risk taking is deliberate and consistent with the Bank’s mission.
Sound risk management requires continued focus on financial decisions and on fiduciary compliance. But it must also be comprehensive—to ensure that opportunities are not missed and that the full range of risks is considered.
The Integrated Risk Management Framework adopted in fiscal 2003 builds on the Bank’s longstanding risk management practices and aims to produce value greater than the sum of the parts. It focuses on strategic effectiveness, operational efficiency, stakeholder support, and financial soundness. These four focal areas represent an organizing principle—and are part of a whole.
By reviewing potential risk areas, the Bank’s Management Committee, made up of the Bank’s Managing Directors, can provide oversight and policy guidance for risk taking at all levels of the Bank. The aim is to promote better risk taking, not risk avoidance, and thus contribute to greater development impact from all resources at the Bank’s disposal. The financial risk management process is described fully in volume 2 of the Annual Report, in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.”
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
The Poverty Reduction and Economic Management network seeks to expand the knowledge base that leads to better design of policies to promote pro-poor economic growth, and to promote an enabling international environment in which developing countries can carry out such policies in a sustainable manner.
POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY PAPERS AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
Most of the world’s poorest people live in low-income countries. The World Bank’s strategy for attacking poverty in these countries continues to be founded in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) approach. During fiscal 2003 the Executive Directors considered 21 more full country-owned PRSPs and
2	Interim PRSPs (I-PRSPs), bringing the totals to 28 and 46, respectively. Work to strengthen the role of stakeholders in the PRSP process has included a “Democratizing Development” conference for nongovernmental organizations and a program for parliamentarians in PRSP countries. Regional outreach has included an initiative in Africa for trade unions and regional poverty forums in the Commonwealth of Independent States-7 (CIS-7) and the Balkans. Dissemination of guidance on the PRSP approach has included extensive distribution of the PRSP Good Practice pamphlet, updating of the PRSP Sourcebook, and development of the Attacking Poverty course for Bank staff. (See www.worldbank.org/poverty/strategies.)
Key challenges for the Bank are to strengthen the alignment of its assistance strategies with countries’ poverty reduction strategies (PRSs), and to support the knowledge base and skills for carrying out these strategies. To improve alignment, Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) staff, consulting with other donors, have outlined a framework for coordinating budget support with countries’ implementation of their PRSs. With the IMF and the United Kingdom, the Bank has cosponsored a workshop on macroeconomic analytical issues arising from poverty reduction strategies to identify and fill knowledge gaps.
Important initiatives were undertaken during fiscal
2003	to support countries in preparing and implementing their PRSs and to improve the results orientation of the Bank’s own poverty reduction activities.
In today's economically integrated world, trade matters more than ever before. Countries that have strengthened their links with the global economy have usually grown more rapidly over a sustained period and have consequently experienced larger reductions in poverty.
One such effort was the launch of a work program in the area of pro-poor growth. The program is designed to enhance understanding of the relationship between growth and poverty, and of the key operational levers to increase the impact of growth on the well-being of poor people. A workshop in March 2003 laid out the scope of work, which is expected to include six to nine focused country studies as well as cross-cutting analytical work.
A second initiative that moved forward during the year was work in the field of poverty and social impact analysis (PSIA), which informs policy choices by analyzing the impact of reforms on poor and vulnerable people and the tradeoffs among alternative policy options. During fiscal 2003, the Bank and other donors have supported PSIA activities within the PRSP process in 20 countries. The Bank has also employed PSIA in its own work, initially concentrating on PRSCs. (See www.worldbank.org/psia.)
The Bank expanded its support for the empowerment agenda during the year. The Empowerment Sourcebook for staff was published in July 2002, and groundbreaking work was undertaken during the year on measuring empowerment, establishing a Bank-wide community of practice on empowerment issues, and supporting a national strategy for civil society
capacity building and empowerment in Ethiopia. (See worldbank.org/poverty/empowerment.)
TRADE
The Bank’s primary objectives on international trade are to promote a world trading system that is more conducive to economic development and to assist countries in capturing the benefits of global opportunities. Evidence suggests that increased trade raises productivity, and hence growth, which in turn is key for reducing poverty. In fiscal 2003 the Bank created a new Trade Department. This action substantially increased the Bank’s capacity, activities, and engagements in trade. It led to strengthened partnerships with international organizations, the increased publication of research relevant to the pro-development trade agenda, and intensified efforts to integrate trade into country and regional strategies such as the PRSP.
With the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the Bank is the main coordinating and implementing agency for the Integrated Framework (IF) Initiative, and it plays a key role in advancing the program (see box 4.1). Much of the Bank’s global effort on trade this year is directed toward the next milestone in the international trade arena—the WTO Ministerial meeting in Cancun in September 2003—that will review progress on the development agenda launched at the Doha Ministerial meeting in 2001.
The Bank provided support to key actors in the global trading system, including studies on the impact of trade and services liberalization on income distribution for Brazil; an analysis of WTO accession implications for Russia; and assistance to India on the design of a collaborative program on WTO-related issues such as services. Capacity-building activities were delivered through the World Bank Institute (WBI) to help countries analyze the economic implications of national trade policies and regulatory frameworks and to assist policymakers in formulating domestic trade reform agendas and international negotiating strategies. The Bank is expanding its assistance to low-income countries not eligible for the IF through, in the first instance, diagnostic trade studies that cover both the border and “behind-the-border” (that is, internal impediments) trade agendas.
Two aspects of the behind-the-border agenda to which the Bank has been paying increasing attention are trade facilitation and compliance with
The Integrated Framework for Trade-Related Technical Assistance to Least-Developed Countries assists these countries in expanding their participation in the global economy. Participating agencies are the IMF, the International Trade Center, UNCTAD, the United Nations Development Programme, the World Bank, and the WTO. The Bank and country stakeholders play lead roles during the diagnostic phase, when country constraints to integration into the global economy are analyzed and technical assistance needs are identified and prioritized. The analysis examines external and domestic investment climate factors as well as a country's institutional capacity for trade policy formulation, strategy, and development.
In fiscal 2003 the Integrated Framework Steering Committee extended the IF to Burundi, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Guinea, Lesotho, Mali, Nepal, Senegal, and the Republic of Yemen. In addition, participating countries such as Cambodia and Lesotho held programmatic discussions with donors, and Ethiopia, Malawi, and Nepal are planning national workshops to validate results of IF analysis. Finally, Burundi and Mali are in the process of analyzing key constraints to trade integration.
international product standards. Bank support for trade facilitation includes both analytical work and lending operations. Lending for trade facilitation makes up by far the largest amount of Bank trade lending. During the last two fiscal years, lending to support trade facilitation—including lending for institution building and physical infrastructure and for trade financing—made up 86 percent of total Bank lending to trade. The Bank has been increasing its support for client-country capacity building in standards development and implementation both at the country level (through lending operations) and at the cross-country level (such as through the launching of a Standards and Trade Development Facility with the WTO, the World Health Organization, and the Food and Agriculture Organization).
In advance of the Cancun Ministerial meeting, the Bank released Global Economic Prospects 2004, an annual publication that is one of the key Bank tools for analysis and advocacy of the global trade agenda. Other
key research products related to the global trade agenda in fiscal 2003 include Agriculture, Trade, and the WTO; Options for Global Trade Reform: A View from the Asia-Pacific; and Regional Integration and Development.
Trade Law
During the past year, demand continued for training dealing with the practical aspects of international trade law and policy in such matters as market access, antidumping, countervailing measures, the General Agreement on Trade in Services, trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights, regional integration, environment, and labor standards, as well as dispute-settlement mechanisms in the WTO. Among other related seminars, the Bank sponsored an Afro-Latin Seminar on International Trade Law and Policy in December 2002. This distance learning program was carried out in partnership with the WBI, the International Law Institute, the Uganda African Center of Legal Excellence, and the Funda^ao Getulio Vargas of Brazil. It linked approximately 90 participants in Kampala, Paris, Sao Paulo, Vienna, and Washington, D.C. Led by world trade law experts, participants shared knowledge on international trade law and policy and explored new areas for Bank operational work, including relevant legal reform activity.
Bank operations have also provided support for legal and regulatory activities to implement WTO members’ specific commitments in telecommunications and to assist accession countries in meeting their WTO accession goals. (See also “Promoting Appropriate Legal and Judicial Systems” in this chapter.)
Transportation and Trade
Transportation is a critical element of trade competitiveness. In March 2003 the transportation sector and the Trade Group of the Bank’s Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network agreed to establish a joint Transport and Trade Facilitation Task Force. The Task Force was developed to help the Bank address the issues identified by the WTO as priorities in the Doha Development Agenda. This joint unit will help client nations identify and take action to alleviate the constraints to wider external trade and economic growth.
Trade Research
The Bank’s newly created Trade Department has identified several areas for research, many of which
The World Bank Institute works closely with the Bank's development economics research group (DEC) and its Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (PREM) Network to better align its capacity and knowledge programs with corporate priorities and country needs.
The three units provide support to the Bank's clients through an integrated set of tools that include research findings, policy recommendations, and capacity-building services tailored to specific country needs. For example, the DEC/PREM/WBI joint international trade department builds client countries' capacity in trade negotiations and in applying the World Trade Organization's regulations to best advantage.
The Bank will be developing similar internal partnerships for poverty reduction and governance.
are already ongoing: behind-the-border trade policies and institutions, focusing on policies and institutions that directly affect trade costs; the effects of trade liberalization on poverty, focusing on the direct impact of changes in the prices of goods as a result of trade liberalization on the welfare of poor people; the ways in which multilateral and regional trade agreements can be used to maximum advantage in supporting the development process; the sources of growth and their effects on poverty reduction, economic structure, and trade, focusing on ways to link trade policy more fully to development policy; the effect of international product standards on trade volumes and patterns; the existing pattern of payments for the use of intellectual property rights and the likely impact of stronger enforcement of property rights laws on developing countries; ongoing work on impacts of trade liberalization on services performance, in particular telecom services, and on other infrastructure services such as port facilities and international transportation; and the compiling of new data on trade and trade policy to be made available to the wider research community. (See box 4.2.)
GENDER AND DEVELOPMENT
There was substantial progress during the initial year of carrying out the Bank’s gender mainstreaming
strategy. Work included the integration of gender equality issues in the majority of country assistance and poverty reduction support strategies, and increased attention to gender issues in Bank-financed projects, particularly in education, health, and social protection.
More than 20 borrowing countries conducted gender assessments. Progress in mainstreaming gender is strong in countries and sectors where relevant gender analysis has already been completed, reinforcing the key role of gender assessments in addressing critical development issues and priorities.
Ongoing Bank-supported operations that promote gender equality include an HIV/AIDS project in Zambia, a community-based empowerment project in southern India, and a tourism and regional development project in Honduras. Innovative initiatives in gender-based development, such as a rural roads project in Peru, a women’s empowerment and rural electrification project in Bangladesh, and a water and sanitation project in Ghana, continue to receive funding and technical assistance from the Bank. A new research initiative on gender and economic policy is developing a substantial body of analytical work to enhance policies in areas such as trade and competitiveness and public sector streamlining. The Bank also promoted research on measuring women’s empowerment, partnering with international development agencies on research that empirically demonstrates the importance of gender equality to all of the MDGs. Investment climate assessments prepared by the Bank this year have incorporated questions to capture gender-based differences.
GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
Considerable research and country experience have shown that good governance, development, and poverty reduction are fundamentally linked. An increasingly important area of the Bank’s work, approximately $2.5 billion in loan commitments in fiscal 2003 promote governance and public sector reform. The Bank’s strategy for governance and public sector reform notes that change-resistant institutions can best be reformed through systematic approaches, such as revising institutional rules and processes, and promoting demand for reforms through citizen participation, transparency, accountability, and
partnerships. Successful reforms reflect the nuances of a country’s institutional setting, and are based on careful analysis of institutions, incentives, and influence.
In fiscal 2003 the Bank and the IMF prepared joint papers on public expenditure issues and an update on implementation of the heavily indebted poor countries’ action plans, and collaborated on civil service reform. The Bank is developing a second generation of governance indicators in tandem with intermediate indicators of progress on governance projects. A flagship Governance and Anticorruption Core Course was launched in fiscal 2003. The Bank organized a day-long conference with Transparency International on ways to enhance the effectiveness of our anticorruption and governance work.
ECONOMIC POLICY
Sound macroeconomic analysis underpins the Bank’s operational and policy work in these areas: economic growth; debt management, fiscal sustainability, and volatility management; subnational economic management; integrative policy analysis; and country strategy development.
In fiscal 2003 a series of thematic group handbooks is being produced to provide guidance to practitioners on policy design and implementation issues at the forefront of the development agenda. The Bank actively supports regional development efforts through
Communities in Ghana have a tradition of self-organization and selfgovernance, as well as community development experience that can enhance their participation in the country's overall development.
BOX 4.3 DEVELOPMENT POLICY REVIEW—A NEW AND INTEGRATED VIEW OF A COUNTRY'S DEVELOPMENT POLICY AGENDA AND PRIORITIES
The Development Policy Review (DPR) synthesizes the findings of available analysis across sectors and offers an integrated view of a country's development priorities and links. Fiscal 2003 marks the second successful year for DPR implementation. Nine DPRs are expected in fiscal 2003, including Bangladesh, Colombia, the Gambia, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Russia, the Slovak Republic, and Togo.
Mark Baird, country director for Indonesia—the first country to produce the DPR—remarked that the DPR "offers a systematic framework for thinking about policy priorities. It forces us to think through the
broader and longer-term development agenda. The feedback from our clients, especially those in the private sector, has been fantastic. The brief, easy-to-read text made a major contribution to international and popular understanding of Indonesia's development challenges."
The DPR, which will be regularly produced in line with the CAS cycle for all active Bank client countries, has the key role of underpinning the CAS, the policy dialogue, and the Bank's increasingly programmatic approach to country assistance.
diagnostic reports such as the Development Policy Review and Country Economic Memoranda. These reports provide an integrated view of a country’s development priorities and cross-sectoral links to poverty
reduction. As such, the reports have a key role in underpinning policy dialogue, the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategies (CASs), and the Bank’s approach to policy-based lending. (See box 4.3.)
Investing in People
The challenge of reducing global poverty and improving the human welfare of millions of poor people could scarcely be more powerful. In 2002 almost
11	million children died before their fifth birthday. Most of these deaths occurred in developing countries, with 4.5 million in Sub-Saharan Africa alone, and many others in South Asia. Maternal mortality is 20 times higher among the poorest quarter of the world’s population than among the richest quarter.
In 2002, 3.1 million people died from HIV/AIDS. Life expectancy has fallen by as much as 20 years in those countries with the highest infection rates, and hard-won improvements in child mortality have been reversed. Some 115 million primary-school-age children in developing countries do not go to school; 64 million of them are girls.
The World Bank stands by its commitment to scale up efforts to help countries achieve universal primary education, combat communicable diseases, reduce child mortality, improve maternal health, and protect vulnerable populations from crisis.
EDUCATION
In fiscal 2003 the World Bank provided vigorous support for education to help countries attain the Education for All (EFA) Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), while equipping themselves to compete in dynamic, knowledge-driven global markets. This dual thrust is key to empowering people and fostering economic growth—and, as a result, reducing poverty.
Universal primary completion is increasingly seen as the most attainable of the MDGs, and one that enables progress toward the other 2015 targets.
In partnership with developing countries, donors, development institutions, and civil society, the Bank supports the EFA Fast-Track Initiative (FTI). (See box 4.4.) In the last year the FTI has matured significantly with new donor financial and technical support, and many more countries are expected to benefit from the lessons learned.
FTI has raised the profile of education, strengthened government commitment, and focused on outcomes—including primary school completion.
It has produced tangible progress in donor harmoniza-
The goal of the Bank's Human Development Network is to harness global knowledge and experience to enhance the assistance provided by the Bank to clients in the areas of education, health, nutrition, population, and social protection.
tion, leading to a more unified policy dialogue, expanded flexible aid for primary education, and donor commitment to cost-effective standards for school construction.
Support at the global level included important analytical work on the role of tertiary education and on new challenges arising from the need for lifelong learning in dynamic, knowledge-driven global markets. A Conference on Lifelong Learning and the Knowledge Economy, held in Stuttgart October 9-10, 2002, explored education and training policies to respond to the knowledge economy. Also contributing to this discussion was Closing the Gap in Education and Technology, a comprehensive study of the role of skills and technology in closing
■	Education for All dates to 1990, when the world community at the Jomtien Conference called for universal primary enrollment by 2000. In 2000, at the Dakar Education for All Conference, countries reiterated their commitment to EFA and set six specific goals. In September of that year 189 countries gave additional impetus to EFA by including, as part of the MDGs, two of EFA's six goals— universal primary completion and gender equity in education—and pledging to achieve these
by 2015.
■	Despite these global commitments and strong efforts by many developing countries, on current trends, more than 70 developing countries are at risk for not achieving universal primary completion by 2015.
■	The Bank's wide-ranging actions on EFA in fiscal 2003 included:
-	Strong efforts to support basic education, which typically accounts for about half of all lending for education and which increased by about 70 percent in fiscal 2003
-	Support for the participation of orphans and vulnerable children in schooling, and enhancing HIV/AIDS prevention, through work with partners in the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS Interagency Task Team for Education, and the Association
for the Development of Education in Africa
-	Focus on girls' education through such activities as important new analysis on investment returns (an additional year of female schooling reduces child labor by 1.4 to 3.8 percentage points and raises children's immunization rates by 3.5 percentage points). (See www.girlseducation.org.)
-	Expansion of efforts to address the needs of children with disabilities, who are believed to account for a large share of grade repeaters and dropouts
-	Increased lending for early childhood development to $102 million in fiscal 2003 (nearly double the fiscal 2000 figure), reflecting countries' growing awareness of the importance of
children's early years for learning outcomes throughout their lifetime
-	Provision of country-specific support to adult basic education and development of new global indicators for literacy.
■	The Fast-Track Initiative is a partnership of education donors and low-income countries focused on accelerating progress toward the education MDGs. The FTI commits donors to provide additional policy, data, capacity-building, and financial support to countries, which, in turn, are strongly committed to the requisite policies and are ready to be held accountable for results. An initial
18 countries—11 in Africa—have been invited to join the initiative because they have in place a PRSP and an education sector plan agreed upon with donors. Five other high-population countries were also invited to receive technical support to strengthen policies and capacity, with the ultimate goal of increased investment for EFA.
■	In November 2002 the FTI donors pledged more than $200 million in additional support for primary education for the period 2003-2005 in the first seven FTI countries (Burkina Faso, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Mauritania, Nicaragua, and Niger). This funding represents approximately 40 percent more official development assistance resources for primary education and will help educate about 4 million additional girls and boys through the support of hiring of new teachers, building new schools, providing books and materials to improve school quality and learning, and providing targeted subsidies to help keep AIDS orphans and other vulnerable children in school.
■	In March 2003 FTI donors at a Paris meeting achieved consensus on a framework paper to guide the FTI process and committed to supporting three additional countries: the Gambia, Mozambique, and the Republic of Yemen.
Donors also affirmed their commitment to actions to harmonize aid delivery and reduce transactions costs for FTI recipient countries, for example, by planning joint sector review missions and accepting a common reporting framework
in FTI countries.
the productivity gap in Latin America and the Caribbean.
At the country level, support for education gathered momentum. At $2.3 billion, lending to the education sector increased for the third consecutive year in fiscal 2003. Support for education components in other sector projects also increased in fiscal 2003 to $577 million, compared with $435 million the previous year.
The Latin America and the Caribbean region accounted for the largest share of lending ($785 million). (See table 6.12.)
Africa received support for education sector reform and basic education ($424 million, all IDA funding), as well as assistance for “development learning centers” to tap into global knowledge on diverse developmental issues to be drawn from in preparing national poverty reduction strategies.
Increased policy and analytical support included both country- and regionwide (East Asia, Africa) policy notes, reports, and dialogue, as well as in-depth analytical contributions in the areas of tertiary education, girls’ education, and service delivery (World Development Report 2003: Making Services Work for Poor People).
Recent data from the Bank’s Operations Evaluation Department (fiscal 2002, partial) showed that 95 percent of education projects had satisfactory outcomes, compared with 83 percent in fiscal 2001 and 74 percent five years earlier.
HEALTH, NUTRITION, AND POPULATION
Communicable diseases, poor maternal and child health, and poor nutrition account for much of the disease burden and many of the deaths among poor people. Each year more than 500,000 women die from pregnancy-related complications. An estimated 140 million children under the age of five are underweight, almost half of them in South Asia. Of almost
11	million deaths in children under five, over half are attributable to preventable and treatable diseases.
During fiscal 2003 the Bank worked with partners and countries to accelerate progress toward the health, nutrition, and population-related MDGs. The improved alignment of the Bank’s work with the MDGs was reflected in total new commitments of $1.6 billion to the health sector in 63 new projects.
Scaling up and expanding coverage of basic services to achieve the MDGs require well-functioning
This year the World Bank celebrates the 40th anniversary of its education sector, with sector lending at a four-year high. More than 700 education projects have been financed since education lending began, with support for basic education through tertiary and lifelong learning.
health care systems. The Bank’s health systems agenda this year emphasized institutional and structural reforms, sustainable financing, strengthening governments’ stewardship role (e.g., policymaking, regulation, monitoring and evaluation, and creating demand-side incentives to improve accountability of public providers to patients). New commitments for health system performance amounted to almost $505 million.
Communicable diseases, including HIV/AIDS, continued to be a dominant theme, amounting to over $442 million in new commitments. New lending for population and reproductive and child health reached $407 million. Support for nutrition noted significant gains, accounting for more than $199 million.
Innovative approaches to addressing the MDGs are key. This year the Bank approved projects to support global efforts to eradicate polio in Nigeria and Pakistan. These projects include an IDA “buy-down” mechanism, whereby IDA credits are converted to grants if agreed performance criteria are met. Contributions from Rotary International, the United Nations Foundation, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation are making these projects possible.
Finally, the Bank continued to address the growing epidemic of noncommunicable disease and injury. Throughout the negotiations of the Framework Convention for Tobacco Control, Curbing the Epidemic, a Bank publication on tobacco, was frequently cited as
the authoritative summary of the evidence on the economic issues. Work on risk factor surveillance and collaboration with external partners on issues related to water, sanitation and hygiene, indoor air pollution, and road safety continued to grow.
PROTECTING THE MOST VULNERABLE PEOPLE
Lending for social protection and risk management (including natural disaster management) totaled $2.3 billion in fiscal 2003, including $1.1 billion to Latin America and the Caribbean.
Coping measures and social protection, such as risk reduction and mitigation, are essential to protect vulnerable people. In 2003 such mechanisms helped countries create viable old-age income security for poor people, support the unemployed, develop equitable labor markets, eliminate child labor, and provide social safety nets and social funds for vulnerable groups. In addition, the Bank analyzed the effectiveness of social sector interventions and the appropriate mix of national interventions.
In 2003 the Bank took significant steps to integrate social protection within a number of country PRSPs. These activities began with a series of distance learning events (March-April 2002, with 21 countries and 170 participants), five Quality Enhancement Reviews (June 28-July 17,15 countries), followed by three workshops: in Paris in April 2002 (17 countries and 101 participants); in Addis Ababa in November 2002 (12 countries and 145 participants), and in Paris in July 2002 (100 participants).
The Bank implemented the social protection strategy that was adopted in September 2000. This included undertaking risk and vulnerability assessments and social safety net assessments in Latin America and the Caribbean, South Asia, Europe and Central Asia, and East Asia and the Pacific, including two regional studies that profiled the risks to which poor people are exposed, the instruments they have to manage these risks, and actions to reduce their vulnerability. Guided by two new Bank-wide advisers, the work on children and youth, orphans and other vulnerable children, and disabled people gained new momentum.
In 2003 the Bank is concluding a comprehensive overview of international and national programs and interventions, and qualitative and quantitative data on child labor in Guatemala, Morocco, and the
Of the nearly 500 million disabled people in the world, 80 percent of them live in developing countries. Disabled people are regularly shunned, isolated, and stigmatized by their societies. Because they are kept from attending school or finding work, they also tend to be among the poorest of poor people, especially women and children.
"The challenge is to help disabled people lead a normal life, provide them with an opportunity to work, to become self-sufficient, and to contribute to their community," said World Bank president, James D. Wolfensohn. "This brings benefits to the disabled individual, the family, the community, society, and the economy."
Accessible infrastructure can help integrate disabled people into mainstream society, by providing them with access to education and employment.
The World Bank is leading work on disability, integrating the issue into dialogue with client countries and country-based analytical work, and supporting policies, programs, and projects that take people with disabilities fully into consideration in developing countries.
In December 2002 the World Bank hosted a conference on disability and development, which focused on how preventing disability and integrating already disabled people into mainstream society are central to dealing with poverty.
Republic of Yemen. The Bank is also completing a strategy to streamline its work on children and youth. In May the Bank held a second workshop on orphans and vulnerable children. And finally, the Conference on Disability and Development (see box 4.5) brought together Bank staff, bilateral development organizations, and nongovernmental organizations to discuss the role of the Bank in reducing poverty. Regional working groups on disability and development have been formed, and research is under way to further address disability in the Education for All movement, in combating HIV/AIDS, and in data and access issues. The Norwegian Trust Fund for Disability and Development continues to be an important source of support for all activities in this area, including projects in the field.
Toward Environmentally and Socially Responsible Growth
During fiscal 2003 the World Bank has been advocating for the vision of responsible growth that was put forth in the World Development Report 2003 and affirmed at the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) in Johannesburg, South Africa, in August
2002.
At the summit a consensus emerged on moving toward a new development path that will combine growth with environmental responsibility and social equity, in both rich and poor countries. Poverty reduction is much more than a development aid issue—it is also an issue of global stability, the summit emphasized.
One key message emerging from Johannesburg and the Bank’s own operational experience is clear: enlightened public policy, a responsible and accountable private sector, and proactive civil society organizations are needed to achieve the WSSD targets and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. The spirit of cooperation and of constructive engagement generated among all stakeholders in Johannesburg is a promising start. (See www.johannesburgsummit.org.)
STRATEGIES FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
In fiscal 2003 the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors endorsed a suite of sector strategies, titled “Reaching the Rural Poor,”“Water Resources Sector Strategy: Strategic Directions for World Bank Engagement,” and “A Revised Forest Strategy for the World Bank Group,” with a corresponding forest policy. Together with the environment strategy, now in its second year, these represent a clear movement toward sustainable use of natural resources. They are aligned with the MDGs and are consistent with WSSD development priorities.
Through its environment strategy, the Bank is paying particular attention to the links among the environment, poverty, and development, along with how the environment affects the health, livelihoods, and vulnerability of poor people. (See www.worldbank.org/environmentstrategy.)
Progress has been made, especially in three key areas:
1.	Establishingpoverty-environment links. Providing targeted environmental inputs to Poverty
The world community is making renewed commitments to urgently needed poverty reduction in the developing world. The World Bank is working to make development sustainable, looking to the future to guide today's actions.
Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs), and identifying “best practices” through a review of environmental content in PRSPs (for example, in the Republic of Yemen paper). The Bank is also increasing the use of programmatic approaches and lending instruments (for example, in the Mexico Environment Structural Adjustment Loan) to enhance environmental policies and institutions.
2.	Undertaking strategic analyses. The Bank is using Country Environment Analysis in India and Tunisia, Strategic Environmental Assessments (such as the Nile Basin Initiative), Poverty-Environment Analyses (such as the Poverty-Environment Nexus in East Asia), and economic indicators to strengthen development outcomes.
In fiscal 2003, 52 new projects with environmental lending amounting to $1.1 billion were approved. This represents 6 percent of total Bank new lending in fiscal 2003.
3.	Realigning institutional incentives and resources.
To complement changes in the Bank’s lending and analytical work in client countries, the Bank is also strengthening its incentive structure and
To achieve the goal of poverty reduction—as agreed to at the 2002 Monterrey Conference and in the Earth Summit in Johannesburg, and outlined in the Millennium Development Goals—increased growth will be key. This growth needs to be one that puts social equity and environmental responsibility at the center.
institutional resources. Green Awards have encouraged environmental mainstreaming. Environmental and safeguards training—both within the Bank and for our clients—has increased substantially. The Bank is using the Mainstreaming Fund for the Environment to support strategy implementation and cross-sectoral analysis. Through a new database, the Bank is now providing up-to-date environmental indicators and trends.
Moreover, the Bank is helping its client countries meet their commitments under the global environmental conventions—biodiversity, land degradation, ozone, persistent organic pollutants, and climate change—through the Global Environment Facility (www.gefweb.org) and the Multilateral
Fund of the Montreal Protocol (www.worldbank.org/ montrealprotocol).
SAFEGUARD POLICIES
In fiscal 2003 the Bank’s executive directors and senior management reaffirmed the importance of continued compliance with safeguard policies. In line with this affirmation, the Bank drafted a framework paper for improving development effectiveness for safeguard policies, which is now posted on the Web for public comment from borrowers and other stakeholders.
(See www.worldbank.org/safeguards.) This framework paper included provisions for the use of safeguard pilot programs to test new approaches to meeting the safeguard policy objectives of the Bank, including undertaking pilot programs concerning harmonizing national procedures, developing review mechanisms for new lending instruments, testing the use of borrower safeguard systems, and examining innovative approaches. The Bank also worked closely with the members of the International Financial Institutions Working Group on Environment to develop a common approach for environmental impact assessment that was issued at the High-Level Forum on Harmonization in Rome (February 2003, www1.worldbank.org/ harmonization/romehlf). In addition, the Bank approved a new operational policy for forests in November 2002, which also addresses safeguard issues. The Bank continued to support extensive safeguards capacity-building and training activities for staff, borrowers, and other stakeholders at headquarters and in the field, focusing on their application in project identification, preparation, appraisal, and supervision.
AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, AND FORESTS
In fiscal 2003 lending volumes were $1.9 billion for rural development. The Bank’s new rural strategy will promote broad-based rural growth that enhances agricultural productivity by focusing on poor people, addressing the entire rural area, building alliances with stakeholders, and identifying the impacts of global developments such as trade protectionism and climate change. (See box 4.6, box 4.7, and www.worldbank.org/ruralstrategy.)
BOX 4.6 AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL ASSESSMENT
At the World Summit on Sustainable Development, the World Bank launched a nine-month consultative process to hear the views of stakeholders on the role of agricultural science and technology in reducing hunger, improving rural livelihoods, and stimulating environmentally sustainable economic growth (www.agassessment.org). The stakeholders included farmers and other producers, nongovernmental organizations, researchers, the private sector, governments, consumers, and others throughout the world. During this process, which will last though mid-2003, stakeholders will exchange ideas on how agricultural science and technology can help end hunger and rural poverty. At the conclusion of the process, a steering committee comprising all the stakeholder groups will advise the Bank on the value of an international assessment, the ideal scope of such an assessment, and a governance structure for the assessment.
The Bank is the world’s largest financier of protected forests. To meet this challenge it has created a new forests strategy, which covers all forest types and focuses on three areas:
1.	Protecting vital local and global environmental services and values provided by forests
2.	Harnessing the potential of forests to reduce poverty
3.	Integrating forests into sustainable economic development.
The new policy will seek to expand the 8 percent of forest areas under protection in developing countries and maintain a strict ban on logging in these critical forests. In addition, by reengaging in areas of forests outside the protected areas, the livelihoods of poor people will be improved. A revised Operational Policy, which covers all forest types rather than focusing specifically on tropical moist forests, allows support for sustainable harvesting operations located in forests identified as “noncritical,” but only when these operations comply with independent certification standards.
Access to fresh water is vital to agriculture and rural development. By integrating better management of water resources with the development of infrastructure, the new water resources strategy will contribute to halving poverty by 2015. To provide more security against climatic variability, the strategy will assist countries in developing and maintaining well-performing hydraulic infrastructure, in continuing policy reform, and in mobilizing public and private financing. Support for water infrastructure will be provided based on a business model that not only meets high social and environmental standards but also provides for more rapid and consistent decisionmaking. (See www.worldbank.org/water.)
The Bank also supports the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR).
In fiscal 2003 three countries and one private foun-dation—Israel, Malaysia, and Morocco, and the Syngenta Foundation—joined the CGIAR, strengthening the partnership. In addition, such key members as Canada, Spain, and the United States announced increased support for the CGIAR. As part of a reform program, a new science council was established to ensure the quality and relevance of CGIAR science, and innovative challenge programs were launched to tackle globally significant problems, such as micronutrient deficiencies and water scarcity.
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
To ensure that Bank projects and programs integrate principles of social sustainability, the Bank is consolidating its approach to social development. The effort is based on stock-taking exercises, as well as extensive consultations with external partners.
(See www.worldbank.org/sdstrategy.)
The Bank has also been assisting governments in introducing social accountability in public programs, including budget management, service delivery, and formulation of poverty reduction strategies. It developed and has started pilot testing frameworks and tools for assessing the environment for civic engagement. (See www.worldbank.org/ participation.)
In community-driven development, the Bank’s portfolio has stabilized at approximately $2 billion, emphasizing partnerships between local governments and community-based organizations.
Moreover, the Bank is working on increasing the impact of community-driven development, as well as on the links between it and other areas, such as broader decentralization reform, conflict, social capital, and community foundations. (See www.worldbank.org/cdd.)
Recognizing the importance of social analysis, the Bank is developing guidance on its application projects and policy. (See www.worldbank.org/ socialanalysisisourcebook.) It is also applying poverty and social impact analysis (PSIA) to determine the
consequences of policy reform on social groups. As part of this effort, the Bank launched the first “User’s Guide for Poverty and Social Impact Analysis.” (See www.worldbank.org/psia.)
During fiscal 2003 the Post-Conflict Fund approved grants worth more than $9.1 million to continue its support to conflict-affected countries, particularly the vulnerable low-income countries under stress. The Bank has also been exploring the links between conflict and natural resource management. (See www.worldbank.org/conflict.)
Supporting Private Sector Development and Infrastructure
The World Bank’s Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Networks promote private initiatives for poverty reduction and support infrastructure development in poor countries. Two separate vice presidencies were created from the former Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Vice Presidency in fiscal 2003. The Infrastructure Vice Presidency, which now consolidates the Bank’s infrastructure departments and infrastructure-related global programs, commenced operations as a separate network in May 2003. So also did the new Private Sector Development Vice Presidency, which is responsible for strategic integration between the Bank and IFC on private sector development, investment climate issues, and long-term strategy for the IFC. The material presented in this chapter, however, primarily covers the period under which both vice presidencies and networks still operated as one.
HARNESSING PRIVATE INITIATIVE FOR DEVELOPMENT
The World Bank Group’s private sector development strategy, approved in fiscal 2002, articulates the key role that private initiative can play in promoting growth and poverty reduction. During fiscal 2003,
22 diagnostic firm surveys on the investment climate were launched. They identified the constraints to firm productivity and income growth. Seven country investment climate assessments were prepared, building on the firm surveys and providing a detailed picture of the business environment. The Doing Business Project was also launched. It surveyed experts and derived five sets of indicators—contract enforcement, credit markets, entry regulation, labor regulation, and bankruptcy—to provide a snapshot of the investment climate for 130 countries, including 55 IDA countries. The World Bank Group continued to provide advisory services to its member countries in building the investment climate, particularly through the work of the Foreign Investment Advisory Service.
The private sector development strategy also proposed the pilot testing of output-based aid approaches to support the delivery of basic services, including
Road construction in Cambodia.
infrastructure, health, and education, by private providers. In fiscal 2003 work was done on a portfolio of 25 operations across various sectors and regions. The Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid was established in 2003 to support such pilot initiatives with initial support from the Bank and the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development. (See also figure 4.1.)
Increased efforts are being made to exploit the synergies between the financing instruments of the World Bank, IFC, and MIGA. The Pamir Private Power Project in Tajikistan, approved in June 2002, exemplifies synergies between the commercial discipline and private sector orientation of IFC financing and the potential of IDA funds to address affordability concerns by subsidizing poor consumers. An example of IDA and MIGA cooperation is a guarantee facility being jointly prepared by them to catalyze private investments in small and medium-sized infrastructure and privatization projects in eligible Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine member countries.
Major efforts are being made across the Bank Group and in particular by IFC to enhance support to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and to direct it away from firm-level financial assistance to support for intermediaries, and from firm-level advice to
creation of a market for business development services for SMEs.
INFRASTRUCTURE
The Bank made a substantial investment in infrastructure this year, recognizing that inadequate and inefficient infrastructure constitutes a major barrier to growth and poverty reduction. In the water and sanitation sector, effective poverty reduction will require dramatically increased investments from both the public and private sectors. The Bank continues to help its client countries in promoting strong legal and regulatory environments for the delivery of water and sanitation services, for example, in Armenia, Jordan, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, and St. Lucia.
In all infrastructure work, the Bank emphasizes the establishment of appropriate regulatory frameworks. There are strong links among the legal and regulatory issues facing the private delivery of water, sanitation, electricity, gas, information and communication technologies (ICTs), and transportation services, whether or not a single multisector regulatory regime itself makes sense. And, as is true of regimes for banking and corporate activity, a clear legal and regulatory framework needs to be in place to ensure an appropriate, transparent, and
Figure 4.1 Net Long-Term Resource Flows to Developing Countries, 1993-2002 (billions of dollars)
predictable operating context. (See “Promoting Appropriate Legal and Judicial Systems” in this chapter.)
Water Supply and Sanitation
The emergence of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) has moved water supply and sanitation to the heart of the global poverty reduction agenda. In fiscal 2003 the World Bank continued to help shape the international water agenda through active participation in a number of international meetings. These included the International Conference on Financing for Development held in Monterrey, Mexico; the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg; the 3rd World Water Forum in Japan; and the G8 Summit in Evian les Bains,
France. In addition, the Report of the World Panel on Financing Water Infrastructure, chaired by Michel Camdessus, underscores the need to operate in all aspects of the water sector—water resources, service delivery, and broad poverty-targeted interventions— and calls on the international community to accelerate its efforts. The quality of new Bank projects and the performance of existing projects have improved significantly, whereas total annual IBRD/IDA financing commitments for water supply and sanitation declined in recent years from a high of $1.7 billion in fiscal 1994-97 to $493 million in fiscal 2002. This year commitments rose to $1.3 billion, and sector assistance is projected to increase over the next three years.
Water supply and sanitation feature prominently in a diverse range of World Bank operations, including social protection, health and education, rural development, city management, and slum upgrading. At the country level the Bank’s new water strategy supports the trend toward holistic development, identifying future approaches for better engagement with client countries and partners across the spectrum of water uses. Conceptual work has focused on sanitation and hygiene, better integration of water supply and sanitation into country programs, sector reform, and innovative financial instruments, such as output-based aid, subsovereign instruments financing, and risk mitigation instruments.
Energy
Progress has been made in early implementation of the energy business renewal strategy, which envisions a transition from traditional to modern energy use for poor households and an energy sector that is
efficient, reliable, and better able to support growth and fiscal stability. In Africa about 40 percent of the new lending commitments in fiscal 2003 had access expansion components, as in the Uganda Energy for Rural Transformation Project and the village electrification scheme under the Songo Songo Gas Development Project in Tanzania. Bangladesh and the Philippines, with IBRD assistance, have embarked on aggressive rural electrification programs that also support provision of renewable energy.
Reduction of large quasi-fiscal deficits in the energy sector is a key focus of the Bank’s interventions in eastern Europe and elsewhere, and major energy conditions are included in adjustment lending in Bulgaria and Romania. In China the Bank is supporting a major effort to restructure the power and gas industry and introduce a proper regulatory system underpinned by a reform of the legal framework.
Projects to support renewable energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions were approved and are being implemented in a host of countries. The Jepirachi Carbon Off-Set in Colombia will promote 19.5 megawatts of wind-based electricity generation. The Liepaja Region Municipal Solid Waste Management project in Latvia will use energy cells for enhanced degradation of easily biodegradable waste and will use the resulting landfill gas to generate electricity.
Financing commitments in fiscal 2003 to support the development of energy infrastructure and services in client countries amounted to $1 billion in 14 projects. In addition to lending for projects, the Bank supports a range of analytical and policy work in the sector, and more than $2.5 million was spent on this in fiscal 2003.
Helping to Bridge the Digital Divide The joint World Bank-IFC Global Information and Communications Technology (GICT) Department helps countries maximize the development impact of information and communications technology. In fiscal 2003 GICT’s policy division was involved in grant-funded operations covering every Bank region in addition to 2 credit and lending projects.
Three World Bank projects approved this year harness the output-based aid concept to accelerate access to telecommunications services for poor and rural communities in less-developed countries. Providing public telephones to previously unserved communities has been linked to improved delivery of
government services, the expansion of SMEs, and growth in incomes.
The Bank uses approaches that can be applied even in complex environments or small economies. In Afghanistan the government has licensed a second mobile operator, catalyzing significant foreign direct investment in the sector and a rapid rollout of telecommunications services both in Kabul and beyond. The Bank is providing support to create the regulatory and legal underpinnings required for that expansion and is managing investment support under the Afghan Reconstruction Trust Fund. A project approved this year for Samoa supports telecommunications and reform to bring access to Samoans currently on the wrong side of the digital divide.
GICT also manages infoDev, a donor-funded grant-making initiative that supports innovative use of ICT to improve livelihoods in developing countries. Its portfolio contains about 40 pilot projects and technical assistance activities in ICT development. This year infoDev launched an initiative that will establish a network of incubators to facilitate the emergence and development of small and medium-sized ICT enterprises in developing countries.
Transportation
Transportation has an essential intermediate contribution to make to each of the MDGs, and lending to the transportation sector increased to $2.7 billion in fiscal 2003. (See also under “Transportation and Trade” in the “Poverty Reduction and Economic Management” section of this chapter.)
The close link between the transportation and health sectors has also been recognized. Transportation and health staff from across the Bank have been working in close collaboration with World Health Organization counterparts on a World Report on Road Traffic Injury Prevention. This report will be launched on April 7,2004, World Health Day. This is an annual event devoted to a different topic each year. The focus of World Health Day 2004 will be the promotion of “Safe Roads.”
The World Report on Road Traffic Injury Prevention will be a flagship product for both institutions.
Its main message is that road traffic injuries are a major but neglected public health and development problem requiring concerted efforts for effective and sustainable prevention. It is projected that by 2020 road traffic injuries will rise from 9th to 3rd place
as the leading contributor to disability-adjusted life years in the developing world. Road crashes increase the burden on already overburdened medical treatment facilities. It is also believed that road crashes have a disproportionate impact on the poorer sections of the community. The costs of hospitalizing a family member who suffers injury or lasting disability can often drive a family into poverty, even if individuals work and earn reasonable incomes by local standards.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
In fiscal 2003 the 15 urban projects presented to the Board ranged in focus from traditional concerns such as urban upgrading, including a national program for Mexico, to economic development in St. Petersburg, social development in Djibouti, disaster management in Iran, asset management in Morocco, cultural development in Lebanon, and structural adjustment in Uruguay. Lending for urban development totaled $1.6 billion in fiscal 2003. (See also box 4.7.)
In addition, urban poverty analysis and strategies are being developed with the governments of Lima and Lagos, and local economic development strategies are being prepared by 25 pilot towns and cities in the Baltics and the Balkans. These participatory strategies help identify and then prioritize measures that the public and private sectors can undertake to improve the local investment climate and improve the local economy. To further support local infrastructure investment, the Bank is working with the IFC on a newly created pilot program to finance subsovereign credits and guarantees.
The Urban Development Group is launching with the Global HIV/AIDS Unit a joint initiative to support local governments’ response to the disease. This recognizes the fact that HIV/AIDS has significantly undermined income growth and service provision in urban areas.
DISASTER MANAGEMENT FACILITY
Natural disasters are a key source of risk for poor people. The Disaster Management Facility serves as a central resource for technical support, policy guidance, knowledge generation, and capacity building to reduce disaster risk in the operations of the Bank and its partners. The Facility works with partners in the private and public sectors and civil society through the
Across developing countries the urban transition involves major movements of population and changes in the sizes and character of settlements. The widespread trends of political and fiscal decentralization have also raised the importance of subnational units of governance. The Bank recognizes the significance of spatial analysis and of spatially disaggregating lending information.
The Rural and Urban Development departments collaborated this year in a detailed analysis of project documents for all lending operations approved in fiscal 2003, assessing for each project its spatial context. Approximately 40 percent of IBRD/IDA commitments were directed to rural areas and some 30 percent to urban areas. Some 30 percent of combined investment and adjustment lending affects rural or urban areas only indirectly. Also, there are differences in the split between urban and rural lending across the Regions. The balance within a given Region may require further attention to strengthen the spatial alignment with factors such as population dynamics and poverty incidence and approaches adopted at the national level toward poverty reduction. Further analysis of the spatial content of the lending portfolio is under way by both departments.
ProVention Consortium to develop practical learning activities aimed at mitigating disasters and contributing to sustainable development.
PROJECT FINANCE AND GUARANTEES
The recent global economic slowdown has increased the risk aversion of the private sector toward investments in frontier markets. Guarantees are important in mobilizing new investments for critical infrastructure projects exposed to sovereign risk. Over the last year the Bank has developed a number of innovative uses of the guarantee instrument. Guarantees are now being offered to cover regulatory risk in projects and to support privatization of state-owned entities in all sectors. They are also offered through facilities that provide guarantees for small and medium-sized infrastructure projects. In addition, guarantee structures that could
support output-based arrangements, mobilize local currency loans, and mitigate currency devaluation risk are being developed. The portfolio now includes a number of projects in the water, oil, gas, and transport sectors.
During fiscal 2003 an IDA partial risk guarantee of $75 million in support of the Phu My 2 Phase 2 Power Project in Vietnam addressed fiscal issues of the government by shifting investment cost to the private sector. The IDA guarantee is expected to serve as an important milestone for attracting further private capital flows to the country. During the year the guarantee facility approved by the Board in fiscal 2001 in support of the coal and forestry sectors in Russia became effective.
REDUCING POVERTY THROUGH MICROFINANCE
The Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP) is a multilateral organization of 30 donors housed at the World Bank. Its objective is to build
financial systems for poor people. As part of its efforts to increase the scale of microfinance, CGAP continues to work in partnership with a broad range of institutions (banks, credit unions, networks, and others) that deliver a variety of financial services, including savings, insurance, fund transfers, and credit.
CGAP’s key activities in fiscal 2003 included the launch of donor peer reviews, an initiative aimed at improving aid effectiveness, whereby the microfinance policies and operations of major development agencies were reviewed. Ten international agencies underwent peer reviews in 2003, and several have made significant changes based on the recommendations of the reviews. CGAP also launched an appraisal and monitoring service for promising microfinance institutions on behalf of interested donors.
The Microfinance Gateway, launched in 2001, is now the most comprehensive source of microfinance information on the Internet, attracting over 11,000 individual users and approximately 400,000 hits per month.
Building Strong Financial Systems
The World Bank has long recognized that poverty reduction and economic growth depend on effective and strong national financial systems. Financial systems that develop unevenly and lack transparency and proper regulation are more vulnerable to financial shocks and prone to distress. Extensive Bank research has proven that these shocks and crises disproportionately affect poor people. Weak financial systems in developing countries also exacerbate poverty levels by providing inadequate access to capital and financial services to individuals and to small and medium enterprises, which are key to economic growth. The Bank contributes to these financial sector priorities in three ways: knowledge dissemination, lending and technical assistance, and partnerships.
KNOWLEDGE: RESEARCH, LEARNING, AND DISSEMINATION
In collaboration with outside groups the Bank produces cutting-edge contributions on financial sector topics to help practitioners and governments make better policy decisions. The vast majority of this research (publications and data) is downloadable from our Web site: www.worldbank.org/finance.
This year the World Bank has been at the forefront of analysis on an emerging issue of our time— electronic finance and electronic security. Electronic finance, which is becoming key to financial infrastructure, presents great opportunities to reduce the costs of financial and commercial transactions. It also presents new electronic security risks. Careful development of information technology infrastructure within the financial sector will be increasingly needed to address the electronic and related operational risks associated with e-finance. A thorough discussion of this topic is presented in the Bank’s paper, “E-Security: Risk Mitigation in Financial Transactions,” available with other useful material at www.worldbank.org/finance (click on E-security).
The Bank actively disseminates research and knowledge in a variety of ways. The Financial Sector Knowledge and Information Services, a dedicated team of analysts, serves as a hub of communications, research, and resources on financial sector issues for
A money exchange market in Afghanistan in 2002. A study on informal Funds Transfer Systems (IFTs) was conducted by the World Bank.
World Bank staff, client-country authorities, and nongovernmental organizations.
The Financial Sector Learning Program, a well-developed unit of the World Bank Institute, emphasizes policy dialogue and collaborative problem solving by participants. These activities take the form of conferences, regional and global workshops, and distance learning through videoconferencing and the Internet. As an excellent example of using first-hand research and creative knowledge tools, the Learning Program has followed up the joint World Bank-International Monetary Fund publication, Developing Government Bond Markets: A Handbook, with a series of regional hands-on seminars both for senior officials responsible for developing government bond markets and for individuals responsible for operating the bond markets. To date, regional workshops have been held in Brazil, China, Tunisia, and Turkey, serving to deliver research and policy advice to our client-country authorities who can use it to strengthen their financial systems. (See www.worldbank.org/wbi/banking.)
LENDING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The Bank shares the increased global concern over money laundering and the financing of terrorism, particularly as the devastating economic and social
consequences are magnified for developing countries with fragile financial systems. In response, the Bank intensified its work in this area, establishing a strong, systematic program to help client countries build institutional capacity. Since September 2001 the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) have completed, initiated, or agreed to deliver 52 technical assistance programs to 40 countries and
12	regions. More than half of the country technical assistance projects involved advice or assistance in drafting legislation, with a small but increasing proportion involving laws to combat terrorist financing. In addition, with the IMF the Bank developed the Anti-Money-Laundering (AML)/Combating the Financing of Terrorism (CFT) Global Assistance Coordination Database. The database tracks technical assistance priorities or gaps in delivery among donors on these topics and enhances the information flow between international bodies by serving as a clearinghouse for all technical assistance services being provided. In a complementary effort, the Bank and IMF launched a pilot program of assessments using the AML/CFT methodology endorsed by the Bank and IMF Boards in September
2002.	The assessments will be incorporated into the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) on a pilot basis.
Many Bank client countries lack access to financial services, which is a critical problem. In Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon (representing a total population of more than 30 million people), less than 3 percent of the people have access to day-to-day bank and payment services, compared with more than 90 percent in developed countries. Regarding the clearing and settlement of payment transactions, in these Central African countries the average number of transactions exchanged among banks per inhabitant per year is less than 0.05, compared with approximately 0.10 in West Africa, 3.0 in Tunisia, and 200.0 in Europe.
To address these issues, the Bank has provided assistance to BEAC (the regional Central Bank of the above-cited Central African countries) in defining large payment infrastructure reform. Using a participatory approach, the Bank has supported a project that has involved all stakeholders and is supported by a credit of $14.4 million provided by IDA (total project cost is approximately $22 million). The
Development of the financial infrastructure has made banking services more accessible in Africa.
Bank is widening access to financial services in this region, as well as in others where similar projects are carried out, by improving the efficiency of both country and regional payment infrastructures and by promoting the delivery of payment instruments and services to individuals and to small and medium enterprises.
FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY ADVICE
The Bank’s partnerships are essential to its ability to offer financial sector policy advice. The joint World Bank-IMF Financial Sector Assessment Program, established in 1999, helps identify financial system strengths and vulnerabilities and helps reduce the potential for crisis. In fiscal 2003 20 FSAPs have been delivered. Over the past year, heavy focus has been put on follow-up technical assistance work.
A new multidonor partnership, Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening, has been established as a mechanism to support technical assistance follow-up. (See box 4.8.)
The Bank continues its strong partnerships with international organizations and standard-setting bodies such as the Basel Committee, International Organization of Securities Commissions, and the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS). The Bank responded to a direct request from the IAIS for training targeted at midlevel supervisors in our client countries. Bank insurance experts
The Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening (FIRST) Initiative seeks to respond to the demand for assistance following Financial Sector Assessment Programs and Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes. The World Bank, the IMF, Canada, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom established the $53 million global fund.
FIRST delivers technical assistance and capacity building to low- and middle-income countries and provides a framework for the international donor community to coordinate and cofinance work in
the financial sector. Two examples during fiscal 2003 were:
■	A regional workshop on AML/CFT in Russia in December 2002 provided participants with the practical steps needed to establish an AML/CFT regime and with examples of best practice.
■	FIRST advised the West African Monetary Institute on the steps needed to develop the common banking supervisory authority in the West Africa Monetary Zone.
were able to train 250 supervisors in 23 countries over the last two years through the use of videoconferencing, the Internet, video, and chat rooms. The Bank’s senior insurance experts cover topics such
as risk-based approaches to supervision, the use of early warning tests, and the regulatory ladder. Exposing supervisors to international standards and skills helps strengthen the financial sector in client countries.
Promoting Appropriate Legal and Judicial Systems
Healthy legal and judicial systems are essential to strong and effective development. Yet in many World Bank client countries, the process of lawmaking and the enforcement of laws and contracts remain less than predictable and transparent.
An essential part of the Bank’s mandate is to deliver law- and justice-related products and activities in support of the Millennium Development Goals, in the context of client countries’ poverty reduction strategies and the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategies. The Bank is proactive and strategic in providing a disciplined, consistent approach to legal and judicial reforms, while working closely with partners in both public and private domains. (See www.worldbank.org/legal.)
In the law and justice sector, the Bank analyzes country and sector conditions, including legislative and related institutional regimes. It formulates diagnostic assessments, advises on policy reforms, reviews client-country policy statements and draft legislation, and assists in capacity building in public sector institutions to improve enforcement of contractual obligations, laws, and regulations. (See box 4.9.)
During fiscal 2003 the Bank has been focusing greater attention on the legal aspects of its work in investment climate and finance, environmental sustainability, the promotion of gender equality (see box 4.10), infrastructure (see page 74), and trade (see page 61).
INVESTMENT CLIMATE AND FINANCE
The Bank is actively engaged in improving the climate for investment and finance through its work in the areas of legal and judicial reform and financial systems improvement.
The first step toward improving the investment climate is to assess the current situation. Legal advisers appraise the results of country-specific investment climate assessments produced by the regions, and then assist in country dialogues aimed at prioritizing, mainstreaming, and implementing needed legal and judicial reforms.
During the past year the Bank has expanded its capacity to assess weaknesses in legal and judicial systems and to assist in promoting the rule of law.
Legal and judicial reform is now one of the key
structural and institutional development competencies of the Bank. Work in this sector has contributed to improving the investment environment in client countries. (See www.worldbank.org/legal.)
Predictability, transparency, effectiveness, and adherence to the principles of due process by judicial institutions are all factors that contribute to a secure investment climate. During fiscal 2003 the Bank trained judges in commercial law in Ecuador and Sri Lanka, in bankruptcy in Croatia, and in effective and efficient court management in El Salvador and Mongolia. The promotion of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, such as commercial mediation in Albania and Sri Lanka, is also being carried out.
BOX 4.9 ALL-AFRICA CONFERENCE ON LAW, JUSTICE, AND DEVELOPMENT, FEBRUARY 4-7, 2003
In mid-2000 a coalition of African jurists was formed to foster the sustainable development of Africa through the promotion of the rule of law and justice for all. Under the leadership of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, this coalition convened an All-Africa Conference on Law, Justice, and Development in February 2003 in Abuja. Conference support was forthcoming from the World Bank and bilateral donors and organizations, including France, Germany, Italy, Nigeria, the United Kingdom, the African Development Bank, and l'Organization Internationale de la Francophonie.
In highly interactive sessions, senior-level representatives from 41 anglophone and francophone African countries readily voiced their concerns and shared their experiences regarding law, justice, and development. Numerous chief justices, other members of judiciaries, ministers of justice, attorneys general, ministers of finance, representatives of bar associations and academia, as well as human rights activists and private legal practitioners confirmed that the challenges faced in these respects do not divide on linguistic or on civil law/common law grounds and that the sharing of relevant lessons from successes and failures is particularly important throughout Africa.
The Bank addresses gender disparities and inequalities that are barriers to development and assists client countries in formulating and implementing gender and development goals.
The Bank's gender mainstreaming strategy calls for the preparation of gender assessments in client countries. The assessment includes an analysis of the country's legal and regulatory framework for its gender and development goals and commitments, including international conventions such as the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination, frequently described as the "international bill of rights for women." In addition, the assessments review national plans aimed at promoting gender equality and eliminating discrimination against women.
In March 2003 the Bank sponsored the Fifth Annual Gender and Law Conference, titled "Laws, Institutions, and Gender Equality." The United Nations (U.N.) Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women presented her study on the causes of violence against women, and the economic and social costs of violence. The conference also addressed customary, religious, and statutory laws; citizenship and women's relationship to the state and labor markets; and gender-based violence. Supreme Court justices from Brazil and Guatemala, a member of the Special Court for Sierra Leone investigating war crimes against women, and a member of the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights participated in the conference.
In the broader law and justice sector, the Bank assists law-enacting bodies, law reform commissions, bar associations, legal educational institutions, civil society, and the media. In the area of law reform, the Bank recognizes that many of our client countries still lack transparent legal frameworks that encourage appropriate market incentives and equitable and affordable access to enforcement remedies that are essential to a secure investment climate.
Well-functioning financial systems are essential for private sector-led growth, without which poverty alleviation will not be possible. They also help prevent or mitigate financial crises that would otherwise burden countries with crippling costs and increased poverty. The Bank encourages financial system reform
Justice Effie Owuor of the Kenya Court of Appeals making a contribution from the floor during one of the sessions of the All-Africa Conference.
The picture was taken by a Nigerian photographer.
and the strengthening of individual financial institutions and markets. As part of this effort, in conjunction with other international organizations and in accordance with its mandate and specific competencies, the Bank assists client countries in their anti-money-laundering efforts and is actively involved in assessing the legal and regulatory environments for combating money laundering and terrorism.
In response to a need for standards in the area of insolvency and creditor rights, the Bank, in collaboration with the African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, IFC, IMF, OECD, the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, INSOL International, and the International Bar Association, has developed the World Bank Principles and Guidelines for Effective Insolvency and Creditor Rights Systems. The Principles form the basis for Bank-led assessments of insolvency and creditor rights systems under a joint program with the IMF to develop Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSCs). To date, 14 insolvency ROSCs have been completed and another 7 are in progress. These ROSCs support diagnostic and strategic work, underpin policy dialogue and lending operations, and provide input for technical assistance and capacity-building efforts (e.g., in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Turkey). Notably, the Principles have been used by countries to assess ongoing law reform efforts even where no ROSC has been undertaken (e.g., in Kosovo, Poland, and Serbia). In the Slovak Republic, insolvency reform has been a core component of
the Bank’s overall work on strengthening the financial sector.
The Bank is also working to develop principles on the insolvency of financial institutions, in collaboration with the IMF, the Bank for International Settlements, and a core consultative group of experts.
In January 2003 the Bank convened a Global Forum on Insolvency Risk Management to discuss standards and strategies for the next decade. (See www.worldbank.org/firm.) One of the main objectives of the forum was to explore ways to address institutional and regulatory capacity-building challenges to promote more reliable investment systems. This led to collaboration with the International Association of Insolvency Regulators in developing a compendium of regulatory practices and experience that can assist legislators and policymakers. The Bank also sponsored a Global Insolvency Judges Forum in May 2003 at which judges from some 90 countries considered ways to expand the understanding of insolvency issues by the international community through the use of distance learning tools and the Bank’s Global Insolvency Law Database. (See www.worldbank.org/gild.)
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
The World Summit on Sustainable Development held in September 2002 identified the key role of law in achieving sustainable development. During this past year the Bank has made significant efforts to protect the global environment through the use of legal and institutional reform as well as other legal instruments, including those it pioneered for the purchase of independently verified reductions of greenhouse gas
emissions. Through workshops and a fellowship program the Bank has also provided legal capacity building for developing countries and countries with economies in transition, which has helped them participate actively in the emerging carbon market.
The latest titles in a series of monographs on Law, Justice, and Development include The Legal and Regulatory Framework for Environmental Impact Assessments, and Conflict and Cooperation on South Asia’s International Rivers. Legal studies concerning public participation, land titling, and the flexible mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol are also in preparation.
Integral to the Bank’s day-to-day business are the 10 environmental, social, and legal safeguard policies that provide templates for sustainable development at the project level. (See www.worldbank.org/safeguards.)
Other policies are being reviewed as part of the effort to achieve sustainable development. For example, Bank funds may not be used to purchase land, a policy that reflects earlier concerns about serious distortions common in client-country real estate markets and frequent legal uncertainties with respect to purchases of land. The Bank, however, has come to recognize that land markets in many countries are now more stable and reliable. As a result, in this past year the Bank has begun testing a new model of large-scale land reform for application especially in poorer countries. To date, one community-managed project in India has been approved by the Bank’s Executive Directors for oversight by a cross-sectoral Community Land Purchase Committee. In addition, the Bank is in the process of preparing a further project in Malawi for consideration by the Executive Directors.
Africa
Africa has continued to register progress in many areas. Sixteen countries averaged greater than 4 percent growth over the last decade. Investment and trade trends have been steady. Net foreign direct investment (FDI) to Africa rose to $6.8 billion in 2001 but was heavily concentrated in oil-exporting countries and South Africa. Africa had the highest returns on FDI of any region in the world, and the flow of workers’ remittances back to the continent doubled in only two years, reaching $4 billion in calendar year 2002. Access to new information technologies is expanding by about 10 percent annually, with Internet use rising sharply. Air transportation has been a high-growth sector, with 31.8 million passengers recorded—a 9 percent annual increase during years preceding the terrorist attacks of September 11,2001. Illiteracy has continued to decline, from 50 percent in 1990 to 37 percent in
2001.	The continent’s leaders have made progress in resolving major conflicts in the region (Angola, the Democratic Republic of Congo [DRC], the Republic of Congo, and Sierra Leone). More countries are also managing peaceful political transitions (Ghana, Kenya, Mali, and Senegal).
The continent, however, continues to face enormous development challenges. Half the population lives on less than $1 a day. Half lack access to safe water. Only about one in four poor rural girls attends primary school. Largely because of the HIV/AIDS pandemic (with about 30 million Africans currently afflicted), health and nutrition indicators are moving in the wrong direction. Conflict still exacts a huge toll on politically fragile states. Overall gross domestic product growth is barely 3 percent, roughly in line with population.
Addressing these challenges requires adequate resources, and development partners have pledged
to make such resources available. Official development assistance (ODA) could increase by some $12 billion annually if the commitments made at the Monterrey Summit in 2002 are met. If half of this increase goes to Africa, that would represent an increase of about 50 percent in ODA and would restore flows to about the levels of the early 1990s.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The World Bank, the largest provider of development assistance to Africa, seeks to accelerate progress toward attaining the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in Africa. The Bank’s strategic objective is consistent with objectives outlined by African heads of state in the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) Initiative and is based on the analysis of the study titled Can Africa Claim the 21st Century? Indeed, at the request of NEPAD the World Bank agreed to support the pan-African initiative in a number of specific areas: infrastructure, agriculture, regional trade facilitation, health, nutrition, population, education, community-driven development, and capital flows.
IBRD commitments in fiscal 2003 totaled $15 million for 1 project. IDA commitments for fiscal 2003 add up to $3.7 billion in support of 60 projects and 10 supplemental credits. The increase in recent years is expected to be sustained in the coming years, with the objective of 50 percent of IDA resources being directed to Africa.
IMPROVING GOVERNANCE AND RESOLVING CONFLICT
The Bank increased support to African countries emerging from conflict by developing an
Africa Fast Facts
operational agenda to better tackle postconflict issues. Currently there are 95 projects under implementation in conflict-affected countries in Africa. The DRC received the first IDA grant ($50 million) to help stabilize the economy and contribute to addressing such pressing issues as HIV/AIDS. The Bank administers the Multidonor Trust Fund for Demobilization and Reintegration for the Great Lakes region, set up to provide a comprehensive framework for disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration efforts in the subregional area.
The Bank is focusing on better management of revenues from natural resources (which help finance African conflicts). It has launched an initiative that aims to promote international policy measures to improve transparency of revenues from commodity exports (oil and gas) and reduce rents from illegal trade of commodities linked to conflict (diamonds, precious metals, and timber).
To help clients better capture and integrate issues of anticorruption into poverty-alleviation efforts the Bank strengthened its operational programs in capacity building, governance, and public sector management. Its strategy is detailed in Reforming Public Institutions and Strengthening Governance.
DEVELOPING HUMAN RESOURCES
Developing human capital is key to reducing poverty through better access to education and health services and through social protection interventions to help vulnerable groups. In fiscal 2003 over 21 percent ($811 million) of the Bank’s commitments in Africa were for human development. Communicable diseases, notably HIV/AIDS, pose critical challenges for Africa’s development. The Bank has approved $1 billion over time to fight HIV/AIDS in Africa and remains the region’s leading financier of HIV/AIDS programs. Through the Multicountry HIV/AIDS Program for Africa, $600 million has been committed by 20 countries. This program has approved 18 projects, of which 15 are already effective. Other health, nutrition, and population programs involved 47 projects in 30 countries. (See box 5.1.)
The Bank is actively involved in 41 education projects in the region, particularly focusing on primary education and on countries with low enrollments. Commitments in fiscal 2003 were $423.6 million. Education for All has emerged as an important priority, especially for girls, not only because of its
Total population: 0.7 billion Population growth: 2.2%
Life expectancy at birth: 46 years Infant mortality per 1,000 births: 105 Female youth illiteracy: 27%
2002	GNI per capita: $450
Number of people living with HIV/AIDS: 28.5 million
Note: Life expectancy at birth, infant mortality rate per 1,000 births, and female youth illiteracy are for 2001, other ineicftore are for 2002, from the World Development Indicators database. The term gross national income (GNI) is now used instead of gross national product (GNP).
Road transportation is now the dominant form of transportation in the Africa region. Nearly 2 million kilometers of roads make up the region's road network. This road project in Tanzania is financed by IDA through the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF).
■	HIV/AIDS has infected more than 50 million Africans since the start of the epidemic.
■ Ni ne African countries have more than 1 million people living with HIV/AIDS. The 21 countries with the highest infection rates on earth are all in Sub-Saharan Africa. It is most worrisome that, among 15-24-year-olds, 9 percent of women and 4.3 percent of men are infected. This reveals the profound gender dynamics of the epidemic and foretells continued spread in the next generation.
■	Demographic impact: Life expectancy has fallen by more than a decade in many countries and is now probably less than 40 years in the hardest-hit countries. Mortality has already doubled among working-age adults in many countries and will continue to rise.
■	Development impact: Teacher deaths have doubled in Zambia and tripled in Kenya. Last year nearly 1 million African pupils lost a teacher to the epidemic. AIDS has greatly aggravated the impact of this year's drought. Because of AIDS, South Africa's economy could be 17 percent smaller in 2010, with major implications for trading partners across the continent. AIDS is probably already costing Africa 1 percent of per capita growth a year. The forecast of 20+ million orphans by 2010 will pose an unprecedented social welfare challenge. As AIDS impoverishes millions of people, the poor are more likely to be forced into jobs or situations that put them at enhanced risk for HIV, thus driving a vicious circle.
■	MDGs challenge: Africa has no chance of achieving a majority of the MDGs until HIV/AIDS is overcome. The epidemic is already pushing Africa in the wrong direction on several of the goals and is slowing progress toward others.
■	Promise of renewed partnership: The last three years have brought unprecedented improvement in donor collaboration on HIV/AIDS—
at both country and global levels. Recent alldonor joint reviews led by government are a promising model for country-led, harmonized program support.
Note: Data in this box are as of December 31, 2002.
implications for productivity but also because of its strong links to other social goals, such as reducing maternal and child mortality.
There is an urgent need for African countries to strengthen their tertiary education systems to help them better respond to the needs of their economies. The Bank is actively supporting this effort and is now financing some aspects of tertiary education in approximately 20 African countries. (See box 5.2.)
Another focal area is the interaction between HIV/AIDS and education. HIV/AIDS has devastating effects on education systems, especially in high-prevalence countries, for example, through the sharply increased mortality and absenteeism of teachers. These effects are not well understood and generally are not addressed. At the same time, in most countries education is not yet playing the effective role it should play in promoting behavioral change to prevent HIV/AIDS infection. Unfortunately the pandemic has led to an alarming increase in orphans—a population projected to grow from about 13 million to perhaps 35 million children in 2010. Several major studies are being carried out to develop “good practice” guidelines for (a) maximizing the role education can play in HIV/AIDS prevention, (b) addressing the impact of HIV/AIDS on education systems, and (c) ensuring the provision of basic education to orphans. Furthermore, the Bank is working with the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS’ Inter-Agency Task Team on Education to help countries build capacity to address these concerns and to develop interventions that can be supported under the IDA-financed Multicountry HIV/AIDS Program.
Social protection—targeted activities to improve or protect human capital, ranging from labor market interventions to income support and including pension reform—has been a growing area of attention ($543.7 million or 14.6 percent in fiscal 2003). Social funds account for 60 percent of the Africa region’s current social protection portfolio, constituting some of the most promising programs for community-based development.
PROMOTING INCREASED GROWTH
Growth in Africa will require a sound policy and institutional climate for investment—both domestic and foreign—and a lower cost of doing business, including better infrastructure. Bank funding for infrastructure projects in the region more than
The African Virtual University (AVU) is a first-of-its-kind interactive-instructional telecommunications network established to serve the countries of Africa. The Bank is its largest supporter, with commitments of $13 million over three years. The AVU leverages the power of modern telecommunications technology to provide world-class quality education and training programs to students and professionals in Africa. With more than 50 percent of its 700 million people under 20 years of age, several factors drive the demand for such education at the tertiary level in Africa:
■	Limited places in universities for the graduates of high schools
■	Overstretched government budgets
■	Expensive and oversubscribed private education at the tertiary level
■	A large labor force that requires the upgrading of skills
■	The growing isolation of Africa from global knowledge.
AVU has been transformed from being a project of the World Bank to being an independent, intergovernmental organization based in Nairobi, Kenya, with 34 learning centers in 17 African countries.
An Internet cafe in Kampala, Uganda. Information and communication technologies and distance education can help address key education issues of quality access, and effective management in client countries.
To date, AVU has accomplished the following tasks:
■	Created a network of partner institutions in francophone, anglophone, and lusophone African countries with learning centers hosted mainly in public universities
■	Launched an accredited degree and diploma in computer science
■	Registered more than 23,000 students in its semester-long courses
■	Enrolled close to 2,500 professionals in executive business seminars
■	Delivered in excess of 3,000 hours of instructional programs, based on materials from leading universities in Africa, Australia, Europe, and North America
■	Provided 1,000 personal computers to learning centers
■	Set up a network of 45,000 e-mail account holders and a digital library of more than 1,000 journals
■	Achieved greater than 40 percent participation of women in AVU's pre-university courses at the most active learning centers.
The AVU plans to expand coverage across Africa over
the next five years and to partner with NEPAD to
enhance human capacity for sustainable development.
doubled between fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2003. The infrastructure strategy is organized around (a) providing access to basic services to all; (b) furnishing a minimum infrastructure platform to render the countries viable for private business, investment, and the creation of wealth; and (c) building a “good business address.”
Regional integration is critical to creating larger markets to achieve economies of scale, foster competition, and attract foreign investment. The Bank has formulated regional integration assistance strategies for West and Central Africa and is planning such strategies for eastern and southern Africa. These strategies support harmonization of macroeconomic policies, liberalization of intraregional trade, and promotion of regional investment, as well as development of regional projects in infrastructure and the strengthening of regional institutions’ capacity. The Bank also supports initiatives aimed at increasing
cooperation to address common issues in a regional context, such as the Nile Basin Initiative, and measures to prevent transmission of HIV/AIDS along regional transportation corridors.
DEBT REDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
The Bank has continued its efforts to have African countries fully benefit from debt relief through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative and to ensure the effective use of debt relief resources in alleviating poverty. Under the initiative, 22 African countries have reached the decision point (when the amount of debt relief is decided and begins to flow), and 5 have reached the completion point (when relief of future debt service becomes irrevocable). As of June 30,2003, HIPC debt relief for World Bank debt
was $2.31 billion, of which $2.13 billion was for Africa. Debt service payments to the Bank have been reduced by more than 60 percent. The ratio of social expenditure to government revenue in these countries has steadily increased: from 33 percent in 1999 to 54 percent in 2002.
Improving resource flows to Africa involves both increasing the quantity and improving the quality of assistance. Countries (e.g., Tanzania) have moved toward a new partnership model, with the initiation of a process of independent review of the performances of both donors and the government against their respective commitments. Country-led CASs are at the center of the agenda adopted in fiscal 2003 by the Strategic Partnership for Africa, the lead regional forum for aid coordination. IDA has been moving toward supporting these strategies through program lending.
East Asia and Pacific
Five years after the financial crisis, East Asia has reestablished itself as the fastest growing region in the world. Growth rose more than 2 percentage points in 2002 to 6.7 percent—a surprisingly robust rate given the slow pace of global recovery and high levels of uncertainty in the world economy. China continued to emerge as a key regional locomotive, growing by 8 percent and attracting nearly 40 percent of the growth in exports of other East Asian economies.
Poverty at the $2-a-day level is estimated to have fallen to its all-time lowest levels—to about 40 percent for the region as a whole. Most countries have experienced declines in poverty, including countries such as Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand, where poverty rates had risen after the 1997-98 financial crisis, but where they have now fallen back to or are approaching precrisis levels.
In 2003 the recovery in the region has been buffeted by a number of unexpected shocks: the outbreak of the sudden acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) virus, uncertainty associated with the Iraq war, higher oil prices, and renewed weakness in the developed world. However, with the SARS epidemic having been controlled and the number of new cases having trailed off by the end of the second quarter, regional growth should still reach or exceed a relatively robust 5 percent in
2003.	For the longer term the outlook for the region remains positive, provided countries continue to focus on improving public security and rule of law, maintaining sound macroeconomic management, and strengthening governance. In addition, countries need to complete the restructuring agenda left over from the crisis, improve financial sector supervision and regulation, and undertake
broader reforms to strengthen the investment climate.
BANK ASSISTANCE
During the fiscal year, the World Bank supplemented policy advice and technical support with $2.3 billion in new loans. The Bank continues to focus on:
Improving the investment climate and revitalizing the business sector, including supporting public sector performance and enhancing governance, transparency, and accountability Empowering poor people and enhancing social stability
Addressing global priorities, including environment, trade, and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The Bank is working in a number of areas to help create the kind of environment necessary for sustainable growth and poverty reduction.
Investment Climate Assessments, under way in Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mongolia, the Philippines, and Thailand, aim at improving the institutional environment for private investment and identifying reforms that will lead to higher productivity, more efficient firms, and ultimately more job creation. In Mongolia a legal reform project is supporting the establishment of an administrative court system, capacity building for legal and judicial information, and legal education. In China a team of Bank experts is advising senior officials on financial sector reform, including bank restructuring, capital market development, finance for small firms, and rural finance. And the Bank is

East Asia and Pacific Fast Facts
using its semiannual reviews of the region’s economic prospects, trends, and issues to increasingly add to the policy debate throughout the region.
The Bank is emphasizing innovative activities throughout East Asia. To assist the region in meeting high-tech challenges of an increasingly competitive world, a new study, Innovative East Asia: the Future of Growth, offers a set of policy measures for developing and strengthening innovative capabilities. The Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) provides regional and country-specific knowledge programs in 14 centers throughout Asia. And a new initiative, InfoCity, has been building electronic networks among city governments in the Philippines—and expanding to China and Indonesia—to foster partnerships and exchange the latest practices and innovations for city management.
The Bank addresses governance issues through supporting programs that decentralize government and build government capacity; at the same time, the Bank supports programs emphasizing public sector transparency and greater stakeholder participation. It is currently studying e-government initiatives to assess the role those initiatives might play in decreasing corruption through greater transparency and enabling greater citizen interaction with government. Two capacity-building projects in Cambodia and the Lao People’s Democratic Republic are helping strengthen government capacity in a number of areas: management practices, policy development and implementation, public expenditure management, human resource management, governance, and public administration. And in Indonesia the Partnership for Governance Reform continues to make advances on anticorruption initiatives and reforms in the civil service and in the legal and judicial sectors.
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
The Bank focuses on policies and institutions that help households manage social risks, build an effective social policy framework, and enable poor people to participate in the benefits of growth. A key point of its strategy in low-income countries is assisting the government in developing a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)—a country-owned framework of macroeconomic, structural, and social policies and programs needed to promote growth and reduce poverty. Another important element is a rural development initiative aimed at increasing incomes
In the last decade, Vietnam has greatly reduced the incidence of poverty—reflected both in rising per capita expenditure and in widespread reports of improvements in broad well-being.
and opportunities in rural areas, given that well over three-quarters ofEast Asian poor people live in rural areas.
Social programs have increasingly emphasized community empowerment and demand-driven approaches to promote efficiency, transparency, and effectiveness. In Timor-Leste the First Agriculture Rehabilitation Project has helped communities receive farm animals and farm tools, has repaired small irrigation schemes and roads, and has trained agriculture staff. The Second Kecamatan Development Project is benefiting 25 to 30 million rural Indonesians by giving villagers tools for developing their own community through investments in basic infrastructure such as feeder roads, drainage canals, markets, water supply pipes, and microcredit schemes.
The Philippines Social Fund for Peace and Development Project is working to foster lasting development in Mindanao by providing support to implement community projects and by involving the groups most affected by the ongoing conflict. In Mongolia the Sustainable Livelihoods Project is helping tackle poverty among the country’s rural nomads (41 percent of the population) by expanding their access to financing, providing small-scale investment in infrastructure, and assisting with pastoral risk management. And in China, where tuberculosis is the leading infectious cause of death, the Bank is helping finance an expansion of the national tuberculosis control program to reach more of the poor, who are disproportionately affected by the disease.
Although the region has benefited tremendously from trade integration—specifically export-driven growth—the East Asian financial crisis brought a sense of vulnerability, particularly for the lower income countries, many of which have yet to see the benefits of integration.
With this in mind the Bank is studying the impacts of trade and ways to improve integration in the region to help countries better position themselves and benefit from trade. Key parts of the study focus on the effects of regional and global integration on the poorer countries and households and on declining sectors. The study addresses behind-the-border issues, including technical barriers and product standards, logistics, services sectors, intellectual property rights, and environmental and labor standards.
The Bank has supplemented the research through consultations with key audiences, workshops in Asian capitals, and development of GDLN Trade Dialogues in partnership with the World Bank Institute.
GLOBAL PRIORITIES
The Bank’s East Asia and Pacific region is focusing activities on the following global priorities.
Improving the Environment
The Bank integrates environmental components into much of its lending in rural, urban, water, and energy sectors. Furthermore, the Bank has forestry management programs under way in Cambodia, China, Papua New Guinea, and the Solomon Islands, and provides policy advice to Indonesia. The Bank is assisting China’s water management goals, including lending for flood prevention, irrigation system development, comprehensive river basin management, and water conservation in water-short agricultural areas of northern China. And the Bank is using the environment monitor series—annual country-based
reports that track environmental issues of key concern to client countries—in most East Asian countries to keep environmental issues on the agenda of policymakers and public alike.
Bank also is advising Vietnam on World Trade Organization accession issues and providing assistance on the kinds of reforms Vietnam needs to undertake for accession. (See box 5.3.)
Fostering Trade
The Bank is advising countries and the region through research on the effects of trade and ways to improve integration in the region to benefit the country’s growth and achieve poverty reduction goals. Besides working with China on trade issues, the Bank is helping Cambodia and Lao PDR build in-country capacity to analyze the impacts of trade integration and to implement pro-poor trade policies. And the
Helping Countries Reach the Millennium Development Goals
In addition to ongoing policy and lending work aimed at reaching the MDGs, the Bank is assisting countries, such as Cambodia, Lao PDR, Mongolia, Thailand, Timor-Leste, and Vietnam, with improving data collection and analysis and with building their capacity to monitor trends in poverty and social indicators.
South Asia
South Asia’s political, religious, ethnic, and linguistic differences are a testament to the diversity of the region. Although rich in diversity, the region remains one of the most disadvantaged areas in the world. More than one-third of its 1.4 billion people live on less than $1 a day, making South Asia home to nearly 40 percent of the world’s poor people. Only 55 percent of the adult population is literate, with the literacy rate for adult females only 44 percent. Because of the sheer size of the population, South Asia’s performance is critical to achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
South Asia’s growth rate has remained substantially positive, averaging 4.2 percent of gross domestic product for calendar 2002, despite the recent global economic slowdown, adverse weather patterns, and political instability in the region. This figure, however, masks some variations in performance among the eight South Asian countries.
During fiscal 2003 the South Asia region saw the peace process in Nepal and Sri Lanka advance and witnessed continued engagement by the international community in Afghanistan. In Bangladesh encouraging progress has been made on governance reforms since the general elections of 2001. Pakistan’s military government held elections for the first time since 1999 and a coalition government was formed.
In Afghanistan reconstruction and development efforts are moving forward, but security concerns in parts of the country and in major cities remain an obstacle. In Nepal, notwithstanding a ceasefire agreed to between the government and Maoist insurgents in January 2003, the political landscape has remained highly fluid with the dissolution of Parliament in October 2002 and two changes in government since that time. In Sri Lanka an
evolving peace process between the government and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelan has enabled the country to move ahead with much-needed reforms in the war-ravaged areas to the north and east.
Although there is no clear consensus on a uniform methodology to measure poverty rates across the region, Bank-sponsored analytical work in Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is paving the way toward a better understanding of recent poverty trends. In Bangladesh the recent Poverty Assessment and the government’s Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper show that the pace of poverty reduction has picked up considerably during the 1990s. Likewise, a broad consensus has emerged that India has made substantial progress in poverty reduction during this period, but more attention is needed to address disparities, especially between states, if the country is to achieve the MDGs. In Pakistan a new Poverty Assessment presented extensive data on poverty and concluded that the country needs to close its social gap in order to enhance its ability to grow over time.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The Bank’s work in South Asia is rooted in five interrelated strategic objectives that are central to delivering on the institution’s overarching mission. These are poverty reduction, fiscal stability, governance, HIV/AIDS and related diseases, and issues of water. Intermediate goals underpinning these objectives include improved macroeconomic management, improved governance, a strengthened private sector investment climate, improved access to basic services for the rural and urban poor populations, progress on human development, stronger management of the natural environment, and reduced risk and vulnerability for poor people. Bank lending is guided by the principal strategic drivers
Through the Emergency Public Works and Community Empowerment Project in Afghanistan, work commences on the rehabilitation of the Salang Tunnel, the only entry point to Kabul for humanitarian aid and other goods as well as for refugees returning from the North.
and is based on an extensive program of analytical work in the form of reports, workshops, policy notes, and ongoing policy dialogue. Lending for fiscal 2003 was $2.9 billion. Priorities were support for reform and investments in infrastructure, agriculture, health, education, and rural development. Additional Bank activities in the region included ongoing commitments to postconflict and emergency reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan and Sri Lanka. (See box 5.4.)
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
A strong and healthy investment climate is a priority across the region, and improving governance is a prerequisite for this. Enabling the private sector to fully
contribute to economic development is also essential. Analytical work, lending operations, and policy dialogue are aimed at developing a favorable investment climate that is sustainable over time.
The World Bank report, Bangladesh: Improving Governance for Reducing Poverty, published in January
2003,	suggested that governance reforms should be prioritized.
The Bank’s Board discussed a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) progress report for Nepal that linked the level of the Bank’s available resources to the pace of reform in the country. A $16 million Financial and Technical Assistance Project is expected to help the country modernize its aging banking system.
Sri Lanka’s efforts to secure a lasting peace received support from a credit to help the government implement a $15 million Economic Reform and Technical Assistance Project to invigorate the economy and expand the role of the private sector. Building on this, a $125 million Poverty Reduction Support Credit is helping improve Sri Lanka’s overall investment climate for facilitating growth led by the private sector. Similarly, in Bangladesh a $300 million Development Support Credit is helping improve the investment climate and ease governance constraints on private sector investment.
The improvement of roads and other travel infrastructure is a critical component for the Bank’s work in South Asia because it has a major effect on poverty reduction—reducing transportation costs and increasing access to markets, education, and healthcare. Infrastructure projects in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, and Nepal are under way, providing much-needed investments that will help reduce transportation costs and facilitate access to basic health and education services by poor people. India’s $488 million Uttar Pradesh State Roads Project will help upgrade 3,500 kilometers of the state’s existing road network.
In Afghanistan the $108 million Emergency Transport Rehabilitation Project aims to support the government by removing transportation bottlenecks and promoting the rehabilitation of the highway and aviation networks. Among other things it has done, the $42 million Emergency Public Works and Community Empowerment Project has provided for rehabilitation of the Salang Tunnel, which covers a critical section of the highway connecting the city of Kabul to eight provinces. The tunnel is also the only entry point to Kabul for humanitarian aid and other goods, as well as for refugees returning from the North. In Pakistan a
In fiscal 2003 the Bank provided support to the government of Afghanistan by administering the internationally supported Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund, which is helping cover recurring government costs and salaries.
A new Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) outlines the Bank's intended engagement over the next two years as the country moves from an emergency orientation to one focused on longer-term development. The TSS supports the government's own National Development Framework, focusing on four areas: improving livelihoods; assisting the government with its fiscal strategy, institutions, and management; supporting governance and public administration reform; and helping enable private sector development.
The Bank's lending program in Afghanistan was revived in fiscal 2003 by the approval of Afghanistan's Emergency Transport Rehabilitation Project, a $108 million IDA credit, adding to the $100 million in grants that were approved for emergency reconstruction in fiscal 2002. The loan was made possible by
Afghanistan's clearing of all unpaid debt to the World Bank, which allowed the country to become eligible for loans for projects that move beyond the emergency situation to help meet its longer-term development needs.
In Sri Lanka the Bank restructured its portfolio in fiscal 2003 and approved a $46 million package to provide immediate support to the North East reconstruction efforts. It is also administering Sri Lanka's North East Reconstruction Trust Fund, which is designed to meet the immediate needs of people affected by the former conflict and to provide donors with a channel for funneling resources rapidly. The Bank's Board discussed a new CAS for the country this year. New projects were approved in health, rural water supply, and financial sector reform.
The WBI has developed learning programs that support the priorities reflected in both the Afghanistan Transitional Support Strategy and the Sri Lanka CAS. In fiscal 2003 WBI established the Afghanistan and the Sri Lanka Distance Learning Centers, both of which use the latest distance learning tools and technologies.
second generation of adjustment loans to provincial governments was approved, including the $100 million Sindh Province Structural Adjustment Credit to support the Sindh’s economic reform program, and the $90 million Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Credit to the North-West Frontier Province in support of the province’s economic and social reform program.
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
Central to the Bank’s work in the region is South Asia’s poverty reduction strategy: to ensure that opportunities for improved livelihood are widely available across the entire spectrum of society and to remove constraints that exclude people from participating in development and sharing its benefits. Empowerment activities take place in both analytical and advisory services and lending. The Bank focuses on two areas: promoting education and health for all, and supporting pro-poor rural development.
The Bank’s strong support for the social sector focuses on promoting gender equality. In rural
development the District Poverty Initiative Project in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh is approaching a new phase, with expansion from the initial six districts to cover the entire state and with a sharper focus on the poorest and most vulnerable communities. The $150 million Andhra Pradesh Rural Poverty Reduction Project has a component that promotes residential schools to ensure girls’ enrollment. In Bangladesh the Bank’s $18.2 million Social Investment Program Project targets excluded and vulnerable groups, particularly the poorest of the poor and women, through institutional development at the local level and the promotion of village organizations, with assistance from civil society and not-for-profit organizations. Additionally, the Bangladesh Development Support Credit is helping improve the management of public sector expenditure by supporting policies to improve overall financial management and procurement and strengthen public sector accountability. In Sri Lanka the Poverty Reduction Support Credit will support actions to strengthen governance in the public sector, accelerate rural development, and improve the welfare system. In Nepal the Bank is assisting the government
For many people in South Asia fetching water remains an arduous and time-consuming task. A woman in Kabul carrying water from a communal well.
to implement its strategy of transferring education, health, irrigation, and water supply facilities to community management through investment projects.
GLOBAL PRIORITY: HIV/AIDS
South Asia today accounts for approximately 4.1 million people living with HIV/AIDS. Although the infection rate in the general population is still low, in absolute numbers India has one of the largest HIV-positive populations in the world. Other countries in the region are characterized by a low prevalence among the general population but significantly higher rates among subpopulations engaged in high-risk behaviors.
Recognizing that Sri Lanka and Pakistan have a small window of opportunity to prevent nationwide epidemics, the Bank approved two projects in fiscal
2003	to build on the success of its ongoing program in other South Asian countries. In Sri Lanka the National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project ($12.6 million) will concentrate on prevention and on reducing stigmatization among vulnerable populations. Pakistan’s National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project ($37.1 million) is designed to prevent HIV from becoming established in vulnerable populations and from spreading to the general adult population, while also avoiding stigmatization.
In addition to lending, the Bank facilitates dialogue among countries in the region to share lessons learned, good practices of intervention, and research strategies. The Bank also supports cross-country collaboration for tackling such issues as migration and human trafficking. The World Bank Institute (WBI) has been
Europe and Central Asia
The economies of Europe and Central Asia turned in solid growth performances during 2002—
4.6	percent for the region overall. Subregional growth varied, with Central and Eastern European countries averaging 2.9 percent and Commonwealth of Independent States countries averaging
4.7	percent. The Turkish economy rebounded from the steep recession of 2001, registering
7.8	percent growth for 2002. Eight of the region’s economies recorded growth in excess of 5 percent; only the Kyrgyz Republic suffered a setback
(0.5 percent decline in gross domestic product) as a result of temporary declines in gold and power production.
Notwithstanding the recent tendency of the poorer countries of Europe and Central Asia in the Commonwealth of Independent States and South Eastern Europe to grow more quickly than countries in Central and Eastern Europe, vast differences remain in levels of poverty and human development and in the conditions necessary for sustainable growth. Per capita income ranges from $10,070 in Slovenia to $200 in Tajikistan, and the extent of poverty runs from more than 50 percent of the population in the poorer countries of the region to low single-digit levels in most countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
Given this diversity the Bank’s country assistance programs are being tailored to each subregion, and sector strategies promote subregional cooperation in solving common problems. The Commonwealth of Independent States and South Eastern Europe country programs, where the challenges of poverty reduction are greatest and which account for an increasing share of the
Bank’s activity in the Europe and Central Asia region, emphasize institutional development and subregional cooperation in trade and transportation, infrastructure, and environment. Programs for European Union accession countries and other middle-income countries increasingly are focusing on knowledge services and knowledge economy development. In Turkey, which has made considerable progress since the onset of
BOX 5.5 HALF FULL OR HALF EMPTY?
Two recently completed studies underscore both the progress that has been made and the serious development problems that remain in countries in Europe and Central Asia.
The 2002 Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS) confirmed that there have been significant improvements across the board in the investment climate since 1999. Also, the "bribe tax" as a share of a firm's revenue is decreasing and corruption is seen as less of a burden. Poor countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States and South Eastern Europe are failing to provide basic infrastructure services. And the growth of small and medium enterprises has been stronger in Central and Eastern Europe than in the Commonwealth of Independent States or South Eastern Europe.
Another study of 20 countries in Europe and Central Asia, Achieving the Human Development MDGs in ECA, found that many countries there, particularly IDA countries, are unlikely to meet one or more human development MDGs, and that health-related goals (i.e., child mortality, maternal mortality, and HIV/AIDS) are of particular concern.
Europe and Central Asia Fast Facts
the financial crisis, the Bank’s program underscores the structural changes needed for sustainable growth and macroeconomic stability.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The World Bank’s Europe and Central Asia region operations stress policy reform, institutional development, and the investment needed to underpin sustained growth and poverty reduction. Lending during fiscal 2003 reached $2.7 billion ($0.6 billion IDA and $2.1 billion IBRD), and Global Environment Facility commitments totaled $27.3 million. In advisory services, 81 analytical reports were delivered, and 63 technical assistance engagements were undertaken regionwide. In addition, the Bank presented to the Board Transitional Support Strategies for Kosovo and Serbia and Montenegro (formerly, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia); a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report for Bosnia; and Country Assistance Strategies for Azerbaijan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Poland, Tajikistan, and Turkey. Moreover, the Bank developed CASs for Azerbaijan, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Tajikistan in the context of completed Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs).
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Recent growth trends suggest that there have been substantial improvements in the investment environment in the region. Recent business survey data confirm that businesses perceive significant improvements. (See box 5.5.) Nonetheless, the data also indicate considerable scope for further improvement. The Bank is thus supporting the reform of policies and the development of institutions to maintain macroeconomic stability, increase trade, strengthen public and private sector governance, reduce corruption, enhance the financial system, and support the physical infrastructure underpinning economic production.
Bank operations address the perverse incentives and weaknesses in institutional capacity that are the root causes of investment climate problems. The Bank is providing support to identify and change policies that invite “investment-unfriendly” behavior, such as multiple tariff rates and complicated customs procedures; and to improve institutional structure and performance, for example, by setting up independent regulatory bodies. To strengthen the effectiveness of the
An Armenia Social Investment Fund (ASIF) is carrying out some 268 microprojects. Since 1996, just over 600,000 low-income community residents have benefited, via efforts to repair schools, fund hospitals and clinics, and rehabilitate water supply systems.
public sector, the Bank is encouraging citizen participation, transparency, and accountability, and helping improve key public sector functions, such as customs, tax administration, and treasury systems.
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
Although Europe and Central Asia’s human development indicators remain impressive, a systematic assessment found that many of the region’s poorer IDA countries are unlikely to reach key human development Millennium Development Goals (MDGs; see box 5.5). This situation arises from the deterioration of human development and social assistance programs
In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the 16th-century Old Mostar Bridge, or "Stari Most," is being rebuilt as part of a $13.5 million Pilot Cultural Heritage Project. This collaborative effort brings together financial and technical support and expertise from the Bank and a number of governments and international organizations.
as a result of poor program design and inadequate financing.
The Bank’s operations in human development emphasize incentives to expand access and increase the quality of health and education services. This is done in part by empowering service beneficiaries to demand better access and quality, and by supporting provider efforts to meet this demand. Empowerment is supported through operations that promote decentralization, the reform of financing to link budgets to services provided, the support of inclusive development programming processes, and the increased use of community-driven development approaches to service delivery. On the provider side, operations focus on
reforms in the public sector to balance the roles regarding the provision and financing of primary, secondary, and tertiary services, the modernization of services, the rationalization of staffing, and improved administration. In social protection, Bank operations support the consolidation of programs to bring them into line with overall fiscal constraints; the realignment of public and private sector roles, for example, in pension financing and provision; improved focus on poor people; and improved incentives to work.
GLOBAL PRIORITIES
The Bank’s Europe and Central Asia region is focusing activities on a number of global priorities.
Education for All
Only Albania is currently eligible for the Fast-Track Initiative (FTI). The Bank’s analysis suggests that eight additional countries may need help in meeting the Education for All goal. Current efforts are geared toward assisting the poorest of these countries, Moldova and Tajikistan, meet criteria for FTI eligibility.
HIV/AIDS
The ECA region has the world’s fastest-growing HIV/AIDS epidemic in proportion to its population.
In 2002 an estimated 250,000 new infections occurred, bringing to 1.2 million the number of people living with HIV/AIDS in the region. Thirteen countries appear to need priority attention to meet MDGs. Lending commitments were made to Russia and Ukraine, work on a project in Belarus was well advanced, and an IDA grant was made to Moldova. In addition, the Bank started an ECA HIV/AIDS Web site, and applied a demographic-economic model to assess the economic consequences of AIDS in Russia.
Maternal and Child Health
Several clients in Europe and Central Asia, including Albania, Armenia, Kosovo, Moldova, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, and Turkey, are priority countries for the maternal and child health MDGs because of deficiencies in their policies or institutions. The Bank is working with these borrowers to help them strengthen maternal and child health programs.
Water Supply and Sanitation
The Bank’s Europe and Central Asia region has designated a first set of eight countries to be the focus of an
initial set of actions to be taken to meet the MDGs related to water supply and sanitation. These countries were selected because their prospects are good for making significant progress toward meeting the goals over the next three to five years.
Trade
Country analytical support was completed or is under way for Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, and Ukraine, and regional studies were completed for the IDA-eligible countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States and for South Eastern Europe. To strengthen trade administration and promotion the Bank is implementing lending operations in Armenia and South Eastern Europe.
Investment Climate and Finance
Financial Sector Assessment Programs (FSAPs) have been completed in Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, and Slovenia, and follow-up technical
assistance activities are under way in several of those countries. The Bank has initiated additional FSAPs in the Kyrgyz Republic, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine. In late 2002 the Bank held a regional conference on anti-money-laundering approaches.
Environmental Sustainability
The Bank supported the region’s Environment Minister’s Conference held in Kyiv, at which Bank regional strategies for water resources, biodiversity, sustainable development, and attainment of the MDGs were discussed. The Bank provided support to the PRSP process on identifying the links between environment and poverty, and completed pilot analytical work on environmental management expenditures and links between country development strategies and the environment. Projects in the Baltic Sea region, Lithuania, Kazakhstan, and Romania were added to the Bank’s Global Environment Facility portfolio, and environmental projects in Croatia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, and Romania were added to the Bank’s IBRD/IDA portfolio.
Latin America and the Caribbean
After sluggish growth of just 0.4 percent in 2001, gross domestic product (GDP) in the Latin America and the Caribbean region contracted by 0.8 percent in 2002, primarily as a result of deep recessions in Argentina, the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela, and Uruguay. As a whole, the other countries of the region grew by 1.6 percent, up slightly from
1.1 percent in 2001.
Argentina experienced a 10.9 percent contraction in 2002 following the abandonment of the convertibility plan, a sharp currency devaluation, default on the public debt, a severe banking and institutional crisis, and lack of consensus on a macroeconomic program. Although there were indications of a recovery in the second half of
2002,	the country’s crisis hurt exports and tourism in neighboring Bolivia, Paraguay, and Uruguay, and reduced workers’ remittances to Bolivia and Paraguay. With Argentina’s freeze on deposits, Uruguay’s difficulties were compounded by massive withdrawals from Uruguayan banks. All told, Argentina’s shocks provoked an economic contraction of almost 11 percent in Uruguay. In Venezuela, meanwhile, a polarized political situation caused a major drop in investment, high capital outflows, and a national strike at the end of 2002, all of which culminated in an 8.9 percent contraction of GDP.
External factors battered all Latin American and Caribbean countries. Despite low interest rates in industrial countries, gross private capital inflows dropped by $31 billion, down 40 percent from the previous year. Net foreign direct investment fell from $62 billion in 2001 to $46 billion in 2002. Sluggish growth in the United States and Europe also depressed demand for exports from Latin
America and the Caribbean, pushing the region’s export growth down to 1.2 percent in 2002, from
11.9 percent in 2000. Tourism revenues and worker remittances were also weak.
Despite sound economic fundamentals, uncertainties surrounding elections in Brazil and concerns about debt dynamics, as well as some financial contagion from outside and within the region, lowered investor confidence and slowed capital flows and economic recovery. Nonetheless, the economies of Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and most Central American and Caribbean countries showed remarkable resilience, despite low commodity prices and higher borrowing costs.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
Increased poverty is the most devastating consequence of the economic shocks countries in the region have sustained. In Brazil, for example, peaks in interest payments on the country’s sovereign bonds have coincided, over the last decade, with increases in poverty. Although poverty figures were not available to assess the impact of the regionwide economic contraction in 2002, Argentine analysts estimate that more than half of that country’s people were living in poverty—an increase from about a third in the mid-1990s. The World Bank responded to resulting urgent demands for social assistance and financial sector support with $600 million for an income-transfer program for poor households in Argentina, and two adjustment loans totaling $303 million to help neighboring Uruguay cope with the crisis. This emergency assistance raised the Bank’s total lending to Latin America and the Caribbean to $5.8 billion in fiscal 2003. In addition to providing loans, the Bank developed revised assistance strategies for Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Honduras, Nicaragua,
Civil society representatives speak out at a meeting in Esmeraldas, Ecuador, on the Bank-supported Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadoran Peoples' Development Project.
Peru, and the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela; progress reports for Jamaica and Uruguay; and a country reengagement note for Haiti, while preparing timely policy notes for newly elected governments in Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, and Paraguay. These strategies emphasize helping countries build the climate for investment and improve the situation of the poor by investing in their essential water services, health, education, power, and transportation sectors. (See box 5.6.)
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
In Guatemala a $150 million financial sector adjustment loan supports an ongoing ambitious reform
program to strengthen the country’s financial system, including banking legislation, measures against money laundering, and increased access by the rural and urban poor populations to credit and financial services. The Bank has also provided $41.3 million for projects to enhance competitiveness in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua. It has also provided analytical and advisory support to these countries as well as to Costa Rica and Honduras, as they negotiate a free trade agreement with the United States.
A healthy investment climate is linked to a country’s capacity to mobilize skills, technology, and innovation to increase productivity. A Bank study published this year, Closing the Gap in Education and Technology, recommends that governments invest in education while they create incentives for increased private investment in research and development. Although secondary school enrollment in Latin America and the Caribbean has doubled since 1970, many secondary school completion rates of countries in the region lag behind those of several other regions and thus create a “knowledge and technology gap" Several Bank loans seek to bridge this gap by increasing access to and quality of education in Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, and Uruguay.
Effective governance is an important factor in attracting and keeping investors, in addition to its obvious benefits in delivering sound economic management and government services to citizens.
The Bank is supporting diverse initiatives in this area, including judicial modernization projects in El Salvador and Honduras; a public sector technical assistance program in Guyana; support for administrative decentralization in Bolivia; and programs to improve municipal management in Brazil, Mexico, and Nicaragua, among others.
ACHIEVING THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS
As part of its commitment to help countries achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), notably reducing child mortality, the Bank is working with governments to expand water and sanitation services to poor people. Clean water is essential for healthy children and adults. Access to an improved water source in Latin America and the Caribbean had reached 85 percent of the population in 2000, but
Effective poverty reduction strategies depend on reliable data about the living conditions of poor people: who they are, where they live, what they do, and what they need. Detailed answers to these questions are essential for directing resources and funding to the best effect, and for designing accurately targeted and inclusive policies and programs.
In 10 countries in the region, Mejoramiento de las Encuestas de las Condiciones de Vida (MECOVI) is meeting the need for better statistical data. A program supported by the World Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, and the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, MECOVI
strengthens the capacity of national statistics-gathering bodies. MECOVI provides technical assistance that enables them to undertake household surveys that focus on poverty, gathering information on income, consumption, and access to services. The program has been completed in Guatemala, Paraguay, and Peru, and is under way in seven other countries. It also organizes events to raise awareness and provide training on poverty measurement and survey techniques for all Latin American and Caribbean countries. This training has included efforts to integrate race and ethnicity in data gathering so as to ensure the inclusion of indigenous people and Afro-descendants in policy planning.
some countries remained below the 80 percent level. In its financing and technical assistance in the water sector, the Bank uses a variety of approaches involving both public and private sector investments to expand water and sanitation service to poor people. These approaches include a $50 million project to expand water service to 1.3 million people in rural Peru, as well as financing to rehabilitate water supply and sanitation networks and wells, promote water conservation, and improve efficiency and service at Lima’s public water utility. The project also expanded service to 600,000 previously unserved slum dwellers.
In many countries across the region, achieving the MDGs by 2015 will require new investment in health and basic education as well as infrastructure. Bank support for health care expansion continued in Mexico, building on the success of a project launched in 1996 that had extended basic services to more than 9 million people in remote and indigenous communities, many of whom had never before benefited from health care. Partnerships with governments were also strengthened to prevent HIV/AIDS, with new projects launched in Grenada and in St. Kitts and Nevis, and support continuing for similar programs in Barbados, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, and Jamaica.
The Bank’s support for environmental sustainability in Latin America and the Caribbean, which includes more than 80 active projects totaling about
A child receives a checkup in the public hospital in Palacios, Honduras. The Bank is supporting reforms to the country's health system to improve management and delivery of services to poor communities, so as to reduce the country's maternal, infant, and child mortality rates and to fight HIV/AIDS.
$2.3 billion, was highlighted in November 2002 when Bank President James D. Wolfensohn met with Amazon leaders in Belem, Brazil, to discuss the country’s strategy for sustainable management of the Amazon region. The Bank supported the strategy by coordinating the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rainforest, a partnership funded with
$340 million from Brazil, the European Union, the Group of Seven industrialized countries, and the Netherlands.
A similar biodiversity conservation effort is under way in Mexico and Central America, where the Bank is working with seven countries to protect the Meso-American Biological Corridor, a regional system of
natural areas, buffer zones, and connectors that is home to nearly 24,000 species of flora and over 500 species of mammals. In December 2002 the Corridor’s host governments, donors, and partners agreed on a business plan that identifies another $70 million in projects, in addition to the $400 million already pledged.
Middle East and North Africa
Uncertainty stemming from the war in Iraq as well as the ongoing Israeli-Palestinian crisis served to deepen the economic downturn in the Middle East and North Africa region in calendar year 2002. Economic growth for the region fell from 3.2 percent in 2001 to 3.1 percent in 2002, with continuing declines in investor confidence, export market growth, and tourism.
Despite the economic and social reforms embraced by several countries in the region, it continues to suffer from many of the same problems that have hindered growth since the 1980s.
The private sector—key to job creation— remains underdeveloped and has yet to emerge as an engine for growth in the region. Inadequate financial systems and governance structures continue to stall expansion of the private sector, thus limiting the participation of private businesses in the economy. And the impact of the region’s legacy of conflicts has stretched throughout the region, effectively diverting resources and hampering the potential to attract foreign investors.
Today the biggest economic and social challenge facing the majority of countries in the region is unemployment, which ranges from less than 5 percent in economies of the Gulf Cooperation Council to approximately 30 percent in countries such as Algeria and Yemen. In West Bank and Gaza unemployment is more than 50 percent. At the regional level the unemployment rate averages 15 percent, and jobless rates among youth are twice the regional average in some countries. As the labor force grows, the region will need to create about 4 million jobs a
year to accommodate new entrants into the labor market.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The World Bank’s overriding goals in the Middle East and North Africa region continue to revolve around building a favorable investment climate and restoring sufficient confidence in the region to create jobs and empower poor people with knowledge and skills that enable them to build sustainable livelihoods. To achieve these goals the Bank’s regional strategy addresses five common challenges faced by countries in the Middle East and North Africa: public sector efficiency and governance, private sector development and employment creation, education for living in a global economy, water management in a water-stressed region, and gender equality. In fiscal 2003 lending totaled $1.1 billion in 9 countries for 19 projects that supported reform and investments in the public and private sectors, education, water supply and natural resource management, agriculture, and infrastructure.
In response to the region’s growing interest in sustained engagement in policy reforms, the Bank continued to share knowledge and advice through programmatic economic and sector work, offering a series of analytical, advisory, and learning activities. In Morocco, for example, the Bank helped the government develop a public expenditure review that links expenditures to results achieved in the country, starting with health. The Bank is also delivering advice on pension reform in Egypt, Iran, Jordan, Lebanon, and West Bank and Gaza. At the regional level the Bank sponsored the Mediterranean Development Forum in Amman and the Knowledge for Development Conference in Marseilles. These
Middle East and North Africa Fast Facts
forums proved effective in engaging civil society groups, initiating dialogue, and focusing governments’ attention on such issues as gender, HIV/AIDS, and governance. In addition, the Regional Water Initiative continued to promote dialogue among governments to improve the management of water—a critical issue in a water-distressed region such as the Middle East and North Africa.
Knowledge sharing has been at the core of the Bank’s development assistance to Gulf countries for many years now. The Reimbursable Technical Assistance Program extends technical and policy advice on a reimbursable basis to countries whose high levels of income make them ineligible for lending. The technical cooperation program with Saudi Arabia, which spans more than two decades and is the largest to date, emphasizes private sector investment, infrastructure reform, water strategy, and long-term economic planning. In Kuwait the program supported the government’s reform efforts in private sector participation and investment, infrastructure, fiscal policies, and human development. This year the Bank signed the first multiyear technical assistance program with Kuwait for the 2004-05 period, which includes the assignment of a long-term adviser to the Ministry of Finance.
The ongoing conflict in the West Bank and Gaza and the continued deterioration of socioeconomic conditions led the Bank to expand its support for emergency social and municipal services to Palestinians. Two emergency services support projects provide critical support for the health and education sectors. The Bank plays an important role in coordinating bilateral and multilateral aid to the Palestinian Authority. At the request of the donor community, the Bank produced its second emergency assessment of the economic crisis and disbursed $55 million in trust funds to much-needed social services, despite difficult circumstances there.
After a seven-year hiatus and at the request of the Government of Iran, the Bank formulated an Interim Assistance Strategy that focuses on policy dialogue and support for reforms through nonlending as well as lending activities in targeted sectors such as water, sewerage, low-income housing, and the environment.
In fiscal 2003 two projects were approved—one was aimed at reducing the impact of water and air pollution in major cities, and the other at relieving
Total population: 0.3 billion Population growth: 2.0%
Life expectancy at birth: 68 years Infant mortality per 1,000 births: 44 Female youth illiteracy: 26%
2002 GNI per capita: $2,070
Number of people living with HIV/AIDS: 0.07 million
Note: Life expectancy at birth, infant mortality rate per 1,000 births, and female youth illiteracy are for 2001, other indicators are for 2002, from the World Development Indicators database. The term gross national income (GNI) is now used instead of gross national product (GNP).
In Morocco, a rural water supply and sanitation project brings drinking water and reduces household chores.
social and economic hardships caused by two devastating earthquakes last year.
In line with the United Nations Security Council Resolution, the Bank is undertaking a range of activities in support of Iraq’s reconstruction and long-term development. Work is under way to prepare a needs assessment in coordination with a number of bilateral and multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations, the Islamic Development Bank, and the European Union, among others.
A team of World Bank and international experts has been assessing the most pressing needs for the reconstruction of Iraq, mainly in the areas of health,
"Wealth does not come to the one who sits, except for those who own shops or who studied in schools" croons a Yemeni woman who learned to write poetry through an innovative pilot project that draws upon the Republic of Yemen's rich oral traditions to teach literacy.
With only a quarter of its adult females literate, Yemen faces a big challenge in narrowing the gender gap in education and achieving the Millennium Development Goal of promoting gender equality by 2015.
In partnership with Yemen's Ministry of Education, the World Bank-funded project responds to the needs of women who want to learn to read and write simple letters and documents, short Quranic verses, road signs, or instructions on food and pesticide containers.
About 100 rural women learned to read by creating and sharing poetry with other women in their communities. The project has attracted interest from other donors and received support through Yemen's Social Fund for Development for continuing and expanding the literacy program.
education, power, agriculture, water, and economic management.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Creating a business-friendly environment remains an important priority for the Bank in the Middle East and North Africa, where geopolitics pose an added challenge to attracting investors. Investment climate assessments conducted in Algeria and Morocco revealed the obstacles faced by investors. Among the key constraints identified are administrative bottlenecks, limited access to credit and industrial land, and human resource constraints, all of which ultimately undermine the competitiveness of the countries’ private sector. The Bank has initiated similar assessments for Iran, Oman, and Syria. This year the World Bank Group also organized a consultation tour, stopping in Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria to engage local businesses in active dialogue about boosting trade and investment. In North Africa the SMExchange Program is promoting partnerships between private businesses on both sides of the Mediterranean Sea. A joint Bank-IFC initiative is complementing these efforts through programs that
deliver improved business services, such as introducing new credit instruments, streamlining registration and licensing procedures, and helping business associations improve the quality of services they provide to their members.
Public sector efficiency is critical in paving the way for a healthy investment climate. In Tunisia, where urbanization is placing increased pressure on municipalities to maintain basic services and infrastructure, the Bank is helping local authorities better deliver and manage public services through training, computerization of tax management, and reforms in working procedures. A policy-based loan is supporting Jordan through its second year of wide-ranging reforms to make the public sector more service-friendly and to improve budgetary and financial management and judicial reforms.
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
With about 23 percent of the 300 million people in the Middle East and North Africa living on less than $2 a day, empowering poor people constitutes an important strategy for fighting poverty. Through a combination of analytical, advisory, and lending services, the Bank aims to provide poor people with the necessary skills, resources, and infrastructure to improve the quality of their lives. A rural employment project in Algeria created jobs by engaging poor people in labor-intensive work, such as reforestation and flood control structures, and by financing fruit tree plantations and vineyards with farmers’ participation. The results led policymakers to adopt similar approaches in their rural development programs.
In Morocco a rural water supply and sanitation project increased the safe, potable water supply to
300,000	rural dwellers and lowered by about a quarter the incidence of diarrhea in children. Children who traveled long distances to fetch water had more time to dedicate to schooling: primary school attendance for girls and boys rose by 70 percent and 40 percent, respectively.
Although the civil society movement is still nascent in the region, the Bank is giving voice to poor people by engaging grassroots organizations in the preparation of the PRSP in the Republic of Yemen. Following extensive consultations with civil society groups, Yemen’s first PRSP proposes a long-term framework for fighting poverty based on high economic growth, human resources development, upgraded
infrastructure, improved access to social services, and enhanced social safety nets. (See box 5.7.)
GLOBAL PRIORITIES
The Middle East and North Africa region focused activities on the following global priorities during this fiscal year.
Maternal and Child Health
With children and youth constituting more than half of the population in the Middle East and North Africa region, they are among the most vulnerable segments of society during times of economic stress and political conflict. In coordination with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and other partners, the Bank is conducting situation analyses and supporting community-based projects to deliver services for children. In Jordan the Bank is supporting a mentoring program to help at-risk children integrate into their communities. In Egypt the Bank is working with local organizations to protect and provide solutions for child workers, such as including them in the formal education system or developing informal alternative education for them. In November 2002 a conference on “Children and the Cities” gathered some 80 mayors from around the Arab world to address the rapid growth of cities and the plight of children who live in crowded quarters.
Supporting Trade and Integration
With relatively low levels of exports and foreign direct investments, the prospects for stimulating growth
the world economy present much potential for the region. In preparation for the 2003 Joint World Bank-International Monetary Fund Annual Meetings in Dubai and as part of its economic and sector work, the Bank completed a study on trade and investment climates in the region, offering policy advice on achieving faster growth, creating more jobs, improving productivity, and reducing poverty through trade and integration.
About the Staff of the World Bank
The staff of the World Bank is a richly diverse group, representing a wide range of ethnic, cultural, racial, educational, and professional backgrounds. The work of IBRD and IDA is performed by approximately 8,800 staff working in Washington, D.C., headquarters and in over 100 Country Offices worldwide. Of these staff:
■	54	percent	work	in	the six regions
■	17 percent work in the “anchor units” of the professional networks and other operational units
■	29 percent work in finance, administrative, and corporate units
■	Over 75 percent of staff is affiliated with one or more professional networks.
Decentralization. Increased presence in client countries is helping the Bank better understand, work more closely with, and provide faster service to clients. A total of 68 percent of Country Directors and 30 percent of staff are now based in Country Offices, with 26 percent of staff hired locally by the Country Offices.
Diversity. The staff of the World Bank represents more than 140 nationalities. Staff from Part II countries account for 58 percent of all staff and 36 percent of management and senior technical positions. (See country list on page 181.)
For more than a decade the World Bank has worked to improve gender equality and racial equality. Today women account for 52 percent of all staff and for 24 percent of management and senior technical positions. Sub-Saharan African and Caribbean nationals are 15 percent of all staff and 7 percent of management and senior technical positions.
The 31 officers of the World Bank (listed on page 126) include 11 Part II country nationals, 6 women, and 7 Sub-Saharan African nationals.
THE COMMUNITY OUTREACH PROGRAM
As the third-largest employer in the Washington, D.C., area, the World Bank Group recognizes the need for
individual and corporate responsibility where we live and work. In keeping with the Bank’s poverty reduction mission, the Community Outreach Program seeks to improve the lives of our neighbors in the greater metropolitan community. The Bank encourages staff volunteerism, conducts an annual grants program, and partners with area groups to strengthen local communities.
The World Bank’s extended family, including family members and retirees, is more than 25,000 people in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area. Independent analysis shows that the World Bank generates almost $2 billion a year for the local economy. The World Bank was recognized recently in the Washington Business Journal as the 19th most philanthropic business in the Washington, D.C., area in 2002. The Bank applies its global mission locally through the sharing of knowledge, information, and expertise as we help solve many of the local challenges that Bank staff deals with throughout the world, such as education, HIV/AIDs, and affordable health care.
One highlight of Community Outreach Program commitments is our partnerships in education, with Cardozo Senior High and Bell Multicultural Senior High Schools, designed to help meet their educational and technology needs while providing real-life work experience through summer and after-school employment opportunities. Understanding that education is at the heart of poverty reduction, the Bank, in collaboration with major corporate partners, recently launched the Public Education Partnership Fund that will assist in implementing a new strategic plan for the Washington, D.C., public school system.
Today the World Bank Group Community Outreach Program serves the area’s most disadvantaged people through a wide array of partnerships, sponsorships, grants, and volunteering efforts. The Community Outreach Program focuses on local poverty alleviation by concentrating its efforts on education, employment and training, health services, and civic and socioeconomic development.
The World Bank InfoShop, located in Washington, D.C., is a one-stop shop for economic development literature and a source of information on World Bank project activities. It carries publications from a variety of publishers—including nongovernmental organizations and international organizations—as well as documents per the World Bank's disclosure policy requirements. It also carries videos, CD-ROMs, gifts, and other items. Several InfoStations allow public access to the World Bank Web site. Country-specific information can also be obtained from Public Information Centers/Libraries in several country offices worldwide. Please visit us on the Web for more information and to browse titles and to place orders anytime.
Internet: www.worldbank.org/infoshop E-bookstore: www.worldbankinfoshop.org Address: 701 18th St., NW Washington, D.C. 20433 (corner of 18th St. and Pennsylvania Ave.
9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.; Mon-Fri)
E-mail: pic@worldbank.org
Telephone: 202-458-4500 (9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m.)
Fax: 202-522-1500
PIC Europe in Paris at 66 Avenue d'Iena 75116 Paris, France Telephone: 40.69.30.26 Fax: 40.69.30.69 E-mail: pparis@worldbank.org
PIC Tokyo: Fukoku Seimei Bldg. 10-F,
Uchisaiwai-Cho 2-2-2, Chiyoda-Ku,
Tokyo 100, Japan Telephone: 03.3597.6650 Fax: 03.3597.6695
E-mail: ptokyo@worldbank.org (in English) pic@worldbanktokyo.or.jp (in Japanese)
THE WORLD BANK MISSION
to FIGHT POVERTY with passion and professionalism for lasting results.
TO HELP PEOPLE HELP THEMSELVES AND THEIR ENVIRONMENT BY PROVIDING RESOURCES, SHARING KNOWLEDGE, BUILDING CAPACITY, AND FORGING PARTNERSHIPS IN THE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SECTORS.
TO BE AN EXCELLENT INSTITUTION ABLE TO ATTRACT, EXCITE, AND NURTURE DIVERSE AND COMMITTED STAFF WITH EXCEPTIONAL SKILLS WHO KNOW HOW TO LISTEN AND LEARN.





1.	OVERVIEW
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization established in 1945 and is owned by its member countries. IBRD’s main goals are promoting sustainable economic development and reducing poverty. It pursues these goals primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for projects and programs in its developing member countries. IBRD’s ability to intermediate funds from international capital markets for lending to its developing member countries is an important element in achieving its development goals. IBRD’s objective is not to maximize profit, but to earn adequate net income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities. Box 1 presents selected financial data for the last five fiscal years.
The financial strength of IBRD is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices. Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members and in the record of its borrowing members in meeting their debt-service obligations to it. IBRD’s financial policies and practices have led it to build reserves, to diversify its funding sources, to hold a large portfolio of liquid investments, and to limit a variety of risks, including credit, market and liquidity risks.
IBRD’s principal assets are its loans to member countries. The majority of IBRD’s outstanding loans are priced on a cost pass-through basis, in which the cost of funding the loans, plus a lending spread, is passed through to the borrower.
To raise funds, IBRD issues debt securities in a variety of currencies to both institutional and retail investors. These borrowings, together with IBRD’s equity, are used to fund its lending and investment activities, as well as general operations.
IBRD holds its assets and liabilities primarily in U.S. dollars, euro and Japanese yen. IBRD mitigates its exposure to exchange rate risks by matching the currencies of its liabilities and equity with those of its assets. However, the reported levels of its assets, liabilities, income and expense in the financial statements are affected by exchange rate movements
of major currencies compared to IBRD’s reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Since IBRD matches the currencies of its equity with those of its loans, the fluctuations captured in the cumulative translation adjustment for purposes of financial statement reporting do not significantly impact IBRD’s risk-bearing capacity.
Lending commitments in FY 2003 were $11.2 billion, which was slightly lower than the FY 2002 level of $11.5 billion.
FY 2003 operating income was $3,021 million, $1,097 million higher than for FY 2002, thereby increasing IBRD's return on equity and net return on average earning assets before the effects of FAS 133.a
During FY 2003, provisioning requirements were reduced by $709 million due to a net improvement in borrowers’ risk ratings, and negative net disbursements, including $6,972 million of prepayments. In addition, in FY 2003, IBRD reclassified an amount related to loans to the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY), for which Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro (SAM) undertook responsibility, from Deferred Loan Income to Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses to better reflect its nature. Subsequent to this reclassification, the provision requirements for BiH and SAM were reassessed, resulting in an additional $591 million of income. See discussion in Section 6, Financial Risk Management - Country Credit Risk. Taking these factors together, changes in the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accounted for $1,300 million of the net income in FY2003.
In the context of assessing changes in IBRD’s operating environment, it is management’s practice to recommend each year the allocation of net income to augment reserves, waivers of loan charges to benefit eligible borrowers, and allocation of net income to support developmental activities.
a. For the purposes of this document, FAS 133 refers to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, along with its related amendments, and International Accounting Standard No. 39, “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.”
On July 31, 2003, the Executive Directors approved the allocation of $2,410 million of FY 2003 net income to the General Reserve. In addition, the Executive Directors recommended to IBRD’s Board of Governors the following transfers from unallocated net income: $100 million to Surplus and $540 million to other development purposes. The Executive Directors also approved that for FY 2004, the interest waiver will be maintained at 5 basis points for old loans and 25 basis points for new loans. Waivers of 50 basis points on commitment charges for FY 2004 were also maintained at the FY 2003 level.
2.	BASIS OF REPORTING
Financial Statement Reporting
IBRD prepares its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards (together referred to in this document as the ‘reported basis’).
The standards require that all derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, be recorded on IBRD's balance sheet at their fair value. Additionally, the standards allow IBRD to designate hedging relationships and, if certain criteria are met, follow the requirements for hedge accounting. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of this FAS 133 hedging criteria to IBRD's derivative portfolio would not consistently reflect the effective hedging strategies that IBRD has established. That is, if these criteria were applied to IBRD's financial instrument portfolios, certain of the hedged instruments would be carried at fair value, while other similar hedged instruments would be carried at amortized cost. Therefore, IBRD elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships and, as a result, all changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments are recognized immediately in earnings. For management reporting purposes, IBRD has disclosed current value financial statements which IBRD believes make fully evident the risk management strategy that IBRD employs.
Management Reporting
In implementing its risk management strategy, IBRD makes extensive use of derivatives to manage the interest rate and currency risks associated with its financial assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments for asset/liability management of
individual positions and portfolios, and to reduce borrowing costs.
IBRD's funding operations are designed to meet a major organizational objective of providing lower cost funds to borrowing members. Because of the extent of IBRD's long-dated funding, the reported volatility under FAS 133 may be more pronounced than for many other financial institutions. The effects of applying FAS 133 may significantly affect reported results in each accounting period, depending on changes in market rates. However, IBRD believes that its funding and asset/liability management strategies accomplish its objectives of protection from market risk and provision of lower cost funding, and that a current value basis provides more meaningful information for risk management and management reporting.
IBRD believes that a current value presentation better reflects the economic value of all of its financial instruments. The basis for the current value model is the present value of expected cash flows based on appropriate discount rates. The model incorporates available market data in determining the cash flow and discount rates for each instrument. The current value financial statements do not purport to present the net realizable, liquidation, or market value of IBRD as a whole.
Current Value Basis
The Condensed Current Value Balance Sheets in Table 1 present IBRD’s estimates of the economic value of its financial assets and liabilities, after considering interest rate, currency and credit risks. The current year’s Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet is presented with a reconciliation to the reported basis. The prior year’s Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 17 in Section 10.
IBRD's Condensed Current Value Comprehensive Statements of Income, with a reconciliation to the reported basis at June 30, 2003, are presented in Table 2. The prior year’s Condensed Current Value Comprehensive Statement of Income is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 18 in Section 10.
A summary of the effects on net income of the current value adjustments in the balance sheet is presented in Table 3.
Current Value Balance Sheets
Loan Portfolio
All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD. In addition, IBRD may also make loans to the International Finance Corporation, an affiliated organization, without any guarantee. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does management believe there is a market for loans comparable to those made by IBRD. The current value of loans incorporates management's best estimate of the probable expected cash flows of these instruments to IBRD.
The current value of loans is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted using the applicable market yield curves for IBRD's funding cost, plus IBRD’s lending spread, adjusted for interest waivers.
The current value also includes IBRD's assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering various factors including its history of payment receipts from borrowers. IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest due on its loans. However, IBRD has suffered losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of payments for interest and charges, according to the loan's contractual terms, and the actual timing of cash flows. To recognize the credit risk inherent in these and
any other potential overdue payments, IBRD adjusts the value of its loans through its loan loss provision.
The $6,353 million ($4,865 million—June 30, 2002) positive adjustment to IBRD's loan balance from the reported basis to the current value basis reflects the fact that the loans in the portfolio, on average, carry a higher rate of interest than the present discount rate, which represents the rate at which IBRD would currently originate a similar loan.
Investment Portfolio
Under both the reported and current value basis, the investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD's trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. Fair value is based on market quotations; instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information.
Borrowings Portfolio
The current value of borrowings includes the value of the debt securities and the financial derivative instruments associated with the borrowings portfolio. The current value is calculated based on market data using market-based methodologies. The current value of IBRD's instruments in this portfolio is predominantly based on discounted cash flow techniques. The $4,946 million ($3,499 million—June 30, 2002) increase in the borrowings portfolio due to current value adjustments
results from the fact that the average cost of the borrowings portfolio is higher than the rate at which IBRD could currently obtain funding.
Current Value Comprehensive Statements of Income
Current Value Adjustments
For purposes of the current value presentation, all unrealized gains and losses are presented as current value adjustments. Therefore, the change in the mark-to-market unrealized losses on the investments of $21 million as well as a reduction in the provision for losses on loans and guarantees of $1,300 million are presented as part of the adjustment related to current value.
The net current value adjustment of $394 million for the year ended June 30, 2003 ($881 million—June 30, 2002), as shown in Table 3, represents the change in the current value of all of IBRD's financial instruments during the fiscal year. The current value adjustment reflects changes in both interest rates and currency exchange rates.
Impact of Changes in Interest Rates
During the year ended June 30, 2003, the net increase in the current value adjustments on the balance sheet was $40 million. This net increase is the result of a $1,488 million increase in unrealized gains in the loan portfolio, offset by a $1,447 million increase in unrealized losses in the borrowings portfolio, and a $1 million decrease in unrealized gains in other asset/ liability swaps. On average, interest rates for the reference markets dropped during the fiscal year thereby increasing the current value adjustments for all portfolios.
Impact of Changes in Exchange Rates During FY 2003 and FY 2002, there was a positive net currency translation adjustment as both the euro and the Japanese yen appreciated against the U.S. dollar.
3.	DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
IBRD offers loans, related derivative products, and guarantees to its borrowing member countries to help meet their development needs. It also provides technical assistance and other advisory services to support poverty reduction in these countries.
Loans
From its establishment through June 30, 2003, IBRD had approved loans, net of cancellations, totaling $333,501 million to borrowers in 129 countries. A
a.	Net of cancellations.
b. Multicurrency pool loan repayments are included at exchange rates in effect on the date of original disbursement. All other amounts are based on U.S. dollar equivalents at the time of receipt.
At June 30, 2003, the total volume of outstanding loans was $116,240 million, $5,349 million lower than the $121,589 million of outstanding loans at June 30, 2002. This decrease was due to negative net disbursements, including $6,972 million of prepayments, partially offset by positive currency translation adjustments. Undisbursed balances at June 30, 2003 totaled $33,031 million, a decrease of $3,322 million from June 30, 2002. This change was due to cancellations and disbursements, partially offset by new commitments and positive currency translation adjustments.
During FY 2003, commitments of new loans to member countries were $11,231 million, ($11,452 million—FY 2002). In FY 2003, Latin America and the Caribbean accounted for the largest share of commitments. In contrast, Europe and Central Asia accounted for the largest share of commitments in FY 2002. Figure 1 presents the regional composition of commitments for FY 2003 and FY 2002.
Figure 1: Commitments by Region
In millions of U.S. dollars
Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement (the Articles), as applied, the total amount outstanding of direct loans made by IBRD, participation in loans and callable guarantees may not exceed the statutory lending limit. At June 30, 2003, outstanding loans and callable guarantees (net of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees) totaled $112.6 billion, equal to 52.9% of the statutory lending limit.
IBRD’s lending operations have conformed generally to five principles derived from its Articles. These principles, taken together, seek to ensure that IBRD loans are made to member countries for financially and economically sound purposes to which those countries have assigned high priority, and that funds lent are utilized as intended. The five principles are described in Box 2. Within the scope permitted by the Articles, application of these principles must be developed and adjusted in light of experience and changing conditions.
Lending Cycle
The process of identifying and appraising a project and approving and disbursing a loan often extends over several years. However, on numerous occasions IBRD has shortened the preparation and approval cycle in response to emergency situations such as natural disasters.
Generally, the appraisal of projects is carried out by IBRD’s operational staff (economists, engineers, financial analysts, and other sector and country specialists). With certain exceptionsa, each loan must be approved by IBRD’s Executive Directors.
Loan disbursements are subject to the fulfillment of conditions set out in the loan agreement. During implementation of IBRD-supported operations, experienced IBRD staff review progress, monitor compliance with IBRD policies and assist in resolving any problems that may arise. An independent IBRD unit, the Operations Evaluation Department, evaluates the extent to which operations have met their major objectives, and these evaluations are reported directly to the Executive Directors.
Lending Instruments
IBRD lending generally falls into one of two categories: investment or adjustment lending.
a. For Adaptable Program Loans (APLs), the Board approves all first-phase APLs and delegates to Management the approval of subsequent phases subject to agreed procedures. Learning and Innovation Loans are loans of $5 million or less approved by Management.
Investment lending is generally used to finance goods, works, and services in support of economic and social development projects in a broad range of sectors. In contrast, adjustment lending generally supports social, structural, and institutional reforms. In the past, the majority of IBRD loans were for investment projects or programs. However, as shown in Figure 2 the percentage of IBRD loans approved for adjustment lending over the past seven years occasionally exceeded 50 percent.
In FY 2003, new IBRD commitments for adjustment lending accounted for 37% of total commitments (64%—FY 2002; 38%—FY 2001).
On rare occasions, IBRD will provide enclave lending for a large, foreign exchange generating project in a member country usually eligible only for loans from the International Development Association (IDA). In these circumstances appropriate risk mitigation measures are incorporated (including off-shore escrow accounts and debt-service reserves acceptable to IBRD) to ensure that the risks to IBRD are minimized. At June 30, 2003, IBRD had $116 million in outstanding loans for enclave projects ($192 million—June 30, 2002). No new enclave lending was approved during FY 2003 or FY 2002.
Financial Terms of Loans
Currently Available Financial Terms
IBRD currently offers a product mix that is intended to provide borrowers with the flexibility to select terms that are both compatible with their debt management strategy and suited to their debt-servicing capacity. As of June 30, 2003, IBRD offers the following two basic types of loan terms, each denominated in the currency or currencies chosen by the borrower provided it is a currency in which IBRD
Box 2: Lending Operations Principles
(i)	IBRD makes loans to governments, governmental authorities or private enterprises in the territories
of member countries. A loan that is not made directly to the member in whose territories the project is located must be guaranteed as to principal, interest and other charges by the member or its central bank or a comparable agency of the member acceptable to IBRD. A guarantee by the member itself has been obtained in all such cases to date.
(ii)	IBRD’s loans are designed to promote the use of resources for productive purposes in its member
countries. Projects financed by IBRD loans are required to meet IBRD’s standards for technical, economic, financial, institutional and environmental soundness.
(iii)In	making loans, IBRD must act prudently and pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Decisions to make loans are based upon, among other things, studies by IBRD of a member country’s economic structure, including assessments of its resources and ability to generate sufficient foreign exchange to meet debt-service obligations.
(iv)IBRD	must be satisfied that in the prevailing market conditions (taking into account the member’s overall external financing requirements), the borrower would be unable to obtain financing under conditions which, in the opinion of IBRD, are reasonable for the borrower. IBRD is intended to promote private investment, not to compete with it.
(v)The	use of loan proceeds is supervised. IBRD makes arrangements to ensure that funds loaned are used only for authorized purposes and, where relevant, with due attention to considerations of cost-effectiveness. This policy is enforced primarily by requiring borrowers (a) to submit documentation establishing, to IBRD’s satisfaction, that the expenditures financed with the proceeds of loans are made in conformity with the applicable lending agreements and (b) to maximize competition in the procurement of goods and services by using, wherever possible, international competitive bidding or, when it is not appropriate, other procedures that ensure maximum economy and efficiency.
can efficiently intermediate: variable-spread loans, and fixed-spread loans. Variable-spread loans, which were introduced in FY 1993, have a variable spread over LIBOR that is adjusted every six months. Fixed-spread loans, which were introduced in FY 2000, have a fixed spread over LIBOR that is fixed for the life of the loan.
Borrowers selecting the fixed-spread loan product may, for a fee, change the currency or interest rate basis over the life of the loan. For example, borrowers have the option to fix, unfix, or re-fix the interest rate at market rates on all or a part of the disbursed amounts for up to the remaining maturity of the loan.
Transaction fees range from 12.5 to 25 basis points of the notional transaction amount. Any conversion requests accepted by IBRD are executed at market rates.
In FY 1999, IBRD introduced special structural and sector adjustment loans to support structural and social reforms by creditworthy IBRD borrowers with exceptional external financing needs due to a potential or actual crisis.
Table 5 summarizes the financial terms for these types of loans.
Repayment terms for fixed-spread loans are more flexible than for variable-spread loans, subject to certain constraints on the average repayment maturity and final maturity on a country basis. Within these constraints, borrowers have flexibility to configure grace periods and maturity profiles in a manner consistent with the purpose of the loan. Repayment profiles may be level repayment of principal, an annuity type schedule, a single lumpsum repayment, or a customized schedule. Repayment profiles cannot be changed after a loan is signed.
Prior to the introduction of special structural and sector adjustment loans, IBRD approved and disbursed several large loans totaling $7,000 million on non-standard loan terms. These loans, which were issued in response to the global financial crises of FY 1998 and FY 1999, carry a six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR interest rate plus a fixed spread ranging from 75 to 100 basis points and a front-end fee. None of these loans is eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges. During FY 2003, $1,800 million of these loans were prepaid, resulting in an outstanding balance on these loans of $5,200 million at June 30, 2003.
At June 30, 2003, 49% (42%-June 30, 2002) of loans outstanding were variable-spread loans or fixed-spread loans, including special structural and sector adjustment loans and loans with non-standard terms.
Loans with a Deferred Drawdown Option During FY 2002, IBRD approved a Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO) for use with IBRD adjustment loans. A DDO would give IBRD borrowers the option of deferring the loan's disbursement for up to three years. Loans with a DDO are subject to a commitment fee of 100 basis points, which is 25 basis points higher than that for standard IBRD loans. Also, the front-end fee of 100 basis points, which is normally payable at the time a loan becomes effective, is only payable for a DDO loan at the time it is disbursed. During FY 2003, one loan with a DDO was approved by IBRD.
Derivative Products
Along with the approval of the introduction of the fixed-spread loan product with its various risk management features such as rate fixing and currency conversion, the Executive Directors also approved the offer of new derivative products for
borrowers to respond to their needs for access to better risk management tools in connection with existing IBRD loans. These derivative products include currency and interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps and collars.
IBRD will pass through the market cost of the instrument to the borrower, and will charge a transaction fee comparable to the fee charged on the fixed-spread loan conversion features. These instruments may be executed either under a master derivatives agreement which substantially conforms to industry standards, or in individually negotiated transactions. During FY 2003, one master derivative agreement was signed; no transactions have been executed under this agreement.
Previously Available Financial Terms In previous years, IBRD offered loans with a variety of other financial terms including: multicurrency pool loans and fixed-rate single currency loans.
Table 6 summarizes the financial terms for variable-rate multicurrency and single-currency pool loans and fixed-rate single-currency loans.
Prior to 1980, IBRD offered loans at fixed rates determined at the time a loan was contracted and set
at a specified spread over then-current borrowing costs. The currency composition of each loan depended on the currencies disbursed on that loan. In 1980, IBRD established the currency pool system, funded primarily with fixed rate medium-to-long term borrowings. In 1982, IBRD mitigated its interest rate risk by moving from offering a fixed rate to a variable rate on these loans.
The currency composition of multicurrency pool loans is determined on the basis of a pool, which provides a currency composition that is the same for all loans in the pool. Pursuant to a policy established by the Executive Directors and subject to their periodic review, at least 90% of the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the pool is in a fixed ratio of one U.S. dollar to 125 Japanese yen to one euro.
During FY 1997, IBRD offered borrowers the option to elect to modify their currency choice by converting multicurrency pool loans to single currency loan terms or single currency pool terms. The lending rate formulation for loans with single currency pool terms is the same as that for multicurrency pool loans.
Single-currency pool loans are held in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, and euro. Fixed-rate single currency loans were offered in all currencies in which IBRD could efficiently intermediate.
Any fixed-rate multicurrency pool loans that were subsequently converted to single currency pools continued to carry their fixed rate.
Fixed-rate single currency loans carry lending rates fixed on semi-annual rate fixing dates for amounts disbursed during the preceding six months. For the interim period from the date each disbursement is made until its rate fixing date, interest accrues at the rate applicable to variable-spread loans.
At June 30, 2003, 51% (58%—June 30, 2002) of loans outstanding carried these previously available financial terms.
Figure 3 presents a breakdown of IBRD’s loan portfolio by loan product. For more information, see the Notes to Financial Statements—Note D.
Waivers
Waivers of a portion of interest owed by all eligible borrowers are determined annually and have been in effect since FY 1992. Eligibility for the partial waiver of interest is limited to borrowers that have made full payments of principal, interest and other charges within 30 calendar days of the due dates during the preceding six months, on all their loans. Waivers of a portion of the commitment charge owed on the undisbursed portion of loans are also determined annually and have been in effect since FY 1990. All borrowers receive the commitment charge waiver on their eligible loans. Table 7 presents a breakdown of IBRD’s loan charge waivers. Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D.
a. On loans to eligible borrowers.
Guarantees
IBRD offers partial risk guarantees and partial credit guarantees. These guarantees are generally offered on loans from private investors for projects in countries eligible to borrow from IBRD, although they can also be offered on securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD loans. IBRD applies the same country creditworthiness and project evaluation criteria to guarantees as it applies to loans.
Partial risk guarantees cover debt-service defaults on a loan that result from non-performance of government obligations. In contrast, partial credit guarantees are used for public sector projects when there is a need to extend loan maturities and guarantee specified interest or principal payments on loans to the government or its instrumentalities. When such partial credit guarantees are used in support of agreed structural, institutional and social policies and reforms, they are considered policy-based guarantees. Eligibility for IBRD adjustment lending is a necessary condition for eligibility for policy-based guarantees.
IBRD guarantees can be customized to suit varying country and project circumstances. They can be targeted to mitigate specific risks, generally risks relating to political, regulatory and government performance, which the private sector is not normally in a position to absorb or manage.
Each guarantee requires the counter-guarantee of the member government. Guarantees are priced within a limited range to reflect the risks involved, and preparation fees may be charged where there are exceptional costs involved for IBRD.
In exceptional cases, IBRD may offer enclave guarantees for loans for foreign-exchange generating projects in a member country usually eligible only for credits from IDA. Fees charged for enclave
guarantees are higher than those charged for nonenclave guarantees.The commitment of enclave guarantees is initially limited to an aggregate guaranteed amount of $300 million. As of June 30,
2003	no enclave guarantees were outstanding.
During FY 2003, IBRD’s guarantee of certain bonds that had been issued by Argentina was called and, in accordance with the terms of the guarantee, IBRD made a payment of $250 million to the holders of the guarantee. Pursuant to the terms of the reimbursement agreement between IBRD and Argentina, IBRD directed Argentina to reimburse IBRD for the entire $250 million in four equal semiannual installments, commencing October 15, 2005, and to pay interest on the outstanding amount at LIBOR plus 400 basis points. The outstanding amount of $250 million is included in Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet at June 30, 2003. As the amount guaranteed was not repaid in full within 60 days of the call date, the guarantee was not reinstated.
IBRD’s exposure at June 30, 2003 on its guarantees (measured by discounting each guaranteed amount from its first call date) is detailed in Table 8. For additional information see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D.
Table 8: Guarantee Exposure
Other Activities
Consultation: In addition to its financial operations, IBRD provides technical assistance to its member countries, both in connection with, and independently of, lending operations. There is a growing demand from borrowers for strategic advice, knowledge transfer, and capacity building. Such assistance includes assigning qualified professionals to survey developmental opportunities in member countries, analyzing their fiscal, economic and developmental environment, assisting member countries in devising coordinated development programs, appraising projects suitable for investment and assisting member countries in improving their asset and liability management techniques.
Research and Training: To assist its developing member countries, IBRD—through the World Bank Institute and its partners—provides courses and
other training activities related to economic policy development and administration for governments and organizations that work closely with IBRD.
Trust Fund Administration: IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, funds restricted for specific uses. These funds are held in trust and are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements-Note J.
Investment Management: IBRD has leveraged its treasury management knowledge, expertise, and infrastructure to provide investment management services to several external institutions, including central banks of member countries. One objective of providing these services to central banks is to assist them in developing portfolio management skills. These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements—Note J.
4.	LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
IBRD’s liquid assets are held principally in obligations of governments and other official entities, time deposits and other unconditional obligations of banks and financial institutions, currency and interest rate swaps, asset-backed securities, and futures and options contracts pertaining to such obligations.
Liquidity risk arises in the general funding of IBRD’s activities and in the management of its financial positions. It includes the risk of being unable to fund its portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price. The objective of liquidity management is to ensure the availability of sufficient cash flows to meet all of IBRD’s financial commitments.
As one component of liquidity management, IBRD maintains a $500 million line of credit with an independent financial institution.a This facility is used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. For further details about
this facility, see the Notes to Financial Statements— Note E.
Under IBRD’s liquidity management policy, aggregate liquid asset holdings should be kept at or above a specified prudential minimum. That minimum is equal to the highest consecutive six months of expected debt service obligations for the fiscal year, plus one-half of net approved loan disbursements as projected for the fiscal year. The FY
2004	prudential minimum liquidity level has been set at $18 billion, unchanged from that set for FY 2003. IBRD also holds liquid assets over the specified minimum to provide flexibility in timing its borrowing transactions and to meet working capital needs.
Liquid assets may be held in three distinct subportfolios: stable; operational; and discretionary, each with different risk profiles and performance benchmarks.
The stable portfolio is principally an investment portfolio holding the prudential minimum level of liquidity, which is set at the beginning of each fiscal year.
The operational portfolio provides working capital for IBRD’s day-to-day cash flow requirements.
The discretionary portfolio, when used, provides flexibility for the execution of IBRD’s borrowing program and can be used to take advantage of attractive market opportunities. The discretionary portfolio was not used during FY 2002 or FY 2003, but was reactivated on July 1, 2003.
Figure 4 represents IBRD’s liquid asset portfolio size and structure at the end of FY 2003 and FY 2002, excluding investment assets associated with certain other postemployment benefits. At the end of FY 2003, the aggregate size of the IBRD liquid asset portfolio stood at $26,423 million, an increase of $1,537 million from FY 2002. Of this amount, $1.3 billion of assets in the stable portfolio were managed by external firms. This portfolio is largely composed of assets denominated in U.S. dollars with net exposure to short-term interest rates.
The returns of the liquid asset portfolio in FY 2003 compared to FY 2002 are presented in Table 9. These returns exclude investment assets funding certain other postemployment benefits.
Table 9: Liquid Asset Portfolio Returns
Financial Return (%)
The lower returns in FY 2003 are due primarily to the lower interest rate environment in FY 2003 as compared to FY 2002, as shown in Figure 10.
IBRD enters into derivative transactions to manage its investment portfolio. The main purposes of these derivative instruments are to enhance the return, and manage the overall duration, of the portfolio.
5.	FUNDING RESOURCES Equity
Total shareholders’ equity, as reported in IBRD’s balance sheet at June 30, 2003, was $37,918 million compared with $32,313 million at June 30, 2002. The increase from FY 2002 primarily reflects the increase in retained earnings.
IBRD’s equity base plays a critical role in securing its financial objectives. By enabling IBRD to absorb risk out of its own resources, its equity base protects shareholders from a possible call on callable capital. The adequacy of IBRD’s equity capital is judged on the basis of its ability to generate future net income sufficient to absorb potential risks and support
normal loan growth, without reliance on additional shareholder capital.
For management purposes, IBRD closely monitors equity as defined and utilized in the equity-to-loans ratio. Table 10 presents the composition of this measure at June 30, 2003 and 2002.
The equity-to-loans ratio is a summary statistic that IBRD uses as one measure of the adequacy of its risk-bearing capacity. IBRD also uses a stress test as a measure of income-generating capacity and capital adequacy. See discussion in Section 6, Financial Risk Management—Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity.
As presented in Figure 5, IBRD’s equity-to-loans ratio increased during FY 2003, on both a reported basis (excluding cumulative translation adjustments associated with the FAS 133 adjustments) and a current value basis.
Figure 5: Equity-to-Loans Ratio
the FAS 133 adjustment.
a. Excluding cumulative translation amounts associated with
In accordance with the financial policy defining this ratio, the amount of transfer to the general reserve of $2,410 million, that was approved on July 31, 2003, was included in this ratio at June 30, 2003 ($1,291 million—June 30, 2002). The increase in this ratio from 22.90% at June 30, 2002 to 26.59% at June 30, 2003 was due to the overall increase in equity in FY 2003, including the transfer to the general reserve, and the decrease in net loans outstanding. During FY 2003, IBRD considered it prudent to increase general reserves in the medium term in order to improve its risk-bearing capacity.
Capital
Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members. At June 30, 2003, the authorized capital of IBRD was $190,811 million, of which $189,567 million had been subscribed. Of the subscribed capital, $11,478 million had been paid in and $178,089 million was callable. Of the paid-in capital, $8,581 million was available for lending and $2,897 million was not available for lending.The terms of payment of IBRD’s
capital and the restrictions on its use that are derived from the Articles and from resolutions of IBRD’s Board of Governors are as follows:
Paid-in Capital
(i)	$2,796 million of IBRD’s capital was initially paid in gold or U.S. dollars or was converted from the currency of the subscribing members into U.S. dollars. This amount may, under the Articles, be freely used by IBRD in its operations.
(ii)	$8,682 million of IBRD’s capital was paid in the national currencies of the subscribing members. Under the Articles this amount is subject to maintenance of value obligations and may be used for funding loans only with the consent of the member whose currency is involved, or used for administrative expenses without the need for consent. In accordance with such consents for lending, $5,483 million of this amount was being used in IBRD’s lending operations at June 30, 2003.
In FY 2002, the Board of Executive Directors endorsed new options to increase the usability of
the national currency portion of the members' paid-in capital. Accordingly, IBRD may use a member's local currency to invest or lend in that currency, or may swap the local currency into another currency for investment or lending purposes, provided it has the consent of the member whose currency is involved. As of June 30, 2003, no member's currency has been used for any of these new options.
Callable Capital
(iii)	$151,654 million of IBRD’s capital may, under the Articles, be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it. This amount is thus not available for use by IBRD in making loans. Payment on any such call may be made, at the option of the particular member, either in gold, in U.S. dollars or in the currency required to discharge the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made.
(iv)	$26,435 million of IBRD’s capital is to be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it, pursuant to resolutions of IBRD’s Board of Governors (though such conditions are not required by the Articles). Of this amount, 10% would be payable in gold or U.S. dollars and 90% in the national currencies of the subscribing members. While these resolutions are not legally binding on future Boards of Governors, they do record an understanding among members that this amount will not be called for use by IBRD in its lending activities or for administrative purposes.
No call has ever been made on IBRD’s callable capital. Any calls on unpaid subscriptions are required to be uniform, but the obligations of the members of IBRD to make payment on such calls are independent of each other. If the amount received on a call is insufficient to meet the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made, IBRD has the right and is bound to make further calls until the amounts received are sufficient to meet such obligations. However, no member may be required on any such call or calls to pay more than the unpaid balance of its capital subscription.
At June 30, 2003, $103,604 million (58.2%) of the uncalled capital was callable from the member countries of IBRD that are also members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). This amount slightly exceeded IBRD’s outstanding borrowings including swaps at June 30, 2003. Table 11 sets out the capital
a.	See details regarding the capital subscriptions of all members of IBRD at June 30, 2003 in Financial State-ments-Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power.
The United States is IBRD’s largest shareholder. Under the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, the Par Value Modification Act and other U.S. legislation, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury is permitted to pay up to $7,663 million of the uncalled portion of the subscription of the United States, if it were called by IBRD, without any requirement of further congressional action. The balance of the uncalled portion of the U.S subscription, $22,303 million, has been authorized by the U.S. Congress but not appropriated. Further action by the U.S. Congress would be required to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay any portion of this balance. The General Counsel of the U.S Treasury has rendered an opinion that the entire uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription is an obligation backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, notwithstanding that congressional appropriations have not been obtained with respect to certain portions of the subscription. For a further discussion of capital stock, restricted currencies, maintenance of value and membership
refer to the Notes to Financial Statements—Notes A and B.
Borrowings Source of Funding
IBRD diversifies its sources of funding by offering its securities to institutional and retail investors globally. Under its Articles, IBRD may borrow only with the approval of the member in whose markets the funds are raised and the member in whose currency the borrowing is denominated, and only if each such member agrees that the proceeds may be exchanged for the currency of any other member without restriction.
New medium- and long-term funding by currency for FY 2003, as compared to FY 2002, is shown in Figure 6 below.
Figure 6: New Funding by Currency11 (in millions of U.S dollars equivalent)
a.	Includes one-year notes and represents net proceeds on a trade date basis.
b.	Average maturity to first call date.
Funding raised in any given year is used for IBRD’s general operations, including loan disbursements, refinancing of maturing debt and prefunding of future lending activities. The decrease in funding in FY 2003 was primarily attributable to lower borrowing requirements. All proceeds from new funding are initially invested in the liquid asset portfolio until they are required for IBRD’s operations. Debt is allocated on a periodic basis to the different debt pools funding loans as necessary, in accordance with operating guidelines. In FY 2003, IBRD followed a strategy of selective bond issuance, composed of cost-effective private placements, public issues placed with large institutional investors, and public issues targeted to retail investors.
IBRD strategically repurchases, calls or prepays its debt to reduce the cost of borrowings and to reduce exposure to refunding requirements in a particular year or to meet other operational needs. In response to market conditions, during FY 2003, IBRD repurchased or called $6,293 million of its outstanding borrowings (net of unamortized discounts, premiums, and issuance costs).
Use of Derivatives
IBRD enters into currency and interest rate swaps to convert U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar fixed-rate borrowings into U.S. dollar variable-rate funding for its loans. In FY 2003, all new funding was initially swapped into floating rate U.S. dollars, with conversion to other currencies or fixed-rate funding being carried out subsequently in accordance with funding requirements. Figures 7a and 7b illustrate the effect of swaps on both the interest rate structure and currency composition of the borrowings portfolio at June 30, 2003. Interest rate and currency swaps are also used for asset/liability management purposes to match the pool of liabilities as closely as possible to the interest rate and currency characteristics of liquid assets and loans. IBRD does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes in the borrowings portfolio.
A more detailed analysis of borrowings outstanding is provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note E.
6.	FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
IBRD assumes various kinds of risk in the process of providing development banking services. Its activities can give rise to four major types of financial risk: credit risk; market risk (interest rate and exchange rate); liquidity risk; and operational risk. The major inherent risk to IBRD is country credit risk, or loan portfolio risk.
Governance Structure
The risk management governance structure includes a Risk Management Secretariat supporting the Management Committee in its oversight function. The Risk Management Secretariat was established in FY 2002 to support the Management Committee, particularly in the coordination of different aspects of risk management, and in connection with risks that cut across functional areas.
For financial risk management, there is an Asset/ Liability Management Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. The Asset/Liability Management Committee makes recommendations in the areas of financial policy, the adequacy and allocation of risk capital, and oversight of financial reporting. Two subcommittees that report to the Asset/Liability Management Committee are the
Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee and the Credit Risk Subcommittee.
The Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee develops and monitors the policies under which market and commercial credit risks faced by IBRD are measured, reported and managed. The subcommittee also monitors compliance with policies governing commercial credit exposure and currency management. Specific areas of activity include establishing guidelines for limiting balance sheet and market risks, the use of derivative instruments, setting investment guidelines, and monitoring matches between assets and their funding. The Credit Risk Subcommittee monitors the measurement and reporting of country credit risk and reviews the impact on the provision for losses on loans and guarantees of any changes in risk ratings of borrowing member countries or movements between the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios.
Country credit risk, the primary risk faced by IBRD, is identified, measured and monitored by the Country Credit Risk Department, led by the Chief Credit Officer. This unit is independent from IBRD's business units. In addition to continuously reviewing the creditworthiness of IBRD borrowers, this department is responsible for assessing loan portfolio risk, determining the adequacy of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and monitoring
borrowers that are vulnerable to crises in the near term. The Chief Credit Officer reports to the Vice President of Strategy, Finance, and Risk Management who is a member of the Operations Committee, which reviews IBRD's Country Assistance Strategies and selected planned adjustment loans.
Market risks, liquidity risks and counterparty credit risks in IBRD's financial operations are identified, measured and monitored by the Corporate Finance Department, which is independent from IBRD's business units. The Corporate Finance Department works with IBRD's financial managers, who are responsible for the day-to-day management of these risks, to establish and document processes that facilitate, control and monitor risk. These processes are built on a foundation of initial identification and measurement of risks by each of the business units. Under the direction of the Asset/Liability Management Committee, policies and procedures for measuring and managing such risks are formulated, approved and communicated throughout IBRD. Senior managers represented on the Committee are responsible for maintaining sound credit assessments, addressing transaction and product risk issues, providing an independent review function and monitoring the loans, investments and borrowings portfolios.
Primary responsibility for the management of operational risk resides with each of IBRD's managers. These individuals are responsible for establishing, maintaining and monitoring appropriate internal control procedures in their respective areas.
The processes and procedures by which IBRD manages its risk profile continually evolve as its activities change in response to market, credit, product, and other developments. The Executive Directors, particularly the Audit Committee members, periodically review trends in IBRD's risk profiles and performance, as well as any significant developments in risk management policies and controls.
Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity
IBRD assesses its risk-bearing capacity using a variety of metrics, including a stress test and an equity-to-loans ratio, to measure its income generating capacity and capital adequacy.
The stress test measures the level of loan growth which could be supported by IBRD in the wake of a significant credit shock, without further deterioration in IBRD’s capital position. The
nonaccrual event used in the stress test is an estimate of the amount of the loan portfolio that could enter nonaccrual status (payment arrears in excess of six months) in the next three years at a 95% confidence level.
Credit risk is measured in terms of both probable and potential losses from protracted payments arrears. Probable losses are covered by IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, and potential losses are covered by income-generating capacity and equity.
IBRD's equity supports its risk-bearing capacity for its lending operations. IBRD strives to immunize its risk-bearing capacity from fluctuations in interest and exchange rates. Therefore, IBRD uses the equity-to-loans ratio (on a current value basis) as one tool to monitor the sensitivity of its risk-bearing capacity to movements in interest and exchange rates. One of IBRD’s financial risk management objectives is to seek to protect the equity-to-loans ratio from movements arising from market risks. To the extent that the duration of its equity capital is matched to that of its loan portfolio, this ratio is protected against interest rate movements. To the extent that the currency composition of its equity capital is matched with that of its loan portfolio, this ratio is protected from exchange rate movements.
As presented in Figure 5 in Section 5, Funding Resources, IBRD has maintained a relatively stable equity-to-loans ratio on both the current value and reported basis.
Credit Risk Country Credit Risk
Country credit risk is the risk of loss due to a country not meeting its contractual obligations. IBRD’s Credit Risk Department continuously reviews the creditworthiness of its borrowing member countries. These reviews are taken into account in determining IBRD’s overall country programs and lending operations, used to estimate the appropriate level of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and used to assess the adequacy of IBRD’s income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital. In keeping with standard practice, probable losses inherent in the portfolio due to country credit risk are covered by the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, while potential losses due to country credit risk are covered by income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital.
Portfolio concentration risk, which arises when a small group of borrowers account for a large share of
loans outstanding, is a key concern for IBRD and is carefully managed, in part, through a single borrower exposure limit. According to an approach approved by the Executive Directors in 1997, the single borrower exposure limit is set at the lower of an equitable access limit and a concentration risk limit. The equitable access limit is equal to 10% of IBRD's subscribed capital, reserves and unallocated surplus, and the concentration limit is estimated by stress testing IBRD’s income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital (taking into account not only current exposure - loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees - but also projected exposure over the ensuing three- to five-year period). The single borrower exposure limit is determined by the Executive Directors each year at the time they consider IBRD’s reserves adequacy and the allocation of its net income from the preceding fiscal year. For FY 2004, the concentration risk limit is $13.5 billion, unchanged from FY 2003. The equitable access limit is $21.3 billion. As depicted in Figure 8, IBRD’s largest exposure (including the present value of guarantees) to a single borrowing country was $11.0 billion at June 30, 2003.
Since the current exposure data presented are at a point in time, evaluating these exposures relative to the limit requires consideration of the repayment profiles of existing loans, as well as disbursement profiles and projected new loans and guarantees.
In FY 2003, IBRD's Executive Directors approved a policy that, under certain circumstances, would allow IBRD to continue lending to borrowers that had reached the concentration risk limit. Under this policy, borrowers may exceed this limit provided they have entered into an arrangement designed to insulate IBRD from possible cash flow losses resulting from exposure in excess of the concentration risk limit. Application of this policy would therefore not increase IBRD’s net exposure to a borrower. Any such arrangement that would permit the gross exposure to a borrower to exceed the concentration risk limit would need to be approved in advance by IBRD's Executive Directors. During FY 2003, IBRD entered into the first such arrangement with one borrower, China. As of June 30, 2003, China had not exceeded the concentration risk limit.
Overdue and Non-performing Loans
It is IBRD’s policy that if a payment of principal, interest or other charges on an IBRD loan or IDA credit becomes 30 days overdue, no new loans to that member country, or to any other borrower in that country, will be presented to the Executive Directors for approval, nor will any previously approved loan be signed, until payment for all amounts 30 days overdue or longer has been received. In addition, if such payment becomes 60 days overdue, disbursements on all loans to or guaranteed by that member country are suspended until all overdue amounts have been paid. Where the member country is not the borrower, the time period for suspension of the approval and signing of new loans to or guaranteed by the member country is 45 days and the time period for suspension of disbursements is 60 days. It is the policy of IBRD to place all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD in nonaccrual status, if principal, interest or other charges on any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. See Notes to Financial Statements—Note D for a summary of countries with loans or guarantees in nonaccrual status at June 30, 2003.
IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees to recognize the probable losses inherent in both the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees is discussed in Section 7, Critical Accounting Policies.
In 1991, the Executive Directors adopted a policy to assist members with protracted arrears to IBRD to mobilize sufficient resources to clear their arrears and to support a sustainable growth-oriented adjustment program over the medium term. Under this policy, IBRD will develop a lending strategy and will process loans, but not sign or disburse such loans, during a pre-clearance performance period with respect to members that: (a) agree to and implement a medium-term, growth-oriented structural adjustment program endorsed by IBRD; (b) undertake a stabilization program, if necessary, endorsed, or financially supported, by the International Monetary Fund; (c) agree to a financing plan to clear all arrears to IBRD and other multilateral creditors in the context of a medium-term structural adjustment program; and (d) make debt-service payments as they fall due on IBRD loans during the performance period. The signing, effectiveness and disbursement of such loans will not take place until the member’s arrears to IBRD have been fully cleared.
It is IBRD’s practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. However, during FY 1996 and FY 2002, exceptions were made to that practice with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro (SAM), formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996. These criteria limited eligibility for such treatment to a country: that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD; that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member; that because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming; and for which a rescheduling/refinancing would result in a significant improvement in its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken. This treatment was based on a precedent established in 1975 after Bangladesh became independent from Pakistan. IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria.
The accumulated arrears on loans to the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY), for which BiH and SAM undertook responsibility, were cleared through new consolidation loans extended by IBRD in FY 1996 and FY 2002, respectively. These new loans included the loan principal outstanding
assumed, respectively, by BiH and SAM as part of their conditions for succession to membership of the former SFRY, as well as all unpaid interest and charges related to the former SFRY’s loans. This resulted in an increase in loans outstanding of $168 million for BiH and $799 million for SAM. The offset to these amounts was initially classified as deferred loan income, which was presented along with the accumulated provision for loan losses as a determinant of net loans outstanding on the balance sheet.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD's allowance for losses on loans and guarantees covers probable credit losses from protracted arrears. The Credit Risk Subcommittee reviews the allowance for losses on loans and guarantees at least quarterly and, if necessary, adjustments are made to the provision.
During FY 2003, IBRD determined that the offset to loans outstanding related to BiH and SAM, that was initially classified as Deferred Loan Income, should be reclassified to Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses to better reflect the nature of these amounts. Following the reclassification, the required provisions for these countries were reassessed, and resulted in a positive effect on income of $591 million. See the Notes to Financial Statements—Note D for additional information.
Overall, the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees decreased during FY 2003. This decrease was primarily due to a net improvement in borrowers’ risk ratings; negative net disbursements on loans, including $7 billion of prepayments, which reduced loans outstanding; and the reclassification of deferred income on loans to BiH and SAM and subsequent reassessment of the required provision, as discussed above.
Commercial Credit Risk
Commercial credit risk is the risk of loss due to a counterparty not honoring its contractual obligations.
IBRD’s commercial credit risk is concentrated in investments in debt instruments issued by sovereign governments, agencies, banks and corporate entities. The majority of these investments are in AAA and AA rated instruments.
In the normal course of its business, IBRD utilizes various derivatives and foreign exchange financial instruments to meet the financial needs of its
borrowers, to generate income through its investment activities and to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency rates.
Derivative and foreign exchange transactions involve credit risk. The effective management of credit risk is vital to the success of IBRD’s funding, investment and asset/liability management activities. The monitoring and managing of these risks is a continuous process due to changing market environments.
IBRD controls the credit risk arising from derivatives and foreign exchange transactions through its credit approval process, the use of collateral agreements and risk limits, and monitoring procedures. The credit approval process involves evaluating counterparty creditworthiness, assigning credit limits and determining the risk profile of specific transactions. Credit limits are calculated and monitored on the basis of potential exposures taking into consideration current market values, estimates of potential future movements in those values and collateral agreements with counterparties. If there is a collateral agreement with the counterparty to reduce credit risk, then the amount of collateral obtained is based on the credit rating of the counterparty. Collateral held includes cash and government securities.
IBRD treats the credit risk exposure as the replacement cost of the derivative or foreign exchange product. This is also referred to as replacement risk or the mark-to-market exposure amount. While contractual principal amount is the most commonly used volume measure in the derivative and foreign exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit or market risk.
Mark-to-market exposure is a measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-
Table 13: Credit Exposure by Counterparty Rating
In millions of U.S. dollars
market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes IBRD and, therefore, creates an exposure for IBRD. When the mark-to-market is negative, IBRD owes the counterparty and does not have replacement risk.
When IBRD has more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty, and the parties have entered into a master derivatives agreement which contains legally enforceable close-out netting provisions, the “net” mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with the same counterparty. If this net mark-to-market is negative, then IBRD’s exposure to the counterparty is considered to be zero. For the contractual value, notional amounts and related credit risk exposure amounts by instrument, see the Notes to Financial Statements—Note G.
Table 13 provides details of IBRD’s estimated credit exposure on its investments and swaps, net of collateral held, by counterparty rating category.
The increase in the proportion of AA rated investments, compared to the prior year, is mainly due to the increase in deposits with commercial banks. After the effects of netting arrangements, the credit exposure from swaps increased from $1,534 million at June 30, 2002 to $6,599 million at June 30,
2003.	The swap credit exposure of $6,599 million is offset by collateral of $4,941 million, which results in a total net swap exposure of $1,658 million.
Market Risk
IBRD faces risks which result from market movements, primarily interest and exchange rates. In comparison to country credit risk, IBRD’s exposure to market risks is small. IBRD has an integrated asset/liability management framework to flexibly assess and hedge market risks associated with the characteristics of the products in IBRD’s portfolios.
Asset/Liability Management
The objective of asset/liability management for IBRD is to ensure adequate funding for each product at the most attractive available cost, and to manage the currency composition, maturity profile and interest rate sensitivity characteristics of the portfolio of liabilities supporting each lending product in accordance with the particular requirements for that product and within prescribed risk parameters. The current value information is used in the asset/liability management process.
Use of Derivatives
As part of its asset/liability management process, IBRD employs derivatives to manage and align the characteristics of its assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments to adjust the interest rate repricing characteristics of specific balance sheet assets and liabilities, or groups of assets and liabilities with similar repricing characteristics, and to modify the currency composition of net assets and liabilities.
Table 14 details the current value information of each loan product, the liquid asset portfolio, and the debt allocated to fund these assets.
Interest Rate Risk
There are two main sources of potential interest rate risk to IBRD. The first is the interest rate sensitivity associated with the net spread between the rate IBRD earns on its assets and the cost of borrowings, which fund those assets. The second is the interest rate sensitivity of the income earned from funding a portion of IBRD assets with equity. In general, lower nominal interest rates result in lower lending rates which, in turn, reduce the nominal earnings on IBRD’s equity. In addition, as the loan portfolio shifts from pool loans to LIBOR based loans, the sensitivity of IBRD's income to changes in market interest rates will increase.
The borrowing cost pass-through formulation incorporated in the lending rates charged on most of IBRD’s existing loans has traditionally helped limit the interest rate sensitivity of the net spread earnings on its loan portfolio. Such cost pass-through loans currently account for approximately 69% of the existing outstanding loan portfolio (71% at the end of FY 2002). All cost pass-through loans, including single currency and multicurrency pool loans as well as variable-spread loans, pose some residual interest rate risk, given the lag inherent in the lending rate calculation. Since pool loan terms are no longer available for new commitments, this risk will diminish as the existing loans mature.
Another potential risk arises because the cost passthrough currency pool products have traditionally been funded with a large share of medium- and longterm fixed-rate debt, to provide the borrowers with a reasonably stable interest basis. Given that the cumulative impact of interest rate changes over time has resulted in a decline in the level of interest rates, the cost of these historical fixed-rate borrowings in the multicurrency pool and the single currency pools is currently considerably higher than IBRD’s new borrowing costs. The amount of debt allocated to the multicurrency debt pool will exceed the balance of the multicurrency loan pool after FY 2009. The debt which funds these loans has maturities that extend beyond those of the loans and presents a risk of loss to IBRD because this debt carries fixed interest rates.
Over-funding reaches a maximum of approximately $5.8 billion in FY 2016. Strategies for managing this risk include changing the rate fixity of the overfunded portion of the debt from fixed to floating rates beyond 2009 through the use of forward starting swaps. IBRD began executing these swaps in FY 2000 and to date has paid $165 million. IBRD expects these forward starting swaps to continue to
be transacted in a phased manner. The present value of the remaining over-funded portion of the above market debt is approximately $424 million as of June 30, 2003.
Interest rate risk on non-cost pass-through products, which currently account for 31% of the existing loan portfolio (29% at the end of FY 2002), is managed by using interest rate swaps to closely align the rate sensitivity characteristics of the loan portfolio with those of their underlying funding. As the portfolio of fixed-spread loans increases, the proportion of noncost pass-though products will grow. The interest rate risk on IBRD’s liquid portfolio is managed within specified duration-mismatch limits and is further limited by stop-loss limits.
Interest rate risk also arises from a variety of other factors, including differences in the timing between the contractual maturity or repricing of IBRD’s assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments. On floating rate assets and liabilities, IBRD is exposed to timing mismatches between the re-set dates on its floating rate receivables and payables. To mitigate its exposure to these timing mismatches, IBRD has developed a framework to analyze and assess the mismatch risk and, during FY 2002, IBRD executed some overlay interest rate swaps to reduce this mismatch risk.
Exchange Rate Risk
In order to minimize exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment, IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by the Articles. In addition, IBRD’s policy is to minimize the exchange rate sensitivity of its equity-to-loans ratio. It carries out this policy by undertaking currency conversions periodically to align the currency composition of its equity to that of its outstanding loans. This policy is designed to minimize the impact of market rate fluctuations on the equity-to-loans ratio, thereby preserving IBRD’s ability to better absorb potential losses from arrears regardless of the market environment.
Figure 9 presents the currency composition of significant balance sheet components (net of swaps) at the end of FY 2003 and FY 2002.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of IBRD’s activities and in the management of its assets and liabilities. For a discussion on how liquidity is managed, please refer to Section 4— Liquidity Management.
Operational Risk
Operational risk is the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human factors, or external events, and includes business disruption and system failure, transaction processing failures and failures in execution of legal, fiduciary and agency responsibilities. IBRD, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operational risks.
IBRD attempts to mitigate operational risk by maintaining a system of internal controls that is designed to keep that risk at appropriate levels in view of the financial strength of IBRD and the characteristics of the activities and markets in which IBRD operates.
Since 1996, IBRD has used a COSOa-based integrated internal control framework. IBRD's approach to operational risk management continues to evolve each year as IBRD seeks to adopt best practice. IBRD uses several tools to monitor and control operational risk. These tools include selfassessment workshops, business process reviews in the finance, treasury and accounting areas, annual cascading internal representation letters from business unit managers, and compliance reviews. These tools are used to assist business units in identifying key operational risks and assessing the degree to which they mitigate these risks and maintain appropriate controls. Action plans are developed for issues identified. In addition, these action plans and the risks they are intended to address are evaluated on an annual basis by an internal panel. The panel evaluates and categorizes the risks to determine if they pose a threat to management's ability to make a positive assertion on the adequacy of internal controls surrounding IBRD’s external financial reporting.
The results of the work undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting are reported to the Audit Committee through an annual report.
IBRD has obtained an attestation report from its external auditors that IBRD’s assertion that, as of June 30 of each fiscal year, its system of internal control over its external financial reporting has met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting as described in COSO, is fairly stated in all material respects.
a. In 1992, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) issued its Internal Control-Integrated Framework, which provided a common definition of internal control and guidance on judging its effectiveness.
During FY 2004, IBRD plans to further enhance its operational risk management practices by moving towards an approach that emphasizes active management of operational risk for its finance activities. The objective of this effort is to supplement the traditional control-based approach to operational risk with risk measures, tools and disciplines that are risk specific and consistently applied.
7.	CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Notes to IBRD's financial statements contain a summary of IBRD's significant accounting policies. The following is a description of those accounting policies which involve significant management judgments that are difficult, complex or subjective and relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees reflects probable losses in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. Management determines the appropriate level of accumulated provisions for losses on loans and guarantees on a borrower-by-borrower basis for both the nonaccrual and accrual portfolios at the balance sheet date. The appropriate level of provisions for each borrower is estimated as the sum product of its expected default frequency (or probability of default to IBRD), its loans outstanding (plus the present value of guarantees), and the assumed severity of loss given default.
Judgments on borrowers' expected default frequencies and severities of losses given default are based on many factors such as assessments of borrowers' past and prospective economic performance and economic policy framework. IBRD periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Actual losses may differ from expected losses due to unforeseen changes in any of the factors that affect borrowers' creditworthiness.
The accumulated provision for loan losses is separately reported in the balance sheet as a deduction from IBRD’s total loans. The accumulated provision for losses on guarantees is included in other liabilities. Increases or decreases in the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees are reported in the Statement of Income as provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
Additional information on IBRD’s provisioning policy and the status of nonaccrual loans can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements—Notes A and D.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Under the current value basis of reporting, IBRD carries all of its financial assets and liabilities at estimated values. Under the reported basis, IBRD carries its investments and derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, on a fair value basis. These derivatives include certain features in debt instruments that, for accounting purposes, are separately valued and accounted for as either assets or liabilities. When possible, fair value is determined by quoted market prices. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair value is based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates.
All the financial models used for input to IBRD's financial statements are subject to both internal and external verification and review by qualified personnel. These models use market sourced inputs, such as interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, and option volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgment. Imprecision in estimating these factors, and changes in assumptions, can impact net income and IBRD's financial position as reported in the balance sheet.
IBRD believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable given its processes for obtaining external prices and parameters; ensuring that valuation models are reviewed and validated both internally and externally; and applying its approach consistently from period to period.
Table 15: Net Income
In millions of U.S. dollars
8.	RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
To a large extent, the change in IBRD’s net income was due to changes in the credit standing of borrowing countries and the interest rate environment.
Interest Rate Environment
During FY 2003, interest rates for most currencies were significantly lower than those in FY 2002. In addition, interest rates declined in both years. The U.S. dollar short-term interest rates (six-month LIBOR) depicted in Figure 10 illustrate these trends.
Operating Income
IBRD’s operating income can be seen as broadly comprising a spread on earning assets, plus the contribution of equity, less provisions for loan losses and administrative expenses. Table 15 shows a breakdown of income, net of funding costs.
FY 2003 operating income was $3,021 million, $1,097 million higher than for FY 2002. The main reason for the increase in operating income was a reduction in the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
During FY 2003, provisioning requirements were reduced by $709 million due to a net improvement in borrowers’ risk ratings, and negative net disbursements, including $6,972 million of loan prepayments.
In addition, as discussed previously in Section 6, Financial Risk Management - Country Credit Risk, in FY 2003, IBRD reclassified an amount related to loans to the former SFRY, for which BiH and SAM undertook responsibility, from Deferred Loan Income to Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses to better reflect its nature. Subsequent to this reclassification, the provisioning requirements for these countries were reassessed, resulting in an additional $591 million being taken into income.
During FY 2002, provisioning requirements were reduced by $15 million as credit improvements in the nonaccrual portfolio were offset by a net deterioration in the credit quality of the accrual portfolio.
FY 2002 versus FY 2001
FY 2002 operating income was $1,924 million, $780 million higher than in FY 2001. The majority of this increase was due to a reduction in the provision for loan loss expense of $691 million, as arrears clearances from borrowers in the nonaccrual
Table 16: Net Noninterest Expense
In millions of U.S. dollars
portfolio more than offset a further deterioration in the credit quality of the accrual portfolio.
Net Interest Income FY 2003 versus FY 2002
Loan interest income, net of funding costs, decreased by $143 million due primarily to lower returns on the equity funded component of loans, and lower average loan balances, offset partially by the interest rate repricing lag inherent in the cost pass-through loans in a falling interest rate environment. Interest income was also affected by an increase in prepayment premiums.
FY 2002 versus FY 2001
•	Loan interest income, net of funding costs, increased $182 million due primarily to the interest rate repricing lag inherent in the cost pass-through loans, and the decrease in the waiver rate on old loans.
•	Investment income net of funding costs decreased by $108 million in FY 2002 due primarily to changes in U.S. dollar shortterm interest rates.
•	Other loan income increased by $87 million due primarily to the interest income on loans to three countries which were restored to accrual status in FY 2002.
Net Noninterest Expense
The main components of net noninterest expense are presented in Table 16.
FY 2003 versus FY 2002
Net noninterest expense increased by $62 million primarily due to a $134 million increase in pension and other postretirement benefit costs. This was offset by a $55 million decrease in other administrative expenses and a $23 million increase in service fee revenues. The increase in pension and other postretirement benefit costs was primarily due to changes in the underlying actuarial assumptions and a decrease in the value of the pension assets during FY 2002. See Notes to Financial Statements— Note K.
FY 2002 versus FY 2001
Net noninterest expense increased by $72 million due primarily to a reduction in the actuarially determined amount of pension income in FY 2002. In addition, total gross administrative expenses were $24 million higher in FY 2002 than in FY 2001.
FAS 133 Adjustments
As discussed earlier, IBRD has marked all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, to market. IBRD generally uses derivatives to modify fixed U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar borrowings to variable U.S. dollar borrowings as required. When IBRD borrows in currencies that are not needed for lending, it immediately swaps the borrowings into the needed currencies to take advantage of the arbitrage opportunities which may exist. During FY 2003, the effects of applying FAS 133 were $2,323 million compared to $854 million for FY 2002. This increase in the effects of applying FAS 133 was due primarily to a significant drop in the interest rates for certain currencies in FY 2003 as compared to FY 2002.
This decline in interest rates caused a significant increase in the value of the liability swaps. While economically this increase in the liability swaps has been offset by a corresponding increase in the value of the fixed rate borrowings, IBRD’s application of FAS 133 requires that only derivative instruments be marked to market. For management reporting purposes, IBRD has disclosed the Current Value financial statements in Table 2 in Section 2. IBRD believes that these statements make fully evident the risk management strategy that IBRD employs.
9.	GOVERNANCE General Governance Board Membership
In accordance with its Articles of Agreement, members of IBRD'sa Board of Executive Directors are appointed or elected by their member governments. These Executive Directors are neither officers nor staff of IBRD. James D. Wolfensohn, President, is the only management member of the Board of Executive Directors, serving as a non-voting member and as Chairman of the Board. The Executive Directors have established several Committees including:
•	Committee on Development Effectiveness
•	Audit Committee
•	Budget Committee
•	Personnel Committee
•	Committee on Governance and Administrative Matters
The Executive Directors and their Committees function in continuous session at the principal offices of IBRD, as business requires. Each Committee's terms of reference establishes its respective roles and responsibilities. As Committees do not vote on issues, their role is primarily to serve the full Board of Executive Directors in discharging its responsibilities.
Audit Committee Membership
The Audit Committee consists of eight members of the Board of Executive Directors. Membership on the Committee is determined by the Board of Executive Directors, based upon nominations by the Chairman of the Board, following informal consultation with the Executive Directors. In addition, membership of the Committee is expected to reflect the economic and geographic diversity of IBRD's member countries. Other relevant selection criteria include seniority, continuity and relevant experience. Generally, Committee members are appointed for a two year term; reappointment to a second term, when possible, is desirable for continuity. Audit Committee meetings are generally open to any member of the Board who may wish to attend, and non-Committee members of the Board may participate in the discussion. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee may speak in that capacity at meetings of the Board of Executive Directors, with respect to discussions held in the Audit Committee.
a. For purposes of this section, references to IBRD are also applicable to IDA.
Key Responsibilities
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board to exercise, on its behalf, oversight and assessment of the effectiveness of financial policies and reporting, fiduciary controls, various aspects of financial, business, operating, and reputational risk, quality of earnings, and internal controls. In the execution of this role, the Committee discusses with management and the external auditors financial issues and policies which have an important bearing on the institution's financial position and risk-bearing capacity. It also reviews the internal audit work program with the Auditor General, and management. The Audit Committee monitors the evolution of developments in corporate governance and the role of audit committees on an ongoing basis and periodically reviews its terms of reference.
Communications
The Audit Committee communicates regularly with the full Board through distribution of the following:
•	The minutes of its meetings.
•	Reports of the Audit Committee prepared by the Chairman, which document discussions held. These Reports are distributed to the Executive Directors, Alternates, World Bank Group Senior Management and Vice Presidents of IBRD.
•	"Statement(s) of the Chairman" and statements issued by other members of the Committee.
•	The Annual Report to the Board of Executive Directors, which provides an overview of the main issues addressed by the Committee over the year.
The Audit Committee's communications with the external auditor are described in the Auditor Independence section.
Executive Sessions
Members of the Committee may convene in executive session at any time, without management present. Under the Committee's terms of reference, it meets in executive session with the external auditors at least once a year.
Access to Resources and to Management
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee receives a large volume of information, which supports the preparation of the financial statements. The Audit Committee meets both formally and informally throughout the year to discuss financial and
accounting matters. Executive Directors have complete access to Management. The quarterly and annual financial statements are made available to the Committee for discussion prior to issuance. The Committee has the opportunity to meet with both management and the external auditors for bilateral discussions. The Committee then meets to discuss the financial statements with management and the external auditors.
Code of Ethics
IBRD strives to foster and maintain a positive work environment that supports the ethical behavior of its staff. To facilitate this effort, IBRD has in place a Code of Professional Ethics-Living our Values. The Code applies to all staff (including managers, consultants, and temporary employees) worldwide.
This Code is available in nine languages on IBRD’s website, www.worldbank.org. Staff relations, conflicts of interest, and operational issues, including the accuracy of books and records, are key elements of the Code.
In addition to the Code, an essential element of appropriate conduct is compliance with the obligations embodied in the Principles of Staff Employment, Staff Rules, and Administrative Rules, the violation of which may result in disciplinary actions. In accordance with the Staff Rules, senior managers must complete a confidential financial disclosure instrument with the Office of Ethics and Business Conduct.
Guidance for staff is also provided through programs, training materials, and other resources. Managers are responsible for ensuring that internal systems, policies, and procedures are consistently aligned with IBRD's ethical goals. In support of its efforts on ethics, IBRD offers a variety of methods for informing staff of these resources. Many of these efforts are headed by the following groups:
•	The Office of Ethics and Business Conduct provides leadership, management and oversight for IBRD's ethics infrastructure including the Ethics HelpLine, a consolidated conflicts of interest disclosure/resolution system, financial disclosure, ongoing training to both internal and external audiences, and communication resources.
•	The Department of Institutional Integrity is charged with investigating allegations of fraud and corruption in IBRD-funded projects worldwide. The Department also investigates allegations of misconduct by
IBRD staff, and trains and educates staff and clients in detecting and reporting fraud and corruption in IBRD-funded projects.
The Department reports directly to the President and is composed of professionals from a range of disciplines including financial analysts, researchers, investigators, lawyers, prosecutors, forensic accountants, and IBRD staff with operational experience.
IBRD offers both an "Ethics HelpLine", as well as a Fraud and Corruption hotline run by an outside firm staffed by trained specialists. This third party service offers numerous methods of communication in addition to a toll free hotline in countries where access to telecommunications may be limited. In addition there are other methods by which the Department of Institutional Integrity may receive allegations, including directly by email, anonymously, or through confidential submission through their website, as well as the postal service and telephone.
Auditor Independence
In February 2003, the Board of Executive Directors adopted a set of principles applicable to the appointment of the external auditor for IBRD. Key features of those principles include:
•	An immediate prohibition of the external auditor from the provision of all non audit-related services.
•	All audit-related services must be preapproved on a case-by-case basis by the Board of Executive Directors, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee.
•	Mandatory rebidding of the external audit contract every five years.
•	Prohibition of any firm serving as external auditors for more than two consecutive five-year terms.
•	Mandatory rotation of the senior partner after five years.
•	An evaluation of the performance of the external auditor at the mid-point of the five year term.
IBRD’s external auditor is commencing a new term of up to five years as of FY 2004, and will have served
11	years as auditor upon completion of that term, pursuant to a one-time grandfathered exemption from the above-referenced ten-year limit. The service of the external auditors is subject to recommendation by the Audit Committee for annual
reappointment and approval of a resolution by the Board of Executive Directors.
As a standard practice, the external auditor is present as an observer at virtually all Audit Committee meetings and is frequently asked to present its perspective on issues. In addition, the Audit Committee meets periodically with the external auditor in private session without management present. Members of the Audit Committee have independent access to the external auditor. Communication between the external auditor and the Audit Committee is ongoing, as frequently as is deemed necessary by either party. IBRD's auditors follow the communication requirements with audit committees set out under U.S. generally accepted auditing standards and International Standards on Auditing. In keeping with these standards, significant formal communications include:
•	Quarterly and annual financial statement reporting.
•	Annual appointment of the external auditors.
•	Presentation of the external audit plan.
•	Presentation of control recommendations and discussion of the COSO attestation and report.
•	Presentation of a statement regarding independence.
10.	RECONCILIATION OF PRIOR YEAR CURRENT VALUE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO REPORTED BASIS
IBRD’s Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet at June 30, 2002 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 17 below. Similarly, IBRD’s Condensed Current Value Comprehensive Statement of Income for the year ended June 30, 2002 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 18.
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed by a trust.
Cross-Currency Interest Rate Swaps: Cross-currency interest rate swaps are currency swaps where one set of cash flows reflects a fixed rate of interest and the other reflects a floating rate of interest.
Currency Swaps: Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal.
Equity-to-Loans Ratio: This ratio is the sum of usable capital plus the special and general reserves, cumulative translation adjustment (excluding amounts associated with applying the provisions of FAS 133) and the proposed transfer from unallocated net income to general reserves divided by the sum of loans outstanding, the present value of guarantees, net of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees and deferred loan income.
Failed Trades: Failed trades are securities transactions that do not settle on the contractual settlement date.
Forward Starting Swaps: A forward starting swap is an agreement under which the cash flow exchanges of the underlying interest rate swaps would begin to take effect from a specified future date.
Futures and Forwards: Futures and forward contracts are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on U.S. and international regulated exchanges.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments.
Hedging: Hedging is a risk management technique of entering into offsetting commitments to eliminate or minimize the impact of adverse movements in the value or cash flow of a financial instrument.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time.
LIBOR: London interbank offer rate.
Maintenance of Value: Agreements with members provide for the maintenance of the value, from the time of subscription, of certain restricted currencies. Additional payments to (or from) IBRD are required in the event the par
value of the currency is reduced (or increased) to a significant extent, in the opinion of IBRD.
Net Disbursements: Loan disbursements net of repayments and prepayments.
New Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998.
Old Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued prior to July 31, 1998.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans:
Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Return on Equity: This return is computed as net income divided by the average equity balance during the year.
Risk-bearing Capacity: The ability to absorb risks in the balance sheet while continuing normal operations without having to call on callable capital.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller’s portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
Statutory Lending Limit: Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement, as applied, the total amount outstanding of loans, participations in loans, and callable guarantees may not exceed the sum of subscribed capital, reserves and surplus.
Swaptions: A swaption is an option that gives the holder the right to enter into an interest rate or currency swap at a certain future date.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
The management of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of its published financial statements and all other information presented in this annual report. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards and, as such, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards. The system of internal control contains monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified. Management believes that internal controls for external financial reporting, which are subject to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and are revised as considered necessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
The financial statements have been audited by an independent accounting firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of the Board of Executive Directors and committees of the board. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate. The independent auditors’ report is presented herein in the Annual Report.
The Board of Executive Directors of IBRD has appointed an Audit Committee responsible for monitoring the accounting practices and internal controls of IBRD. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of Executive Directors who are independent of IBRD’s management. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of Executive Directors the selection of independent auditors. It meets periodically with management, the independent auditors, and the internal auditors to ensure that they are carrying out their responsibilities. The Audit Committee is responsible for performing an oversight role by reviewing and monitoring the financial, accounting and auditing procedures of IBRD in addition to reviewing IBRD’s reports. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or without the presence of management, to discuss the adequacy of internal control over external financial reporting and any other matters which they believe should be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal control can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time.
IBRD assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards as of June 30, 2003. This assessment was based on the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon this assessment, management believes that IBRD maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards.
President and Board of Governors
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
We have examined management’s assertion, included in the accompanying Management's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Controls Over External Financial Reporting, that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards as of June 30, 2003, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO report). Management is responsible for maintaining effective control over external financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was made in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, testing, and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Because of inherent limitations in any internal control, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of internal control over external financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that internal control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management’s assertion that, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards as of June 30, 2003, is fairly stated in all material respects, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
President and Board of Governors
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 2003 and 2002, including the summary statement of loans and the statement of subscriptions to capital stock and voting power as of June 30, 2003, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2003. These financial statements are the responsibility of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 2003 and
2002,	and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2003 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards.
Notes to Financial Statements
PURPOSE AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization which commenced operations in 1946. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. The activities of IBRD are complemented by those of three affiliated organizations, the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these organizations is legally and financially independent from IBRD, with separate assets and liabilities, and IBRD is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliates are disclosed in the notes that follow. IDA’s main goal is to reduce poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership by providing a combination of grants and financing on concessionary terms. IFC’s purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member’s guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
NOTE A-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
IBRD’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and with International Financial Reporting Standards. On July 31, 2003, the Board of Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used
in the valuation of certain financial instruments, the determination of the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, the determination of net periodic income from pension and other postretirement benefits plans, and the present value of benefit obligations.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform with the current year’s presentation.
Accounting for Derivatives: IBRD complies with the derivative accounting requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", along with its amendments, as well as International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39, "Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement". These standards, collectively referred to as FAS 133 in this document, require that derivative instruments, as defined by these standards, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
IBRD uses derivative instruments in its investments and borrowings portfolios and for asset/liability management purposes. In applying FAS 133 for the purposes of financial statement reporting, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships. Rather, all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, have been marked to fair value and all changes in fair value have been recognized in net income. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of FAS 133 qualifying hedge criteria would not make fully evident the risk management strategies that IBRD employs.
Translation of Currencies: IBRD’s financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IBRD’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. IBRD’s resources are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in those various currencies. IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at minimizing exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment. IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swaps) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by holding or lending the proceeds of its borrowings (after swaps) in the same currencies in which they are borrowed. In
addition, IBRD periodically undertakes currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its Equity with those of the net loans outstanding.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates on which they are recognized or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
Valuation of Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of IBRD is expressed in terms of “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944” (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IBRD have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944” in Article II, Section 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of IBRD are interpreted to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being $1.20635 for one SDR.
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of the value (MOV), at the time of subscription, of such restricted currencies (see Note B), requiring (1) the member to make additional payments to IBRD in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of IBRD, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2) IBRD to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased.
Since currencies no longer have par values, maintenance of value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value of a member’s currency against the standard of value of IBRD capital based on the 1974 SDR. Members are required to make payments to IBRD if their currencies depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the Executive Directors have adopted a policy of reimbursing members whose currencies
appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value.
The net MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan, and amounts that have been reclassified from receivables for those countries that have been in arrears for two years or more, are included as a component of equity under Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings. For amounts on loan, these MOV amounts are shown as a component of Equity since MOV becomes effective only as such currencies are repaid to IBRD.
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings consists of allocated amounts (Special Reserve, General Reserve, Pension Reserve, Surplus and Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments) and unallocated Net Income.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6 of the Articles of Agreement, which are to be held in liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by IBRD. The Special Reserve assets are included under Investments— Trading, and comprise obligations of the United States Government, its agencies, and other official entities. The allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in 1964 with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
The General Reserve consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which, in the judgment of the Executive Directors, should be retained in IBRD’s operations.
The Pension Reserve consists of the difference between the cumulative actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) and other postretirement benefits plans, and the cumulative accounting income for these plans, from prior fiscal years. This Pension Reserve will be reduced in future fiscal years if pension accounting expenses exceed the actual funding of these plans.
Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are retained by IBRD until a further decision is made on their disposition or the conditions of transfer for specified uses have been met.
The Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments consist of the effects associated with the application of FAS 133 from prior years. At June 30, 2003, this amount includes the one-time cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 133 on July 1, 2000, the reclassification and amortization of the transition adjustments for prior
fiscal years, and the unrealized gains or losses on certain derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, for prior fiscal years.
Unallocated Net Income consists of earnings in the current fiscal year. Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the unallocated Net Income has been allocated to the General Reserve after an assessment by the Executive Directors of IBRD’s reserve needs. Upon recommendation by the Executive Directors, the Board of Governors, consisting of one Governor appointed by each member, periodically approves transfers out of unallocated Net Income and Surplus to various entities for development purposes consistent with IBRD’s Articles of Agreement.
Loans: All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans to IFC. The majority of IBRD’s loans have repayment obligations based on specific currencies. IBRD also holds multicurrency loans which have repayment obligations in various currencies determined on the basis of a currency pooling system.
Any loan origination fees incorporated in a loan’s terms are deferred and recognized over the life of the loan as an adjustment of yield. However, incremental direct costs associated with originating loans are expensed as incurred as such amounts are considered insignificant. The unamortized balance of loan origination fees is included as a reduction of Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet, and the loan origination fees amortization is included in Interest under Income from Loans on the income statement.
It is IBRD’s practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. In exceptional cases, however, such as when implementation of a financed project has been delayed, the loan amortization schedule may be modified to avoid substantial repayments prior to project completion.
In addition, during fiscal years 1996 and 2002, exceptions were made to that practice with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro (SAM), formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, respectively, in connection with their succession to membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). One component of the financial assistance packages for BiH and SAM, was a plan for the clearance of arrears under all loans to the former SFRY for which they undertook responsibility. Under the arrears clearance plans, the accumulated arrears on loans to the former
SFRY which were assumed by BiH and SAM were cleared through the issuance of new loans extended by IBRD.
IBRD’s treatment of BiH and SAM was based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for BiH in fiscal year 1996. These criteria limit eligibility for such treatment to a country: (a) that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD; (b) that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member; (c) that, because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming; and (d) for which rescheduling/refinancing would result in a significant improvement in its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken. This treatment was based on a precedent established in 1975 after Bangladesh became independent from Pakistan.
IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria.
It is the policy of IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if development credits made by IDA to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all loans made to or guaranteed by that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IBRD. On the date a member’s loans are placed into nonaccrual status, unpaid interest and other charges accrued on loans outstanding to the member are deducted from the income of the current period. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IBRD. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s loans may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new loans may have been restored. A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance.
Guarantees: IBRD provides guarantees of loans undertaken for, or securities issued in support of, projects located within a member country eligible for IBRD loans, as well as loans undertaken or securities
issued by entities eligible for IBRD adjustment lending. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IBRD to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IBRD would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed were not made by the debtor and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IBRD in accordance with the terms of the guarantee. In the event that a guarantee is called, IBRD has the contractual right to require payment from the member country in whose territory the project is located, on demand, or as IBRD may otherwise direct.
Prior to January 1, 2003, IBRD recorded a liability for the probable losses related to guarantees outstanding. In addition, fee income received from these guarantees was deferred and amortized over the period of benefit. The provision for losses on guarantees as well as the unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee income are included in Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities on the balance sheet. For guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others”, IBRD will record the fair value of the obligation to stand ready in the financial statements. IBRD has not issued or modified any guarantees after December 31, 2002.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees: Delays in receiving loan payments result in present value losses to IBRD since it does not charge fees or additional interest on any overdue interest or loan charges. These present value losses are equal to the difference between the present value of payments of interest and charges made according to the related loan's contractual terms and the present value of its expected future cash flows. IBRD has not written off any of its loans.
Management determines the appropriate level of accumulated provisions for losses on loans and guarantees on a borrower-by-borrower basis for both
the nonaccrual and accrual portfolios at the balance sheet date. The appropriate level of provisions for each borrower is estimated as the sum product of its expected default frequency (or probability of default to IBRD), its loans outstanding (plus the present value of guarantees), and the assumed severity of loss given default. This methodology considers the present value of expected cash flows relative to the contractual cash flows for each borrower.
Judgments on borrowers' expected default frequencies and severities are based on many factors such as assessments of borrowers' past and prospective economic performance and economic policy framework. IBRD periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or addition to income.
Cash and Liquid Investments: IBRD considers unrestricted cash, as well as financial instruments held in the investment portfolio as elements of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows, since they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash within ninety days.
Investments: Investment securities are classified based on management’s intention on the date of purchase, their nature, and IBRD’s policies governing the level and use of such investments. At June 30, 2003 and June 30, 2002, all investment securities were held in a trading portfolio. Investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD’s Trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value, using trade-date accounting. The first-in first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Unrealized gains and losses for investment securities and related financial instruments held in the Trading portfolio are included in income. Derivative instruments are used in liquidity management to take advantage of profitable trading opportunities and as a proxy for cash securities. These derivatives are carried at fair value. From time to time, IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of commitment.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and Payable for Cash Collateral Received: Securities purchased under resale agreements, securities lent under securities lending agreements, and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IBRD receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, requires additional collateral.
Nonnegotiable noninterest-bearing Demand Obligations on Account of Subscribed Capital:
Payments on these instruments are due to IBRD upon demand and are held in bank accounts which bear IBRD’s name. Accordingly, these instruments are carried and reported at face value as assets on the balance sheet.
Borrowings: To ensure funds are available for lending and liquidity purposes, IBRD borrows in the worldwide capital markets offering its securities to private and governmental buyers. IBRD issues shortterm and medium- and long-term debt instruments denominated in various currencies with both fixed and adjustable interest rates. Borrowings are carried on the balance sheet at their par value (face value), adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts, and include adjustments for embedded derivatives and fair value hedges that existed at June 30, 2000, as required by FAS 133. Issuance costs associated with a bond offering are deferred and amortized over the period during which the related indebtedness is outstanding. The unamortized balance of the issuance costs is included in Other Assets on the balance sheet, and the issuance costs amortization is presented as a separate element under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement. Amortization of discounts and premiums is included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
IBRD uses derivatives in its borrowing and liability management activities to take advantage of cost saving opportunities across capital markets to mitigate risks as well as lower its funding costs. These derivatives are used to modify the interest rate and/or currency characteristics of the borrowing portfolio, and are carried at fair value in accordance with FAS 133. The interest component of these derivatives is recognized as an adjustment to the borrowing cost over the life of the derivative contract and included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
Valuation of Financial Instruments: Derivative financial instruments and investment securities are recorded in IBRD’s financial statements at fair value.
Disclosures related to the fair value of these, and other financial instruments are included in Note O. Fair value is based on market quotations when possible. Financial instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates. All the financial models used for valuing IBRD’s financial instruments are subject to both internal and periodic external verification and review by qualified personnel. These models use market sourced inputs such as interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, and option volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgement, as does estimating prices when no external parameters exist.
Accounting and Reporting Developments: In
January 2003 and April 2003, FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities” and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 149, “Amendment of Statement 133 on derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, respectively. These Standards did not have a material impact on IBRD’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003.
There were no significant changes in the relevant International Financial Reporting Standards that would have an impact on IBRD’s financial statements.
NOTE B-CAPITAL STOCK, RESTRICTED CURRENCIES, MAINTENANCE OF VALUE, AND MEMBERSHIP
Capital Stock: At June 30, 2003, IBRD’s capital comprised 1,581,724 authorized shares(1,581,724 shares—June 30, 2002), of which 1,571,412 shares had been subscribed (1,570,895 shares—June 30, 2002). Each share has a par value of 0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1.20635 per 1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $11,478 million ($11,476 million—June 30, 2002) has been paid in, and the remaining $178,089 million ($178,029 million—June 30, 2002) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans.
Currencies Subject to Restrictions: A portion of capital subscriptions paid in to IBRD has been paid in the local currencies of the members. These amounts, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by IBRD in its lending operations, only with the consent of the respective members, and for administrative expenses.
Maintenance of Value: Of the total amount of $331 million ($641 million—June 30, 2002) included in Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings,
which has been deducted from equity, $176 million ($195 million—June 30, 2002) represents MOV receivables for countries that have amounts in arrears for two years or more. IBRD still considers these MOV receivables in arrears as obligations due from the members concerned. The remaining $155 million ($446 million—June 30, 2002) represents net MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan that become payable under the same terms as other MOV obligations only after such currencies are repaid to IBRD.
NOTE C-INVESTMENTS
As part of its overall portfolio management strategy, IBRD invests in government and agency obligations, time deposits, asset-backed securities, repurchase agreements, securities loans, resale agreements and related financial derivatives including futures, forward contracts, currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, interest rate swaps, options and short sales.
For government and agency obligations, IBRD may only invest in obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries with a minimum credit rating of AA; however, if such obligations are denominated in the home currency of the issuer, no rating is required. IBRD may only invest in obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality
of a government of a country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity with a minimum credit rating of AA. For asset-backed securities, IBRD may only invest in securities with a AAA credit rating.
With respect to futures and options, IBRD generally closes out most open positions prior to maturity. Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures and options contracts. Futures contracts generally entail daily settlement of the variation margin.
For options, IBRD only invests in exchange-traded options. The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount. IBRD does not write uncovered option contracts as part of its investment portfolio strategy.
As of June 30, 2003, IBRD had $428 million ($102 million—June 30, 2002) of short sales included in Payable for Investment Securities Purchased on the balance sheet.
As of June 30, 2003, IBRD had received $212 million ($1,833 million—June 30, 2002) of securities under resale agreements. None of these securities had been transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements as of June 30, 2003 or June 30, 2002.
NOTE D-LOANS AND GUARANTEES
IBRD’s loan portfolio includes multicurrency loans, single currency pool loans, single currency loans and fixed spread loans. Single currency loans and fixed spread loans include special structural and sector adjustment loans. At June 30, 2003 only variable spread loans and fixed spread loans, including special structural and sector adjustment loans were available for new commitments.
Waivers of Loan Interest and Commitment Charges
For fiscal year 2003, IBRD continued to offer waivers of a portion of interest owed by all eligible borrowers. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, the effect of this waiver
was to reduce Net Income by $93 million, ($102 million— June 30, 2002, $139 million—June 30, 2001). In addition, IBRD continued to waive a portion of the commitment charge on undisbursed balances on all its loans, except for special structural and sector adjustment loans and certain other loans which are not eligible for the waiver. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, the effect of this waiver was to reduce net income by $146 million ($156 million—June 30, 2002, $169 million—June 30,
2001).
amount represents the maximum potential amount of undiscounted future payments that IBRD could be required to make under these guarantees, and are not included in the balance sheet. Most of these guarantees have maturities ranging between 10 and 15 years, and expire in decreasing amounts through 2012.
At June 30, 2003, liabilities related to IBRD's obligations under guarantees of $33 million ($55 million—June 30, 2002), have been included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet. These include the accumulated provision for guarantee losses of $24 million ($41 million—June 30, 2002).
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2003, IBRD's guarantee of certain bonds that had been issued by Argentina was called and, in accordance with the terms of the guarantee, IBRD made a payment of $250
million to the holders of such guarantee on October 15, 2002. Pursuant to the terms of the reimbursement agreement between IBRD and Argentina, IBRD directed Argentina to reimburse IBRD for the entire $250 million in four equal semi-annual installments, commencing October 15, 2005, and to repay interest on the outstanding amount at LIBOR plus 400 basis points. The outstanding amount of $250 million is included in Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet at June 30, 2003. No other guarantees provided by IBRD have been called as of June 30, 2003.
Overdue Amounts
At June 30, 2003, no loans payable to IBRD, other than those referred to in the following table, were overdue by more than three months. The following table provides a summary of selected financial information related to loans in nonaccrual status as of June 30:
In July 2002, the Syrian Arab Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo cleared all of their overdue payments with IBRD, and all IBRD loans to, or guaranteed by, these two countries were restored to accrual status. As a result, income from loans for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 increased by $57 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these loans not been in nonaccrual status. These events were considered in determining the adequacy of the provision for loan losses at June 30, 2002.
The arrears clearance of $131 million by the Democratic Republic of Congo, was accomplished using bridge financing provided by an international financial institution. On the same day of the arrears clearance, IDA disbursed a development credit to this country in support of economic reform and poverty reduction programs. Part of the proceeds of this development credit was used to repay the bridge financing. The development credit was funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD.
On January 8, 2002, the accumulated arrears on loans for which SAM undertook responsibility were cleared through six new loans extended by IBRD. These new loans included the loan principal outstanding assumed by SAM as part of its conditions for succession to membership, as well as all unpaid interest and charges related to the SFRY loans for which SAM undertook responsibility.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, all IBRD loans to or guaranteed by BiH, Cote d'Ivoire, and the Republic of Congo were restored to accrual status. Income from loans for the fiscal year ended June 30,
2002	increased by $48 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these loans not been in nonaccrual status.
Each of the arrears clearances of $25 million for Cote d'Ivoire, and $34 million for the Republic of Congo, was accomplished using bridge financing provided by an international financial institution. On the same day that the international financial institution provided financing, IDA disbursed development credits to the respective country in support of economic reform and poverty reduction programs. Some or all of the proceeds from these development credits were used to repay the bridge financing. The development credits were funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest on its loans. However, IBRD suffers losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of payments for interest and charges according to the related loan’s contractual terms and the actual cash flows. Certain borrowers have found it difficult to make timely payments for protracted periods, resulting in their loans being placed in nonaccrual status. Several borrowers have
emerged from nonaccrual status after a period of time by bringing up-to-date all principal payments and all overdue service payments, including interest and other charges. To recognize the probable losses inherent in its loan and guarantee portfolio, IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
During June 1996 and January 2002, the accumulated arrears on loans to the former SFRY, for which BiH and SAM undertook responsibility, were cleared through the issuance of new loans extended by IBRD to the two countries. These loans included unpaid interest and charges related to SFRY's loans. This
resulted in an increase in loans outstanding of $168 million for BiH and $799 million for SAM. The offset to these amounts was initially classified as deferred loan income, which is presented along with the accumulated provision for loan losses as a determinant of net loans outstanding on the balance sheet.
During fiscal year 2003, IBRD determined that these reductions should be reclassified as accumulated provision for loan losses to better reflect the nature of these amounts. Accordingly, prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current year's presentation.
IBRD has endorsed a multilateral initiative for addressing the debt problems of a group of countries, identified as heavily indebted poor countries (HIPCs), to ensure that the reform efforts of these countries will not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. Under this initiative, creditors are to provide debt relief for those countries that demonstrated good policy performance over an extended period to bring their debt burdens to sustainable levels. IBRD has not entered into any commitments to provide debt relief under this initiative. However, IDA is expected under the HIPC debt initiative, to extend new credits to certain IDA-eligible countries no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but with outstanding IBRD debt. These credits will be funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD. In determining the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, IBRD has taken the situation of these countries into account.
Fifth Dimension Program
Under IDA’s Fifth Dimension program established in September 1988, a portion of principal repayments to
IDA are allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA development credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988 and have in place an IDA-supported structural adjustment program. Such supplementary IDA development credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions, in proportion to each country’s interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for such IDA supplemental development credits, a member country must meet IDA’s eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan approved within the last twelve months. To receive a supplemental development credit from the program, a member country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA.
A summary of cumulative IDA development credits committed and disbursed under this program from
NOTE E-BORROWINGS
Providing liquidity and minimizing the cost of funds are key objectives to IBRD's overall borrowing strategy. IBRD uses swaps in its borrowing strategy to lower the overall cost of its borrowings for those members who benefit from IBRD loans. IBRD initiates swap transactions with a list of authorized counterparties. Credit limits have been established for each counterparty.
Line of credit: IBRD maintains a line of credit with an independent financial institution. This facility was created for the benefit of both IBRD and IDA. The available line of credit to each institution is $500 million, but usage from both institutions cannot exceed $500 million in aggregate. The line of credit is used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. At June 30, 2003, IBRD had drawn down $1 million under this facility. At June 30,
2002,	IBRD maintained a $400 million line of credit with an independent financial institution and IDA maintained a $100 million line of credit with the same
institution. No amounts were drawn down under these facilities as of June 30, 2002.
NOTE F-OTHER ASSET/LIABILITY SWAPS
As part of asset/liability management, IBRD has entered into a number of currency swaps to better align its currency composition of Equity with that of Loans Outstanding. A summary of IBRD’s other asset/liability swaps at June 30, 2003 and June 30, 2002 is presented below:
NOTE G-CREDIT RISK
Country Credit Risk: This risk includes potential losses arising from protracted arrears on payments from borrowers. IBRD manages country credit risk through individual country exposure limits according to creditworthiness. These exposure limits are tied to performance on macroeconomic and structural policies. In addition, IBRD establishes absolute limits on the share of outstanding loans to any individual borrower. The country credit risk is further managed by financial incentives such as pricing loans using IBRD’s own cost of borrowing and partial interest charge waivers conditioned on timely payment that give borrowers self-interest in IBRD’s continued strong intermediation capacity. Collectibility risk is covered by the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees. IBRD also uses a simulation model to assess the adequacy of its equity including reserves in case a major borrower, or group of borrowers, stops servicing its loans for an extended period of time.
Commercial Credit Risk: For the purpose of risk management, IBRD is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. For all securities, IBRD limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit risk is controlled through application of eligibility criteria and volume limits for transactions with individual counterparties and through the use of mark-to-market collateral arrangements for swap transactions. IBRD may require collateral in the form of cash or other approved liquid securities from individual counterparties in order to mitigate its credit exposure. As of June 30, 2003, IBRD had received collateral of $5,110 million in connection with swap agreements ($764 million—June 30, 2002). None of this collateral has been included in the assets of IBRD.
In addition, IBRD has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable closeout netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. Credit risk with financial assets subject to a master derivatives arrangement is further reduced under these agreements to the extent that payments and receipts with the counterparty are netted at settlement. The reduction in exposure as a result of these netting provisions can vary as additional transactions are entered into under these
agreements. The extent of the reduction in exposure may therefore change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
The contract value/notional amounts and credit risk exposure, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30, 2003 and June 30, 2002 (prior to taking into account any master derivatives or collateral arrangements that have been entered into) are given below:
On August 8, 2002, the Executive Directors allocated $1,291 million of the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002 to the General Reserve and $93 million to the Pension Reserve, representing the difference between actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan and its accounting income for the fiscal year 2002. In addition, the Executive Directors allocated $854 million of fiscal year 2002 net income to Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments.
On September 29, 2002, the Board of Governors approved the following transfers out of fiscal year
2002	unallocated Net Income: $300 million as an immediate transfer to IDA and $240 million as an immediate transfer to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative Trust Fund. These amounts were paid on September 30, 2002.
NOTE I-ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES, CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL PROGRAMS, AND OTHER INCOME
Administrative Expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 are net of the share of administrative expenses allocated to IDA of $846 million ($654 million—June 30, 2002, $551 million—June 30,
2001). The allocation of expenses between IBRD and IDA is based on an agreed cost sharing formula that reflects the administrative costs of service delivery to countries that are eligible for lending from IBRD and IDA.
Contributions to special programs represent grants for agricultural research, and other developmental activities.
IBRD recovers certain of its administrative expenses by billing third parties, including IFC and MIGA, for services rendered. These amounts are included in Other Income. For the fiscal years ending June 30, 2003, June 30, 2002, and June 30, 2001, the amount of fee revenue associated with administrative services is as follows:
At June 30, 2003 and June 30, 2002, the following	and pension and other postretirement benefits are
payables (receivables) by IBRD to (from) its affiliated	included in Miscellaneous Assets and Accounts
organizations with regard to administrative services	Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities:
NOTE J-MANAGEMENT OF EXTERNAL FUNDS
Trust Funds
IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses which include the cofinancing of IBRD lending projects, debt reduction operations, technical assistance for borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs
and research and training programs. These funds are held in trust with IBRD and/or IDA, and are held in a separate investment portfolio which is not commingled with IBRD’s funds, nor are they included in the assets of IBRD. The trust fund assets by executing agent at June 30, 2003 and June 30, 2002 are summarized below:
The responsibilities of IBRD under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, IBRD received $14 million ($11 million—June 30,
2002	and $14 million—June 30, 2001) as fees for administering trust funds. These fees have been recorded as Other Income.
Investment Management Services
IBRD offers investment management services to a non-affiliated institution. Under this arrangement, IBRD is responsible for managing investment account
assets on behalf of this institution, and in return receives a quarterly fee based on the average value of the portfolio.
In addition, IBRD offers asset management and technical advisory services to Central Banks of member countries, under the Reserves Advisory and Management Program, for capacity building and other development purposes. One objective of this program is to assist these Central Banks in developing their portfolio management skills. IBRD receives a quarterly fee based on the percentage of assets under management.
The fee income from all of these investment management activities is included in service fee revenues described in Note I.
At June 30, 2003, the assets managed under these agreements had a value of $6,450 million ($5,319 million—June 30, 2002). These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD.
NOTE K-PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
IBRD has a defined benefit Staff Retirement Plan (SRP), a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) and a Post-Employment Benefits Plan (PEBP) that cover substantially all of its staff members as well as the staff of IFC and MIGA.
The SRP provides regular pension benefits and includes a cash balance plan. The RSBP provides certain health and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. The PEBP provides pension benefits administered outside the SRP.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, there were minor amendments to the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP. These amendments included the extension of retroactive pension credit (on a contributory basis) to eligible current staff members; the lowering of the service eligibility requirement for RSBP benefits from ten years to five years; and the extension of retiree medical coverage to all staff, including those in country field offices.
All costs associated with these plans are allocated between IBRD, IFC, and MIGA based upon their employees’ respective participation in the plans. In addition, IFC and MIGA reimburse IBRD for their share of any contributions made to these plans by IBRD. Contributions to these plans are calculated as a percentage of salary.
The following table summarizes the benefit costs associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2003, June 30, 2002, and June 30, 2001:
IDA’s share of the net periodic pension income/cost is included as a payable to/receivable from IDA in Miscellaneous Assets and Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous liabilities on the balance sheet.
The expenses for the SRP, RSBP and PEBP are included in Administrative Expenses. The income from the SRP and RSBP for prior fiscal years is included as a separate line item on the Statement of Income.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, expenses for these plans of $24 million were allocated to IFC and $2 million was allocated to MIGA. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001, net income from these plans of $31 million and $47 million, respectively, was allocated to IFC, and $2 million in each fiscal year was allocated to MIGA.
The following table summarizes the benefit obligations, plan assets, and funded status associated
with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for the fiscal years	irrevocable trust, they do not qualify for off-balance
ended June 30, 2003, June 30, 2002, and June 30, 2001.	sheet accounting and are therefore included in IBRD's
Since the assets for the PEBP are not held in an	investment portfolio.
* Less than $0.5 million.
The $1,849 million prepaid SRP cost at June 30, 2003 ($1,895 million—June 30, 2002) is included in Prepaid Pension Cost on the balance sheet. Of this amount $909 million was attributable to IDA, IFC, and MIGA ($938 million—June 30, 2002) and is included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet.
The $165 million prepaid RSBP cost at June 30, 2003 ($195 million—June 30, 2002), is included in Prepaid Pension Cost on the balance sheet. Of this amount $68 million was attributable to IDA, IFC, and MIGA ($85 million—June 30, 2002) and is included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet.
There are differences between the prepaid (accrued) pension cost calculated under the accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America and the relevant International Accounting Standard. These differences are not significant.
Assumptions
The actuarial assumptions used are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management’s best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. Changes in these assumptions will impact future benefit costs and obligations. Actuarial gains and losses occur when actual results are different from expected results. Amortization of these unrecognized gains and losses will be included in income if, at the beginning of the
fiscal year, they exceed 10 percent of the greater of the	gains and losses are amortized over the expected
projected benefit obligation or the market-related	average remaining service lives of the employee group.
value of plan assets. If required, the unrecognized
The weighted-average assumptions used in determining expense and benefit obligations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2003, June 30, 2002, and June 30, 2001 are as follows:
For fiscal year 2003, loans to each of two countries generated in excess of 10 percent of loan income.
Loan income from these two countries was $767 million and $632 million.
NOTE M-COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting equity that, under generally accepted accounting principles, are excluded from net income. For IBRD, comprehensive income comprises the cumulative effects of a change in accounting principle related to the implementation of FAS 133, currency translation adjustments, and net income. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
NOTE L-SEGMENT REPORTING
Based on an evaluation of IBRD’s operations, management has determined that IBRD has only one reportable segment since IBRD does not manage its operations by allocating resources based on a determination of the contribution to net income from individual borrowers. In addition, given the nature of IBRD, the risk and return profiles are sufficiently similar among borrowers that IBRD does not differentiate between the nature of the products or services provided, the preparation process, or the method for providing the services among individual countries.
NOTE N-EFFECTS OF APPLYING FAS 133
On July 1, 2000, IBRD adopted FAS 133. These standards require that derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Prior to the adoption of FAS 133, the derivative instruments in the borrowing portfolio were recorded using synthetic accounting. The derivative instruments in the investment portfolio were, and continue to be, recorded at fair value in accordance with the requirements of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.”
Upon adoption of FAS 133, IBRD’s net income was increased by $219 million, and an additional $500 million was reported in other comprehensive income. The allocation between net income and other comprehensive income was based upon the hedging relationships that existed under generally accepted accounting principles before the initial application of FAS 133.
The $500 million difference between the carrying value and the fair value of those derivatives that were
hedging a cash flow exposure prior to the initial application of FAS 133, was included in Other Comprehensive Income at the time FAS 133 was implemented. IBRD has not defined any qualifying hedging relationships under this standard. This amount is being reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings.
Any gains or losses on those borrowings for which a fair value exposure was being hedged prior to
adoption of FAS 133 were recorded in income at the time of implementation, and were offset by the mark-to-market adjustments on the related derivative instruments. The mark-to-market adjustments on the bonds are being amortized over the remaining lives of the related bonds.
The cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle of $219 million, includes the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the embedded derivatives.
The following table reflects the components of the effects of applying FAS 133 for the fiscal years ended June 30,
2003,	June 30, 2002, and June 30, 2001.
Valuation Methods and Assumptions Due from Banks
The carrying amount of unrestricted and restricted currencies is considered a reasonable estimate of the fair value of these positions.
Investments
IBRD’s investment securities and related financial instruments held in the trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. Fair value is based on market quotations. Instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information. (See Note A).
Net Loans Outstanding
All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD, except for those loans made to IFC. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does it believe there is a comparable market for its loans. The current value of loans outstanding incorporates management’s best estimate of the
probable expected cash flows of these instruments to IBRD.
The current value of all loans is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted using the market yield curves applicable to IBRD funding plus IBRD’s relevant basis point lending spread adjusted for waivers.
The current value of net loans outstanding also includes IBRD’s assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering its history of collections from borrowers. This is reflected in the accumulated provision for loan losses.
Swaps Receivable and Swaps Payable
Certain derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, are recorded in the balance sheet at estimated fair value. The fair value of swaps is based on market prices, where such prices are available. Where no quoted market price is available, the fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow method representing the
The management of the International Development Association (IDA) is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of its published special purpose financial statements and all other information presented in this annual report. The special purpose financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements and, as such, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements. The system of internal control contains monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified. Management believes that internal controls for external financial reporting, which are subject to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and are revised as considered necessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
The special purpose financial statements have been audited by an independent accounting firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of the Board of Executive Directors and committees of the board. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate. The independent auditors’ report is presented herein in the Annual Report.
The Board of Executive Directors of IDA has appointed an Audit Committee responsible for monitoring the accounting practices and internal controls of IDA. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of Executive Directors who are independent of IDA’s management. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of Executive Directors the selection of independent auditors. It meets periodically with management, the independent auditors, and the internal auditors to ensure that they are carrying out their responsibilities. The Audit Committee is responsible for performing an oversight role by reviewing and monitoring the financial, accounting and auditing procedures of IDA in addition to reviewing IDA’s reports. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or without the presence of management, to discuss the adequacy of internal control over external financial reporting and any other matters which they believe should be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal control can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time.
IDA assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2003. This assessment was based on the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon this assessment, management believes that IDA maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements.
President and Board of Governors International Development Association
We have examined management’s assertion, included in the accompanying Management’s Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Controls Over External Financial Reporting, that the International Development Association met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in accordance with the accounting principles described in Note A to the International Development Association’s special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2003, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO report). Management is responsible for maintaining effective control over external financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was made in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, testing, and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Because of inherent limitations in any internal control, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of internal control over external financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that internal control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management’s assertion that the International Development Association met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the International Development Association’s special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2003, is fairly stated in all material respects, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Governors, management and members of the International Development Association and should not be used for any other purpose.
President and Board of Governors International Development Association
We have audited the accompanying special purpose statements of sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30, 2003 and 2002, including the summary statement of development credits and statement of voting power, and subscriptions and contributions as of June 30, 2003, and the related special purpose statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2003. These special purpose financial statements are the responsibility of the International Development Association’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these special purpose financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the special purpose financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the special purpose financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall special purpose financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The accompanying special purpose financial statements were prepared to reflect the sources and applications of development resources, operations, and cash flows of the International Development Association to comply with Article VI, Section 1 'i(a) of the Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association, as discussed in Note A to the special purpose financial statements, and are not intended to be a presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or International Financial Reporting Standards.
In our opinion, such special purpose financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30, 2003 and 2002, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2003 in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the special purpose financial statements.
Our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic special purpose financial statements taken as a whole. The Supplementary Information on the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative listed in the table of contents is presented for the purpose of additional analysis. This additional information is the responsibility of IDA’s management. Such information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in our audits of the basic special purpose financial statements.
This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Governors, management, and members of the International Development Association. However, under the International Development Association’s Articles of Agreement, this report is a matter of public record and its distribution is not limited.
Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements
NOTE A-ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
Purpose and Affiliated Organizations
The International Development Association (IDA) is an international organization that was established on September 24, 1960. IDA’s main goal is reducing poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership, by extending concessionary financing in the form of grants, development credits and guarantees. IDA has three affiliated organizations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these other organizations is legally and financially independent from IDA, with separate assets and liabilities, and IDA is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliates are disclosed in the notes that follow. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. IFC's purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member's guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Due to the nature and organization of IDA, these financial statements have been prepared for the specific purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of member subscriptions and contributions and other development resources. These financial statements are not intended to be a presentation in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or with International Financial Reporting Standards. These special purpose financial statements have been prepared to comply with Article VI, Section 11(a) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA, and are prepared in accordance with the accounting policies outlined below. On July 31, 2003, the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
The preparation of these special purpose financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the computation of estimated fair values of development credits and allowances for the HIPC Debt Initiative.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform to the current year’s presentation.
Basis of Accounting
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. That is, the effects of transactions and other events are recognized when they occur (and not as cash or its equivalent is received or paid) and are recorded in the accounting records and reported in the financial statements of the periods to which they relate.
Translation of Currencies
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IDA’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IDA is an international organization which conducts its operations in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) and U.S. dollars. Applications of development resources and sources of development resources are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period, except Member Subscriptions and Contributions which are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates of income and expense recognition, or at an average of the exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of development credits and development grants denominated in SDRs are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Other translation adjustments are shown in the Statement of Income.
Member Subscriptions and Contributions Recognition
Member Subscriptions and Contributions committed for each IDA replenishment are recorded in full as Subscriptions and Contributions Committed upon effectiveness of the relevant replenishment.
A replenishment becomes effective when IDA receives Instruments of Commitments from members for subscriptions and contributions of a specified portion of the full replenishment. Amounts not yet paid in, at the date of effectiveness, are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable and shown as a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed. These receivables come due throughout the replenishment period (generally three years) in accordance with an agreed maturity schedule. The actual payment of receivables when they become due from certain members is conditional upon the respective member’s budgetary appropriation processes.
The Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable are settled through payment of cash or deposit of nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes. The notes are encashed by IDA as provided in the relevant replenishment resolution over the disbursement period of the credits committed under the replenishment.
In certain replenishments, donors have had the option of paying all of their subscription and contribution amounts in cash before they become due, and thereby receiving discounts. In addition, some replenishment arrangements have incorporated an accelerated encashment schedule. In these cases, IDA and the donor agree that IDA will invest the cash and retain the income. The related subscription and contribution is recorded at the full undiscounted amount. The discount is recorded as unamortized discounts on contributions (a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed) and amortized over the projected encashment period.
Under the provisions governing replenishments, IDA must encash the notes or similar obligations of contributing members on an approximately pro rata basis. As discussed in the previous paragraph, donors sometimes contribute resources on an advanced or an accelerated basis. IDA holds these resources until they become available for disbursement on a pro rata basis.
Transfers to IDA from IBRD are recorded under Sources of Development Resources and are receivable upon approval by IBRD’s Board of Governors.
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which make payments of subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations and (2) Part II members, which make payments of ten percent of
their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies, and the remaining 90 percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II members provide a portion of their subscriptions and contributions in the same manner as mentioned in (1) above. IDA’s Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA and located outside the territory of the member except by agreement between the member and IDA. The cash paid and notes deposited in nonconvertible local currencies for the subscriptions of Part II members are recorded either as currencies subject to restriction under Due from Banks, or as restricted notes included under Nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligations on account of member subscriptions and contributions. Restricted notes at June 30, 2003 were $35 million ($33 million—June 30, 2002).
Valuation
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed in terms of “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” (1960 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IDA decided, with effect from that date and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” in Article II, Section 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being equal to $1.20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and have also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors.
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market value of the SDR.
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the Fourth Replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members’ currencies or SDRs and are payable in members’ currencies. Beginning July 1,
1986,	subscriptions and contributions made available for disbursement in cash to IDA are translated at market exchange rates in effect on the dates they were made available. Prior to that date, subscriptions and contributions which had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market exchange rates in effect on dates of disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period.
Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA’s Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member’s currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the member’s territories, so long as, and to the extent that, such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the Third Replenishment, but are not applicable to those of the Fourth and subsequent replenishments.
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987 that settlements of maintenance of value, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements. These amounts are shown as Deferred Amounts Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings.
Development Credits
All development credits are made to or guaranteed by member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for development credits which have been made to regional development institutions for the benefit of members or territories of members of IDA). In order to qualify for lending on IDA terms, a country’s per capita income must be below a certain level and the country may have only limited or no creditworthiness for IBRD lending. Development credits carry a service charge of 0.75 percent and generally have 35- or 40-year final maturities and a 10-year grace period for principal payments. Development credits are carried in the
Special Purpose Financial Statements at the full face amount of the borrowers’ outstanding obligations.
It is the practice of IDA to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such development credit are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA’s management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if loans by IBRD to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IDA. On the date a member’s development credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued on development credits outstanding to the member which remained unpaid are deducted from the income from development credits of the current period. Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s credits may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new credits may have been restored. A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis.
In fulfilling its mission, IDA makes concessional loans to the poorest countries. Therefore, there is significant credit risk in the portfolio of development credits. Management continually monitors this credit risk. No provision for credit losses, other than allowances for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, has been established. Should losses occur, they would be included in the Statement of Income.
The repayment obligations of IDA’s development credits funded from resources through the Fifth Replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars. In June
1987,	the Executive Directors decided to value those development credits at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis. Development credits funded from resources provided under the Sixth Replenishment and thereafter are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed.
Development Grants
The Twelfth Replenishment Resolution authorized the use of Twelfth Replenishment donor funds to finance grants in the context of the HIPC Debt Initiative, or
grant assistance to post-conflict countries under a framework approved by the Executive Directors on July 31, 2001.
IDA is authorized to provide a significant portion of financing under the Thirteenth Replenishment as development grants. The annual net income transfers from IBRD for fiscal years 1997 through 2002 also authorized the use of such funds for IDA development grants.
Development grants are charged to income when the development grant agreement is signed by the recipient.
Guarantees
IDA provides guarantees for loans or securities issued in support of projects located within a member country that are undertaken by private entities. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IDA to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IDA would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed are not made by the borrower and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IDA in accordance with the terms of the guarantee.
In the event that a guarantee is called, IDA has the contractual right to require payment from the member country in whose territory the project is located, on demand, or as IDA may otherwise direct.
For guarantees issued prior to January 1, 2003, the fee income received was deferred and amortized over the period of benefit. The unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee income is included in Other Resources, net on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. For guarantees issued or modified after December 31,
2002,	in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others”, IDA will record the fair value of the obligation to stand ready in the financial statements. IDA has not issued or modified any guarantees after December 31, 2002.
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
The HIPC Debt Initiative was launched in 1996 as a joint effort by bilateral and multilateral creditors to ensure that reform efforts of HIPCs would not be put
at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. As a part of this process, the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund was established on November 7, 1996. It is administered by IDA and constituted by funds of donors including the IBRD, to help beneficiaries reduce their overall debt, including IDA debt.
Under the Original Framework of the Initiative, eligible countries received relief on IBRD and IDA debt through three mechanisms: (i) partial financing of lending operations with development grants; (ii) purchase and cancellation of IDA credits by the IBRD/ IDA component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund subject to availability of funds; and (iii) the provision of debt service on selected IDA credits, in certain cases, by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund.
Under the Enhanced Framework of the Initiative, which was approved by IDA’s Executive Directors on January 27, 2000, implementation mechanisms also include: (i) partial forgiveness of IDA debt service as it comes due, to be reimbursed to IDA by the IBRD/IDA component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund; and (ii) in the case of countries with a substantial amount of outstanding IBRD debt, partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt.
Upon approval of debt relief for a country under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative by the Executive Directors of IDA, the principal component of the estimated debt relief costs is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding development credits under the Allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative, and as a charge to income. This estimate is subject to periodic revision. The Allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative is reduced when debt relief is provided by IDA.
Upon signature by IDA of the country specific legal notification, immediately following the decision by the Executive Directors of IDA to provide debt relief to the country (the decision point), a receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created (to the extent that funds are available) and income is recognized. The receivable is limited to the nominal value equivalent of one-third of the net present value of the principal component of the total debt relief committed to the specific country. The receivable is also the maximum debt relief that can be provided before the country reaches its completion point as defined by IDA’s Executive Directors, and the country’s other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative to the satisfaction of IDA.
An additional receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created and income is recognized when the country reaches its completion
point and the country’s other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative to the satisfaction of IDA. This additional receivable represents the remaining principal component of the total debt relief committed that was not recognized at the decision point.
Cash and Liquid Investments IDA considers unrestricted cash as well as securities held in the investment portfolio, as an element of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows, since they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash within ninety days.
IDA carries its investment securities and related financial instruments at fair value, using trade date accounting. The first-in-first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in Income from investments.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements
Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IDA receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, requires additional collateral.
Accounting and reporting developments In January 2003, FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities”. This interpretation did not have a material impact on IDA’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003. There were no significant changes in the relevant International Financial Reporting Standards that would have an impact on IDA’s financial statements.
NOTE B4NVESTMENTS
As part of its portfolio management strategy, IDA invests in the following financial instruments.
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed separately. IDA may only invest in asset-backed securities with a AAA credit rating.
Currency Swaps: Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal. IDA is authorized to enter into currency swaps including covered forwards.
Futures: Futures are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument, at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on regulated United States and international exchanges. IDA generally closes out most open positions in futures contracts prior to maturity. Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures contracts. Futures contracts generally entail daily settlement of the variation margin.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments. Obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries require a minimum credit rating of AA if denominated in a currency other than the home currency of the issuer, otherwise no rating is required. Obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity require a minimum credit rating of AA.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option. IDA invests only in exchange-traded options. The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans: Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller’s portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered. As of June 30, 2003, IDA had $716 million ($120 million—June 30,
2002)	of short sales included in Net payable on	Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of
investment securities transactions in the Statement of	deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations
Sources and Applications of Development Resources.	issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and
other financial institutions.
A summary of IDA’s investments, by instrument, at June 30, 2003 and June 30, 2002 is as follows:
The average repricing in the above currency composition tables represents the remaining period to the contractual repricing or maturity date, whichever is earlier. It indicates the average length of time for which interest rates are fixed.
For the purpose of risk management, IDA is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk in excess of the amount reflected in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. IDA limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit limits have been established for each counterparty by type of instrument and maturity category.
In addition, IDA has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable closeout netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. Credit risk with financial assets subject to a master derivatives agreement is further reduced under these agreements to the extent that payments and receipts with the counterparty are netted at settlement. The reduction in exposure as a result of these netting provisions can vary as additional transactions are entered into under these agreements. The extent of the reduction in exposure may therefore change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
The credit risk exposure and contract value, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30,
2003	and June 30, 2002 (prior to taking into account any master derivatives agreements or collateral arrangements that have been made) are given below:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
under resale agreements. Of these instruments held by IDA, $179 million ($102 million—June 30, 2002) has been transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements. None of these securities have been included in the assets of IDA.
At June 30, 2003, IDA maintained a line of credit facility with an independent financial institution. This facility was created for the benefit of both IBRD and IDA. The available line of credit to each institution is $500 million, but usage from both institutions cannot exceed this amount in aggregate. The line of credit facility is being used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. As of June 30,
2003,	IDA had drawn down $1 million under this facility. At June 30, 2002, IDA maintained a $100 million line of credit facility. No amounts had been drawn down under this facility as of June 30, 2002.
NOTE C-MEMBER SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable: At June 30, 2003, receivables from subscriptions and contributions were $5,887 million ($122 million— June 30, 2002) of which $77 million ($79 million— June 30, 2002) was due and $5,810 million ($43 million—June 30, 2002) was not yet due.
Subscriptions and contributions due at June 30, 2003 were as follows:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
*
Thirteenth Replenishment: On September 29, 2002, IDA’s Board of Governors adopted a resolution authorizing the Thirteenth Replenishment of IDA’s resources. Under the Thirteenth Replenishment, IDA is authorized to provide concessional financing of about SDR 18 billion ($24 billion equivalent at authorization), including a significant portion as grants, during the period July 1, 2002 to June 30, 2005. Of this amount, new donor contributions are expected to total about SDR 10 billion ($13 billion equivalent at authorization). The Thirteenth Replenishment became effective on April 8, 2003 after IDA had received commitments for subscriptions and contributions of SDR 5,984 million.
Membership: Timor-Leste (formerly East Timor) and Singapore became Part II members of IDA on July 23,
2002	and September 27, 2002 respectively. On July 15, 2002, the membership status for Greece changed from Part II to Part I.
NOTE D-TRANSFERS AND RECEIVABLES FROM IBRD
IBRD’s Board of Governors has approved aggregate transfers to IDA totaling $7,357 million through June 30, 2003 ($7,057 million—June 30, 2002). The aggregate transfers of $7,392 million reported in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources differs from the amount of aggregate transfers approved due to exchange rate movements.
Of the aggregate transfers, $300 million was approved by the IBRD Board of Governors in September 2002. This approved transfer was paid on September 30,
2002.
At June 30, 2003, $1,293 million was receivable from IBRD ($1,243 million—June 30, 2002). Of this amount, $368 million will be paid after all other resources available to IDA for the purpose of the Eleventh Replenishment have been drawn down. The remaining $925 million of the receivable amount will be paid in fiscal year 2005 at the end of the defined encashment schedule for donor contributions to IDA’s Twelfth Replenishment
NOTE E-DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
Currency Composition
The currency composition of IDA's development credits outstanding at June 30, 2003 and June 30, 2002 is as follows:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
Overdue Amounts
At June 30, 2003, in addition to the development credits referred to in the following table, there were principal and charges of less than $1 million payable to IDA, which were overdue by more than three months.
The following table provides a summary of selected financial information related to development credits in nonaccrual status as of June 30:
In July 2002, the Syrian Arab Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo cleared all of their overdue payments to IDA and IBRD. Subsequently, all development credits to, or guaranteed by, these two countries were restored to accrual status. Income from development credits for the fiscal year ended June 30,
2003	increased by $85 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these credits not been in nonaccrual status.
The arrears clearance of the overdue payments to IDA and IBRD for the Democratic Republic of Congo was accomplished using bridge financing provided by an international financial institution, and supported by certain member countries. On the same day, IDA disbursed a development credit to the Democratic Republic of Congo in support of an economic and poverty reduction program. A part of the proceeds of this development credit was used to repay the bridge financing. The development credit was funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD.
In February 2003, the Solomon Islands and Afghanistan cleared all of their overdue service payments to IDA, and all development credits to, or guaranteed by, these two countries were restored to accrual status. Income from development credits for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 increased by $6 million, representing income that would have been
recognized in previous fiscal years had these credits not been in nonaccrual status. The arrears clearance for Afghanistan was accomplished using donor funds provided through the Afghanistan Debt Clearance Trust Fund.
As of June 30, 2002, all IDA credits and IBRD loans outstanding to Bosnia and Herzegovina were restored to accrual status following management’s determination that a suitable period of payment performance had passed subsequent to the time of arrears clearance. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, income from development credits increased by $1 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these development credits not been in nonaccrual status.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, Cote d’Ivoire and the Republic of Congo cleared all of their overdue service payments to IDA and IBRD, and all IDA development credits to, or guaranteed by, these two countries were restored to accrual status. These arrears clearances were accomplished using bridge financing provided by an international financial institution. On the same day that arrears were cleared, IDA extended development credits to the respective country in support of economic reform and poverty reduction programs. Some or all of the proceeds of these development credits were used to repay the
bridge financing. The development credits were funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD. As a result of these events, income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002 increased by $8 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these development credits not been in nonaccrual status.
Allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative
Development credits outstanding are presented in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources before any allowance in connection with the HIPC Debt Initiative (see Note I).
The allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative is the sum of the principal component of debt relief remaining to be provided to those countries that have reached their decision points, and in certain cases their completion points, and the estimated principal component of debt relief that is expected to be provided to other eligible countries.
Changes to the allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2003 and June 30, 2002 are summarized below:
Fifth Dimension Program
Under the Fifth Dimension program established in September 1988, a portion of principal repayments to IDA is allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA development credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988 and have in place an IDA-supported structural adjustment program. Such supplementary IDA development credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions in proportion to each country’s interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for such IDA supplemental credits, a member country must meet IDA’s eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRD lending and must
not have had an IBRD loan approved within the last twelve months. To receive a supplemental development credit from the program, a member country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA.
A summary of cumulative IDA credits committed and disbursed under this program from inception, at June 30, 2003 and June 30, 2002 is given below:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
2003	2002
Guarantees
Guarantees of $119 million at June 30, 2003 ($86 million - June 30, 2002) were not included in IDA’s Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. These outstanding amounts represent the maximum potential undiscounted future payments that IDA could be required to make under these guarantees.
The three existing guarantees issued by IDA expire in 2011, 2015 and 2019.
Segment Reporting
Based on an evaluation of its operations, management has determined that IDA has only one reportable segment since IDA does not manage its operations by allocating its resources based on the contribution to net income from individual borrowers. In addition, the risk and return profiles are sufficiently similar among its borrowers so that IDA does not differentiate in terms of the nature of products or services provided, the preparation process, or the method of providing services to its borrowers.
For the year ended June 30, 2003, development credits to two countries generated in excess of ten percent of total income from these credits. Income from development credits for these two countries was $157 million and $96 million, respectively.
NOTE F-FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Investments: IDA carries its investments at the fair value of the portfolio. These fair values are based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted
market prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments. The fair value of short-term financial instruments approximates their carrying value.
Development Credits: IDA’s development credits have a significant grant element because of the concessional nature of IDA's terms. Discounting the future cash flows from IDA's development credits using government reference rates represented by interest rates of government securities having similar maturity to the portfolio of development credits, provides an estimate for the grant element. Under the HIPC Debt Initiative, development credits identified for sale to the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund are written down to their estimated net present value using currency specific Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRRs) published monthly by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Using the six months average CIRR as a discount rate provides an alternative estimate for the grant element.
Since IDA’s development credits are denominated either in U.S. dollars or SDRs, currency specific rates have been used to discount the corresponding future cash flows for each currency component of the development credits before being aggregated to provide the composite results.
The grant element calculations consider interest rates, maturity structures and grace periods for the credits. They do not consider credit risk, portfolio seasoning, multilateral and sovereign credit preferences and other risks or indicators that would be relevant in calculating fair value. Estimating the impact of these factors is not practicable.
However, under either alternative, the estimated fair values of development credits outstanding are substantially lower than the $106,877 million reflected on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources at June 30, 2003 ($96,372 million—June 30, 2002), as shown in the following table.
Discounting the future cash flows from IDA’s development credits using the standard 10 percent discount rate of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD, provides another alternative for the grant element. The estimated grant element based on this standard DAC rate for IDA’s development credits is 66 percent as of June 30, 2003 (66 percent—June 30, 2002).
NOTE G-ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
The following table shows IDA’s allocated share of the administrative expenses shared jointly by IBRD and IDA as well as IDA’s share of income from pension and post retirement benefit plans:
The allocation of expenses is based upon an agreed cost sharing formula that reflects the administrative costs of service delivery to countries that are eligible for lending from IBRD and IDA.
NOTE H-TRUST FUNDS ADMINISTRATION
IDA, alone or jointly with IBRD, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses which include the cofinancing of IDA lending
projects, debt reduction operations for IDA members, technical assistance for borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs and research and training programs. These funds are placed in trust with IDA and/or IBRD, and are held in a separate investment portfolio which is not comingled with IDA and/or IBRD funds, nor are they included in the development resources of IDA.
At June 30, 2003 and June 30, 2002, the allocation of trust fund assets by executing agent were as follows:
The responsibilities of IDA under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services. IDA receives fees for administering trust funds as a reduction of the administrative expenses charged by IBRD. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, IDA received $17 million ($10 million— June 30, 2002, $11 million—June 30, 2001) as fees for administering trust funds.
NOTE I4MPACT FROM HEAVILY INDEBTED POOR COUNTRIES DEBT INITIATIVE
Debt Service Relief
As of June 30, 2003, total debt service relief of $711 million has been provided by IDA consisting of $576 million in principal repayments and $135 million in service charges. These amounts have been reimbursed by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund.
HIPC Grants
As of June 30, 2003, HIPC grants of $101 million have been disbursed. The HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund has reimbursed $19 million of the disbursed grants.
Receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund
A summary of changes to the receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is presented below:
A summary of the debt relief provided under the HIPC Debt Initiative is included in the Supplementary Information appended to these financial statements.
NOTE J-DEVELOPMENT GRANTS
A summary of changes to the amounts payable for development grants is presented below:
At June 30, 2003, $252 million ($nil million - June 30,
2002)	of development grants had been approved by IDA's Executive Directors but had not been charged to expense pending the signing of agreements with recipients.
NOTE K-COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting sources of development resources that, under generally accepted accounting principles, are excluded from net income. For IDA, comprehensive income comprises income or loss after HIPC Debt Initiative and currency translation adjustments on development credits and development grants. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The total accumulated other comprehensive income represents the cumulative translation adjustment on development credits and development grants. The following table presents the changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income balances for the years ended June 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
Supplementary Information on the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
The summary table below shows debt relief for countries that have reached their decision or completion points as of June 30, 2003, and estimated amounts to be provided to other eligible countries (with the exception of those countries for which cost estimates are not currently available), under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative. In addition to the total debt relief of $13,212 million, IDA is expected to extend new credits estimated at $232 million to certain IDA-eligible countries no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but with outstanding IBRD debt. These credits will be funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD.
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
The debt relief shown under the HIPC Trust Fund in the table below relates only to the IBRD/IDA component, and includes amounts approved up to June 30, 2003 by the Executive Directors of IDA.
As of June 30, 2003, the 26 countries that have reached their decision or completion points are Benin, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia.
Note to Appendixes 3-7
Disbursements and Procurement
The procurement rules and procedures to be followed in the execution of each project depend on individual circumstances. Four considerations generally guide the Bank’s requirements:
■	economy and efficiency in the execution of a project;
■	opportunity for all eligible bidders from borrowing and nonborrowing member countries to compete in providing goods, works, and services financed by the Bank;
■	development of local contractors, manufacturers, and consulting services in borrowing countries; and
■	transparency in the procurement process.
Appendix 3A shows consolidated foreign and local disbursements for the IBRD and IDA through the end of fiscal 1998 and for period fiscal 1999 through fiscal 2003. Advance disbursements consist of payments made into special accounts of borrowers, from which funds are paid to specific suppliers as expenditures are incurred. Because balances in these accounts cannot be attributed to any specific supplying country until expenditures have been reported to the Bank, these are shown as a separate category.
Appendix 3B provides details on foreign disbursements by countries eligible to borrow from the World Bank and nonborrowing countries1 for the IBRD and IDA separately.
Appendix 3C shows disbursements made in fiscal
2003	by the IBRD and IDA for local procurement by current borrowing countries and disbursements made for goods, works, and services procured from them by other Bank borrowers (foreign procurement) for projects funded by the Bank.
Appendix 4 shows the amounts disbursed from the IBRD and IDA separately for foreign procurement of goods, works, and services from selected member
countries in fiscal 2003 and cumulatively through fiscal 2003.
Appendix 5 shows the proportion of foreign disbursements from the IBRD and IDA for specific categories of goods and services provided by selected member countries in fiscal 2003.
Appendix 6 provides a summary listing of the amounts paid to eligible World Bank borrowing country suppliers and nonborrowing country suppliers in each fiscal year from 2001 to 2003 under investment projects. Amounts disbursed are compared with respect to significant categories of goods procured from foreign suppliers. The extent to which eligible borrowing countries and nonborrowing countries participated in supplying these major categories of goods in each of the past three fiscal years is also compared.
Under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans approved by the executive directors in fiscal 1996, disbursements are no longer directly linked to procurement under adjustment loans disbursed using simplified procedures. Thus, while appendixes 3B to 6 report on disbursements from the IBRD and IDA, they do not include disbursements under adjustment loans disbursed using simplified procedures. The information in Appendix 7 reflects simplified adjustment loan disbursements to each borrower as pro-rata shares of that borrower’s eligible imports from supplying countries using import data drawn from United Nations trade statistics.
In all these tables and appendixes, IBRD figures exclude disbursements for loans to the IFC and “B” loans. IDA figures include Special Facility for SubSaharan Africa and Interim Trust Fund credits. Disbursements for Project Preparation Facility advances are excluded for both the IBRD and IDA.
1. Appendix 2 lists countries eligible for borrowing from the World Bank.
Appendix 13: Development Committee Communiques, Fiscal 2003
1.	We met today to discuss implementation of the strategies and decisions agreed in Monterrey and Johannesburg and achieving debt sustainability for heavily indebted poor countries.
2.	At our meeting last April, we welcomed the very important progress achieved in Monterrey laying out a new partnership between developed and developing countries, based on mutual responsibility and accountability, to achieve measurable improvements in sustainable growth and poverty reduction. We welcomed the announcements by a number of donors of significant increases in their ODA. Earlier this month, the WSSD concluded in Johannesburg with a number of decisions that provide additional direction to our task of eradicating poverty and achieving sustainable development. A series of important commitments were made in the areas of water and sanitation, energy, health, agriculture, biodiversity and ecosystem management, accompanied by the launch of implementation initiatives. Today we committed ourselves with a new vigor and determination to implement the agreed strategies and partnerships and to use our future meetings regularly to review progress through clear and measurable indicators. Building on the outcomes of Monterrey and Johannesburg, we also intend to have further discussions on global public goods.
3.	The global community must now convert the ideas and the shared approaches agreed in Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg into concrete action and measure ongoing progress. Experience has repeatedly shown that progress will only be made through implementation of sound and sustainable country-driven strategies. To make existing and new aid commitments more effective, these strategies must also be supported by better coordination and cooperation amongst development partners and by effective alignment of donor support with country strategies. We underline our commitment to work together and with civil society and the private sector, under the leadership of the government concerned, in a coherent way to achieve concrete results.
4.	We reaffirmed the crucial importance of trade as
a source of growth and poverty reduction. We recognized that it is essential for developed countries to do more to open their markets and eliminate trade-distorting subsidies for products that represent major potential exports for developing countries, such as agriculture, textiles and clothing. At the same time, we recognized the importance of continued efforts towards trade liberalization in developing countries as part of an overall development strategy, in conjunction with the necessary policies and capacities that facilitate an appropriate supply response and minimize the adjustment burdens on the poor. We
therefore welcomed the increased attention to trade issues in the work of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund in support of a successful Doha Development Agenda. We urged intensified efforts to mainstream trade in the development dialogue with the Bank's members, with an enhanced operational focus on building both institutional and physical capacity to help developing countries take advantage of new trade opportunities.
5.	Last April, we endorsed a World Bank plan to help make primary education a reality for all children by 2015 and gender equality in primary and secondary education by 2005. Today we reviewed implementation of the Fast Track Initiative and requested a progress report on results achieved for our next meeting. In addition, we considered the challenges of scaling up activities in two additional areas— HIV/AIDS/Communicable Diseases and water and sanitation. We urged the World Bank to pursue its work in these areas.
6.	We endorsed the overall approach set out for discussion today for making results central to the management of development programs in both developing countries and in development agencies. We urged the Bank to expedite implementation of the action plan for increasing its results orientation and to intensify its work with multilateral and bilateral partners to share information on planned and ongoing country development activities, including diagnostic work and operational support, as a basis for enhanced alignment of donor support for national development strategies. We also urged increased use of joint evaluations of donor programs, especially for country and sector program support, to complement assessments of individual agencies' performance, including as development partners. We highlighted the need for increased and coordinated donor support for capacity building, including for results-oriented monitoring and evaluation and statistics. We asked the Bank to report on these efforts at our next meeting.
7.	We recognized the need for intensified efforts to harmonize operational policies and procedures of bilateral and multilateral agencies at the institutional and country levels so as to enhance aid effectiveness and efficiency and promote greater ownership by developing countries. We committed to further action in streamlining such policies, procedures and requirements over the period leading to the high-level forum scheduled in Rome in February 2003 and beyond.
8.	Recognizing the special challenges faced by Africa in meeting the millennium development goals, we urge the Bank and the IMF to scale up assistance
to these countries and to build on the NEPAD
initiative as a unique opportunity to make significant and quick progress building on African leadership.
9.	Our discussions have reinforced our conviction that major progress on achieving the Millennium Development Goals is possible. What is needed now is determined implementation of agreed strategies and partnerships on the part of both developed and developing countries, as well as multilateral agencies and the setting out of a clear framework identifying responsibilities and accountabilities by which progress can be regularly measured. The Development Committee intends to contribute to moving this implementation agenda forward through regular monitoring and review of the policies, actions and outcomes needed to achieve these goals. We request the Bank and the Fund to present proposals at our next meeting for taking this forward, whilst recognizing the role of the United Nations in monitoring the MDGs.
10.	The Monterrey Summit also stressed the importance of greater coherence, coordination and cooperation among multilateral organizations and the need to broaden and strengthen participation of developing countries and countries with economies in transition in international decision-making and norm-setting. The Summit encouraged the World Bank and the IMF to find pragmatic and innovative ways to further enhance participation of these countries and thereby to strengthen the international dialogue and work of these institutions. We requested the Bank and the Fund to prepare a background document to facilitate consideration of these important issues at our next meeting.
11.	We welcomed the continued progress made on the HIPC initiative and reconfirmed our commitment to its implementation and full financing. We fully support the objective of helping our poorest, most heavily indebted members achieve an enduring exit from unsustainable debt but we recognize that considerable challenges remain. Success will require: a sustained commitment by HIPC countries to improvements in domestic policies and economic management; capacity building for the management of financial assets and liabilities; full participation and delivery of relief by all affected creditors; and adequate and sufficiently concessional financing by international financial institutions and the donor community. We call upon all official and commercial creditors that have not yet done so to fully participate in the HIPC Initiative. We have asked the Bank and the Fund to undertake an early review of the difficult issues of HIPC-to-HIPC debt relief and creditor litigation. We stressed the urgency of meeting the financing shortfall of the HIPC Trust Fund which could be up to $1 billion. We welcome the recent announcements of support and call upon other donor countries to make firm pledges and
contributions as early as possible. At the same time, we reaffirm our commitment to ensuring that the cost of debt relief to IDA is not permitted to compromise IDA's resources, and we note the arrangements in place to accomplish this objective.
12.	We reviewed further experience with PRSPs which confirmed the broad findings of the joint Bank/Fund review earlier this year. The Committee is encouraged by the increased momentum in countries' efforts to develop and implement their PRSPs. We call on the Fund and Bank together with all donors to align their support with country PRSPs and to collaborate with each other to: strengthen their analysis of the sources of growth; streamline conditionality; help countries improve their public expenditure management systems; facilitate an environment conducive to private sector development; and intensify efforts to help countries undertake poverty and social impact analyses on a more systematic basis.
13.	Finally we reviewed the role being played by the Bank and Fund, in collaboration with other international institutions, in combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT). We endorse the conditional addition of the FATF 40+8 Recommendations to the list of international standards and codes useful to the operational work of the Bank and the Fund, and the conditional beginning of the 12 month pilot program of comprehensive AML/CFT assessments and accompanying ROSCs, in accordance with the voluntary, cooperative and uniform approach. We encourage the Bank and the Fund to continue to integrate these issues into their diagnostic and surveillance work in line with their respective mandates and to enhance their technical and capacity-building efforts.
14.	We express our deep condolences to the family of the late Mr. Bernard Chidzero, former Minister of Finance of Zimbabwe. Minister Chidzero served with great skill and distinction as Chairman of the Development Committee from 1986 to 1990.
15.	The next meeting of the Development Committee will be held in Washington, D.C. on April 13,
2003.
Washington D.C., April 13, 2003
Development Committee Communique
1.	We met today to review progress in the work of implementing the strategies, partnerships and actions agreed in Monterrey and Johannesburg to achieve the Millennium Development Goals1 and to consider
1. From the U.N. Millennium Declaration, endorsed by Heads of State and Government in the U.N. General Assembly on September 8, 2000.
(continued next page)
ways to enhance the voice and participation of developing and transition countries in our institutions.
2.	Since our meeting last fall, the global environment has become more uncertain. Slower economic growth, the war in Iraq, and failure to make more substantive progress on the Doha Development Agenda add to the challenge of implementing the global development agenda. We therefore strongly reaffirmed our commitment to the global effort needed to reduce poverty in developing and transition countries and achieve the MDGs.
3.	To accelerate progress toward these and related goals, we emphasized the need for policies by both developed and developing countries in partnership to generate stronger economic growth complemented by actions to enhance the capabilities of poor people to participate in growth and access key social services. For developing countries, three interrelated areas in particular require strengthened efforts: improving the environment for investment and private sector activity, including macroeconomic stability and supporting infrastructure; strengthening governance, including public financial management, and capacity in the private and public sector; and increasing human capital through broader and more effective delivery of basic and social services to the poor. Such stronger reform efforts by developing countries would lay the foundations for enhanced growth and private financing. As agreed
at Monterrey, these efforts need to be matched with stronger support from developed countries, in particular through increased market access for developing country exports, debt relief, and increases in the volume, predictability and effectiveness of aid. Proposals to achieve this, including facilities, are being considered and we look forward to progress in the coming months. We are pleased that on April 8, IDA's Thirteenth Replenishment became effective. We also reaffirmed our commitment to increased assistance to the sub-Saharan African and other countries that face special challenges in meeting the MDGs.
4.	On improving aid quality, including its delivery and management aspects, we called for swift progress in implementing the results agenda and the agreements in the Rome Declaration on Harmonization. We underlined the central importance of anchoring strengthened efforts in country-owned strategies, as set out for low-income countries in PRSPs, linked to national budget processes and providing the country context within which donors and international agencies can align support.
5.	We welcomed the progress on developing a global monitoring framework to allow the Committee to regularly assess progress and to reinforce accountabilities among developing and developed countries,
as well as institutional partners, for the policies and actions for achieving the MDGs and related outcomes. We urged the Bank and the Fund to continue to work closely with partner agencies—UN, Regional Development Banks, OECD/DAC and WTO—using institutional mandates to guide the division of responsibilities for monitoring work. We called upon both multilateral agencies and bilateral donors to take the necessary steps to refine and harmonize their instruments of analysis and measurement. In this context, we urged the Bank, working in a participatory manner, to continue to improve the Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA) methodology and the transparency of its application. The urgency of the work on statistical capacity building, especially for those countries most at risk of not meeting the MDGs, was underlined. We looked forward to the next global monitoring report.
6.	Continuing progress on the Fast Track Initiative on Education For All was welcomed although we recognized that more needs to be done to follow up on the commitment to adequately fund the initial seven countries and to provide the required support to other countries that meet the eligibility criteria. Furthermore, extra efforts are needed to achieve the 2005 MDG on gender parity in access to primary and secondary education. We asked, before our next meeting, to be informed on progress. We reviewed progress on water and sanitation and underlined the important contribution that these make to the other development goals. We welcomed the Bank's recent strategy to enhance support to the water sector and look forward to its implementation. We noted the recent report of the Panel on Financing Water Infrastructure, and asked the Bank to consider, before our next meeting, how it can implement relevant recommendations of the Panel report. We also considered progress in health and HIV/AIDS and encouraged the Bank to strengthen further its cooperation with other partners and to intensify its efforts at the country level. While each service sector will have to find its own approach to accelerating progress, we underlined the importance of anchoring the efforts to achieve MDG goals in country-owned strategies such as in PRSPs for low-income countries. We stressed that sound policies and efforts by developing countries should be supported by adequate and appropriate financing and we asked the Bank to report on progress in this regard at our next meeting.
7.	We emphasized the critical role of investment in infrastructure for economic growth, and its linkages with the provision of social services and the attainment of the MDGs. We welcomed the Bank's renewed commitment to increase its support to such investment and asked the Bank to report on its further efforts at our next meeting.
8.	Trade remains of crucial importance to growth and poverty reduction. At a time of global uncertainty, it
is even more important to demonstrate that multilateral cooperation can succeed in meeting the ambitious targets set for the Doha Development Agenda. We urge countries to come to an agreement quickly in those areas where Doha deadlines have already been missed. It is essential for developed countries to do more to liberalize their markets and eliminate trade-distorting subsidies, including in the areas of agriculture, textiles and clothing, which are of particular importance for developing countries. At the same time, we emphasize the importance of trade facilitation and liberalization efforts in developing countries. These efforts must be integrated into an overall development strategy, in conjunction with the necessary policies, infrastructure and institutional capacities that strengthen their ability to participate in international trade. We call on the Bank and the Fund to continue to step up their efforts to support trade. We urge that future Country Assistance Strategies include trade-enhancing lending operations and capacity building for member countries where such trade-related support is a clear country priority.
9.	Enhancing the voice and effective participation of developing and transition countries in the work and decision-making of the Bretton Woods Institutions can contribute importantly to strengthening the international dialogue and the effectiveness of these institutions. We welcomed the recent capacity-enhancing decisions by the Executive Boards of the Bank and the Fund and we urge them to consider additional steps that might be taken. These decisions will help to ensure that a more effective capacity exists to articulate the views and concerns of all members. We encourage potential donors to actively pursue the idea of creating a financing mechanism that could support independent research and advice in key policy areas. Broader and more far-reaching ideas have also been advanced to help achieve enhanced participation in the institutions. We note that a status report by the Fund Executive Board to the IMFC on the adequacy of IMF resources, the distribution of quotas and the strengthening of Fund governance is to be prepared for its next meeting. We requested the Boards of the Bank and Fund to consider and elaborate upon options with a potential for broad support, taking account of shareholder and institutional implications. On this basis, we will pursue our discussions of these matters and requested a progress report for our next meeting.
10.	We welcomed the progress made on the HIPC initiative and reconfirmed our commitment to its implementation and full financing. We recalled that achievement of long-term debt sustainability will require actions on the part of HIPC countries as well as development partners to complement debt relief under the enhanced HIPC initiative. We also recalled that within existing guidelines, additional relief can be provided at the completion point, on a case-by-case basis. We welcomed the donor community pledges to close the financing gap in the HIPC Trust Fund and urged donors to translate these into concrete contributions in the coming months. We welcomed the recent paper by the Bank and the Fund that reviewed the difficult issues of creditor participation, including HIPC-to-HIPC debt relief and creditor litigation and welcomed the decision by the Bank to explore options to assist with HIPC-to-HIPC debt. We once again reiterated the request that all official bilateral and commercial creditors that have not yet done so participate in the HIPC initiative. We look forward to reviewing implementation, including any difficulties encountered in reaching decision and completion points, at our next meeting.
11.	We noted that the present situation in Iraq poses significant challenges, with an urgent need to restore security, relieve human suffering and promote economic growth and poverty reduction. We support a further UN Security Council resolution. We further note that engagement by the international community including the Bretton Woods institutions would be essential for sustained economic, social, and political development in Iraq, recognizing that the Iraqi people have the responsibility to implement the right policies and build their own future. The World Bank and the IMF stand ready to play their normal role in Iraq's re-development at the appropriate time. They will also monitor closely the impact of the conflict on all their members and stand ready to help and support those adversely affected. It is important to address the debt issue, and we look forward to early engagement of the Paris Club.
12.	The next meeting of the Development Committee will be held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, on September 22, 2003.