MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD BANK AND CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
This Annual Report records the achievements
of the World Bank during the last year of the tenure of my distinguished predecessor, Jim Wolfensohn. It is an enormous responsibility to be entrusted with the leadership of this extraordinary institution, and I am grateful to Jim for having done so much to strengthen it over the past decade.
While Jim had many accomplishments in the job, probably none is more important than his relentless focus on poverty reduction as a moral issue and as the central mission of the organization.
Within this report of the World Bank's activities and financial standing, you will find sections on
•	Addressing Worldwide Poverty—A description of how the World Bank works to promote sustainable economic growth and channel needed services to poor people. This chapter also details the Bank's work toward achieving the Millennium Development Goals; its institutional and global efforts toward effective development; and its outreach to clients through Public Information Centers and on the Web.
•	Regional Perspectives—A breakdown of the World Bank's lending and activities across the developing world, featuring highlights of projects in borrowing countries within each of the Bank's six regions.
•	Summary of Fiscal Year Activities—A description of the Bank's development knowledge-sharing over the fiscal year; a discussion of the Bank's approach to lending in low-income and middle-income countries; the Bank's resources; and a summary of the Bank's lending by region, theme, and sector, such as environmental programs and infrastructure projects. This section also describes the Bank's partnerships with public, private, and civil society stakeholders.
•	The fiscal 2005 financial statements, organizational information, income by region, new operations approved in fiscal 2005, and various lending data are included on a CD inserted inside the back cover of this report.
While much has been accomplished by this institution and its development partners, much remains to be done. The G-8 Summit at Gleneagles at the beginning of this new fiscal year has brought a welcome focus on the challenges of global development, particularly in Africa. It has also reaffirmed the central role of the World Bank in so much of that work and has given us even more to do.
As we move forward, we need to keep a balance among the different development priorities. The first priority must be to pay special attention to the needs of the poorest people in the poorest countries in the world. At the same time, the World Bank still has an important role to play with the rapidly
growing developing countries, the so-called "middle-income" countries that nevertheless still have hundreds of millions of people living in extreme poverty. Finally, as a multilateral development institution, the World Bank is uniquely positioned to help the world address some of the concerns of the "global commons," such as the development of sustainable energy and the alleviation of global health crises.
In all of this work, the Bank is blessed with an exceptionally dedicated and qualified professional staff. It is an honor and a privilege to work with them on a daily basis.
THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Executive Directors are responsible for the conduct of the World Bank's general operations, performing their duties under powers delegated by the Board of Governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement, 5 of the 24 Executive Directors are appointed by the member countries having the largest number of shares; the rest are elected by the other member countries, which form constituencies in an election process conducted every two years.
Executive Directors consider and decide on IBRD loan and guarantee proposals and IDA credit and guarantee proposals made by the President, and they decide on policies that guide the Bank's general operations. They are also responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors, at the Annual Meetings, an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and an annual report (this report) on the Bank's operations and policies as well as other matters that, in their judgment, require submission to the Board of Governors. The Board of Executive Directors (the Board) also exercises an important role in shaping Bank policy and its evolution. It is in this role that the Board represents the evolving perspectives of member countries on the role of the Bank Group as well as the Bank's operational experience. In this regard, the Operations Evaluation Department provides independent advice to the Board on the relevance, sustainability, efficiency, and effectiveness of operations. The department is directly accountable to the Board for performing evaluations, as set out in its Board-approved policies, strategies, and work program.
During fiscal 2005 the Executive Directors regularly met at Bank headquarters to carry out their responsibilities, both in formal Board meetings as the Committee of the Whole and in informal meetings. Directors also serve on one or more standing committees: Audit; Budget; Committee on Development Effectiveness; Governance and Administrative
Matters (COGAM); and Personnel. With the committees' help, the Board discharges its oversight responsibilities through in-depth examinations of policies and practices, such as the evolution of implementation of the Sarbanes-Oxley corporate governance legislation in the United States; budget reform at the Bank and IFC; the World Bank Group's involvement in extractive industries; strategic staffing and diversity; and strengthening the voice and participation of developing countries and transition economies. COGAM is involved in ongoing discussions on improving the effectiveness of Board activities.
Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors periodically visit member countries to review Bank assistance in progress. They meet a wide range of people, including project managers, beneficiaries, and government officials, as well as civil society organizations, the business community, other development partners, financial institutions, and resident Bank staff. In July 2004 Directors visited Angola, South Africa, and Tanzania. In January 2005 they visited Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
In April 2005 they visited Morocco, Saudi Arabia, and the West Bank and Gaza.
Directors also play an active role in preparing the agenda and issues papers for the semiannual meetings of the joint World Bank-International Monetary Fund (Bank-Fund) Development Committee.
In fiscal 2005 the Development Committee continued to review progress toward achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) at its discussion of the Global Monitoring Report 2005, Millennium Development Goals: From Consensus to Momentum.The report included a major focus on Sub-Saharan Africa. The Development Committee also reviewed, among others, papers on aid effectiveness and financing modalities; an operational framework for achieving debt sustainability; Bank support of the economic growth
agenda, which is based on creating an enabling investment climate and financing infrastructure; leveraging trade for development; prospects for the global economy; and strengthening the voice and participation of developing countries and transition economies in the work and decision making of the Bretton Woods institutions. (See "Development Committee Communiques, Fiscal 2005" in Organizational Information on the accompanying CD-ROM.)
STRATEGIC ISSUES
The major areas of Board emphasis during fiscal 2005 are highlighted below.
Strategic Framework
The Board's work remained closely aligned with the twin pillars of the Bank's strategic framework—promoting a favorable investment climate and empowering poor people. The continued relevance of these priorities, confirmed over the years by a series of medium-term strategy papers, was underscored this year by the Executive Directors. Directors stressed the need for the Bank to intensify its efforts in implementing the framework by sharpening the tools and procedures for meeting the development challenges set forth in the Millennium Development Goals. Directors reviewed a number of progress reports on ongoing efforts at harmonizing operational policies, procedures, and practices among donors; on meeting the needs of low-income countries, including heavily indebted poor countries and low-income countries under stress; and on strengthening partnerships with middle-income countries.
Poverty Reduction
The challenge of meeting the Millennium Development Goals is becoming more and more pressing as the 2015 target
date approaches. The Board continued to closely monitor implementation of the Bank's poverty reduction mandate and its contributions toward the goals. The Board discussed papers on the country-owned poverty reduction strategies outlined in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs). Directors considered 8 PRSPs, 2 interim PRSPs, and 20 PRSP Progress Reports in fiscal 2005, identifying areas where further refinement would be useful. Directors also considered a paper that reviews the effectiveness of Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits, the Bank lending instrument that supports poverty reduction objectives.
Debt and Debt Sustainability
The Board discussed the choice of indicative debt burden thresholds to be used in a framework for analyzing debt sustainability in low-income countries, the interaction of the framework with the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, and the modalities for joint debt sustainability analyses by Bank and Fund staff.
Country Programs
Building on PRSPs for low-income countries and national development strategies for middle-income countries, Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) and Country Partnership Strategies capture the essential elements of the Bank's partnerships with member countries. These strategies are the cornerstone of Bank Group work at the country level. During this fiscal year Directors continued to recommend that CASs include more detailed frameworks for measuring results, including intermediate indicators to measure and monitor progress toward medium-term outcomes agreed on by the country, the Bank, and other development partners. Directors emphasized the need for CASs to be more focused and selective and to build on partnerships. They highlighted
the importance of linking harmonization and alignment efforts to the results agenda. They also identified the need for the Bank to complement country programs with regional and subregional approaches. The Board reviewed 36 CASs, 10 of which are results-based, during the fiscal year. It continued to monitor the evolving Bank response to the Asian tsunami disaster and to the Interim Program in Iraq.
SECONDMENT PROGRAM
To enhance the voice and participation of developing and transition countries in decision making at the Bank and the Fund, the Executive Directors of the Bank identified a number of capacity-building measures, including the creation of a five-year secondment program for Bank officials from those countries.
Sixteen secondees have been given six-month assignments in operational units at the Bank, with the objective of achieving better communication and knowledge sharing between Executive Directors and their constituencies, with particular attention to Bank procedures, products, and operations.
OVERSIGHT AND FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY
The Board exercises oversight and fiduciary responsibility on behalf of its shareholders, in part through its Audit Committee. The committee revised its terms of reference in 2003 to reflect best practices and continues to remain abreast of evolving standards of corporate oversight, governance, and control issues. The committee advises the Board on financial management and other governance matters to facilitate Board decisions on financial policy and control issues. In particular, the Internal Audit Department and the Department of Institutional Integrity have begun briefing the committee in restricted executive sessions on risk and control issues within their respective purviews.
ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET
The total administrative expenses for fiscal 2005 were $2,011.3 million, net of reimbursements, and included $172.7 million for the Development Grant Facility. The net administrative expenses of $1,502.2 million represented a 2 percent real increase over the fiscal 2004 budget (a 5 percent nominal increase). In June 2005 the Executive Directors approved a total administrative budget, net of reimbursements, of $2,102.8 million for fiscal 2006.
INSPECTION PANEL
In fiscal 2005 the Inspection Panel received three new Requests for Inspection involving Bank projects in Pakistan (National Drainage Program Project), Burundi (Public Works and Employment Creation Project), and Cambodia (Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project). Thirty-six Requests for Inspection have been filed since the panel was established: 11 from Africa, 11 from Latin America and the Caribbean, 10 from South Asia, and 4 from East Asia and Pacific. Of the 36 formal requests received, the Panel has recommended investigations in 18 cases, 6 under the rules that applied before the April 1999 clarifications to the resolution that established the panel, and 12 since those clarifications were adopted. As of May 2005, the panel was conducting 4 investigations.
Requests for Inspection, Management Responses, panel recommendations, panel investigation reports, and management recommendations for projects reviewed this fiscal year can be found at www.worldbank.org/inspectionpanel.
SELECTION OF A NEW PRESIDENT
On March 31, 2005, the Executive Directors unanimously selected Paul Wolfowitz to become the Bank's tenth president, effective June 1, 2005.
A VISION FOR DEVELOPMENT
The World Bank's mission is to work for a world free of poverty. This year, as world leaders and development partners have taken stock of progress toward achieving their vision for development, they have seen that without bold actions, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) they adopted at the turn of the century will not be reached. To focus global attention on the world's poor people, they have proclaimed 2005 the year of development.
There is a growing realization that lack of sufficient progress toward these goals has immediate and tragic consequences. Every week 10,000 women in the developing world die giving birth, and 200,000 children under age five die of disease. More than 8,000 people die every day from AIDS-related conditions, and 2 million people will die of AIDS this year in Africa alone. As many as 115 million children in developing countries are not in school.
For hundreds of millions of people, a future without poverty, disease, and illiteracy depends on development.
For the world, long-term security and peace depend upon it.
Stepped-up action toward meeting the MDGs is thus necessary. The urgency of this need is highlighted in the second Global Monitoring Report, which assesses progress and proposes ways to build momentum toward achieving the goals (see page 23). The Bank is a central partner in the effort—through its knowledge, its lending, and its support for country-owned poverty reduction strategies.
The Bank has sharpened its support for the development agenda through a two-pillar strategy for reducing poverty that is based on building the climate for investment, jobs,
and sustainable growth and on investing in poor people and empowering them to participate in development.
The strategy recognizes the vital relationship between long-term growth and human development: without human development, economic growth cannot be sustained; and a healthy economic climate provides a setting in which people can thrive.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT, JOBS, AND SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
Growth is an essential and powerful instrument for reducing poverty and improving living standards. If developing countries are to meet the MDGs, economic growth in these countries must accelerate.
Strong growth requires an economic climate that is conducive to investment, job creation, and higher productivity. To foster a climate for equitable growth, the Bank conducts economic analysis and provides country lending and policy advisory assistance for a variety of programs (see chapter 3). These programs aim to help maintain economic and financial stability, improve investment climates and enable private sector development, facilitate better governance and effective efforts to combat corruption, develop and maintain infrastructure, support environmental sustainability, and promote openness to trade and access to world markets for goods.
Improving the Investment Climate and Enabling Private Sector Development
The Bank's analytic work on investment climates provides countries with valuable information and tools. Now in its
second year, the Doing Business project, which is supporting reform work in more than 30 countries, provides objective, quantifiable indicators of business regulation in 145 countries. It provides tools for benchmarking that enable governments to compare their investment climates to those of their neighbors and their performance to global best practices. This year's report, Doing Business in 2005, expands the indicators of business constraints to include property registration and investor protection. The report also helps identify reform priorities.
The new Investment Climate Surveys Database, with data from 30,000 firms in 58 countries, offers additional indicators to inform governments contemplating reforms. This year the Bank and IFC completed an analysis of corporate governance in 10 countries, bringing the number of analyses to 48. Drawing on this research, the Bank's World Development Report 2005: A Better Investment Climate for Everyone has elevated the importance of improving the investment climate within the development agenda.
The Bank Group's advisory services and lending are turning diagnostic work into action in many countries. Commitments for 109 new projects with private sector
development components in fiscal 2005 amount to more than $3.8 billion. With 23 country investment climate assessments completed this year, country assessments are now being used to guide reforms or support Bank projects in over 40 countries. For example, in El Salvador the investment climate assessment helped shape the Bank's Growth Development Policy Loan by identifying challenges in the investment climate and infrastructure. In Cambodia the Bank-IFC Foreign Investment Advisory Service is working with the garment industry to create a socially responsible brand image that will help it compete globally.
Facilitating Good Governance and Combating Corruption
Research shows that open and transparent governments are more likely to generate economic growth. For this reason, the Bank now requires all Country Assistance Strategies to address governance (see chapter 3).
In fiscal 2005 Bank lending for governance totaled $2.6 billion, 12 percent of new lending (see chapter 3). This lending supports reforms in public financial management, procurement, service delivery, tax policy, customs administration, and law and justice. (See www1.worldbank.org/publicsector/index.cfm.)
THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS
•	Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger
Halve the proportion of people in extreme poverty, and the proportion of people who suffer from hunger, by 2015
•	Achieve universal primary education
Ensure by 2015 that all children will be able to complete a full course of primary schooling
•	Promote gender equality and empower women
Eliminate gender disparity in primary and secondary education by 2005, and in all levels of education by 2015
•	Reduce child mortality
Reduce by two-thirds the under-five mortality rate by 2015
Improve maternal health
Reduce by three-quarters the maternal mortality rate by 2015
Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases
Halt the spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other major diseases, and begin to reverse the spread, by 2015
Ensure environmental sustainability
Halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking water by 2015
Develop a global partnership for development
Develop further an open, rule-based, predictable, nondiscrimina-tory trading and financial system, and address the special needs of the least developed countries
Integrity of Financial Systems The Bank's program to fight money laundering and the financing of terrorism focuses on helping countries strengthen the integrity of their financial systems. The Bank works with the intergovernmental Financial Action Task Force, similar regional bodies, and the United Nations to promote policies that encourage transparency in financial sectors and help detect and prosecute corruption. In fiscal 2005 the Bank more than doubled its assistance in this area, providing training programs and long-term expert mentors for regulators, organizing global dialogues with the public and private sectors, conducting assessments of country compliance with international best practices, and publishing reference guides and practical manuals.
Capacity Building and Diagnostics The World Bank Institute (WBI) helps policy makers from client countries develop the knowledge, skills, and abilities that will enable them to improve governance and stem corruption. In cooperation with the Bank's lending program and partner institutions, the Institute delivers participatory learning programs that help local government leaders formulate specific institutional reforms. In fiscal 2005 WBI helped civil society organizations from Benin, Guatemala, Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Zambia to develop governance and anticorruption assessments.
WBI and the Bank's Development Economics Group produce the Worldwide Governance Indicators, which assess more than 200 countries and territories on key dimensions of governance. These indicators are widely used by policy makers, donor agencies, and social science researchers.
(See "Capacity Development" in chapter 3.) (See www .worldbank.org/wbi/governance.)
Law and Justice Courts and other justice institutions are vital to good governance and the fight against corruption, as they enforce the rules governing economic and social interaction. Since 1991 the Bank has funded more than 1,500 law and justice activities in 140 countries. These include 17 freestanding justice projects that were active in fiscal 2005.
Institutional Integrity The Bank is a leader among international institutions in resources committed to fighting fraud and corruption in its own operations and in client countries. The Department of Institutional Integrity was created in 2001 to investigate allegations of fraud and corruption within the Bank and in Bank-funded projects. The Bank issued its first Annual Report on Investigations and Sanctions of Staff Misconduct and Fraud and Corruption in Bank-Financed
Projects in February 2005. The report provides detailed data for fiscal 2004 and summary data for fiscal 1999-2004. Since 1999 the department has investigated and closed more than 2,000 cases. As of the end of fiscal 2005, these investigations had led to the debarment of more than 300 firms and individuals. The Bank publishes all of its debarments at www.worldbank.org/procurement. Allegations can be received at the Bank's 24-hour hotline (1-800-831-0463), by e-mail
(investigations_hotline@worldbank.org), and through Bank staff and other sources.
Revitalizing Infrastructure
The World Bank supports activities in a wide array of infrastructure services, including energy, transport, water supply and sanitation, urban services, telecommunications, oil, gas, and mining. It helps clients improve infrastructure service delivery through policy dialogue and institution building, support for reform, and physical investment. It also acts as a catalyst for leveraging financial and other assistance from development partners and the private sector.
Significant progress was made in fiscal 2005 toward implementing the Infrastructure Action Plan, which commits the Bank to enhancing its support by providing country analytic work in response to client demand for infrastructure strengthening, and by refining its lending instruments and advisory approaches. Infrastructure lending grew from $5.4 billion in fiscal 2003 to $6.5 billion — about a third of total lending commitments—in fiscal 2004, to $7.3 billion in fiscal 2005 — remaining at a third of total lending.
The Board approved 77 infrastructure projects in fiscal
2005,	a 7 percent increase over the number of commitments in fiscal 2004. Transportation projects received the largest share of commitments, at almost 43 percent, followed by energy and mining, water supply and sanitation, and information and communication technologies.
The Bank delivered 188 regionally managed economic and sector work or analytic infrastructure products in fiscal 2005. Significant changes have been made in the way this work is done, with greater emphasis on the linkages between infrastructure and other sectors. Examples include work in Colombia and Indonesia as well as a flagship infrastructure study on East Asia carried out jointly with the Asian Development Bank and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation. Similar analytic work is envisaged for Africa, Europe and Central Asia, and Latin America and the Caribbean.
The Bank is making substantial investments in new areas. Together with IFC, it is exploring opportunities for engaging with clients more effectively at the subnational level through
the Municipal Fund Joint Pilot Program. It is also partnering with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to find ways to address the lack of adequate fiscal resources for infrastructure investment once ongoing expenditure commitments in country budgets are met. The Bank and IFC are offering guidance to staff and clients on the role of the private and public sectors in providing infrastructure services and are fine-tuning approaches to public-private partnerships. The Bank is also continuing to pilot output-based aid approaches, in which governments delegate service delivery to third parties under contracts that tie disbursement of public funding to the outputs and services actually delivered to target groups.
The Bank remains committed to having a significant impact in client countries by scaling up infrastructure activities and will continue to engage other development partners, including the private sector, in this work.
Tackling Risks and Uncertainties Affecting Developing Countries
Poor countries face risks and vulnerabilities that stand in the way of sustainable development. Water insecurity, commodity price volatility, extreme weather variability, and natural disasters affect growth prospects. Ecological risks—caused by climate change, biodiversity loss, depletion of fisheries stock, and unsustainable practices such as illegal logging—threaten the availability of natural resources for productive purposes and wealth creation. Social imbalances, weak institutions, and political instability lead to conflicts, which deter development efforts.
The Bank is addressing these issues with a suite of interrelated sector strategies on agriculture and rural
development, forests, water resources, the environment, and social development. This set of strategies takes an integrated approach to growth based on social and environmental responsibility. It also focuses resources on conflict-affected countries.
Agriculture and Rural Development Seventy percent of the world's poor live in rural areas. The Bank's renewed focus on rural development is therefore timely, and is reflected in Bank lending of $2.8 billion in fiscal 2005.
Social Development During fiscal 2005 the Bank's Board of Executive Directors discussed "Empowering People by Transforming Institutions: A Social Development Implementation Plan for the World Bank." This action plan focuses on the core values of inclusion, cohesion, and social accountability. (See "Sector Strategies" in chapter 3.)
Environment Investment in environmental and natural resource management projects was $2.5 billion in fiscal 2005, representing 11 percent of Bank lending. This year's Global Development Marketplace also focused on finding solutions for a sustainable environment. (See box 1.1.)
Multidisciplinary Approaches To take full advantage of synergies on cross-sectoral issues, the Bank has formed natural resource management teams to ensure that land, fisheries, biodiversity, and forests projects are managed collaboratively. Implementation of the Water Resources Strategy, work on agricultural commodities and international trade, and work with TerrAfrica, a regional partnership that promotes sustainable land management in Africa, also involve such collaboration.
Global Partnerships The Bank advances its sustainable development agenda through key global partnerships, including partnerships with the Global Environment Facility and the
Seventy-eight finalists from 42 countries showcased innovative approaches to improving the lives of poor people while promoting environmental conservation at the Global Development Marketplace competition in Washington, DC, in May. Titled Innovations for Livelihoods in a Sustainable Environment, this year's call for proposals attracted more than 2,600 entries from 136 countries in the areas of renewable energy, biodiversity conservation, sustainable agriculture, and mitigation of air and water pollution. Thirty-one finalists received funding of up to $150,000 each from an award pool of nearly $4 million.
Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research. The World Bank-World Wildlife Fund Alliance for Forest Conservation and Sustainable Use renewed its commitment to slowing the depletion of the world's forests by committing to phase two of the partnership, which sets new targets for reducing forest depletion. The Global Program on Fish will seek to improve sustainable livelihoods in the fisheries sector and in rural coastal communities in response to the current crisis in capture fisheries. Public-private partnerships for carbon finance surpassed $800 million, representing a major effort to generate a stable global market for carbon emissions trading. Through the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund, the Bank, together with Conservation International, the Global Environment Facility, the government of Japan, and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, is conserving the Earth's biodiversity hotspots. It is supporting the work of the Com+ Alliance of Communicators for Sustainable Development, a global communications platform aimed at bringing sustainable development closer to the people. (See www.cgiar.org,www.thegef.org,www.worldbank.org, and www.complusalliance.org.)
Conflict-Affected Countries and Fragile States More than one-third of the Bank's borrowers are affected by conflict. Poor countries suffer disproportionately from civil war: a
The award pool is cofinanced by the World Bank Group, the Global Environment Facility, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, and Conservation International, among others.
The Development Marketplace identifies and supports local ideas that deliver results. In addition to the global event, nine country-level Development Marketplaces were held in 2005, covering a total of 14 countries. These country-led programs reach out to truly grassroots projects and focus on key local development themes.
(See www.developmentmarketplace.org.)
BOX 1.1
country whose annual per capita gross domestic product (GDP) is $250 has an average 15 percent risk of civil war in the next five years, whereas a country whose per capita GDP is $5,000 has less than a 1 percent risk. A typical civil war lasts seven years and causes an estimated 30 percent increase in poverty and a 13 percent increase in infant mortality.
The Bank increasingly uses tools related to conflict sensitivity in its operational work, with 15 countries using conflict analysis frameworks and completing postconflict needs assessments and recovery plans. IDA had committed more than $3 billion in exceptional postconflict assistance by fiscal 2005. Since 1998 the Post-Conflict Fund has also approved $71.2 million for 142 grants in 38 countries and territories. Most of these grants are implemented by civil society organizations and United Nations agencies. Forty-two percent of all such funds have gone to Africa. The poorest conflict-affected countries are also supported through the Low-Income Countries under Stress Initiative. (See chapter 3 and www.worldbank.org/licus.)
Responding to Disasters
The tsunami in the Indian Ocean on December 26, 2004, had a devastating—and disproportionate—effect on poor people. The Bank responded quickly, assisting with recovery planning, helping coordinate rehabilitation and recovery support requested by national authorities, and mobilizing financial support.
Within days the Bank had teams in India, Indonesia, the Maldives, and Sri Lanka, the four most severely affected countries. Staff in Bank country offices worked side by side with government counterparts and other partners, notably the Asian Development Bank, to assess the extent of the damage and loss and to develop recovery strategies. In the Maldives the Bank quickly established a country presence. In the Seychelles and Somalia, where the Bank does not have active programs, Bank staff in the region provided assistance to the lead support agencies and identified financing options outside the Bank. Three principles guided Bank support for tsunami recovery: government leadership of the recovery efforts, community involvement in assessing needs and designing
recovery programs to ensure that they will benefit poor people, and efficient coordination among members of the donor community. (See www.worldbank.org/tsunami.)
Disaster reduction is at the core of the Bank's mission of fighting poverty. Since its establishment, the Bank has been a leader in providing postdisaster reconstruction assistance.
Its expertise in recovery and reconstruction and its efforts to promote more effective disaster risk management allowed it to respond to the tsunami in a strategic and comprehensive way.
Since 1998 the Bank has provided training and technical assistance on integrating disaster risk reduction into development programs. Bank staff and representatives of client countries are trained in disaster-related topics, drawing on case studies to promote sustainable recovery processes and reduce the vulnerability of communities to future disasters. (See www.worldbank.org/hazards.)
There is a growing recognition that disaster-prone countries need to develop a more proactive approach to disaster risk management. That was highlighted in this year's Bank publication, Natural Disaster Hotspots. The approach includes reducing risk before disasters hit and strengthening preparedness and response capacities to enable full and effective utilization of resources after a catastrophe. In most cases, humanitarian aid and reconstruction assistance are not sufficient for full recovery from disaster events. Often, absorptive capacity is very weak, and only a fraction of committed funds are disbursed, even years after the disaster.
To address these problems, the Bank has been promoting a comprehensive risk management framework. This framework includes developing a better understanding of the risks facing a country and the scale of potential losses, taking steps to mitigate the potential effects of disasters, and examining the potential to use existing lending products more creatively to support ex ante recovery financing mechanisms.
Fostering International Trade
The Bank seeks to promote a world trading system that is more conducive to economic development, and to help developing countries capture the benefits of global trade. In fiscal 2005 it advocated for World Trade Organization members to
achieve as ambitious an outcome as possible in the current Doha Round of trade negotiations. It emphasized the importance of a successful round of talks to the health of the world economy and the fight against poverty.
The Bank works at both the multilateral and country levels to support clients in their trade integration strategies and to help them manage the transition to the environment that would emerge from a successful Doha Round. This work focuses on three areas: supporting investment and technical assistance projects to help countries identify the gains from trade facilitation reforms; making resources available to support trade policy reforms; and generating the analysis needed to anticipate, measure, and ameliorate the special adjustment costs countries could face as a result of multilateral trade liberalization.
In fiscal 2005 the Bank approved 15 new projects with trade facilitation components, for a total of $381 million. These projects focus on infrastructure, services, financial systems, and other sectors of the economy essential to advancing trade and development. The Bank also helped several countries prepare for accession to the World Trade Organization. The World Bank Institute promoted 60 trade-related learning events.
The Bank published several important reports on trade in fiscal 2005. Global Economic Prospects 2005: Trade, Regionalism, and Development concludes that regional trade agreements can improve prospects for rapid poverty reduc-
tion, but only if developing countries liberalize trade unilaterally, multilaterally, and regionally. Other key trade research publications include Global Agricultural Trade and Developing Countries and the Customs Modernization Handbook. In the past two years, the Bank has launched studies on how to improve trade policies and develop trade opportunities in more than 50 countries as well as some 15 regional studies. (See www.worldbank.org/trade.)
INVESTING IN POOR PEOPLE AND EMPOWERING THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN DEVELOPMENT
Investments in education, health, and gender equality are critical to attaining the Millennium Development Goals. These investments help empower people to participate in decisions about development projects that affect their lives and the lives of their families. Working with civil society organizations can also help empower people to have an impact on the local delivery of education and health services. The Bank is the world leader in investing in people's empowerment. (See www.developmentgoals.org.)
Focusing on Children and Youth
Nearly half the people of the world today are under 25 years old. Ninety percent of these young people live in developing countries. The Bank is the world's largest lender for education and health, the two sectors most directly related to the well-being of children and youth. The Bank has contributed
significantly to addressing the issues of poverty, HIV/AIDS, nutrition, social protection, and social development, all of which affect the lives of young people. In September 2004 the Bank held the second Youth, Development, and Peace conference in Sarajevo, co-organized with the European Youth Forum and the World Organization of the Scout Movement, which together represent more than 20 million young people and 28 million scouts. Participants gathered to discuss how to better collaborate on issues important to young people, and agreed to establish an informal network of dialogue and regular interaction.
Supporting Education
The Bank assists countries working toward meeting the goal of universal primary education through the Education for All Initiative. It also supports the development of the higher-level skills that are essential to economic growth and competitiveness.
In fiscal 2005 IBRD lent $356 million for pre-primary and primary education and $492 million for secondary, vocational, and tertiary education. IDA provided $297 million
in support of pre-primary and primary education and $294 million in support of pre-primary, secondary, and tertiary education. This funding helped, for example, to expand coverage of early childhood education in the Arab Republic of Egypt, particularly for poor families and girls; to strengthen rural education in the Kyrgyz Republic; and to improve the quality of basic education and access by poor and disadvantaged children in Nepal.
Globally, the Fast-Track Initiative (FTI) is the key instrument for donor cooperation and support for Education for All. As of June 30, 2005, more than $900 million in official development assistance had been mobilized worldwide in support of primary education in the initial 12 countries in the Fast-Track partnership; and $350 million of this was mobilized in 2005. Two new funds were launched in fiscal 2005. The Catalytic Fund, with pledges of $290 million through 2007, provides transitional funding to countries with FTI-endorsed programs. The Education Program Development Fund, with $6 million committed to date, helps countries with sector program development and capacity building in preparation for FTI endorsement. Significant financing gaps
must be filled to ensure sustainable flows to countries already participating in the FTI as well as the many other countries expected to do so over the next few years. (See www .worldbank.org/education.)
Achieving Gender Equality
Both research and experience show that helping women and men become equal partners in development—with equal voice and equal access to resources—accelerates economic growth.
In fiscal 2005 Bank staff conducted economic and sector work on the effects of gender-based barriers to development. Through innovative research in such areas as public expenditure, pensions, and land reform, the Bank is building practical knowledge that can help countries address gender issues.
Bank-funded projects increasingly incorporate qualitative and quantitative gender analysis in their design, particularly in the health, education, and social protection sectors. Governance, labor, judicial reform, and trade projects are also beginning to address gender issues. The Bank-administered Trust Fund for Gender Mainstreaming, financed by the Dutch and Norwegian governments, continues to support innovative projects, including such cross-regional projects as Incorporating Gender Issues into Parliament, and Mainstreaming Women with Disabilities through Community Health Care.
During fiscal 2005 the Bank held its first workshop on gender-based violence. It also monitored and evaluated its progress in promoting gender equality. The publication Improving Women's Lives: World Bank Actions Since Beijing reviews the Bank's contributions toward improving women's access to resources, reducing gender disparities in rights, and strengthening women's voice and empowerment. It renews the Bank's commitment to the 1995 Beijing Platform of Action and the MDGs. (See www.worldbank.org/gender.)
Reducing Child Mortality
Each year 10.4 million children die before they reach age five; of these, 4 million die in their first month of life and more than 3 million babies are stillborn. Ninety-nine percent of these deaths occur in the poorest countries. Child mortal-
ity has dropped rapidly in the past 25 years, but progress everywhere slowed in the 1990s, and a few countries experienced increases. The HIV/AIDS pandemic has contributed to these increases in some countries, especially in Africa (see chapter 2).
At current rates of progress, and without a substantial reduction in neonatal mortality, only a few countries are likely to achieve the MDG of reducing child mortality to one-third the 1990 level by 2015.
Bank lending for child health has steadily increased. In fiscal 2005, total lending was $174.4 million, and $129 million was provided for projects in South Asia and Africa alone. The Bank continues its analytic work and has intensified its policy dialogue with countries to make child health a priority, improve service delivery, strengthen health systems (to accelerate progress on scaling up the implementation of cost-effective interventions for maximum impact on poor people), strengthen private and public partnerships, and improve linkages among the various health care sectors. (See www.developmentgoals.org.)
Improving Maternal Health
Maternal mortality is an important measure of women's health and is an indicator of the performance of health care systems. Globally, modest progress has been made in the proportion of births assisted by a skilled health care worker, with an annual increase of 1.7 percent between 1989 and 1999. But each year more than 500,000 women die from pregnancy-related causes. Access to skilled care, especially for poor people, remains a major obstacle.
The Bank has made reducing maternal mortality one of its priorities. It provided $191.6 million in fiscal 2005 to improve maternal and reproductive health, and provided $160 million to South Asia and several African countries, where the majority of maternal deaths occur. In addition to increasing financial support, the Bank has intensified its efforts to improve health systems and health financing in order to address human resources issues and facilitate capacity building in program management and service delivery. Bank support in other areas, such as infrastructure,
girls' education, and gender equality, will accelerate progress in reducing maternal mortality in the long run. The Bank is also forging strategic partnerships to build political commitment for equitable access to maternal health services. (See www.developmentgoals.org.)
Fighting Communicable Diseases HIV/AIDS With 40 million people infected with HIV and more than 15 million AIDS orphans worldwide, HIV/AIDS continues to negate the development efforts of many countries, particularly in Africa. In all, the Bank has committed more than $2.5 billion to fighting HIV/AIDS in 67 countries. It provides support for expanding prevention, care, treatment, and advisory services available to countries and promotes leadership through its global partnerships, especially as a cosponsor of the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS.
Tuberculosis Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis is spreading, particularly in the Europe and Central Asia region. The disease is the most common opportunistic infection associated with HIV, increasing the number of people with tuberculosis in many countries in Africa. The Bank supports effective tuberculosis control through the Stop TB Partnership and through program financing in several of the 22 countries with high incidence of the disease. Efforts have been particularly successful in China and India. Cumulative Bank commitments to tuberculosis control since 1991 total more than $600 million in more than 30 countries.
Malaria Every year more than 500 million people contract malaria, and 1.1 million die from the disease. Within the Roll Back Malaria Partnership framework, the Bank collaborates closely with countries, partner agencies, and civil society organizations, and has been a key contributor to malaria control successes in Brazil, Eritrea, and Vietnam. But in many parts of the world, the burden of the disease remains very high, and drug-resistant forms of the parasite are spreading. Recognizing that progress has been too slow and uneven, the Bank launched a new malaria booster program
in April 2005, marking Africa Malaria Day. The aim is to bring malaria under control faster and on a large scale. The booster program will combine country leadership, Bank resources, and cofinancing from multiple partners with technically sound interventions for prevention and treatment. (See www.developmentgoals.org.)
Engaging with Civil Society
This year the Bank continued to work with civil society on a variety of activities, ranging from policy consultations on the Bank's extractive industry review to funding civil society efforts for HIV/AIDS prevention in thousands of African communities. Civil society participation in poverty reduction strategies and consultation on Country Assistance Strategies increased, and civil society organizations were involved in 72 percent of new Bank commitments.
The Bank carried out research on and supported programs by civil society organizations to strengthen the provision of public services and improve governance through citizen oversight and participatory budgeting initiatives at the local level. It is supporting thousands of civil society organizations managing community development, environmental protection, and postconflict reconstruction initiatives in nearly 100 countries. The Bank's work with civil society over the past few years is described in a new report, World Bank-Civil Society Engagement: Review of Fiscal Years 2002-2004.
In fiscal 2005 the Board of Executive Directors discussed the paper "Issues and Options for Improving Engagement between the World Bank and Civil Society Organizations," which outlines 4 key challenges and proposes 10 action items to improve the quality of the Bank's engagement with civil society. In April 2005 the Civil Society Global Policy Forum brought together almost 200 civil society leaders, government officials, donor agency representatives, and Bank managers from 50 countries to discuss ways to improve engagement between the Bank and civil society at the global level. The Bank also held global conferences with various civil society constituencies, including youth, labor unions, and people with disabilities. (See www.worldbank.org/civilsociety.)
TOWARD EFFECTIVE DEVELOPMENT
The Bank is helping to build a global framework for effective development and attainment of the Millennium Development Goals, addressing its own institutional efficiency, and examining the effectiveness of its programs.
The Global Monitoring Report
The second Global Monitoring Report, Millennium Development Goals: From Consensus to Momentum, published jointly by the Bank and the IMF, sets out a five-point agenda of actions that can help developing and developed countries build the momentum needed to attain the MDGs. Recommendations include anchoring actions in country-led development strategies; improving the environment for stronger, private sector-led economic growth; scaling up education and health services; dismantling barriers to trade in developing and developed countries; substantially increasing the level and effectiveness of aid by at least doubling the level over the next five years and aligning the pace of the increase with recipient countries' absorptive capacities; and improving the quality of aid. Special attention must be given to accelerating progress in Africa, the region farthest from attaining the goals. (See www.worldbank .org/globalmonitoring.)
Managing for Results
The need to use information to improve decision making and steer country-led development processes toward clearly defined goals is now at the forefront of the global development agenda. During fiscal 2005 the pilot phase of the results-based Country Assistance Strategy methodology was completed, and a stocktaking paper was reviewed by the Board. Efforts to strengthen country-level statistical capacity continued, and the IDA14 (14th Replenishment of IDA) Results Measurement System was developed. (See chapter 3 for more on IDA.) At the global level, the Bank coordinated the preparation of a sourcebook on managing for development results with the Joint Venture on Managing for Development Results. (See www.mfdr.org /sourcebook.html.)
Increasing Internal Efficiency
The Bank's review of the effectiveness of its operating units sought to identify ways to enhance their performance in the context of a changing external environment with increasingly differentiated client demands. The review looked at the Bank's client service delivery model, the effectiveness of the Bank's thematic networks, and issues related to Bank decentralization, staffing, and staff skills.
The findings of the review were discussed and endorsed during the Bank's annual Strategic Forum, attended by senior managers. Recommendations under consideration include ways to strengthen both the Bank's services to country clients and its work on global issues; options for further Bank decentralization; and options for enhancing the effectiveness of thematic networks by strategically managing staff skills, improving knowledge sharing, and reducing overlapping mandates.
Promoting Budget Reform
The Bank's recent budget reform initiative, launched during fiscal 2005, builds on improvements made over the past several years and supports the Bank's long-term focus on results. Corporate and unit strategic decision making and performance management will increasingly be driven by a process of setting clear strategic objectives and deploying resources to achieve desired impacts. The three core goals of the reform are to strengthen the new multiyear budget framework, to give management the flexibility and room to manage effectively, and to hold management accountable for its performance. Business planning and monitoring processes will be simplified, and the focus of attention will gradually shift from hitting absolute targets at the end of each fiscal year toward supporting continually improved resource management in pursuit of medium-term goals.
A principal element of the new system is the Strategy and Performance Contract, which summarizes each unit's strategic direction, explains the trade-offs and choices it makes in allocating its resources, discusses the risks it faces in achieving its objectives, and identifies key performance indicators, which will be used to track results and performance.
Simplifying Bank Processes
The Bank continued its program to simplify and modernize its instruments, processes, and policies this year. Adjustment lending was renamed development policy lending to emphasize and reflect country ownership and support the efforts of client governments to meet their countries' needs. Changes were introduced in documents and procedures to allow for faster processing, so that borrowers receive funds and can address needs more promptly. As part of its work to support new ways of doing business, the Bank began implementing an updated policy on expenditure eligibility that makes it easier to finance expenditures that borrowers must make to implement projects. (See www1.worldbank.org/operations/eligibility.)
The Bank has also begun to simplify and modernize legal agreements that underpin IBRD loans and IDA credits and grants, with a view to clarifying their content, facilitating negotiations with member countries, and harmonizing them with the legal agreements of other international financial institutions in the long term.
Simplification is an ongoing process, and although the focus is now on implementation, the Bank will continue to readjust its policies, procedures, and instruments as necessary to meet borrowers' changing needs.
Harmonizing with Other Donors
During fiscal 2005 the Bank helped organize the High-Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness, held in Paris. The Forum brought together 620 participants representing 90 donor and partner countries, 27 aid institutions, and a range of civil society organizations. It adopted the Paris Declaration, which commits parties to improving ownership, harmonization, alignment, managing for results, and mutual accountability. It also agreed on 12 indicators for monitoring progress, with targets for 2010 to be set by September 2005.
Bank support that pools funds with other donors and governments through common mechanisms, often under sectorwide and program-based approaches, accounted for $773 million in 9 projects in fiscal 2005, including support for health in Bangladesh and Nepal, and education in Morocco and Vietnam. The Bank also coordinated 17 Poverty Reduction
Support Credits worth $1.4 billion with other donors, including credits for Ethiopia, Ghana, and Rwanda. It collaborated with other donors to produce analytic reports on poverty assessment and governance, and fiduciary diagnostics in Kenya, Tanzania, and several Central American countries. (See www .aidharmonisation.org and www.countryanalyticwork.net.)
Increasing Transparency
Fiscal 2005 was a landmark year for the Bank's transparency and disclosure agenda. In March the Board approved a number of revisions to the Bank's disclosure policy that will extend and simplify information disclosure, reaffirming the Bank's commitment to ensuring transparency about its activities. These changes included adopting a unified Country Assistance Strategy disclosure policy for IBRD and IDA; disclosing Board minutes (except those of executive sessions), the staff manual, the budget paper, and the staff compensation paper; and simplifying the disclosure clearance procedures.
This fiscal year also witnessed the introduction of more open policies on the disclosure of development-policy lending documents and Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA) ratings. CPIA ratings assess the quality of a country's policy and institutional framework and its suitability for fostering sustainable, poverty-reducing growth and effectively using development assistance. (See "Institutional Integrity" in this chapter, and "Low-Income Countries under Stress" in chapter 3.)
Evaluating the Bank’s Work
The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) is an independent unit within the World Bank that reports directly to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. Its evaluations seek to ensure accountability, provide an objective basis for assessing the Bank's work, and allow Bank staff to learn from experience.
OED's 2003 Annual Review of Development Effectiveness found that developing countries have improved their policies. Moreover, countries whose policies improved over the period 1999-2003 tended to grow at more than twice the rate of those whose policies did not improve. However, growth is not enough to reduce poverty. The 2004 review reported that the Bank's poverty reduction strategy appropriately highlights
both growth and the social aspects of development. But it may downplay sectors that cut across and complement these pillars, such as infrastructure, rural and urban development, and environment.
OED has evaluated a wide range of activities relevant to these development and poverty reduction issues. A review of Country Assistance Evaluations found that successful country programs are tailored to the country context. The Bank needs to deepen its country knowledge and link its assistance programs more closely with progress on country reforms.
OED's review of global programs found that the Bank is exploiting its comparative advantage more effectively at the global level than at the country level. But linkages between global programs and the Bank's country operations are weak.
A joint evaluation with the IMF's Independent Evaluation Office found that the poverty reduction strategy process has helped focus stakeholders in low-income countries on poverty, results, and an overarching framework for aid management.
In many cases, however, countries have focused more on completing documents that give them access to resources than on improving their poverty reduction efforts.
Finally, OED assessed the relevance and effectiveness of Bank support for building public sector capacity in Africa.
It found that the Bank's success varies across sectors as well as from country to country. Most capacity-building support is designed and managed project by project, the report concluded, making it difficult to capture cross-sector issues and learn lessons across operations.
REACHING OUT TO CLIENTS
The Bank increased its outreach and accessibility in client countries with a number of initiatives this year, including expansion of its Public Information Centers worldwide. It also launched a number of Web-based information resources, and continued its work through the Global Development Learning Network (see box 1.2).
Development Information Services in Client Countries
Transparency, accountability, and the sharing of information promote good governance and are essential for sustainable
development. To increase all three, the World Bank is strengthening its Public Information Centers and services worldwide. By providing access to information on Bank projects and development in general, the centers encourage public participation in dialogue and help citizens make informed decisions about issues affecting their lives. In 2004 more than 90,000 people used public information services, and the number is expected to triple in 2005.
Public Information Centers are located in 75 capital cities throughout the world. Staff help visitors find information through a variety of methods, depending on the technology available. Staff also respond to public inquiries, listen to public concerns, and arrange seminars, dialogues, Webcasts, and radio programs that address development topics. Where Internet access remains limited, the Bank, in partnership with local learning institutions, has set up more than 60 satellite centers to provide countrywide access to information.
Fiscal year 2005 saw the establishment of five new Development Information Centers, which operate as clearinghouses for information on development from various
•	" The challenges we face in the Caribbean today are the same
ones Africa faced 10 years ago," reflected Nancy George, chair of the HIV/AIDS Steering Committee for Jamaica's technical university, in a videoconference that connected health practitioners in Jamaica's Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) Center with colleagues in Barbados, Ghana, St. Lucia, Tanzania, and Uganda. "We can learn so much from your experience!"
•	Federico Macaranas, executive director of the Asian Institute of Management Policy Center, and his colleagues in the Philippines linked with experts from four countries to discuss ways of improving data collection. "GDLN allows us to harness expertise from all over the world," he said. Interactive technologies and learning methods allow development practitioners in different locations to communicate as if they were
in the same room.
The Network is a global partnership of over 70 learning centers in more than 60 countries. In fiscal 2005 more than 35,000 people worldwide, in more than 900 videoconference-based activities, used it to learn from one another's efforts to fight poverty. Policy makers coordinated humanitarian aid efforts in Cote d'Ivoire; mayors in Bosnia and Herzegovina took a course on delivering basic services to poor people; private companies in eight Latin American countries debated their social responsibility; and indigenous people in Alaska, Peru, and the Philippines discussed rural poverty.
At the launch of GDLN in June 2000, former World Bank President James D. Wolfensohn declared, "This is the end of geography as we know it." Through GDLN, distance is no longer a constraint to transferring knowledge and experience from the people who have it to those who need it. (See www .gdln.org.)
organizations, including the Bank. These partnerships between the Bank, other multilateral development banks, civil society organizations, academic institutions, and government agencies are transforming the goal of disseminating and sharing information crucial to the sustainability of development into a reality. (See www.worldbank.org/publicinformation.)
Client Connection Web Site
Client Connection, a secure Web site for World Bank borrowers and project-implementing agencies, was launched in September
2003	to promote informed decision making and reduce the cost of doing business with the Bank. Since then, over 4,000 users in more than 130 countries have registered with Client Connection. Users can access public Bank information, secure information on their loan portfolios, and check on the status of procurement, disbursement, and repayment transactions through a user-friendly, client-focused interface.
Informal feedback and client surveys show a high level of satisfaction with the service, and daily usage rates have steadily increased. Clients welcome the transparency of the Web site and the ease of access to portfolio information, and many report that it has increased efficiency and reduced costs. New features will be added in the coming years, allowing online requests for the withdrawal of loan funds and other financial transactions. (See http://clientconnection.worldbank.org.)
Multilingual Web Sites
The Bank's public Web site, with more than 1.5 million visitors a month, has become a primary conduit for communication and knowledge dissemination. Roughly a third of the Web site visitors are from non-Anglophone countries and make up the Bank's fastest-growing audience online. In an effort to better reach these clients and support the Bank's new Translation Framework, the Bank initiated the Multilingual Web Pilot
in fiscal 2005. The pilot created a new corporate Web site in French and expanded the existing Arabic and Spanish Web sites to include material beyond regional information. Three months after relaunching the Web sites, visitor numbers doubled to the Arabic and French sites and increased by one-third to the Spanish site. The Bank also publishes Russian and Chinese Web sites. (See www.worldbank.org.)
Youth Web Site
Youthink! is the World Bank's online resource for students, teens, and kids on development and global issues. Written in age-appropriate language, Youthink! tackles development subjects by exploring those angles that young people care about and can relate to. Youthink! also invites young people to share their thoughts, opinions, and experiences by submitting material for publication to the Web site. (See http://youthink .worldbank.org.)
AIDS Media Center Web Site
The Bank launched the innovative AIDS Media Center in fiscal 2005 to provide journalists in developing countries with a global source for the most recent HIV/AIDS news, information, and analysis, and to help increase the accuracy, quality, and effectiveness of their reporting on the disease and related issues. The strength of the Web site comes from its broad coalition of contributing partners, including the BBC Trust, the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative, InterNews, the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, the Kaiser Family Foundation, One World, the Panos Institute, PlusNews (run by the Integrated Regional Information Network of the United Nations), the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, the World Health Organization, and a growing list of regional journalists' associations. (See www.aidsmedia.org.)
Africa's economy grew by 4.4 percent in 2004, with virtually all countries reporting positive growth. The region is projected to grow by 4.1 percent in 2005 as the benefits of past reforms and a more peaceful environment continue to translate into expanded economic activity. But the region faces serious challenges. More than 314 million Africans live on less than $1 a day—nearly twice as many as in 1981. The continent is home to 34 of the world's 48 poorest countries and 24 of the 32 countries ranked lowest in human development. The HIV/AIDS pandemic costs Africa 1 percentage point of per capita growth a year, while malaria kills about 2,800 Africans a day. (See www.worldbank.org/aids and www.aidsmedia.org.)
Some progress toward improving human development was made during the past year, but the challenges remain enormous. To address them, several global development initiatives were launched in fiscal 2005. Key among them were calls for a doubling of aid, fairer trade, and greater debt relief.
Since the establishment of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) and the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP) process, African countries have taken much more effective ownership of their own development. Both NEPAD and the PRSP process are based on partnerships with donors, dependable financial flows, measurable results, empowerment of poor people, participation by civil society and local communities, and accountability of recipient governments to their own people. The Bank has endorsed the Commission for Africa report, which emphasizes accelerated economic growth and the participation of poor people in economic expansion.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The World Bank is the largest provider of development assistance to Africa, and it has increased its support dramatically in the past five years. IDA commitments of $3.9 billion in fiscal 2005 represented an increase of more than 80 percent compared with fiscal 2000, and disbursements of $4 billion, more than double the fiscal 2000 figure. Africa has also benefited from a total of $3.1 billion of relief from the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative. (See chapter 3.)
The Bank's strategy for assisting Africa is outlined in the Strategic Framework for IDA's Assistance to Africa, which draws on the report Can Africa Claim the 21st Century? The framework focuses on reducing conflict, improving governance, increasing economic growth, enhancing competitiveness and trade, and improving aid effectiveness. The strategy is complemented by a vision of "hopeful realism" about Africa's capacity to reduce poverty. This vision focuses on five areas: developing the private sector, increasing regional integration, building capacity, doubling aid flows, and increasing Africa's share of world trade.
In June 2005 the Bank sponsored a conference in Cape Town, South Africa, to focus on the challenge of financing Africa's huge infrastructure needs. More than 200 policy makers, financial experts, and private sector and civil society representatives attended.
(See also the IFC and MIGA annual reports.)
REDUCING CONFLICT
Conflict is estimated to cost affected African countries 2.2 percentage points of economic growth each year. In collaboration with NEPAD, the Bank is working to achieve peace and stability. These conditions are needed if countries in the region are to attract foreign investment and increase their exports.
In fiscal 2005 the Bank provided assistance to 17 conflict-affected countries and low-income countries under stress (see chapter 3). It also worked to increase transparency and reduce incentives for illegal trade in commodities linked to conflict, such as oil, gas, diamonds, timber, and precious metals.
A key objective of NEPAD is to help build capable and effective states that provide basic services, promote equity and security, and create an enabling environment for investment, wealth creation, and wealth sharing, particularly through the peer review mechanism. In support of this objective, the Bank directs more than 20 percent of its new lending toward public sector governance. Interventions cover expenditure management, civil service reform, decentralization, accountability mechanisms, and legal and judicial reform.
The Bank also provides catalytic grants to the Partnership for Capacity Building in Africa and assistance for the establish-
ment of the African Institutes for Science and Technology, which seek to increase scientific and technical achievement through regional approaches.
INCREASING ECONOMIC GROWTH, COMPETITIVENESS,
AND TRADE
Fifteen African countries averaged economic growth of 5 percent a year over the past decade, but their success was not enough to offset the continuing drop in Africa's share of world trade. Trade expansion requires strengthening the agriculture sector, which employs 70 percent of Africa's labor force and accounts for 40 percent of its exports. The Bank is promoting efforts to meet the objective of NEPAD's Comprehensive
African Agricultural Development Program of increasing agricultural output by 6 percent a year through 2015. It is working to liberalize intraregional trade, set up capital markets, eliminate cascading tariffs that penalize African products, and help ensure the successful conclusion of the Doha Round of trade negotiations.
INCREASING REGIONAL INTEGRATION
With 15 landlocked economies and a gross domestic product the size of Belgium's, Africa needs more effective regional integration to prosper. In July 2004 the Bank established a Regional Integration Department that will fund multicountry pilot projects worth about $500 million by fiscal 2007. Since fiscal 2001 the Bank has supported 11 similar projects total-
ing about $550 million. The programs cover trade facilitation, regional approaches to HIV/AIDS, private sector development, regional power systems, telecommunications, transport, tertiary health and education, agricultural research, migratory pests, food security, transnational environmental issues, and the weather-related vulnerability of rural communities.
BUILDING THE PRIVATE SECTOR
The private sector has the potential to be the engine for growth and job creation, but changes in the business environment are needed if that potential is to be realized. Africa is a high-cost, high-risk place to do business, according to the Bank's Doing Business in 2005 report. As a result, it received just $9 billion of the world's $135 billion in foreign direct investment in 2003. To help make Africa more attractive to foreign investors, the Bank is promoting constructive and practical partnerships between Africa's private sector and national governments. It also facilitates innovative approaches to financing. For example, the Bank, IFC, and MIGA are working together to support increased private participation in priority infrastructure projects. The Bank and IFC have also jointly begun a micro, small, and medium enterprises initiative.
SIMPLIFYING AND HARMONIZING AID FLOWS
Africa requires substantial increases in assistance to reach the 7 percent annual economic growth needed to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, to finance $17 billion in annual infrastructure investments, and to fund the $2.1 billion needed to attain the goal of Education for All. The Bank, which chairs the Strategic Partnership with Africa, is working to simplify, harmonize, and reduce the cost of providing aid to Africa. It is urging international partners to honor the promises they made in 2003 at the Monterrey Summit to increase assistance by $12 billion a year and to fulfill the commitments they made in the Commission for Africa report.
The economy of the East Asia and Pacific region is growing rapidly, and income poverty is falling. The region grew at 8.5 percent in 2004 and accounted for a third of the growth in world trade. The number of East Asians living on less than $2 a day declined by about 250 million between 1999 and
2004	— at a time when the population grew by 80 million. Countries in the region are on track to meet the Millennium Development Goal for poverty reduction, although there is wide variation in the pace of progress across and within countries.
China continues to exert strong economic influence, through trade and cross-border production networks. Its growth has helped strengthen economic integration within East Asia and has increased the region's integration into the global economy. Many countries are considering how to maximize the opportunity China presents while managing the challenges.
High prices for natural resources, especially oil, likely will slow growth in the year ahead. Several other risks also threaten to reduce the rate of growth. In some countries, corruption is impeding investment—and imposing a heavy
burden on poor and vulnerable people. If rapid growth is to continue, more attention needs to be paid to preserving the environment, managing natural resources, providing more and better infrastructure, improving capital markets, and continuing to strengthen institutions responsible for managing the economy. As the devastating earthquake and tsunami in December 2004 demonstrated, the region is also vulnerable to sudden natural or external shocks, adding to the challenge of maintaining stability and growth.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The Bank's overall strategy for the region aims to support broad-based economic growth, promote higher levels of trade and integration within the region and with the global economy, enhance the environment for governance at both the national and subnational levels, increase social stability, and achieve the Millennium Development Goals. To help reach those goals, the Bank approved $2.9 billion for the region in fiscal 2005, $1.1 billion in IDA grants and credits and $1.8
billion in IBRD loans. Carbon trust fund contracts in the amount of $33.1 million were signed this year, bringing the regional total committed for reducing global greenhouse gas emissions to $44.9 million.
To support the new Indonesian government's efforts to better manage public finances and fight corruption, the Bank approved a $300 million development policy loan and a $60 million financial management reform program just months after the new administration took office. The Bank also approved new assistance strategies for Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Pacific Island states, and the Philippines. Following the December 26, 2004, tsunami and earthquake, the Bank established a new multidonor trust fund at the Indonesian government's request to help coordinate some $500 million in grant funding contributed for reconstruction. Also, $20 million from previous Bank financing was redirected toward the tsunami reconstruction effort, and a $25 million grant was made. An additional $19 million in IDA credits was approved for this purpose in fiscal 2005.
To tailor its approach to individual countries, the Bank is increasingly working in partnership with other organizations (see box 2.1). This fiscal year it began preparing a joint assistance strategy for Cambodia with the United Kingdom's Department for International Development and the Asian Development Bank. In Thailand the Bank entered into a partnership with the Thai government, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation, the United States-Asia Environment Partnership, and the United Nations Development Programme to strengthen environmental management. Fiscal
2005	also saw the publication of the first joint study on infrastructure by the Asian Development Bank, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation, and the World Bank.
(See also the IFC and MIGA annual reports.)
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The Bank completed four investment climate assessments in the region in fiscal 2005, and another four are under way. In China city leaders are focusing on problems identified in the 23-city investment climate survey. The Harbin city government is working to reduce, from 400, the number of court days
needed to resolve commercial disputes. With Bank support, the Indonesian government is proposing to replace its system of licensing and approval of investments with one of registration and investment promotion. Efforts are focusing on streamlining procedures required to start a business—a process that currently takes 151 days.
The Bank is helping Cambodia develop a strategy for economic growth by promoting private sector development following the end of its preferential quotas on garments. In China the Bank is supporting efforts to improve cross-border links with Mongolia and the Russian Federation and to modernize the banking system. In Vietnam the Bank is helping to strengthen the customs system and modernize the banking system. In the Pacific Island states and the Philippines, measures to strengthen remittance and labor migration systems are being developed with the Bank's support and advice.
Governance continues to be a major emphasis for the Bank in East Asia. In fiscal 2005 the Bank conducted a regional study on decentralization that focuses on ways frontline officials can make local governments more effective. The findings were published by the Bank in East Asia Decentralizes: Making Local Government Work. In selected countries the Bank sought ways to identify and minimize fraud and corruption at various stages of the Bank project cycle. It is supporting judicial reform at the local level in Indonesia and systemic reform in the Philippines. Governance is also a cornerstone of the Country Assistance Strategies for Cambodia and the Philippines.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
Community development initiatives are at the core of the Bank's work to increase social stability in the region. In Aceh, Indonesia, where tsunami reconstruction work is being carried out alongside efforts to bring peace and stability to the region, the Kecamatan Development Program is bringing communities together to plan for the future with the help of trained local facilitators.
Fighting communicable diseases, increasing access to education, and improving the environment are the focus of Bank efforts to help countries in the region achieve the
Millennium Development Goals. In Papua New Guinea and Vietnam, the Bank is working to arrest the spread of HIV/AIDS. In the Philippines it is helping the government improve access to clean water and sanitation with an IFC investment for drinking water and a World Bank project for wastewater treatment in Manila.
As countries comply with the Kyoto Protocol, the demand for carbon finance is growing, particularly in China but also in the Philippines, Vietnam, and other countries in the region. In China the Bank and the Global Environment Facility are cofinancing a Renewable Energy Scale-Up Program, and the Bank is financing the China Heat Reform and Building Energy Efficiency Project, which will improve indoor and outdoor air quality.
CONNECTING EAST ASIA: ADDRESSING THE INFRASTRUCTURE CHALLENGE
" Connecting East Asia: A New Framework for Infrastructure," the first joint study by the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation, proposes a new framework for infrastructure development.
The approach seeks to ensure that infrastructure development allows more people to share in the benefits of economic growth. It promotes accountability and manages risks, particularly the risk of corruption. Launched in Tokyo this year, the study is being discussed throughout the region in consultations with policy makers, companies, official financiers, and other stakeholders.
The Nam Theun 2 Hydropower Project was approved in fiscal 2005 after more than a decade of study. It will provide the Lao People's Democratic Republic with much-needed revenues for poverty reduction programs. The private sector project, which is being guaranteed by the World Bank and MIGA and supported by the Asian Development Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Agence Frangaise de Developpement, and the Nordic Investment Bank, will enable Lao PDR to sell electricity to Thailand.
South Asia has the opportunity to reduce poverty significantly in the coming decades. Gross domestic product in the region grew an average of 5.6 percent a year between 1995 and 2004 and is expected to grow 6.2 percent in 2005.
With increased foreign reserves and stable macroeconomic policies, prospects for continued growth in the region remain strong. Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and some states in South India have already made substantial progress in human development. But South Asia still faces enormous challenges. Of the region's 1.4 billion people, 500 million live on less than $1 a day—about half the world's poor. Human deprivation is severe, particularly for disadvantaged populations and children. The rate of illiteracy, at 44 percent, is the highest in the world, and the region accounts for one-third of all maternal deaths.
Extraordinary events took place in South Asia in late
2004	and early 2005. Sri Lanka, southern India, and the Maldives were devastated by the tsunami (see box 2.2); Bangladesh was plagued by floods and a rise in political
violence; and Nepal continues to face a volatile political situation. At the same time, elections in Afghanistan created conditions for improved governance and development, changes in elected governments in India and Sri Lanka resulted in a shift toward policies that benefit the rural poor, and Pakistan enjoyed significant growth for the fourth consecutive year.
Dialogue among members of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation is providing new opportunities for economic integration—together with new challenges. Infrastructure needs to be developed within and between countries, and a private sector that can respond to new demands needs to be fostered.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The World Bank approved lending of nearly $5 billion to South Asia in fiscal 2005, $2.1 billion from IBRD and $2.9 billion from IDA. This assistance seeks to help meet the region's vast urban and rural infrastructure needs and address the deficiencies in its investment climate. Bank
support fosters accelerated human development in the region by focusing on four cross-cutting issues: equity and inclusion, public accountability, HIV/AIDS, and regional integration.
A strong component of the Bank's strategy is its analytic and advisory work (see chapter 3). A recent report on fiscal decentralization to rural governments in India reviewed panchayat council finances and made recommendations for improving the system. The Bank discussed a poverty and vulnerability study on Afghanistan, completed a study on persistent malnutrition in India, and completed a gender assessment of Pakistan, which is under discussion with the government. (See www.worldbank.org/sar.)
Partnerships with other development agencies are playing an increasing role in the Bank's assistance in the region. Support for human development is strong. Sectorwide approaches, as well as development policy loans, are becoming the norm for health and education operations in Bangladesh, India, Nepal, and Pakistan.
A new Country Assistance Strategy for India was discussed by the Bank in fiscal 2005. The strategy underscores equity and inclusion by signaling a shift in emphasis toward lagging regions, such as Orissa, one of the country's poorest states.
(See also the IFC and MIGA annual reports.)
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The Bank completed several investment climate assessments in South Asia in fiscal 2005. These included the Bank's first postconflict assessment of Afghanistan, a third assessment of India, the first subnational assessment (for the Indian state of Orissa), and a rural and urban assessment of Sri Lanka. Together with IFC and MIGA, the Bank held workshops for stakeholders on this work throughout the region.
The Bank approved $100 million to support the reform of tax administration and $300 million to support banking sector reforms in Pakistan. It also approved a $400 million loan to support India's rural roads program and a $620 million loan to improve part of the national highway system in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. It approved a $120 million loan to India to support the development of small and medium enterprises and a $53 million credit to Sri Lanka
to develop information technology that will improve public service delivery, increase private sector competitiveness, and bridge the digital divide.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
Central to the Bank's strategy in the region is the principle that South Asia's main resource is its people. Bank assistance is geared toward helping improve the standard of living across all tiers of society and removing obstacles that prevent people from participating in development and sharing in its benefits.
During fiscal 2005 the Bank increased its support to rural development, education, and health, with an emphasis on improving the delivery of social services. In Afghanistan the Bank provided a $35 million credit to improve the quality of education and a $40 million grant to fund higher education.
In Bangladesh it provided $100 million to improve access to and the quality of secondary education. In Nepal it approved a $50 million credit in support of the country's Education for All goals. In health the Bank provided $50 million to fund essential health care services for underserved populations in Nepal, $21.5 million to help Pakistan fight polio, $110 million
to the Indian state of Tamil Nadu to support development of its health system, and $300 million to Bangladesh to improve the quality of and access to health care.
In India the Bank approved a $125 million loan to support development in Orissa. The credit will help reduce fiscal stress and debt, freeing up resources for poverty reduction. The Bank approved a $200 million Development Support Credit to help Bangladesh pursue broad reforms to accelerate growth and reduce poverty. A similar operation was approved for Pakistan, making $300 million available to support that country's poverty reduction strategy.
An area of ongoing concern is HIV/AIDS, which has infected about 5 million people in South Asia. The Bank has stepped up its assistance to national programs to prevent the spread of the disease among highly vulnerable population groups, youth, and the general population. It is also facilitating dialogue between countries to share lessons learned and effective intervention practices.
The tsunami in the Indian Ocean in December 2004 was one of the worst natural disasters in modern times. In Sri Lanka the tsunami killed more than 31,000 people and destroyed almost 100,000 homes. In parts of India the tsunami caused enormous loss of assets along some 2,260 kilometers of coastline and widespread loss of livelihoods, especially from fishing. In the Maldives the tsunami inflicted severe damage on the entire country, equal to nearly two-thirds of the annual domestic economic output of the country.
The Bank, in collaboration with the Asian Development Bank, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation, and the United Nations, helped to rapidly prepare assessments of damage and reconstruction needs and provide substantial analytical and advisory support for preparation of reconstruction and recovery programs.
The Maldives received emergency support of $14 million (a $5.6 million IDA grant and an $8.4 million IDA credit), and the program requires an estimated $188 million of additional financing. In Sri Lanka and India sufficient resources have been mobilized to sustain the initial phases of reconstruction and recovery. The Bank provided emergency support of $150 million to Sri Lanka, including a $30 million IDA grant, a $45 million IDA credit, and a reallocation of $75 million under ongoing IDA-financed projects. Bank assistance approved for tsunami recovery in India was $528.5 million, including a $465 million emergency IDA credit. To help reduce future losses, the Bank will continue to fund projects that improve disaster preparedness and risk mitigation in the region.
The Europe and Central Asia region enjoyed another good year, with economic growth of 7.2 percent in 2004, reflecting strong growth in several countries. The Russian Federation grew 7.2 percent, Turkey grew 8.9 percent, and Ukraine grew 12.1 percent. As another mark of progress, the Czech Republic announced its intention to transition from being a recipient of Bank financial and technical assistance to being an important partner and provider of development assistance.
Most countries in the region have put in place the basic institutions and framework of open market economies. Poverty has declined significantly—40 million people moved out of poverty between 1999 and 2003 — but it remains widespread in Central Asia and the South Caucasus, where many countries confront development challenges similar to those faced by poor countries in Africa.
At the other end of the spectrum, the middle-income countries in the region face the same challenge as such countries everywhere—convergence with rich countries.
Per capita income in the eight newest members of the European Union is 40-60 percent that of the countries they joined, and convergence is expected to take 20-30 years. Middle-income countries such as Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia struggle with policy issues similar to those faced by other resource-rich countries, including the need to ensure good governance of oil revenues and reduce economic dependence on extractive industries.
Although countries are in various stages of transition, the legacy of central planning remains. On the positive side, human development indicators in education and health are relatively good. On the negative side, many towns are located in far-flung and unviable locations, especially in Russia; state bureaucracies are bloated and overextended; and serious environmental issues remain. Less than full recovery from the recession at the onset of transition and the emergence of new challenges mean that countries in the region face an uphill task in meeting the Millennium Development Goals, especially those related to health and the environment.
Particularly worrisome is the rapid spread of tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS: the region has one of the fastest-growing epidemics in the world.
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategies, tailored to meet the needs of each subregion, are organized around two broad themes: fostering growth and competitiveness by building a climate for investment, and fostering social inclusion. The Bank is also addressing global issues, such as HIV/AIDS—which goes hand in hand with youth issues in Europe and Central Asia—and key environmental challenges associated with biodiversity, water, carbon emissions, and renewable energy.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
Lending approved during fiscal 2005 reached $4.1 billion, including IBRD lending and guarantees of $3.6 billion and IDA commitments of $0.5 billion. The Bank delivered 98 pieces of economic and sector work and completed 68 technical assistance assignments. The Board was presented with Country Assistance Strategies for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Moldova, and Serbia and Montenegro; Country Partnership Strategies for Kazakhstan and Poland; a Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for Russia; and Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers or updates for Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, and Uzbekistan.
These products and services incorporate many innovative and cutting-edge features. Examples of innovative lending instruments are the sectorwide Poland Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, which relies on country fiduciary systems; multicountry operations, such as the adaptable program loan for the electricity community of South Eastern Europe and the umbrella technical assistance facility for the eight new members of the European Union; and the Partial Risk Guarantee operation for Romania, which will reduce the regulatory risk of privatizing electricity. In nonlending services, the Joint Economic Research Program with Kazakhstan is proving to be a promising model for shared analytic work in middle-income countries where demand outstrips Bank resources.
(See also the IFC and MIGA annual reports.)
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The climate for investment is improving in the region, albeit gradually and unevenly. Doing Business in 2005 ranked Lithuania and the Slovak Republic among the top 10 reformers in the world. But other countries in the region featured among the 10 worst in the world in the number of procedures required to start a business.
To support improvements in the investment climate, the Bank is focusing on the reform of policies and the development of institutions to maintain macroeconomic stability, promote competition and trade, improve private and public sector governance, reduce corruption, enhance financial intermediation, and improve physical infrastructure. A Poverty Reduction Support Credit to Armenia focuses on improving competition by liberalizing trade in air and rail services and enhancing the regulatory framework for utilities. In Poland the First Hard Coal Mine Closure Project is helping improve the efficiency of the sector by shutting down uneconomic mines and dealing with postclosure environmental issues.
Nonlending activities are also supporting the investment climate. The Bank completed investment climate assessments of the Kyrgyz Republic, Lithuania, Tajikistan, and Turkey.
In Serbia and Montenegro, establishment of a registration agency outside of the court system, which the Bank recommended, has reduced waiting times and procedures for starting a business. The Bank also undertook analytic work on the knowledge economy in Romania and cohosted the fourth Knowledge Economy Forum in Turkey.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
To foster participation in the development process, Bank operations emphasize improving access to and the quality of public services and increasing the economic and social integration of vulnerable groups.
The Azerbaijan Pilot Reconstruction Credit has helped reconstruct transport, energy, and other infrastructure in postconflict areas of the Upper Garabagh region and has financed 190 microprojects designed to improve the livelihoods of 160,000 beneficiaries. A follow-on project, the Azerbaijan Internally Displaced Persons Economic Development Support
Project, will improve the living conditions of displaced people and enhance their economic opportunities and prospects for social integration. The Kyrgyz Rural Education Project will improve incentives for teacher performance and provide textbooks and other learning materials. The Second Health Project in Uzbekistan, an expansion of the pilot reforms supported under the First Health Project, is designed to increase access to and the quality of primary health care in eight regions. The Bank has also helped to raise awareness of poverty and human development issues of the Roma population and has secured the long-term commitment of various actors to improving opportunities for them (see box 2.3).
Small and medium enterprises are key to growth in the Europe and Central Asia region.
A groundbreaking initiative to end centuries of isolation and discrimination against Europe's Roma population was launched on February 2, 2005, when government leaders from eight countries in Europe and Central Asia pledged to include the Roma as full and equal citizens of Europe. The Open Society Institute and the World Bank were the two principal sponsoring organizations of the initiative.
Roma, once known as gypsies, are one of the largest, poorest, and fastest-growing minorities in Europe. The Decade of Roma Inclusion Initiative aims to improve the economic and social status of the 7-9 million Roma in the region by improving their education, health care, housing, and job opportunities. Under the
initiative, each government will implement a national action plan for improvement that includes precise targets to be met by 2015. The initiative also provides a mechanism for annually monitoring the implementation of the action plans.
Before the launch of the Roma Decade, donors, including the World Bank, pledged $42 million toward the Roma Education Fund, which aims to help countries improve education outcomes for the Roma.
For more information on the World Bank's work on the Roma, please visit www.worldbank.org/roma. The Web site of the Decade of Roma Inclusion is www.romadecade.org.
The Latin America and the Caribbean region experienced its strongest economic growth in 24 years in 2004, growing 6 percent, up from 2 percent in 2003. This performance reflects high demand for the region's exports, booming commodity prices, ample global liquidity, and improved domestic policies, such as floating exchange rate arrangements and adjustments in fiscal and current accounts. In line with global output and trade, growth in the region is expected to slow moderately to about 4.3 percent in 2005.
The region has abundant natural resources and average incomes in the middle-income range, but it is marked by high inequality and entrenched poverty and exclusion. Development challenges facing the region's 30 countries include increasing investment and productivity; reducing economic volatility; broadening access to services, credit, and land; and strengthening infrastructure, institutions, and governance.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
World Bank support to the region aims to reduce poverty through sustained, equitable growth and a focus on the poorest
and most vulnerable people. Priorities include improving the investment climate and competitiveness in order to foster job creation; strengthening education and creating innovative systems for enhancing human capital and increasing productivity; improving public sector governance and institutions; fostering social equity and inclusion; achieving an inclusive but affordable welfare system; strengthening environmental institutions and promoting the effective use of natural resources; consolidating macroeconomic and financial stability; and using fiscal resources for infrastructure investments.
Bank lending approved for Latin America and the Caribbean reached $5.2 billion in fiscal 2005, $4.9 billion in IBRD lending and $0.3 billion in IDA credits and grants. This financing was designed to support innovative solutions that integrate technical knowledge with customized local approaches.
During fiscal 2005 the Bank made its first development policy loans to the region. The loans support the strengthening of social sectors in Bolivia, fiscal reform and housing sector policy in Brazil, broad-based growth in El Salvador, debt relief and the development of the financial sector in Honduras, and
social programs in Uruguay. New results-focused Country Assistance Strategies were prepared for the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Jamaica, and Uruguay.
In Haiti the Bank supported development of a needs assessment (the Interim Cooperation Framework), endorsed a Transitional Support Strategy, and provided a first package of IDA credits and grants totaling $75 million.
The Bank's analytic and advisory support to the region in fiscal 2005 included a flagship study of the rural sector (see box 2.4) and analytic work on building the climate for investment and fostering participation in development.
(See also the IFC and MIGA annual reports.)
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Across the region the Bank is assisting countries in their efforts to reduce the red tape that hinders private sector development and to address the poor logistics that make products costly and businesses unprofitable. Major financing to the region in fiscal 2005 included a $658 million loan to Brazil for programmatic fiscal reform and social security reform; a $250 million loan to Mexico to support innovation for competitiveness; a $200 million loan to Argentina for sustainable investment in infrastructure; a $200 million loan to Colombia for labor reform and social structural adjustment; a $100 million loan to Peru for improving decentralization and competitiveness, along with a $200 million guarantee facility; and a $150 million loan to the Dominican Republic for strengthening the power sector.
To help identify priorities for public expenditure reform, the Bank carried out public expenditure reviews of Guatemala, Mexico, Paraguay, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Uruguay in fiscal 2005. It completed investment climate surveys for Brazil, Ecuador, El Salvador, and Guatemala and launched surveys for Costa Rica and Jamaica. The results of the survey for El Salvador were used to design the first development policy loan for the country and provide benchmarks for monitoring and evaluating the loan. The Bank conducted other analytic work on growth and competitiveness, trade reform and labor market risk, labor competitiveness, migration (in the context of the North
American Free Trade Agreement), the Central America Free Trade Agreement, and innovation.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
The Bank is promoting efforts to reduce poverty, improve poor people's access to basic services, and increase the participation of excluded groups by funding programs in health, education, environmental protection, social inclusion, and social protection. In Mexico, northern Peru, and the Southern Cone countries, Development Marketplaces have encouraged innovation and have promoted young people's participation in development.
Bank lending in fiscal 2005 included $503 million for environmental sustainability and $503 million for housing reform in Brazil, $300 million for basic education in Mexico, $260 million for disaster vulnerability reduction in Colombia, $100 million for social reform in Peru, and $40 million for land administration in El Salvador.
The Bank supported countries' national antipoverty plans by endorsing Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Progress Reports for Guyana and Honduras. The Bank's analytic and advisory support included poverty assessments for Bolivia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, and Peru, and studies of youth development in Brazil, social protection in Central America,
and poverty, inequality, and economic growth in Argentina. Regional studies were conducted on social security, service delivery reform, urban poverty, health care reform, education reform, and indigenous people, poverty, and human development.
To increase access to information about the Bank's activities and foster informed debate on development issues, the Bank extended its public information services to 12 Latin American and Caribbean countries. It also contributed to knowledge sharing and capacity building through the Global Development Learning Network, which offers programs on health, small and medium enterprises, rural development, and education (see chapter 1).
HOW IMPORTANT ARE RURAL ACTIVITIES TO DEVELOPMENT?
According to a new Bank report, Beyond the City: The Rural Contribution to Development, the economic contribution of the region's rural activities to national development is twice as large as officially reported. This is because these activities have forward linkages to other economic activities and their contribution to exports is high. The report also finds that the region's rural population is twice the official figure, indicating that the scale of rural problems has been underestimated. The implication: the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean need to make larger—and better — investments in rural communities.
On the trade side, the report finds, countries throughout the region are likely to benefit from increased market access once the industrial nations reduce their subsidies to agricultural producers. But the benefits will go mainly to net agricultural exporters, especially in the Southern Cone, while food-importing nations in the region will see prices rise. To avoid price increases for poor
consumers, net importers will need to reduce their own high tariffs on agricultural products.
The study concludes that countries need to put in place programs that support the restructuring of small domestic producers in sectors that are unable to compete once tariffs are reduced. At the same time, to sustain growth and reduce poverty, rural public expenditure needs to be diverted away from producer subsidies toward investments in public goods, including health and social protection, rural education, rural infrastructure, research and development, environmental protection, and targeted antipoverty programs.
Poverty in rural areas, the report finds, is associated not only with agriculture but also with specific regions, such as southern Mexico, northeastern Brazil, and Colombia's Caribbean coast. Moreover, nearly half of rural income in the region comes from off-farm activities. These findings highlight the need for better integration of sectoral and regional policies.
The Middle East and North Africa region grew an average of
4.7	percent a year from 2002 through 2004, a marked increase from the 3.7 percent average of the 1990s. This strong economic performance was accompanied by job creation that reduced the unemployment rate from 15 percent in 2000 to 13.4 percent in 2004.
This recent economic upturn notwithstanding, the region remains highly vulnerable to fluctuating global energy prices. Providing jobs for today's unemployed and tomorrow's job-seekers will require creating 5 million new jobs a year for the next 20 years. To do so, the region will need to develop a stronger private sector, diversify its markets, and increase global trade.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
Recognition of the urgent need for jobs underpins the Bank's strategy in the region. The regional strategy focuses on five challenges: strengthening governance and public sector management, promoting private sector development and employment, enhancing the quality of education so the region can better
compete in the global economy, ensuring equal opportunities for men and women (see box 2.5), and managing and conserving scarce water resources.
In support of these priorities, the Bank approved lending of $1.3 billion in fiscal 2005. The bulk of this assistance,
$1.2 billion, was channeled through IBRD financing to middle-income countries; $0.1 billion was provided as IDA concessional financing to low-income countries.
The Bank also delivered more than 60 pieces of economic and sector work in fiscal 2005. This work tackled a variety of issues, including pensions, education, public spending, and labor markets. In addition, the Bank produced a regional report, Middle East and North Africa Region 2005 Economic Developments and Prospects, which examines prospects for growth and measures progress toward structural reforms.
For countries in the region that are not eligible for borrowing, the Bank continues to provide advisory services under the Reimbursable Technical Cooperation Program. In fiscal
2005,	Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab
Emirates received advice on policy reforms in areas such as the investment climate, education, and human resources planning.
In conflict-affected areas, the Bank administered trust funds on behalf of international donors to address emergency needs and strengthen local institutions. Nine trust fund operations were launched in Iraq to restore essential infrastructure and services, and extensive training was provided to help Iraqi ministries take ownership of reconstruction projects. In the West Bank and Gaza, the Bank helped develop an economic plan that outlines measures the Palestinian Authority and the government of Israel need to take in order to rebuild the Palestinian economy as part of the disengagement process.
(See also the IFC and MIGA annual reports.)
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
In fiscal 2005 the Bank conducted investment climate assessments, which identify key barriers to doing business, for the Arab Republic of Egypt, Iraq, Morocco, Oman, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, and the Republic of Yemen. It also conducted analyses of trade logistics in Syria and the Republic of Yemen and funded an export development project in Tunisia.
Efforts to improve the investment climate go beyond reducing business costs and ensuring enforcement of contracts. The Bank is working to foster good corporate governance in Egypt. In Iraq it is supporting capacity building to manage the transition to a market-based economy.
Improving infrastructure services requires providing a better investment climate for service providers. The Bank is helping governments to better manage their public resources through competition and to improve regulation to facilitate private participation. Egypt is leading the way in this area, with the Airports Development Project. In Algeria, Iraq, and Tunisia, the Bank is supporting the modernization of information infrastructure services through private investment.
In countries struck by natural disaster, restoring basic infrastructure is critical to reviving the local economy. In response to the 2004 earthquake in Bam, Iran, the Bank is supporting the reconstruction of telecommunication and transport infrastructure.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
The region has made remarkable progress in increasing access to education. But it continues to face challenges in developing a high-quality education system that can respond to the needs of the future job market.
A Bank-supported education reform program in Morocco seeks to increase access to basic education for most school-age children by 2008, improve learning, and reduce dropout and repetition rates. In Egypt a Bank loan is helping the government provide good-quality early education, particularly for disadvantaged children. In Iraq, where nearly one-third of schools have to hold double or triple sessions daily, the Bank is working through a multidonor trust fund to finance the construction of new buildings for more than 100 schools and urgent repairs to 140 others.
In the Republic of Yemen, where less than half the adult population is literate, the Bank is assisting national efforts to meet the Millennium Development Goals of universal primary education and gender equality by 2015. It is supporting reforms designed to create an education system in which vulnerable groups—including girls, children with special needs, and rural children—will benefit from investments in education. The Social Fund in Yemen is involving the local population in community-based projects. More than 9 million Yemenis benefited from some 400 projects in education, health, water and sanitation, and roads, which created millions of temporary employment opportunities.
Access to information is key to promoting participation and ensuring transparency and accountability. In partnership with universities and local organizations, the Bank helped
establish Public Information Centers in Algeria, Egypt, Lebanon, Morocco, the West Bank and Gaza, and the Republic of Yemen. These centers provide people with access to information, including the Internet.
As part of an ongoing effort to engage with civil society in the region, the Bank launched Development Marketplace competitions in Lebanon and the Republic of Yemen. Hundreds of proposals were submitted for innovative grassroots projects to fight poverty. Winners were given seed money to transform development ideas into projects.
In Egypt and Lebanon, the Bank held consultations with civil society on Country Assistance Strategies, engaging stakeholders in a dialogue on the development challenges they face and how best to address them.
INCREASING BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN
Women and girls have made great strides in education in most countries in the region. Gender gaps in primary and secondary education are likely to be eliminated as early as 2005, and nearly as many women are graduating from universities as men. Women lag behind in labor and political participation, however, due to social norms and traditions. High unemployment and discrimination in the workplace have led women to become entrepreneurs, investors, and producers. But they face significant barriers in the business world.
To support the creation of more work opportunities for women, the Bank is adapting its investment climate assessments to better respond to the needs of women entrepreneurs. This pilot initiative examines gender discrepancies in access to financing, networks, and markets.
Preliminary findings from Morocco, Oman, and Syria suggest that women and men face similar constraints related to land, electricity, legal systems, and economic uncertainty. But corruption affects women more than men, and women face network-related barriers that make it difficult for them to enter business circles dominated by men. Focus groups conducted with owners of microenterprises and small businesses suggest that women have less access to capital, market knowledge, and the skills needed to succeed. As a result, women-owned businesses are generally less formal, smaller, and less profitable than those owned by men.
The Bank, in collaboration with IFC's Gender-Entrepreneurship-Markets Program, is looking to use these findings to identify how gender-related business constraints can be overcome through technical assistance and policy reform. A pilot project is now being carried out in Egypt and the Republic of Yemen.
SHARING KNOWLEDGE
The Bank's store of development knowledge has always been an important element of its assistance to client countries. Knowledge activities range from carrying out country research, to developing analytic and conceptual frameworks for country assistance, to capacity building that enables client countries to build the skills necessary for development.
Research
The World Development Report 2006: Equity and Development (to be published in September 2005) examines the relationship between equity and the development process. The report maintains that increasing equality of opportunity and preventing extreme deprivation are tools for increasing prosperity, and that, in the long run, equity and efficiency are complementary. (See www.worldbank.org/wdr2006 and http://econ .worldbank.org.)
Economic Growth in the 1990s: Learning from a Decade of Reforms, published during fiscal 2005, is a flagship study on development lessons learned from the 1990s. The study reviews the impact on growth of the main policy and institutional reforms introduced in the 1990s; it presents a broad perspective on the events, country experiences, academic research, and controversies of the decade; and it reflects on how the lessons from the 1990s have altered thinking about economic growth.
Analytic and Advisory Services
The Bank augments its lending activities by creating, sharing, and applying knowledge. Most of its analytic and advisory services consist of economic and sector work and nonlending technical assistance.
The Bank delivered 694 economic and sector work products and 351 technical assistance products in fiscal
2005.	Financial and private sector development and public sector governance were the leading themes for both economic and sector work and technical assistance. Analytic activities are being better integrated into overall country assistance programs, with increasing emphasis on country ownership, participatory processes, capacity building, and partnerships.
In fiscal 2005 the Bank hosted its fifth annual Country Analytic Work workshop, attended by 40 representatives from more than 20 development agencies and governments. These workshops aim to avoid duplication of analytic work, reduce transaction costs for clients, and establish common standards for key sector-specific analytic products. More than 30 donor agencies participate in knowledge sharing through the Country Analytic Work Web site, www.countryanalyticwork.net.
The Bank's Quality Assurance Group conducted assessments of the Bank's country analytic and advisory services for 17 countries in fiscal 2005. Two of these were pilot country program assessments that looked at the lending and portfolio performance over the entire Country Assistance Strategy cycle. These assessments provided greater insight into synergies among tasks that could not be captured by task-by-task assessments alone. Building on earlier assessments for nine countries conducted in fiscal 2002 and 2003, this year's assessments focused on new directions such as the Bank's results initiative, programmatic lending, multisector teams, and capacity building. The Bank has conducted 36 assessments of its country analytic and advisory services to date.
Sector Strategies
The Bank produced two important sector strategy papers in fiscal 2005. "Empowering People by Transforming Institutions: Social Development in World Bank Operations" is the Bank's action plan for social development (see chapter 1). "Achieving the MDGs,Broadening Our Perspective, Maximizing Our Effectiveness" suggests how a client country can attain the Education for All goals and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) for education, thus strengthening its education sector as the basis for a dynamic knowledge economy. The Bank also produced the first Sector Strategy Implementation Update, an integrated assessment of all Bank sector and thematic strategies.
Capacity Development
The World Bank Institute (WBI) provides client countries with a capacity development program comprising technical assistance, thematic learning programs, cabinet-level
retreats, and other leadership development programs. It uses knowledge economy, governance, and other diagnostic tools for assessing critical country capacities in its economic and sector work. Since the Institute's inception in 1955 more than 500,000 people have participated in WBI activities.
In fiscal 2005 nearly 110,000 clients participated in more than 900 WBI activities, many through distance and e-learning. (See box 1.2, "The World in One Room," in chapter 1.) Since 2002 WBI has been transforming itself from a training institute into a more broadly based provider of services, focusing its attention on a group of 36 countries representing all regions. During the year, WBI contributed substantively to 11 Country Assistance Strategies.
WBI's global Knowledge for Development Program works closely with Bank country teams to assess the preparedness of a country or region to compete in the global knowledge economy based on its Knowledge Assessment Methodology diagnostic tool. (See www.worldbank.org/kam.) The program's most recent book, India and the Knowledge Economy: Leveraging Strengths and Opportunities, makes specific recommendations for economic and institutional reforms.
A WBI "knowledge hub" in Marseilles, France, serves as the focal point for program development in the Middle East and North Africa. WBI staff are also placed in country offices. In response to demand from the Bank's South Asia region, WBI is creating a regional unit in New Delhi. (See www.worldbank.org/wbi.) WBI's other global program, focused on governance and anticorruption, is described in chapter 1.
WORLD BANK LENDING
The World Bank comprises cooperative institutions that mobilize financing from member shareholder equity by borrowing from international capital markets (for IBRD) and by means of outright contributions from the richer member countries (for IDA). It channels these resources to benefit poor people in borrowing countries. Figures 3.1-3.3 and table 3.1 provide a summary of this year's IBRD-IDA lending.
Country lending reflects the Bank's focus on achieving the MDGs. It is tailored to individual country needs, with lending instruments that are becoming increasingly flexible.
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) guides World Bank Group activities within borrowing member countries. Starting from a country's vision of its development goals, the CAS is prepared in consultation with the government, civil society organizations, development partners, and other stakeholders. It assesses the country's development situation and suggests a program of support tailored to meet the country's needs. The objective is to identify areas in which Bank Group
support can best assist the country's own efforts to achieve sustainable development and reduce poverty.
During fiscal 2005 the Bank prepared 36 Country Assistance Strategies and CAS Progress Reports, including 22 for IDA-eligible borrowers and blend-eligible borrowers and 14 for IBRD-eligible borrowers. Fourteen of these were prepared jointly with IFC. The Bank also prepared eight Interim Strategy Notes, which are drafted for countries that are not yet ready for a full CAS.
The results-based CAS is now being adopted for all full Country Assistance Strategies. Under this approach, expected links between the Bank's interventions and a country's longterm development goals are presented, in matrix format, and indicators of progress that can be tracked throughout CAS implementation are included. The approach is expected to improve the development effectiveness of the Bank's country strategies. (See www.worldbank.org/cas.)
LOW-INCOME COUNTRIES
The Bank's mission of poverty reduction is vital in low-income countries, where the incidence of poverty is the highest, the institutional constraints are most severe, the investment climate may not be conducive to sustainable growth, and access to resources is most limited. Bank strategy for attacking poverty in low-income countries is based on the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) approach, introduced at the end of 1999. PRSPs are country-authored, results-oriented, comprehensive road maps based on broad country consultation with internal and external partners and stakeholders. The PRSP identifies a country's macroeconomic, structural, and social policies and serves as the framework for cross-sectoral programs that promote growth and reduce poverty. It acts as the basis for development aid, including IDA credits.
During fiscal 2005 the Bank's Executive Directors considered eight full PRSPs, including one fully revised second PRSP, and two interim PRSPs. Forty-seven countries now have full PRSPs. In addition, 20 countries provided annual progress reports on their poverty reduction strategies. Jointly with the International Monetary Fund, the Bank reviewed the poverty reduction strategy process to consider progress and challenges. The review assessed the experiences of countries, donors, and other stakeholders, including civil society organizations; identified lessons learned from those experiences; and made recommendations for enhancing the process.
PRSP-based IDA assistance to low-income countries includes Poverty Reduction Support Credits, which support country-owned poverty reduction priorities as reflected in government budgets. In fiscal 2005 the Executive Directors of the World Bank approved 17 credits in 17 countries.
The Role of IDA
IDA is the largest source of concessional financial assistance for the world's poorest countries. In fiscal 2005 countries with annual per capita income of up to $895 were eligible for IDA assistance. IDA also supports some countries, including several small island economies, that are above the income cutoff but lack the creditworthiness needed to borrow from IBRD. The amount of IDA resources countries receive depends on the quality of their policies to promote growth and reduce poverty, which are assessed annually.
IDA recipient countries face complex challenges in meeting the MDGs. Policy priorities include promoting growth and reducing poverty; enhancing public sector governance and transparency; helping countries recover from conflicts, crises, and disasters; developing infrastructure; improving the quality of basic education and poor people's access to it; strengthening the fight against HIV/AIDS and other communicable diseases; and building a healthy investment climate as a prerequisite for private sector investment. (See chapter 1.)
Traditionally, IDA provided assistance in the form of highly concessional credits. Since fiscal 2003 it has expanded the use of grants, which will be used to finance projects in the most debt-vulnerable IDA countries beginning in fiscal 2006. (See IDA at www.worldbank.org.)
IDA Commitments
IDA commitments in fiscal 2005 reached $8.7 billion for 160 operations, consisting of $6.7 billion in credits, $2 billion in grants, and $0.1 billion in guarantees. This is slightly below last year's record high.
Africa received the largest commitment of IDA resources with $3.9 billion, constituting 45 percent of total IDA commitments. South Asia and East Asia and Pacific followed with $2.9 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. Fiscal 2005 marked the last year of the IDA13 replenishment, and the limits on IDA13 resources had an impact on Africa figures in particular. Among countries, India, Vietnam, Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Ethiopia represented the largest single recipients.
In fiscal 2005 about 21 percent of total IDA financing was provided in the form of grants to the following clients and projects: debt-vulnerable poorest countries, $897 million; postconflict countries, $463 million; poorest countries, $316 million;HIV/AIDS projects, $133 million; and natural disaster reconstruction projects, $49 million.
Public administration, including law and justice, was the leading sector receiving IDA support, with $2.2 billion, or 26 percent of the total. Significant support was also provided to the health and social services and transportation sectors, representing $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.
The two most prominent themes were human development and rural development, accounting for 19 and 17 percent of IDA commitments, respectively. Major attention was also paid to financial and private sector development (16 percent), public sector governance (16 percent), and social protection and risk management (8 percent). Figures 3.4, 3.5, and 3.6 show IDA commitments by region, theme, and sector.
IDA Resources
IDA is financed by its own resources and by donor governments. Every three years donor governments and representatives of borrower countries meet to discuss IDA's policies and priorities and to agree on the amount of new resources required to fund IDA's lending program. Historically, the major industrial nations have been the largest contributors to IDA. Donor nations also include developing countries and transition economies—some of them current IBRD borrowers and former IDA borrowers.
Negotiations for the 14th Replenishment of IDA (IDA14) concluded in February 2005. The IDA14 agreement, which governs the use of IDA resources for fiscal years 2006-8, provides 24.2 billion in special drawing rights (SDRs)(about $35.3 billion). This amount includes SDR14.1 billion (about $20.7 billion) in new donor contributions; SDR8.7 billion (about $12.7 billion) in internal resources, including repayments of principal from past credits and investment income; and SDR1.1 billion (about $1.5 billion) in IBRD net income transfers, subject to approval by IDA's Board of Governors. Donor countries made firm financial commitments to the replenishment, but some are still exploring the possibility of increasing pledges to reach the 30 percent target increase in commitment authority supported by IDA donors. (See figure
3.7	for the sources of IDA funding, and figure 3.8 for IDA's impact on social sector efforts.)
Low-Income Countries under Stress
Effective engagement with low-income countries under stress (LICUS) is essential for long-term development and global security. Work continued this year on increasing the effectiveness of aid, with the Bank providing close oversight of progress in the 25 most fragile states. Heightened operational readiness and close partnerships with other donors allowed fast and flexible support in postconflict countries such as Haiti, Liberia, and Sudan. To improve links between security and development, the Bank and the United Nations Development Group developed the Transitional Results Matrix, a planning tool that helps countries prioritize and enhance the coherence of international support across political, security, economic, development, and humanitarian arenas.
Bank research demonstrated the high costs fragile states impose on their neighbors and the inequity of aid allocations between "aid darlings" and "aid orphans." This led to an agreement for the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development to develop a watching brief system for these countries. The Bank also cosponsored a senior-level forum, "Development Effectiveness in Fragile States," which helped develop common principles for good international engagement in these countries.
The Bank implemented several institutional reforms to improve its response in LICUS. The Country Policy and Institutional Assessment rating system was amended to recognize performance improvements at the bottom of the spectrum. Aggregate budgets for analytic work were maintained, and the LICUS Trust Fund committed $20 million to support reengagement in the most fragile countries in nonaccrual with the Bank. (See www.worldbank.org/licus.)
Debt Relief and Debt Sustainability
The Bank continued to provide debt relief to the world's poorest and most heavily indebted countries in fiscal 2005. It also worked to improve debt sustainability in an effort to help these countries meet the MDGs.
Under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative (www.worldbank.org/debt), 27 countries are now receiving debt relief that is expected to total more than $54 billion over time. Eighteen countries have reached the "completion point," where debt relief becomes irrevocable.
In fiscal 2005 the boards of the Bank and the International Monetary Fund voted to extend the HIPC Initiative through December 31, 2006. Unlike previous extensions, this one applies only to countries that satisfied HIPC income and indebtedness criteria as of the end of 2004.
The debt relief program has significantly reduced debt stock in HIPCs (see figure 3.9) and has allowed poverty-reducing spending in those countries to rise (figure 3.10).
Together with the International Monetary Fund, the Bank has developed a framework for assessing debt sustainability in low-income countries that will guide lending decisions in a way that balances a country's need for funds with its ability to service debt, and in a manner tailored to the country's circumstances. The framework reflects feedback from extensive consultations with government officials, multilateral and bilateral donors, academics, and civil society organizations.
MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
Middle-income countries continue to face substantial development challenges: achieving sustained growth that provides
productive employment; reducing poverty and inequality; reducing volatility, particularly in their access to private financial markets; and strengthening the institutional and governance structures that underpin viable market-based economies. The Bank is uniquely placed to help these countries craft institutional reforms, attract infrastructure investment across the public-private spectrum, improve social service delivery, and cope with volatility.
To support the development efforts of middle-income countries, the Bank began implementing an action plan in fiscal 2005 designed to strengthen the ability of its staff to respond to these countries' borrowing needs. Initiatives include piloting the use of countries' own environmental and social safeguards and fiduciary systems, where applicable; streamlining policy conditionality; and making greater use of the flexibility of Country Assistance Strategies to customize support to country circumstances, respond quickly to emerging opportunities, and realign investment lending instruments and disbursement mechanisms with the evolving needs of clients. The plan leverages Bank resources and skills to provide timely, relevant, and high-quality knowledge services that draw on Bank Group synergies and partnerships with bilateral and multilateral agencies.
The Role of IBRD
IBRD is a AAA-rated financial institution—with some unusual characteristics. Its shareholders are sovereign governments, each of which has a voice in setting its policies and many of which are eligible to borrow from it. IBRD's main goal is to reduce poverty by promoting sustainable economic development in middle-income and creditworthy low-income borrowing countries. It provides financing (loans, guarantees, and related risk management tools) and expertise in development-related technical disciplines.
It helps clients gain access to capital and financial risk management tools in larger volumes, on better terms, at longer maturities, and in a more sustainable manner than they could receive from other sources. Unlike commercial banks, IBRD is driven by development impact rather than profit maximization.
Eligibility to Borrow from IBRD
In fiscal 2005 countries with a per capita income of less than $5,295 that were not IDA-only borrowers were eligible to borrow from IBRD. Countries with higher per capita incomes were able to borrow from IBRD under special circumstances or as part of a graduation strategy. The amount IBRD is willing to lend eligible countries depends on their creditworthiness; some countries with poor creditworthiness may not have
access to IBRD resources. Some countries that are eligible for IDA lending as a result of their low per capita incomes are also able to borrow from IBRD. IBRD loans outstanding to any individual borrowing country may not exceed $13.5 billion.
IBRD Lending
At $13.6 billion for 118 operations, new loans, guarantees, and guarantee facilities by IBRD in fiscal 2005 exceeded the previous year's level by over $2 billion. This represents the highest volume of IBRD lending in the past six fiscal years.
The share of development policy-based lending was slightly lower than in fiscal 2004.
Latin America and the Caribbean received the highest level of IBRD loans and guarantees, with $4.9 billion or 36 percent of total IBRD commitments, followed by Europe and Central Asia with $3.6 billion and South Asia with $2.1 billion. Lending was slightly less concentrated than it was in fiscal
2004.	Whereas five countries received roughly 57 percent of total lending in fiscal 2004, five countries—Brazil, China, Colombia, India, and Turkey—received a combined commitment volume equaling 53 percent of total IBRD lending in fiscal 2005.
Among sectors, public administration, including law and justice, received the highest volume of IBRD lending ($3.4 billion), followed by transportation ($2.1 billion), and water, sanitation, and flood protection ($1.6 billion).
The thematic composition of lending in fiscal 2005 was led by financial and private sector development, followed by environmental and natural resource management and social protection and risk management. Figures 3.11, 3.12, and 3.13 show IBRD lending by region, theme, and sector. Development policy-based lending commitments are shown on the accompanying CD-ROM.
IBRD Resources
IBRD obtains most of its funds by selling bonds in international capital markets. In fiscal 2005 it raised $13 billion at medium- to long-term maturities, roughly the same as in fiscal 2004. Debt securities, with a wide range of maturities and structures, were issued in 13 currencies.
IBRD is able to borrow high volumes for long maturities on very favorable terms. IBRD's financial strength is based on its prudent financial policies and practices. These help IBRD maintain its high credit rating.
As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn enough income to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities. IBRD's net income, excluding net unrealized gains (losses) on nontrad-
ing (borrowings related) derivative instruments, as required by Financial Accounting Standard 133 and International Accounting Standard 39, was $1,320 million in fiscal 2005. IBRD retained $589.5 million in its general reserve and $68 million in its pension reserve, added $52.5 million to the surplus account, and transferred $400 million to IDA and $210 million to the HIPC Trust Fund. (See Financial Statements on the accompanying CD-ROM.)
IBRD maintained adequate liquidity in fiscal 2005 to ensure its ability to meet its obligations. As of June 30, 2005, it held about $26.4 billion in liquid assets.
As of June 30, 2005, IBRD's outstanding borrowings from capital markets were about $91.5 billion (net of swaps) (see figure 3.14). Total disbursed and outstanding loans were $104.4 billion. Borrowings exceeded equity by a factor of about three.
Consistent with IBRD's development mandate, the principal risk it takes is the country credit risk inherent in its portfolio of loans and guarantees. Risks related to interest and exchange rates are minimized. One summary measure of the Bank's risk profile is the ratio of balance sheet equity to outstanding net loans, which is closely managed in line with the Bank's financial and risk outlook. This stood at 31.4 percent as of June 30,
2005	(see figure 3.15).
PARTNERSHIPS
Globalization has brought about dramatic changes that require collective action by public, private, and civil society stakeholders. The Bank works with partners to manage global, regional, and country programs where partners share knowledge and play a joint role in funding, governance, or management. These programs have become an important line of business for the Bank. During fiscal 2005 the Bank worked in consultation with key partners to develop a strategic framework that will improve the Bank's selectivity and guide its support to high-priority programs with potential for strong development impact. (See "Evaluating the Bank's Work" in chapter 1.)
Trust Funds
World Bank-administered trust funds foster partnerships by mobilizing and directing concessional resources to support poverty reduction across a wide range of sectors and regions, supporting clients in achieving development results at the global, regional, and country levels. Much of the recent growth in these funds reflects the international community's desire for the Bank to help manage broad global initiatives through multilateral partnerships, such as the Global Fund to Combat AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; the Global Environment
SUMMARY OF FISCAL YEAR ACTIVITIES	63
Facility; and the HIPC Initiative. Trust funds also support the World Bank Group's own development operations and work programs. Many of these activities are described in the World Bank's Trust Funds Annual Report. (See site index at www .worldbank.org.)
Contributions, Funds Held in Trust, and Disbursements
Contributions from donors in fiscal 2005 totaled $4.8 billion, a decrease of 2 percent from fiscal 2004. Funds held in trust rose to $9.3 billion, an 8 percent increase. The top 10 donors accounted for 78 percent of all contributions (see table 3.2). Disbursements during fiscal 2005 totaled $4.2 billion, an increase of 29 percent over fiscal 2004.
New Trust Fund Programs
In response to emerging development challenges, the donor community agreed to establish several new major trust fund programs during fiscal 2005.
Indonesia—Multidonor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra The trust fund will support the rehabilitation and reconstruction of this area in the wake of the earthquake and tsunami that struck in December 2004. Eight donors, including the Bank, have indicated their intention to contribute a total of $444 million.
Sudan—Postconflict Multidonor Trust Funds Funds were pledged toward Sudan's identified reconstruction and development needs through the creation of two multidonor trust funds—one for the north and one for the south of the country. A total of $508 million was pledged for the 2005-7 period.
Vietnam—Poverty Reduction Support Credit Program
Combined funding by five donors for $169 million cofinances an IDA grant of $100 million to provide a series of annual Poverty Reduction Support Credits from fiscal 2004 to
2006.	These credits are aligned with Vietnam's reform agenda and are aimed at transition to a market economy, social policies, and programs that are equitable and inclusive, and at the adoption of modern public administration and governance systems.
Newly Established Carbon Finance Arrangements Three new major carbon finance arrangements were established this year. The Danish Carbon Fund, with contributions totaling $40 million, and the Spanish Carbon Fund, with contributions of $213 million, are designed to stimulate capital flows for sustainable development through the purchase of eligible
carbon emission reductions under the Kyoto Protocol. The Carbon Finance Assistance Trust Fund was set up as an $11 million multidonor facility supporting technical assistance in recipient countries.
Cofinancing
Cofinancing is any arrangement under which funds from the Bank are associated with funds provided by sources from outside the recipient country for a specific lending project or program. Typical cofinanciers include official bilateral and multilateral agencies, and foundations, which provide mostly concessional funding to recipient countries. In fiscal
2005,	123 Bank projects leveraged $9.3 billion in cofinancing. Major cofinanciers were the Inter-American Development Bank ($2.2 billion) and the United Kingdom's Department for International Development ($0.6 billion). Regions with the highest cofinancing were Latin America and the Caribbean ($3.3 billion), Africa ($1.7 billion), and South Asia ($1.7 billion).



1.	OVERVIEW
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization established in 1945 and is owned by its member countries. IBRD's main goals are promoting sustainable economic development and reducing poverty. It pursues these goals primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for projects and programs in its developing member countries. IBRD's ability to intermediate funds from international capital markets for lending to its developing member countries is an important element in achieving its development goals. IBRD's financial objective is not to maximize profit, but to earn adequate net income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities. Box 1 presents selected financial data for the last five fiscal years.
The financial strength of IBRD is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices. Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members and in the record of its borrowing members in meeting their debt-service obligations to it. IBRD's financial policies and practices have led it to build reserves, to diversify its funding sources, to hold a large portfolio of liquid investments, and to limit a variety of risks, including credit, market and liquidity risks.
IBRD's principal assets are its loans to member countries. The majority of IBRD's outstanding loans are priced on a cost pass-through basis. (See Tables 5 and 6 for loan pricing details).
To raise funds, IBRD issues debt securities in a variety of currencies to both institutional and retail investors. These borrowings, together with IBRD's equity, are used to fund its lending and investment activities, as well as general operations.
IBRD holds its assets and liabilities primarily in U.S. dollars, euro and Japanese yen. IBRD mitigates its exposure to exchange rate risks by matching the currencies of its liabilities and equity with those of its assets. However, the reported levels of its assets, liabilities, income and expenses in the financial statements are affected by exchange rate movements in all the currencies in which IBRD transacts compared to IBRD's reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Since IBRD matches the currencies of its equity with those of its loans, the fluctuations captured in the cumulative translation adjustment for purposes of financial statement reporting do not significantly impact IBRD's risk-bearing capacity.
Lending commitments in FY 2005 were $13.6 billion, reflecting an increase of $2.6 billion from the FY
2004	level of $11.0 billion.
FY 2005 operating income was $1,320 million, $376 million lower than that for FY 2004, thereby decreasing IBRD's return on equity and net return on average earning assets before the effects of "net unrealized gains (losses) on non-trading (borrowings related) derivative instruments, as required by FAS 133 and IAS 39”a.
During FY 2005, provisioning requirements for probable losses on loans and guarantees were reduced by $502 million primarily due to a net improvement in borrowers' risk ratings, and other factors, including the reduction in the volume of the loans portfolio.
In the context of assessing changes in IBRD's operating environment, it is management's practice to recommend each year the allocation of net income to augment reserves, waivers of loan charges to benefit eligible borrowers, and allocation of net income to support developmental activities.
On August 4,2005, the Executive Directors approved the following allocations from the FY 2005 net income: $589.5 million to the General Reserve and $68 million to the Pension Reserve. In addition, the Executive Directors recommended to IBRD's Board of Governors the following transfers from unallocated net income: $52.5 million to Surplus and $610 million to other development purposes. In addition, the Executive Directors recommended to IBRD's Board of Governors, the transfer of $100 million to the General Reserve out of the $400 million of net income previously retained as surplus in FY 2004, and earmarked solely for subsequent transfers to IDA, HIPC, and/or General Reserve. The Executive Directors also approved a 75 basis point waiver of the front end fee on all loans (other than special development policy loans) presented to the Executive Directors between July 1,2005 and the date on which the Board approves the next Allocation of FY 2006 Net Income and Waivers of Loan Charges Paper in FY 2007. The Executive Directors also approved that (i) interest charge waivers will be maintained at 5 basis points for old loans and 25 basis points for new loans, respectively, to eligible borrowers for payment periods commencing during FY 2006 and (ii) waivers of 50 basis points on commitment charges for FY 2006 will be maintained for all loans.
a. For the purpose of this document, "net unrealized gains (losses) on non-trading (borrowings related) derivative instruments, as required by FAS 133 and IAS 39 ” results from IBRD's application of FAS 133. FAS 133 refers collectively to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", along with its amendments, as well as the derivative accounting requirements of International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39, "Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement" and its subsequent amendments.
IBRD ManageMent's Discussion and Analysis: June 30, 2005	3
2.	BASIS OF REPORTING
Financial Statement Reporting
IBRD prepares its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards (together referred to in this document as the ‘reported basis’).
The standards require that all derivatives be recorded on IBRD's balance sheet at their fair value. Additionally, FAS 133 allows IBRD to designate hedging relationships and apply hedge accounting, if certain criteria are met. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of these criteria to IBRD's derivative portfolio would not consistently reflect its hedging strategies. Therefore, IBRD elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships and, as a result, all changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments are recognized immediately in earnings. For management reporting purposes, IBRD has disclosed current value financial statements which IBRD believes reflect the risk management strategy that IBRD employs.
Management Reporting
In implementing its risk management strategy, IBRD makes extensive use of derivatives to manage the market risks (composed of interest rate and currency risks) associated with its financial assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments for asset/ liability management of individual positions and portfolios, and to reduce borrowing costs.
IBRD's funding operations are designed to meet a major organizational objective of providing lower cost funds to borrowing members. Because of the extent of IBRD's long-dated funding, the reported volatility under FAS 133 may be more pronounced than for many other financial institutions. The effects of applying FAS 133 may significantly affect reported results in each accounting period, depending on changes in market rates. However, IBRD believes that its funding and asset/liability management strategies accomplish its objectives of protection from market risk and provision of lower cost funding, and that a current value basis provides more meaningful information for risk management and management reporting.
Box 2: Hedging Strategy and Use of Derivatives
IBRD is a financial intermediary, borrowing funds in international capital markets for on-lending to member countries. In order to achieve the lowest funding costs, IBRD issues bonds in those currencies and markets throughout the world in which it has a comparative funding cost advantage. As a matter of policy, IBRD avoids interest rate risk in its financing operations and avoids open foreign exchange risk positions. Therefore, both on a transaction-by-transaction basis and on a portfolio basis, IBRD enters into derivatives transactions to eliminate mismatches between the interest rate and currency composition of its assets and liabilities. This approach insulates IBRD's balance sheet from material interest rate or currency exposure. (See Section 6 - Financial Risk Management)
FAS 133 requires that all derivatives be accounted for at market values in the balance sheet; for derivatives that are not part of a qualifying hedging strategy, changes in the market values must be recognized in earnings. IBRD has a large portfolio of derivatives that convert long-dated fixed-rate borrowings into floating-rate obligations. These derivatives are financially equivalent to non-U.S. dollar fixed rate assets, and in general, when market interest rates increase, the reported value of these derivatives will decline, and vice-versa. Although these derivatives economically offset other financial positions on bonds and loans, those positions are generally not marked to market, so their reported values are not affected by interest rate movements. Thus, an asymmetry results in the reported financial statements when the values of economically offsetting transactions are reported on different bases.
FAS 133 contains hedge accounting provisions which are intended to mitigate this mismatch but in order to qualify for hedge accounting, transactions must meet particular criteria. A number of risk management techniques that IBRD utilizes would not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. Accordingly, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedge relationships, though IBRD's policies and hedging strategy achieve its risk minimization objectives. For management reporting purposes, IBRD instead uses current value financial statements, as shown in Tables 2 and 3 in Section 2, which marks both the derivatives and the underlying liabilities and assets to current value. IBRD focuses on operating income in its annual allocation and distribution decisions.
In FY 2005, with interest rate curves shifting downward at the medium to long end, (see Figure 12) application of FAS 133 resulted in reported net income being higher by $2,511 million than it would otherwise have been. Conversely, application of FAS 133 in FY2004 in a rising interest rate environment resulted in a net loss on a reported basis (including a loss of $4,100 million due to application of FAS 133). In FY2002 and FY2003 interest rates for most currencies were declining. Accordingly, application of FAS 133 in FY2002 and FY2003 resulted in reported net income being substantially higher than it would otherwise have been (by $854 million and $2,323 million, respectively). Both the positive and the negative FAS 133 adjustments reflect the impact of changing rates on the marked-to-market value of the derivatives, which represent only one side of hedged transactions. The impact of changing market rates on the other side of hedged transactions - the underlying liabilities or assets - generally is not reflected in the reported financial statements. Therefore, IBRD uses current value financial statements for management reporting purposes and focuses on operating income in its annual allocation and distribution decisions.
IBRD believes that a current value presentation reflects the economic value of all of its financial instruments. The current value model is based on the present value of expected cash flows. The model incorporates available market data in determining the cash flow and discount rates for each instrument. The current value financial statements do not purport to present the net realizable, liquidation, or market value of IBRD as a whole. Figure 1 below depicts the impact on IBRD’s total equity, from the effects of applying FAS 133 as compared to applying current value measurement.
Figure 1: Impact on Retained Earnings and Other Equity: FAS 133 versus Current Value Adjustments
Billions
Current Value Basis
The Condensed Current Value Balance Sheets in Table 1 present IBRD’s estimates of the economic value of its financial assets and liabilities, after considering market and credit risks. The current year’s Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet is presented with a reconciliation to the reported basis. The prior year’s Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 19 in Section 10.
IBRD's Condensed Current Value Statement of Income, with a reconciliation to the reported basis at June 30, 2005, is presented in Table 2. The prior year’s Condensed Current Value Statement of Income is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 20 in Section 10.
A summary of the effects on net income of the current value adjustments in the balance sheet is presented in Table 3.
Current Value Balance Sheets
Loan Portfolio
All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD. In addition, IBRD may also make loans to the International Finance Corporation, an affiliated organization, without any guarantee. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does management believe there is a market for loans comparable to those made by IBRD.
The current value of loans, including associated financial derivatives, is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted using the rate at which IBRD would originate a similar loan at the reporting date. The cash flows of these instruments are based on management's best estimates, taking into account market exchange rates and interest rates.
The current value also includes IBRD’s assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering various factors including its history of payment receipts from borrowers. IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest due on its loans. However, IBRD has suffered losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of payments for interest and charges, according to the loan's contractual terms, and the actual timing of cash flows. To recognize the credit risk inherent in these and any other potential overdue payments, IBRD adjusts the value of its loans through its loan loss provision.
The S3,148 million ($2,998 million—June 30, 2004) increase in IBRD's loan balance from the reported basis to the current value basis reflects the fact that the loans in the portfolio, on average, carry a higher rate of interest than the rate at which IBRD would currently originate a similar loan at the reporting date. The Si50 million increase in the current value adjustment was primarily due to the increase in the mark-to-market adjustment on the euro loans, reflecting the downward shift in the euro interest rate curve, partially offset by the decrease in mark-to-market adjustments on U.S dollar-denominated loans, consistent with the increase in the U.S dollar interest rate curve at the short end (see Figure 12).
Investment Portfolio
Under both the reported and current value basis, the investment securities and related financial
instruments held in IBRD's trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair values. Therefore, for the investment portfolio, no additional adjustment is necessary. Fair value is based on market quotations. Instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information.
Borrowings Portfolio
The current value of the borrowings portfolio includes debt securities and associated financial derivatives, and represents the present value of expected cash flows on these instruments discounted by the cost at which IBRD would obtain funding at the reporting date. The valuation model incorporates available market data in determining the expected cash flow and discount rates for each instrument. Market data include exchange rates and reference
market interest rates. The current value for the borrowings portfolio includes current value adjustments for borrowings, swaps payable, swaps receivable and the reduction in other assets due to unamortized issuance costs.
At June 30,2005, the $2,793 million ($2,411 million-June 30,2004) current value adjustment reflects the average cost of the borrowing portfolio being higher than the rate at which IBRD could obtain funding at the reporting date. The $382 million increase in the current value adjustment was primarily due to losses on the euro and Japanese yen denominated debt, consistent with the downward shifts in the respective interest rate curves, partly offset by gains in U.S. dollar denominated debt, reflecting the upward shift in the U.S. dollar interest rate curve at the short end.
Box 3: Lending Operations Principles
(i)	IBRD makes loans to governments, governmental authorities or private enterprises in the territories
of member countries. A loan that is not made directly to the member in whose territories the project is located must be guaranteed as to principal, interest and other charges by the member or its central bank or a comparable agency of the member acceptable to IBRD. A guarantee by the member itself has been obtained in all such cases to date.
(ii)	IBRD’s loans are designed to promote the use of resources for productive purposes in its member countries. Investment projects financed by IBRD loans are required to meet IBRD’s standards for technical, economic, financial, institutional and environmental soundness. Specific provisions apply to development policy lending financed by IBRD loans, including the treatment of the macro-economic framework, poverty and social impact, environment, forests and other natural resources.
(iii)In	making loans, IBRD must act prudently and pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Decisions to make loans are based upon, among other things, studies by IBRD of a member country’s economic structure, including assessments of its resources and ability to generate sufficient foreign exchange to meet debt-service obligations.
(iv)IBRD	must be satisfied that in the prevailing market conditions (taking into account the member’s overall external financing requirements), the borrower would be unable to obtain financing under conditions which, in the opinion of IBRD, are reasonable for the borrower. However, this does not preclude lending to members who may have access to international credit markets. IBRD is intended to promote private investment, not to compete with it.
(v)The	use of loan proceeds is supervised. IBRD makes arrangements intended to ensure that funds loaned are used only for authorized purposes and, where relevant, with due attention to considerations of cost-effectiveness. This policy is enforced primarily by requiring borrowers (a) to submit documentation establishing, to IBRD’s satisfaction, that the expenditures financed with the proceeds of loans are made in conformity with the applicable lending agreements and (b) to maximize competition in the procurement of goods and services by using, wherever possible, international competitive bidding or, when it is not appropriate, other procedures that ensure maximum economy and efficiency. In addition, under a pilot program approved by the Executive Directors in March 2005, IBRD considers the use of borrower country environmental and social safeguard systems in selected operations where these systems are assessed as being equivalent to IBRD's systems and where the borrower’s implementation practices, track record, and capacity are considered acceptable to IBRD.
Current Value Statements of Income
Income from Loans
Income from loans declined by $248 million during FY 2005 in comparison with FY 2004. Of this decline, $233 million is attributable to lower average loan balances, with reduced prepayment premium accounting for an additional $58 million decline. The decrease in loan income was partially offset by a $32 million increase in income attributable to increased lending rates and the net effect of $28 million from loans being placed into nonaccrual status or restored to accrual status. In comparison, during FY 2004, there were no loans which were either placed into nonaccrual status or restored to accrual status.
Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees During FY 2005, provisioning requirements were reduced by $502 million. This reflects the combined impact on provisioning requirements from the changes in borrowers' risk ratings, changes in the volume and distribution among borrowers, and
guarantees outstanding, the annual update of expected default frequencies and changes in borrowers’ eligibility status. The larger release in FY
2004	reflected credit updates of a larger share of the portfolio at the high risk end of the portfolio. The overall effect has been a reduction in net income of $163 million between the two years.
Income from Investments
During FY 2005, income from investments increased by $375 million due to higher average short-term interest rates, in comparison with FY 2004 (see Figure 11). IBRD holds primarily short-term U.S dollar fixed income investments with an average duration of less than three months.
Borrowing Expenses
Borrowing expenses increased by $248 million during FY 2005, in comparison with FY 2004. With about two-thirds of borrowings based on short-term U.S. dollar interest rates, the increase in U.S. dollar
six-month LIBOR in FY2005 (see Figure 11), resulted in higher borrowing expenses. This was partly offset by a reduction in the average portfolio size.
Administrative Expenses (Includingcontributions to Special Programs)
Administrative expenses increased by $81 million during FY2005 compared to FY2004. An increased volume of budgeted expenditures in FY2005 accounted for $37 million of this increase. The remaining increase in administrative expenses was due to increased development activities in FY 2005, compared to FY 2004.
Current Value Adjustments
As part of its risk management strategy, IBRD closely aligns the duration (interest rate sensitivity) and the currency composition of its equity to that of its loan portfolio. Currently, the duration of equity is about one year.
The reduction in equity on account of current value adjustment was $273 million in FY2005 (reduction
of $513 million in FY2004) as shown in Table 3. The current value adjustment reflects changes in both interest rates and currency exchange rates.
During FY 2005, the current value adjustment due to interest rate changes was negative $227 million, primarily reflecting the negative effects resulting from the movements in the discount curves for major reference currencies with the exception of the euro. These losses were partially offset by net gains on the euro loans and borrowings portfolio, reflecting the significant downward shift on the euro interest rate curve. IBRD's equity on a current value basis declined by $839 million during FY2004 primarily reflecting the upward shifts in the applicable reference market interest rate curves in the short to medium term.
During FY2005, there was a negative currency translation adjustment of $49 million on IBRD's net assets due primarily to the slight depreciation of the euro (1.6%) and Japaneseyen (0.5%) against the U.S. dollar. The current value adjustment for FY2005 due to exchange rate changes for the loans portfolio was a decrease of $84 million. The euro and the Japanese yen accounted for approximately 16% and 5%, of the total loans portfolio, and 98% of total non-U.S. dollar denominated loans at June 30,2005. The current value adjustment for FY2005 due to exchange rate changes for the borrowings portfolio was a decrease of $52 million, consistent with the exchange rate movements. The euro and the Japanese yen accounted for approximately 11% and 3%, of the
total borrowings portfolio, and 99% of the total non-U.S. dollar denominated borrowings at June 30,
2005. During FY2004, the appreciation of the Japaneseyen and euro against the U.S. dollar resulted in a positive net currency translation adjustment of $272 million on IBRD's net assets.
Given IBRD's risk management strategy, the stability of the current value equity-to-loans ratio is considered more significant than fluctuations in the net current value adjustments.
3.	DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
IBRD offers loans, related derivative products, and guarantees to its borrowing member countries to help meet their development needs. It also provides technical assistance and other advisory services to support poverty reduction in these countries.
Loans
From its establishment through June 30, 2005, IBRD had approved loans, net of cancellations, totaling
$354,058 million to borrowers in 130 countries. A
summary of cumulative lending is contained in
Table 4.
At June 30,2005, the total volume of outstanding loans was $104,401 million, $5,209 million lower than the $109,610 million of outstanding loans at June 30,2004. This decrease was due primarily to negative net disbursements of $5,131 million including $2,682 million of prepayments. Undisbursed balances at June 30,2005 totaled $33,744 million, reflecting an increase of $1,616 million from June 30,2004. This change was due to new commitments and positive currency translation adjustments, partially offset by cancellations and disbursements.
Table 4: Lending Status at June 30
In millions of U. S dollars
a.	Net of cancellations.
b.	Multicurrency pool loan repayments are included at exchange rates in effect on the date of original disbursement. All other amounts are based on U. S dollar equivalents at the time of repayment by borrowers.
During FY 2005, new loans, guarantee commitments and guarantee facilities to member countries were $13,611 million, ($11,045 million—FY 2004). During both FY 2005 and FY 2004, Latin America
and the Caribbean region accounted for the largest share of commitments. Figure 2 presents the regional composition of commitments from FY 2001 to FY 2005.
Figure 2: Commitments including Guarantee Facilities by Region
Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement (the Articles), as applied, the total amount outstanding of direct loans made by IBRD, participation in loans and callable guarantees may not exceed the statutory lending limit. At June 30, 2005, outstanding loans and callable guarantees (net of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees) totaled $101,765 million, equal to 47.38% of the statutory lending limit.
IBRD’s lending operations have conformed generally to five principles derived from its Articles. These principles, taken together, seek to ensure that IBRD loans are made to member countries for financially and economically sound purposes to which those countries have assigned high priority, and that funds lent are utilized as intended. The five principles are described in Box 3. Within the scope permitted by the Articles, application of these principles must be developed and adjusted in light of experience and changing conditions.
Lending Cycle
The process of identifying and appraising a project, and approving and disbursing a loan, often extends over several years. However, on numerous occasions IBRD has shortened the preparation and approval cycle in response to emergency situations such as natural disasters.
Generally, the appraisal of projects is carried out by IBRD’s operational staff (economists, engineers, financial analysts, and other sector and country specialists). With certain exceptionsa, each loan must be approved by IBRD’s Executive Directors.
Loan disbursements are subject to the fulfillment of conditions set out in the loan agreement. During
implementation of IBRD-supported operations, experienced IBRD staff review progress, monitor compliance with IBRD policies and assist in resolving any problems that may arise. The Operations Evaluation Department, an IBRD unit whose director reports to the Executive Directors rather than to the President, evaluates the extent to which operations have met their major objectives.
Lending Instruments
IBRD lending generally falls into one of two categories: investment or development policy lending (previously referred to as adjustment lending). Investment lending is generally used to finance goods, works, and services in support of economic and social development projects in a broad range of sectors. In contrast, development policy lending is generally provided in exchange for commitments by borrowers to implement social, structural, and institutional reforms. In the past, the majority of IBRD loans were for investment projects or programs. However, as shown in Figure 3 the percentage of IBRD loans approved for development policy lending over the past eight years occasionally exceeded 50 percent.
In FY 2005, new IBRD commitments for development policy lending accounted for 31% of total commitments (40%—FY 2004; 37%—FY
2003).
In FY 1999, IBRD introduced special development policy loans to support structural and social reforms by creditworthy IBRD borrowers with exceptional external financing needs due to a potential or actual crisis.
a. For Adaptable Program Loans (APLs), the Board approves all first-phase APLs and delegates to Management the approval of subsequent phases subject to agreed procedures. Learning and Innovation Loans are loans of $5 million or less approved by Management.
On rare occasions, IBRD will provide enclave lending for a large, foreign exchange generating project in a member country usually eligible only for loans from the International Development Association (IDA).In these circumstances appropriate risk mitigation measures are incorporated (including off-shore escrow accounts and debt-service reserves acceptable to IBRD) to ensure that the risks to IBRD are minimized. At June 30,2005, IBRD had $138 million in outstanding loans for enclave projects ($135 million—June 30,2004). No new enclave lending was approved during FY 2005 or FY 2004.
Financial Terms of Loans
Financial Terms of Currently Available Products
IBRD currently offers a product mix that is intended to provide borrowers with the flexibility to select terms that are both compatible with their debt management strategy and suited to their debt-servicing capacity. As of June 30,2005, IBRD offers the following two basic types of loan terms, each denominated in the currency or currencies chosen by the borrower provided it is a currency in which IBRD
can efficiently intermediate: variable-spread loans, and fmed—spread loans. Variable-spread loans, which were introduced in FY 1993, have a variable spread over LIBOR that is adjusted every six months. Fixed-spread loans, which were introduced in FY 2000, have a fmed spread over LIBOR that is fmed for the life of the loan.
Borrowers selecting the fmed—spread loan product may, for a fee, change the currency or interest rate basis over the life of the loan. For example, borrowers have the option to fix, unfix, or re-fm the interest rate at market rates on all or a part of the disbursed amounts for up to the remaining maturity of the loan.
Transaction fees range from 0 to 25 basis points of the notional transaction amount. Any conversion requests accepted by IBRD are executed at market rates.
Table 5 summarizes the financial terms for these types of loans.
Repayment terms for fmed-spread loans are more flexible than for variable-spread loans, subject to certain constraints on the average repayment maturity and final maturity on a country basis. Within these constraints, borrowers have flexibility to configure grace periods and maturity profiles in a manner consistent with the purpose of the loan. Repayment profiles may be level repayment of principal, an annuity type schedule, a single lumpsum repayment, or a customized schedule. Repayment profiles cannot be changed after a loan is signed.
At June30,2005, 63% (56%—June30,2004) ofloans outstanding were variable-spread loans or fixed-spread loans, including special development policy loans and loans with non-standard terms.
Local Currency Lending
As part of the initiative taken by the Board of Executive Directors to increase the usability of local currency paid-in capital, during FY 2005, IBRD entered into a Local Currency Loan Facility Agreement with IFC which is capped at $300 million. Under this agreement, IBRD would lend local currencies of its member countries, funded from paid-in capital, to IFC. These currencies would subsequently be used by IFC to finance projects in those member countries. Loan commitments under this facility are subject to consents of the respective IBRD member countries whose currency is involved. At June 30,2005, a loan commitment equivalent to $50 million had been made under this facility.
Loans with a Deferred Drawdown Option A Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO) for use with IBRD development policy loans gives IBRD borrowers the option of deferring the loan's disbursement for up to three years. Loans with a DDO are subject to a commitment fee of 100 basis points, which is 25 basis points higher than that for standard IBRD loans. Also, the front-end fee which is normally payable at the time a loan becomes effective, is only payable for a DDO loan at the time it is disbursed.
Derivative Products
Along with the approval of the introduction of the fixed-spread loan product with its various risk management features such as rate fixing and currency conversion, the Executive Directors also approved the offer of new derivative products for borrowers. These products respond to borrowers' needs for access to better risk management tools in connection with existing IBRD loans. These
derivative products include currency and interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps and collars.
IBRD will pass through its market cost of the instrument to the borrower, and will charge a transaction fee comparable to the fee charged on the fixed-spread loan conversion features. These instruments may be executed either under a master derivatives agreement, which substantially conforms to industry standards, or in individually negotiated transactions. The first such currency swap transaction was executed in FY 2004 between IBRD and one of its borrowers under a Master Derivatives Agreement. Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements — Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers.
Financial Terms of Previously Available Products
In previous years, IBRD offered loans with a variety of other financial terms including: multicurrency pool loans and fmed-rate single currency loans.
Table 6 summarizes the financial terms for variable-rate multicurrency and single-currency pool loans, and fmed-rate single-currency loans.
Prior to 1980, IBRD offered loans at fmed rates determined at the time a loan was contracted and set at a specified spread over then-current borrowing costs. The currency composition of each loan depended on the currencies disbursed on that loan. In 1980, IBRD established the currency pool system, funded primarily with fmed rate medium-to-long term borrowings. In 1982, IBRD mitigated its interest rate risk by moving from offering a fixed rate to a variable rate on these loans.
The currency composition of multicurrency pool loans is determined on the basis of a pool, which provides a currency composition that is the same for all loans in the pool. Pursuant to a policy established by the Executive Directors, and subject to their periodic review, at least 90% of the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the pool is in a fmed ratio of one U.S. dollar to 125 Japanese yen to one euro.
During FY 1997, IBRD offered borrowers the option to elect to modify their currency choice by converting multicurrency pool loans to single currency loan terms or single currency pool terms. The lending rate formulation for loans with single currency pool terms is the same as that for multicurrency pool loans.
Single-currency pool loans are held in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, and euro. Fixed-rate single currency loans were offered in all currencies in which IBRD could efficiently intermediate.
Any fmed-rate multicurrency pool loans that were subsequently converted to single currency pools continued to carry their fmed rate.
Fixed-rate single currency loans carry lending rates fmed on semi-annual rate fixing dates for amounts
disbursed during the ^ceding six months. For the interim period from the date each disbursement is
made until its rate fixing date, interest accrues at the
rate applicable to variable-spread loans.
At June30,2005, 37% (44%— June30,2004) of loans outstanding carried these previously available financial terms.
Figure 4 presents a breakdown of IBRD's loan portfolio by loan product. For more information, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers.
Waivers
Waivers of a portion of interest owed by all eligible borrowers are determined annually and have been in effect since FY 1992. Eligibility for the partial waiver of interest is limited to borrowers that have made full payments of principal, interest and other charges within 30 calendar days of the due dates during the preceding six months, on all their loans. Waivers of a portion of the commitment charge owed on the undisbursed portion of loans are also determined
annually and have been in effect since FY 1990. All borrowers receive the commitment charge waiver on their eligible loans. Table 7 presents a breakdown of IBRD's loan charge waivers. Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers.
On loans to eligible borrowers.
On August 4, 2005 the Board of Executive Directors approved a 75 basis point waiver of the front end fee on all loans (other than special development policy loans) to be presented to the Board between July 1, 2005 and the date on which the Board approves a front end fee waiver for FY07, in the context of the annual Allocation of Net Income and Waivers of Loan Charges paper.
Guarantees
IBRD offers guarantees on loans from private investors for projects in countries eligible to borrow from IBRD. These guarantees can also be offered on securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD loans, and in exceptional cases offered in countries only eligible to borrow from IDA. IBRD applies the same country creditworthiness and project evaluation criteria to guarantees as it applies to loans.
IBRD guarantees can be customized to suit varying country and project circumstances, and maybe provided directly or via facilities. They can be targeted to mitigate specific risks or generally risks relating to political, regulatory and government performance, which the private sector is not normally in a position to absorb or manage.
Each guarantee requires the counter-guarantee of the member government. IBRD prices guarantees consistent with the way it prices its loans.
IBRD generally provides the following types of guarantees:
Partial risk guarantees: These cover debt-service defaults on a loan that result from non-performance of government obligations.
Partial credit guarantees: These are used for public sector projects when there is a need to extend loan maturities and guarantee specified interest or principal payments on loans to the government or its agencies.
Policy-based guarantees: When partial credit guarantees are used in support of agreed structural, institutional and social policies and reforms, they are considered policy-based guarantees. Eligibility for IBRD development policy lending is a necessary condition for eligibility for policy-based guarantees.
Enclave guarantees: These partial risk guarantees are offered in exceptional cases for loans for foreign-
exchange generating projects in a member country usually eligible only for credits from IDA. Fees charged for enclave guarantees are higher than those charged for non-enclave guarantees. The commitment of enclave guarantees is limited to an aggregate guaranteed amount of $300 million. As of June 30,2005 commitments made under enclave guarantees stood at $30 million.
IBRD's exposure at June 30,2005 on its guarantees (measured by discounting each guaranteed amount from its first call date) is detailed in Table 8. For additional information see the Notes to Financial Statements — Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers.
Other Activities
Consultation: In addition to its financial operations, IBRD provides technical assistance to its member countries, both in connection with, and independently of, lending operations. There is a growing demand from borrowers for strategic advice, knowledge transfer, and capacity building. Such assistance includes assigning qualified professionals to survey developmental opportunities in member countries, analyzing their fiscal, economic and developmental environment, assisting member countries in devising coordinated development programs, appraising projects suitable for investment and assisting member countries in improving their asset and liability management techniques.
Research and Training:To assist its developing member countries, IBRD-through the World Bank Institute and its partners—provides courses and other training activities related to economic policy development and administration for governments and organizations that work closely with IBRD.
Trust Fund Administration: IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, funds restricted for specific uses. These funds are held in trust and are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements — Note J-Management of External Funds.
Investment Management: IBRD offers investment management services to several types of external institutions, including central banks of member
countries. One objective of providing the services to central banks is to assist them in developing portfolio management skills. These managed funds are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements — Note J—Management of External Funds.
4.	LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
IBRD's liquid assets are held principally in highly-rated fixed income securities. These securities include obligations of governments and other official entities, time deposits and other unconditional obligations of banks and financial institutions, currency and interest rate swaps (including currency forward contracts), asset—backed (including mortgage-backed) securities, and futures and options contracts.
Liquidity risk arises in the general funding of IBRD's activities and in the management of its financial positions. It includes the risk of being unable to fund its portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price. The objective of liquidity management is to ensure the availability of sufficient cash flows to meet all of IBRD's financial commitments.
As one component of liquidity management, IBRD maintains a $500 million line of credit with an independent financial institution.” This facility is used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. For further details about this facility, see the Notes to Financial Statements— Note E—Borrowings.
Under IBRD’s liquidity management policy, aggregate liquid asset holdings are kept at or above a specified prudential minimum in order to safeguard against cash flow interruptions. That minimum is equal to the highest consecutive six months of expected debt service obligations for the fiscal year, plus one—half of net approved loan disbursements as projected for the fiscal year. The FY 2006 prudential minimum liquidity level has been set at $18 billion, a decrease of $2 billion from that set for FY 2005. IBRD also holds liquid assets over the specified minimum to provide flexibility in timing its borrowing transactions and to meet working capital needs.
The primary objective for IBRD in the management of liquid assets is to protect the principal amount of these investments. In addition, IBRD seeks to achieve
a. This line of credit is held jointly with the International Development Association (IDA),an affiliated organization.
a reasonable return on the liquid asset portfolio using prudent asset and risk management techniques. The General Investment Authorization for IBRD approved by the Board of Executive Directors provides the basic authority under which the liquid assets of IBRD can be invested. Further, all investment activities are conducted in accordance with a more detailed set of Investment Guidelines. The Investment Guidelines are approved by the Chief Financial Officer and implemented by the Treasurer. These Investment Guidelines set out detailed trading and operational rules including providing criteria for eligible instruments for investment; establishing risk parameters versus benchmarks, such as an overall stop-loss limit and duration deviation; specifying concentration limits on counterparties and instrument classes; as well as establishing clear lines of responsibility on risk monitoring and compliance.
Liquid assets may be held in three distinct subportfolios: stable; operational; and discretionary, each with different risk profiles and performance benchmarks.
The stable portfolio is principally an investment portfolio holding the prudential minimum level of liquidity, which is set at the beginning of each fiscal year. Investment of up to 20% of the stable portfolio may be contracted out to external managers.
Separate investment guidelines which conform to IBRD's overall Investment Guidelines are provided to each external manager.
The operational portfolio provides working capital for IBRD’s day-to-day cash flow requirements.
The discretionary portfolio, when used, provides flexibility for the execution of IBRD’s borrowing program and can be used to take advantage of attractive market opportunities. During FY 2005 use of the discretionary portfolio was discontinued, and
the cash transferred to the operational portfolio as holdings matured.
Figure 5 represents IBRD’s liquid asset portfolio size and structure at the end of FY 2005 and FY 2004, excluding investment assets associated with certain other postemployment benefits. At the end of FY 2005, the aggregate size of the IBRD liquid asset portfolio was $26,170 million, reflecting a decrease of $4,745 million from FY 2004. Of this amount, $1,383 million ($1,350 million in FY 2004) in the stable portfolio was managed by external firms. IBRD’s liquid asset portfolio is largely composed of assets denominated in U.S. dollars with net exposure to short-term interest rates. The debt funding these liquid assets also shares similar currency and duration profiles. This is a direct consequence of IBRD's exchange rate and interest rate risk management policies (see Section 6—Financial Risk Management), combined with appropriate investment benchmarks. In addition to monitoring gross investment returns compared to their benchmarks, IBRD also monitors overall investment earnings net of funding costs (see Section 8—Results of Operations).
The returns and average balances of the liquid asset portfolio in FY 2005 compared to FY 2004 are presented in Table 9. These returns exclude investment assets funding certain other postemployment benefits.
The higher returns in FY 2005 are due primarily to the higher average interest rate environment in FY 2005 as compared to FY 2004, as shown in Figure 11.
IBRD enters into derivative transactions to manage its investment portfolio. The main purposes of these derivative instruments are to enhance the return, and manage the overall duration, of the portfolio.
Contractual Obligations
In the normal course of business, IBRD enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Table 10 summarizes IBRD's significant contractual cash obligations, by remaining maturity, at June 30, 2005. Long-term debt includes direct medium- and long-term borrowings excluding swaps, but does not include any adjustment for unamortized premiums, discounts or effects of applying FAS 133 (additional information can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note E-Borrowings). Capital and operating lease expenditures primarily represent future cash payments for real estate-related obligations and equipment. Other long-term liabilities include accrued liabilities for staff compensation and benefits. Capital and operating leases, contractual purchases and capital expenditures, and other long term obligations include amounts which will be shared with IDA, IFC and MIGA in accordance with individual cost sharing agreements (additional information can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements — Note I-Administrative Expenses, Contributions to Special Programs, and Other Income).
Excluded from Table 10 are a number of obligations to be settled in cash. These obligations are presented in IBRD's balance sheet and include undisbursed loans; short-term borrowings; payable for currency and interest rate swaps; payable for investment securities purchased, and payable for transfers approved by the Board of Governors.
5.	FUNDING RESOURCES Equity
Total shareholders' equity, as reported in IBRD's balance sheet at June 30,2005, was $38,588 million compared to $35,463 million at June 30,2004. The increase from FY 2004 primarily reflects the increase in retained earnings resulting from FY 2005 net income.
IBRD's equity base plays a critical role in securing its financial objectives. By enabling IBRD to absorb risk out of its own resources, its equity base protects shareholders from a possible call on callable capital. The adequacy of IBRD's equity capital is judged on the basis of its ability to generate future net income sufficient to absorb potential risks and support normal loan growth, without reliance on additional shareholder capital.
For management purposes, IBRD closely monitors equity as defined and utilized in the equity-to-loans ratio. Table 11 presents the composition of this measure at June 30,2005 and 2004, respectively.
The equity-to-loans ratio is a summary statistic that IBRD uses as one measure of the adequacy of its risk-bearing capacity. IBRD also uses a stress test as a measure of income-generating capacity and an input to the assessment of capital adequacy. See discussion in Section 6, Financial Risk Management— Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity.
As presented in Figure 6, IBRD’s equity-to-loans
ratio increased during FY 2005, on both a reported basis (excluding cumulative translation adjustments associated with the FAS 133 adjustments) and a current value basis.
19.0% "I—i-1—i 1—i-n-n-1—i 1—i 1—i—i 1—i
oocno^— fNm^-Ln cricnoooooo cccccccc
In accordance with the financial policy defining this ratio, the amount of the transfer to the General Reserve of S690 million that was approved on August 4, 2005, was included in this ratio at June 30, 2005 (S680 million—June 30, 2004). The increase in this ratio to 31.45% at June 30,2005 from 29.35% at June 30, 2004 was due to the decrease in net loans outstanding and the overall increase in equity in FY 2005. During FY 2005, IBRD increased the General Reserve in order to improve its risk-bearing capacity.
Capital
Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members. At June 30, 2005, the authorized capital of IBRD was $190,811 million, of which $189,718 million had been subscribed. Of the subscribed capital, $11,483 million had been paid-in and $178,235 million was callable. Of the paid-in capital, $9,032 million was available for lending and $2,451 million was not available for lending.The terms of payment of IBRD’s
capital and the restrictions on its use that are derived from the Articles and from resolutions of IBRD’s Board of Governors are as follows:
Paid-in Capital
(i)	$3,220 million of IBRD’s capital was initially paid in gold or U.S. dollars or was converted from the currency of the subscribing members into U.S. dollars. This amount may, under the Articles, be freely used by IBRD in its operations.
(ii)	$8,119 million of IBRD’s capital was paid in the national currencies of the subscribing members. Under the Articles this amount is subject to maintenance of value obligations and may be used for funding loans only with the consent of the member whose currency is involved, or used for administrative expenses without the need for consent of the member whose currency is involved. In addition, these national currencies may be used by IBRD following a decision by the Board of Executive Directors to invest or lend in that currency, or swap the national currency into another currency for investment or lending purposes, provided it has the consent of the member whose currency is involved. In accordance with such consents, $5,264 million of this amount was being used in IBRD’s lending and investment operations at June 30, 2005.
(iii)	$144 million of IBRD’s capital was converted to U.S. dollars from the currency of the subscribing members by providing U.S. dollar denominated nonnegotiable, non-interest bearing demand notes, encashable in the currency of the subscribing member. This amount may, under the terms of the note, be encashed for administrative expenses or, after all subscribed capital has been called, IBRD will have the right to encash the note to meet its obligations.
Callable Capital
(iv)	$151,774 million of IBRD's capital may, under the Articles, be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it. This amount is thus not available for use by IBRD in making loans. Payment on any such call may be made, at the option of the particular member, either in gold, in U.S. dollars or in the currency required to discharge the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made.
(v)	$26,461 million of IBRD's capital is to be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it, pursuant to resolutions of IBRD's Board of Governors (though such conditions are not required by the Articles). Of this amount, 10% would be payable in gold or U.S. dollars and 90% in the national currencies of the subscribing members. While these resolutions are not legally binding on future Boards of Governors, they do record an understanding among members that this
amount will not be called for use by IBRD in its lending activities or for administrative purposes.
No call has ever been made on IBRD's callable capital. Any calls on unpaid subscriptions are required to be uniform, but the obligations of the members of IBRD to make payment on such calls are independent of each other. If the amount received on a call is insufficient to meet the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made, IBRD has the right and is bound to make further calls until the amounts received are sufficient to meet such obligations. However, no member may be required on any such call or calls to pay more than the unpaid balance of its capital subscription.
At June 30,2005, $103,604 million (58.1%) of the uncalled capital was callable from the member countries of IBRD that are also members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). This amount slightly
exceeded IBRD's outstanding borrowings including swaps at June 30,2005. Table 12 sets out the capital subscriptions of those countries and the callable amounts.
Table 12: Capital Subscriptions of DAC Members of OECD Countries
a	See details regarding the capital subscriptionsof all
members of IBRD at June 30, 2005 in Financial State-ments-Statementof Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power
The United States is IBRD's largest shareholder. Under the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, the Par Value Modification Act and other U.S. legislation, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury is permitted to pay up to $7,663 million of the uncalled portion of the subscription of the United States, if it were called by IBRD, without any requirement of further congressional action. The balance of the uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription, $22,303 million, has been authorized by the U.S. Congress but not appropriated. Further action by the U.S. Congress would be required to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay any portion of this balance. The General Counsel of the U.S. Treasury has rendered an opinion that the entire uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription is an obligation backed by the full faith
and credit of the United States, notwithstanding that congressional appropriations have not been obtained with respect to certain portions of the subscription. For a further discussion of capital stock, restricted currencies, maintenance of value and membership refer to the Notes to Financial Statements — Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note B-Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies, Maintenance of Value and Membership.
Borrowings Source of Funding
IBRD diversifies its sources of funding by offering its securities to institutional and retail investors around the world, both through global offerings and by way of bond issues designed to meet the needs of specific markets or types of investors. Under its Articles, IBRD may borrow only with the approval of the member in whose markets the funds are raised and the member in whose currency the borrowing is denominated, and only if each such member agrees that the proceeds may be exchanged for the currency of any other member without restriction.
New medium- and long-term funding excluding swaps by currency for FY 2005, as compared to FY
2004,	is shown in Figure 7.
Funding Operations
In FY 2005, medium- and long-term debt raised directly in financial markets by IBRD amounted to $12,723 million compared to $12,535 million in FY
2004.	Table 13 summarizes IBRD's funding operations for FY 2005 and FY 2004.
Funding raised in any given year is used for IBRD’s general operations, including loan disbursements, refinancing of maturing debt and prefunding of future lending activities. Funding opportunities in FY 2005 and FY 2004 remained relatively stable in terms of instruments, and IBRD followed a strategy of selective bond issuance, combining issues targeted to retail investors with private placements and public issues placed with large institutional investors. All proceeds from new funding are initially invested in the liquid asset portfolio until they are required for IBRD’s operations. Debt is allocated on a periodic basis to the different debt pools funding loans as necessary, in accordance with operating guidelines.
IBRD strategically repurchases, calls or prepays its debt to reduce the cost of borrowings and to reduce exposure to refunding requirements in a particular year or to meet other operational needs. In response
to market conditions, during FY 2005, IBRD repurchased or called S3,528 million of its outstanding borrowings (S3,996 million during FY
2004).
Use of Derivatives
All new funding is initially swapped into floating-rate U.S. dollars, with conversion to other currencies or fixed-rate funding being carried out subsequently in accordance with loan funding requirements. Figures 8a and 8b illustrate the effect of swaps on both the interest rate structure and currency composition of the borrowings portfolio at June 30, 2005. Interest rate and currency swaps are also used for asset/liability management purposes to match the pool of liabilities as closely as possible to the interest rate and currency characteristics of liquid assets and loans. IBRD does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes in the borrowings portfolio.
A more detailed analysis of borrowings outstanding is provided in the Notes to Financial Statements —Note E-Borrowings.
Security Lending of Collateral Posted with IBRD
During FY2005, IBRD engaged in a new program of lending collateral posted by its swap counterparties. The program involves lending securities on an overnight basis against cash or borrowed securities and subsequently investing in AAA money funds. This program generated earnings for IBRD of S2.7 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005.
6.	FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
IBRD assumes various kinds of risk in the process of providing development banking services. Its activities can give rise to four major types of risk: credit risk; market risk (interest rate and exchange rate); liquidity risk; and operational risk. The major inherent risk to IBRD is country credit risk, or loan portfolio risk.
Governance Structure
The risk management governance structure includes a Risk Management Secretariat supporting the Management Committee in its oversight function, particularly in the coordination of different aspects of risk management, and in connection with risks that cut across functional areas.
*	Indicates amounts less than 0.5%.
For financial risk management, there is a Finance Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. The Finance Committee makes recommendations and, where appropriate to the topic, takes decisions in the areas of financial policy, the adequacy and allocation of risk capital, and oversight of financial reporting. Three subcommittees that report to the Finance Committee are the Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee, the Credit Risk Subcommittee and the Financial Instruments Subcommittee.
The Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee develops and monitors the policies under which market and commercial credit risks faced by IBRD are measured, reported and managed. The subcommittee also monitors compliance with policies governing commercial credit exposure and currency management. Specific areas of activity include reviewing and endorsing guidelines for limiting balance sheet and market risks, the use of derivative instruments, investing activities, and monitoring matches between assets and their funding. The Credit Risk Subcommittee monitors the measurement and reporting of country credit risk and reviews the impact on the provision for losses on loans and guarantees of any changes in exposure, risk ratings of borrowing member countries, or movements between the accrual and
nonaccrual portfolios. The Financial Instruments Subcommittee reviews the financial, organizational and implementational issues of new products offered to IBRD borrowers.
Country credit risk, the primary risk faced by IBRD, is identified, measured and monitored by the Country Credit Risk Department, led by the Chief Credit Officer. This unit is independent from IBRD's business units. Moreover, in order to further protect the independence of the unit, individual country credit risk ratings are not shared with the Executive Directors. In addition to continuously reviewing the creditworthiness of IBRD borrowers, this department is responsible for assessing loan portfolio risk, determining the adequacy of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and monitoring borrowers that are vulnerable to crises in the near term. The Chief Credit Officer reports to the Vice President of Strategy, Finance, and Risk Management who is a member of the Operations Committee, which reviews IBRD's Country Assistance Strategies and development policy loans.
Market risks, liquidity risks and counterparty credit risks in IBRD's financial operations are identified, measured and monitored by the Corporate Finance Department, which is independent from the business units responsible for managing these risks. The
Corporate Finance Department works with IBRD's financial managers, who are responsible for the day-to-day management of these risks, to establish and document processes that facilitate, control and monitor risk. These processes are built on a foundation of initial identification and measurement of risks by each of the business units. Under the direction of the Finance Committee, policies and procedures for measuring and managing such risks are formulated, approved and communicated throughout IBRD. Senior managers represented on the Committee are responsible for maintaining sound credit assessments, addressing transaction and product risk issues, providing an independent review function and monitoring the loans, investments and borrowings portfolios.
The primary responsibility for the management of operational risk in IBRD's financial operations resides with each of IBRD's managers. These individuals are responsible for identifying operational risks and establishing, maintaining and monitoring appropriate internal control in their respective areas using an operational risk management framework.
This framework requires each business unit to document operational risks and controls, assess the likelihood and impact of operational risks and evaluate the design and effectiveness of existing controls using guidelines established by IBRD. An independent operational risk control unit supports this process by undertaking periodic reviews, performing quality assurance testing and reporting exceptions.
The processes and procedures by which IBRD manages its risk profile continually evolve as its activities change in response to market, credit, product, and other developments. The Executive Directors, particularly the Audit Committee members, periodically review trends in IBRD's risk profiles and performance, as well as any significant developments in risk management policies and controls.
Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity
The risk bearing capacity of IBRD is the adequacy of its capital to absorb credit shocks and still be able to lend for development purposes without the need for additional shareholder support. The Board of Executive Directors assesses IBRD's risk-bearing capacity based on a variety of metrics, including a framework of stress testing and simpler measures such as the equity-to-loans ratio, to assess capital adequacy.
The risk that a significant portion of its loan portfolio may go into extended arrears is the most significant risk faced by IBRD, and almost all of IBRD's equity capital is held against this risk. Credit risk is measured in terms of both probable and unexpected losses from protracted payments arrears. Probable losses are covered by IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, and unexpected losses are covered by income-generating capacity and equity.
The framework of stress testing provides a basis for evaluating whether IBRD has sufficient financial capacity to be able to (i) absorb the income loss due to a credit shock," and (ii) generate sufficient income to support loan growth in the following years. The first requirement on the degree of shock absorption is designed to reduce the probability of having to rely on additional shareholder support (in terms of additional paid-in capital or a call on callable capital). This is intended both to protect shareholders and to support IBRD's credit standing, which reduces borrowing costs and correspondingly, lending rates for borrowers. The second requirement on loan growth reflects the view that as a development institution, IBRD needs to play a positive role in a crisis by maintaining the capacity to continue lending to assist recovery in borrowing member countries. One of the credit shock events used in the stress testing framework is an estimate of the amount of the loan portfolio that could enter nonaccrual status (payment arrears in excess of six months) in the next three years at an appropriate confidence level.
IBRD's equity supports its risk-bearing capacity for its lending operations. IBRD strives to immunize its risk-bearing capacity from fluctuations in interest and exchange rates. Therefore, IBRD uses the equity-to-loans ratio (on a current value basis) as one tool to monitor the sensitivity of its risk-bearing capacity to movements in interest and exchange rates. One of IBRD's financial risk management objectives is to seek to protect the equity-to-loans ratio from movements arising from market risks.
The sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to interest rate movements arises primarily from the sensitivity of the "contribution of equity" (the income earned from that portion of IBRD's assets funded with equity
a.	Income loss arises from borrowers in nonaccrual status no longer paying interest on their loans. In addition, an increase in the loan loss provision is typically warranted as a result of the nonaccrual event. This increase in the provision must be recognized as an expense, which further reduces net income in the year of the shock, and through that, impacts the equity-to-loans ratio.
rather than with debt).The sensitivity of IBRD’s operating income to changes in market interest rates has been increasing as borrowers have chosen to borrow from IBRD primarily on floating rate terms since the introduction of LIBOR-based loans. To the extent that the duration of its equity capital is matched to that of its loan portfolio, this ratio is protected against interest rate movements. To the extent that the currency composition of its equity capital is matched with that of its loan portfolio, the equity-to-loans ratio is also protected from exchange rate movements.
As presented in Figure 6 in Section 5, Funding Resources, IBRD’s equity-to-loans ratio on both the current value and reported basis has been on an upward trend.
Credit Risk Country Credit Risk
Country credit risk is the risk of loss due to a country not meeting its contractual obligations. IBRD’s Credit Risk Department continuously reviews the credit risk of its borrowing member countries. These reviews are taken into account in determining IBRD’s overall country programs and lending operations, used to estimate the appropriate level of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and used to assess the adequacy of IBRD’s income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital. In keeping with standard practice, probable losses inherent in the portfolio due to country credit risk are covered by the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, while unexpected losses due to country credit risk are covered by income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital.
Portfolio concentration risk, which arises when a small group of borrowers account for a large share of loans outstanding, is a key concern for IBRD and is carefully managed, in part, through an exposure limit for loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees to a single borrowing country. Under the current guidelines, IBRD's exposure to a single borrowing country is restricted to the lower of an equitable access limit or the single borrower limit. The equitable access limit is equal to 10% of IBRD's subscribed capital, reserves and unallocated surplus. The single borrower limit is established by assessing its impact on the overall portfolio risk relative to risk-bearing capacity, as measured by the level of usable equity. The single borrower exposure limit is determined by the Executive Directors each year at the time they consider the adequacy of IBRD’s reserves and the allocation of its net income from the preceding fiscal year. For FY 2006, the single borrower exposure limit is $14.5 billion, an increase
of S 1.0 billion from FY 2005, and the equitable access limit is $21.4 billion at June 30, 2005. As depicted in Figure 9, IBRD’s largest exposure (including the present value of guarantees) to a single borrowing country was $11.1 billion at June 30, 2005.
Figure 9:
Top Eight Country Exposures at June 30, 2005
In billions of U.S. dollars
Since the current exposure data presented are at a point in time, evaluating these exposures relative to the limit requires consideration of the repayment profiles of existing loans, as well as disbursement profiles and projected new loans and guarantees.
Under certain circumstances, IBRD would be able to continue to lend to a borrower that was reaching the single borrower exposure limit by entering into an arrangement that would prevent its net exposure from exceeding the limit. Any such arrangement would need to be approved in advance by IBRD’s Executive Directors. As of June 30, 2005 IBRD had entered into one such arrangement with China. As of this date, China had not reached the single borrower exposure limit and therefore, activation of this arrangement was not required.
Overdue and Non-performing Loans
When a borrower fails to make payment on any principal, interest or other charges due to IBRD, IBRD has an option to suspend disbursements immediately on all loans. IBRD's current policy however, is to exercise this option through a graduated approach as summarized in Box 4. These policies also apply to those member countries who are eligible to borrow from both IBRD and IDA, and whose payments on IDA credits may become overdue. For borrowers with IBRD loans who become overdue in their debt service payments on IDA credits, IBRD also applies the treatment described in Box 4.
Where the borrower is the member country, no new loans to the member country, or to any other borrower in the country, will be presented to the Board of Executive Directors for approval, nor will any previously approved loan be signed, until payments for all amounts 30 days overdue or longer have been received. Where the borrower is not the member country, no new loans to that borrower will be signed or approved. In either case, the borrower will lose its eligibility for any waiver of interest charges in effect at that time.
In addition to the provisions cited above for overdue by 30 days, to avoid proceeding further on the notification process leading to suspension of disbursements, the country as borrower or guarantor and all borrowers in the country must pay not only all payments overdue by 30 days or more, but also all payments due regardless of the number of days since they have fallen due. Where the borrower is not the member country, no new loans to, or guaranteed by, the member country, will be signed or approved.
In addition to the suspension of approval for new loans and signing of previously approved loans, disbursements on all loans to or guaranteed by the member country are suspended until all overdue amounts have been paid. This policy applies even when the borrower is not the member country.
See Notes to Financial Statements — Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers for a summary of countries with loans or guarantees in nonaccrual status at June 30,2005.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees to recognize the probable losses inherent in both the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees is discussed in Section 7, Critical Accounting Policies.
IBRD's provision for losses on loans and guarantees covers probable credit losses from protracted arrears. The Credit Risk Subcommittee reviews the allowance for losses on loans and guarantees at least quarterly and, if necessary, adjustments are made to the provision. In addition, the Audit Committee is apprised by management at least twice a year on the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
The accumulated provision for losses on both the accrual and nonaccrual portfolio are presented in
Table 14. The accumulated provision for losses on both the accrual and nonaccrual portfolio of loans decreased by $496 million (this comprises a release of provision for losses on loans of $500 and negative translation adjustment of $4 million during FY
2005). This decrease was primarily due to a net improvement in borrowers' risk ratings and negative net disbursements on loans, including $2,682 million of prepayments, which reduced loans outstanding.
Treatment of Protracted Arrears
In 1991, the Executive Directors adopted a policy to assist members with protracted arrears to IBRD to mobilize sufficient resources to clear their arrears and to support a sustainable growth-oriented adjustment program over the medium term. This policy is conditional on members agreeing to implement certain requirements including an acceptable structural adjustment program, adopting a financing plan to clear all arrears to IBRD and other multilateral creditors, and continuing to service their obligations to IBRD and other multilateral creditors on time.
It is IBRD's practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. During FY 1996 and FY 2002, exceptions were made to that practice with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro (SAM), formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996. See the Notes to Financial Statements — Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies, for additional information.
The accumulated arrears on loans to the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY), for which BiH and SAM undertook responsibility, were cleared through new consolidation loans extended by IBRD in FY 1996 and FY 2002, respectively. The reschedulings were structured to maintain the values of payments to IBRD in accordance with the terms of the original loan agreements. These reschedulings did not change IBRD's net exposure to these borrowers. These new loans included the loan principal outstanding assumed by BiH and SAM respectively, as part of their conditions for succession to membership of the former SFRY, as well as all unpaid interest and charges related to the former SFRY’s loans. This resulted in an increase in loans outstanding of $168 million for BiH and $799 million for SAM. The offset to these amounts was initially classified as deferred loan income, which was presented along with the accumulated provision for loan losses as a determinant of net loans outstanding on the balance sheet.
During FY 2003, IBRD determined that the offset to loans outstanding related to BiH and SAM, that was initially classified as Deferred Loan Income, should be reclassified to Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses to better reflect the nature of these amounts. Following the reclassification, the required provisions for these countries were reassessed, which resulted in a positive effect on income of $591 million in FY 2003.
Commercial Credit Risk
Commercial credit risk is the risk of loss due to a counterparty not honoring its contractual obligations.
IBRD's commercial credit risk is concentrated in investments in debt instruments issued by sovereign governments, agencies, banks and corporate entities. The majority of these investments are in AAA and AA rated instruments.
In the normal course of its business, IBRD utilizes various derivatives and foreign exchange financial instruments to meet the financial needs of its borrowers, to generate income through its investment activities and to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency rates.
Derivative and foreign exchange transactions involve credit risk. The effective management of credit risk is vital to the success of IBRD's funding, investment and asset/liability management activities. The monitoring and managing of these risks is a continuous process due to changing market environments.
IBRD controls the credit risk arising from investments, derivatives and foreign exchange transactions through its credit approval process, the use of collateral agreements and risk limits, and monitoring procedures. The credit approval process involves evaluating counterparty creditworthiness, assigning credit limits and determining the risk profile of specific transactions. Credit limits are calculated and monitored on the basis of potential exposures taking into consideration current market values, estimates of potential future movements in those values and collateral agreements with counterparties. If there is a collateral agreement with the counterparty to reduce credit risk, then the amount of collateral obtained is based on the credit rating of the counterparty. Collateral held includes cash and government securities.
IBRD treats the credit risk exposure as the replacement cost of the derivative or foreign
exchange product. This is also referred to as replacement risk or the mark-to-market exposure amount. While contractual principal amount is the most commonly used volume measure in the derivative and foreign exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit or market risk.
Mark-to-market exposure is a measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes IBRD and, therefore, creates an exposure for IBRD. When the mark-to-market is negative, IBRD owes the counterparty and does not have replacement risk.
When IBRD has more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty, and the parties have entered into a master derivatives agreement which contains legally enforceable close-out netting provisions, the "net" mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with the same counterparty. If this net mark-to-market is negative, then IBRD's exposure to the counterparty is considered to be zero. For the contractual value, notional amounts and related credit risk exposure amounts by instrument, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note G-Credit Risk.
Table 15 provides details of IBRD's estimated credit exposure on its investments (excluding externally-managed assets — $1,383 million at June 30, 2005, $1,350 million at June 30,2004) and swaps
(excluding those with borrowing member countries), net of collateral held, by counterparty rating
category.
The decrease in the proportion of AA rated investments, compared to the prior year, is mainly
due to the decrease in deposits with commercial banks. After the effects of netting arrangements, the credit exposure from swaps increased from $5,598
million at June 30,2004 to $8,167 million at June 30,
2005.	The swap credit exposure of $8,167 million is offset by collateral of $6,986 million, which results in a total net swap exposure of $l,181million.
Market Risk
IBRD faces risks which result from market movements, primarily changes in interest and exchange rates. In comparison to country credit risk, IBRD's exposure to market risks is small. IBRD has an integrated assetlliability management framework to flexibly assess and hedge market risks associated with the characteristics of the products in IBRD's portfolios.
Asset/Liability Management
The objective of assetlliability management for IBRD is to ensure adequate funding for each loan product and liquid asset at the most attractive available cost, and to manage the currency composition, maturity profile and interest rate sensitivity characteristics of the portfolio of liabilities supporting each lending product and liquid asset in accordance with the particular requirements for that product or liquid asset and within prescribed risk parameters. The current value information is used in the assetlliability management process.
Use of Derivatives
As part of its asset/liability management process, IBRD employs derivatives to manage and align the characteristics of its assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments to adjust the interest rate
repricing characteristics of specific balance sheet assets and liabilities, or groups of assets and liabilities with similar repricing characteristics, and to modify the currency composition of net assets and liabilities.
Table 16 details the current value information of each loan product, the liquid asset portfolio, and the debt allocated to fund these assets.
Interest Rate Risk
There are two main sources of potential interest rate risk to IBRD. The first is the interest rate sensitivity associated with the net spread between the rate IBRD earns on its assets and the cost of borrowings, which fund those assets. The second is the interest rate sensitivity of the income earned from funding a portion of IBRD assets with equity. In general, lower nominal interest rates result in lower lending rates which, in turn, reduce the nominal earnings on IBRD's equity. In addition, as the loan portfolio shifts from pool loans to LIBOR based loans, the
Table 16: Financial Instrument Portfolios
sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to changes in market interest rates will increase.
The borrowing cost pass-through formulation incorporated in the lending rates charged on most of IBRD's existing loans has traditionally helped limit the interest rate sensitivity of the net spread earnings on its loan portfolio. Such cost pass-through loans currently account for approximately 65% of the existing outstanding loan portfolio (68% at the end of FY 2004). All cost pass-through loans, including single currency and multicurrency pool loans as well as variable-spread loans, pose residual interest rate risk, given the lag inherent in the lending rate calculation.
Another potential risk arises because the cost passthrough currency pool products have traditionally been funded with a large share of medium- and longterm fixed-rate debt, to provide the borrowers with a reasonably stable interest basis. Given that the cumulative impact of interest rate changes over time has resulted in a decline in the level of interest rates, the cost of these historical fixed-rate borrowings in the multicurrency pool and the single currency pools is currently considerably higher than IBRD's new borrowing costs. The amount of debt allocated to the multicurrency debt pool will exceed the balance of the multicurrency loan pool after FY 2009. The debt which funds these loans has maturities that extend beyond those of the loans and this debt overhang presents a risk of loss to IBRD because the debt carries fmed interest rates.
Over-funding will reach a maximum of approximately $6.4 billion in FY 2015. Strategies for managing this risk include changing the interest rate characteristics of the over-funded portion of the debt from fmed to floating rates beyond 2009 through the use of forward-starting swaps. IBRD began executing these forward-starting swaps in FY 2000 and the cost to date has been approximately $594 million. The fair value of the debt overhang remaining to be hedged is approximately $94 million as of June 30,2005. The cost of the overhang will vary with interest rates and prepayments.
Interest rate risk on non-cost pass-through products, which currently account for 35% of the existing loan portfolio (32% at the end of FY 2004), is managed by using interest rate swaps to closely align the rate sensitivity characteristics of the loan portfolio with those of their underlying funding. As the portfolio of fmed-spread loans increases, the proportion of noncost pass-though products will grow.
The interest rate risk on IBRD's liquid portfolio, which includes the risk that the value of assets in the liquid portfolio will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates, is managed within specified duration-mismatch limits and is further limited by stop-loss limits.
Interest rate risk also arises from a variety of other factors, including differences in the timing between the contractual maturity or repricing of IBRD's assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments. On floating rate assets and liabilities, IBRD is exposed to timing mismatches between the re-set
dates on its floating rate receivables and payables. To mitigate its exposure to these timing mismatches, IBRD has executed some overlay interest rate swaps.
Exchange Rate Risk
In order to minimize exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment, IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by the Articles. In addition, IBRD's policy is to minimize the exchange rate sensitivity of its equity-to-loans ratio. It carries out this policy by undertaking currency conversions periodically to align the currency composition of its equity to that of its outstanding loans. This policy is designed to minimize the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the equity-to-loans ratio, thereby preserving IBRD's ability to better absorb unexpected losses from arrears regardless of the market environment.
Figure 10 presents the currency composition of significant balance sheet components (net of swaps) at the end of FY 2005 and FY 2004.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of IBRD's activities and in the management of its assets and liabilities. For a discussion on how liquidity is managed, refer to Section 4 —Liquidity Management.
Operational Risk
Operational risk is the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human factors, or external events, and includes business disruption and system failure, transaction processing failures and failures in execution of legal, fiduciary and agency responsibilities. IBRD, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operational risks.
IBRD attempts to mitigate operational risk by maintaining a system of internal control that is designed to keep that risk at appropriate levels in view of the financial strength of IBRD and the characteristics of the activities and markets in which IBRD operates. Since 1996, IBRD has used a COSOa-based integrated internal control framework.
a. In 1992, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) issued its Internal Control-Integrated Framework, which provided a common definition of internal control and guidance on judging its effectiveness.
During FY 2005, IBRD updated its framework for operational risk management for its finance, human resources, information technology and procurement activities. This framework was implemented in conjunction with business units and involves the following core steps:
•	Key operational risks and mitigating controls are identified and documented based on a self assessment process. This process is undertaken using a combination of tools including business process maps and tailored risk and control categories which are applied consistently across business units and an operational risk database.
•	Operational risks are quantified based on likelihood of occurrence and the resulting financial impact using probability and severity parameters. The inherent risks of potential misstatements in financial reporting are also assessed.
•	The design and operating effectiveness of controls over financial reporting are evaluated using self assessment workshops, independent walk through tests of processes, compliance testing and annual internal representation letters from business unit managers.
•	Action plans are developed for issues identified and followed up on a periodic basis.
Key risks and control weaknesses are evaluated on an annual basis by an internal panel.
The panel evaluates and categorizes these to determine if they pose a threat to management's ability to make a positive assertion on the adequacy of internal controls surrounding IBRD’s external financial reporting.
•	The results of the work undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting are reported to the Audit Committee through an annual report.
•	On a periodic basis, operational risks and controls are assessed and reviewed to monitor significant changes.
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management has carried out an evaluation of internal control over external financial reporting for the purpose of determining if there were any changes made in internal controls during the fiscal year covered by this report, that had materially affected, or would be reasonably likely to materially affect IBRD's internal control over external financial reporting. As of June 30,2005 no such significant changes occurred.
Annually IBRD's management has made an assertion that, as of June 30 of each fiscal year since 1997, its system of internal control over its external financial reporting has met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting as described in COSO. Since FY 1997, IBRD's external auditors have provided an attestation report that management's assertion regarding the effectiveness of internal control over external financial reporting is fairly stated in all material respects.
Disclosure Controls andProcedures
Disclosure controls and procedures are those processes which are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to management, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure by IBRD. Management has undertaken an evaluation of the effectiveness of such controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, the President and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these controls and procedures were effective as of June 30,2005.
7.	CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Notes to IBRD's financial statements contain a summary of IBRD's significant accounting policies. The following is a description of those accounting policies which involve significant management judgments that are difficult, complex or subjective and relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees reflects the probable losses inherent in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. There are several steps required to determine the appropriate level of provisions for each portfolio. First, the total loan portfolio is segregated into the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. In both portfolios, the exposure for each country (defined as loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees) is then assigned a credit risk rating. With respect to loans in the accrual portfolio, these loans are grouped according to the assigned risk rating. Each risk rating is mapped to an expected default frequency using IBRD's credit migration matrix. The provision required is calculated by multiplying the outstanding exposure, by the expected default frequency (probability of default to IBRD) and by the assumed severity of the loss given default.
The determination of a borrower's risk rating is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors, which include political risk, external debt and liquidity, fiscal policy and public debt
burden, balance of payments risks, economic structure and growth prospects, monetary and exchange rate policy, financial sector risks and corporate sector debt and other vulnerabilities. IBRD periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Actual losses may differ from expected losses due to unforeseen changes in any of the factors that affect borrowers' creditworthiness.
The accumulated provision for loan losses is separately reported in the balance sheet as a deduction from IBRD's total loans. The accumulated provision for losses on guarantees is included in other liabilities. Increases or decreases in the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees are reported in the Statement of Income as provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
Additional information on IBRD's provisioning policy and the status of nonaccrual loans can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements — Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related policies and Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Under the current value basis of reporting, IBRD carries all of its financial assets and liabilities at estimated values. Under the reported basis, IBRD carries its investments and derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, on a fair value basis. These derivatives include certain features in debt instruments that, for accounting purposes, are separately valued and accounted for as either assets or liabilities. When possible, fair value is determined by quoted market prices. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair value is based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates.
All the financial models used for input to IBRD's financial statements are subject to both internal and external verification and review by qualified personnel. These models use market sourced inputs, such as interest rates, exchange rates and volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgement. Imprecision in estimating these factors, and changes in assumptions, can impact net income and IBRD's financial position as reported in the financial statements.
IBRD believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable given its processes for obtaining external
prices and parameters; ensuring that valuation models are reviewed and validated both internally and externally; and applying its approach consistently from period to period.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
IBRD participates along with IFC and MIGA in pension and postretirement benefit plans that cover substantially all of their staff members. All costs, assets and liabilities associated with the plans are allocated between IBRD, IFC and MIGA based upon their employees' respective participation in the plans. Costs allocated to IBRD are subsequently shared between IBRD and IDA based on an agreed cost sharing ratio. The underlying actuarial assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligations, fair value of plan assets and funded status associated with these plans are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management's best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. For further details, please refer to Notes to Financial Statements-Note K-Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits.
8.	RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
In FY 2005, operating income declined to $1,320 million as releases of provisions contributed less than in FY 2004 and net interest income narrowed. Net income on a reported basis was S3,831 million in FY
2005	compared to a net loss of $2,404 in FY 2004. This reflects IBRD's application of FAS 133 and the decrease in reference market rates. For more details please refer to Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Non-trading (Borrowings Related) Derivative Instruments, as required by FAS 133 and IAS 39 discussed later in this section.
Interest Rate Environment
During FY 2005, short-term interest rates for the U.S. dollar were higher than for the comparative period in FY 2004. In addition, while interest rates were on a rising trend during FY 2005, they were essentially flat during the first nine months of FY 2004 and rising only in the last quarter of FY 2004. Figure 11 illustrates these general trends for the six-month LIBOR U.S dollar rates.
Operating Income
IBRD's operating income is broadly comprised of a net spread on interest-earning assets, plus the contribution of equity, less provisions for losses on loans and guarantees and administrative expenses. Table 17 shows a breakdown of income, net of funding costs, on a reported basis.
FY 2005 versus FY 2004
FY 2005 operating income, was Si,320 million, compared to S 1,696 million for FY 2004. The decrease in operating income is explained by the following factors.
A S270 million decrease in loan interest income, net of funding costs as a result of reduced loan spreads, primarily due to the negative impact of the re-pricing lag on pool loans.
Table 17: Net Income
In millions of U.S. dollars
A Si63 million decrease in the release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees. During FY 2005, provisioning requirements were reduced by S502 million. This reflects the combined impact of the changes in borrowers’ risk ratings, changes in the volume and distribution of loans outstanding, the annual update of the expected default frequencies, and developments in the nonaccrual portfolio. The larger release in FY 2004 reflected greater improvement in ratings in high-risk countries.
A S72 million increase in investment income, net of funding costs, reflecting the improved performance of IBRD's investment portfolio during FY 2005 largely due to the higher return performance against benchmark. The performance during FY
2004	was depressed in part reflecting the poor performance of certain asset classes at the beginning of FY 2004 when the bond market suffered one of its worst months.
The borrowings which fund the investment portfolio are not marked-to-market.
FY 2004 versus FY 2003
FY 2004 operating income was S 1,696 million,
Si,325 million lower than for FY 2003. The main reasons for the decrease in operating income were reductions in the release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees and in loan interest income, net of funding costs.
During FY 2004, provisioning requirements were reduced by S665 million due to a net improvement in borrowers’ risk ratings, and negative net disbursements, including S4,614 million of loan prepayments.
Loan interest income, net of funding costs Debt funded Equity funded Total loan interest income, net of funding costs Other loan income
Release of Provision for losses on loans and guarantees Investment income, net of funding costs Net noninterest expense Operating Income
Net unrealized gains (losses) on non-trading (borrowings related) derivative instruments, as required by FAS 133 and IAS 39 Net Income (Loss)—Reported Basis
During FY 2003 the overall reduction in provision for losses on loans and guarantees amounted to $1,300 million, resulting from the following factors. The provisioning requirements were reduced by $709 million due primarily to a net improvement in borrowers' risk ratings, and to a lesser extent due to changes in the size and distribution of the portfolio including negative net disbursements (of which prepayments were $6,972 million). In addition, the provisioning requirements for BiH and SAM were reassessed in FY 2003, resulting in an additional $591 million being taken into income (see Section 6— Financial Risk Management).
Net Interest Income FY 2005 versus FY 2004
Loan interest income, net of funding costs, decreased by $270 million largely due to lower returns on the debt funded component of loans, as a result of the lower lending rates of the cost pass-through loan products. Lower average loan balances, particularly in higher-yielding loan products, also contributed to the decline in net interest income. The margins for cost pass-through products in FY 2004 were high, in part reflecting the effect of favorable interest rate repricing lags in a falling interest rate environment.
FY 2004 versus FY 2003
Loan interest income, net of funding costs, decreased by $560 million largely due to lower returns on the equity funded component of loans, as a result of both the lower lending rates of the cost pass-through
Table 18: Net Noninterest Expense
In millions of U. S dollars
loan products and the effect of lower market interest rates. Lower average loan balances, particularly in higher-yielding loan products, as well as lower margins from cost pass-through products, also contributed to the decline in net interest income. The margins for cost pass-through products in FY
2003	were high, in part reflecting the effect of favorable interest rate repricing lags in a falling interest rate environment as well as significant prepayment premium income.
Net Noninterest Expense
The main components of net noninterest expense are presented in Table 18.
FY2005 versus FY2004
Net noninterest expense increased by $41 million primarily due to a $75 million increase in staff costs and operational travel. This was offset by a $40 million increase in service fee revenues and other net income.
FY2004 versus FY2003
Net noninterest expense increased by $42 million primarily due to a $27 million increase in other administrative expenses, a $23 million increase in contributions to Special Programs and a $14 million increase in staff costs and operational travel. This was offset by a $33 million increase in service fee revenues and other net income.
Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Non-trading (Borrowings Related) Derivative Instruments, as required by FAS 133 and IAS 39
IBRD marks all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, to market. To a large extent, IBRD uses derivatives to modify fixed U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar borrowings to variable U.S. dollar borrowings. IBRD borrows in currencies that are not directly needed for lending, to take advantage of arbitrage opportunities, and then immediately swaps the borrowings into the required currencies. These currency swaps are financially equivalent to non-U.S. dollar fixed-rate assets. Thus with interest rate curves shifting downwards at the medium to long end, particularly in euro, pounds sterling and Japanese yen, these currency swaps resulted in significant mark-to-market gains. Currently a significant proportion of the interest rate swap portfolio is made up of forward starting U.S. dollar swaps where IBRD is a net floating rate payer. The downward shift in the U.S. dollar interest rate curve, at the medium to long end, has further contributed to the mark-to-market gains (see Figure 12). The overall effect is a positive mark-to-market gain of $2,511 million to the income statement for FY 2005. In contrast, the effects of applying FAS 133 resulted in a mark-to-market loss of $4,100 million for the same period in FY 2004 primarily as a result of significant upward shifts in the applicable reference market interest rate curves.
Figure 12: IBRD's U.S. Dollar Funding Curve
7.00
Economically, increases or decreases in the values of the derivatives are offset by corresponding decreases or increases in the values of the related borrowings. FAS 133 requires that all derivative instruments be marked-to-market. However, as explained earlier, IBRD's application of FAS 133 does not mark-to-market the underlying financial instruments, to which these derivatives are economically linked. For management reporting purposes, IBRD has disclosed
the Current Value financial statements in Tables 2 and 3 and believes that these statements make fully evident the risk management strategy employed by IBRD.
9.	GOVERNANCE
General Governance Management Changes
The Executive Directors are charged, under the Articles of Agreement with the selection of IBRD’s President. Following the decision by Mr. James Wolfensohn to retire on May 31, 2005, the Executive Directors unanimously selected on March 31, 2005, Mr. Paul Wolfowitz to be the next President. Mr. Wolfowitz's appointment became effective June 1,
2005.
Following the departure of the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) on October 22, 2004 a global search for a new CFO has commenced. Pending the appointment of a new CFO, an acting CFO was appointed effective October 22, 2004.
Board Membership
In accordance with its Articles of Agreement, members of IBRD's Board of Executive Directors are appointed or elected by their member governments. These Executive Directors are neither officers nor staff of IBRD. The President is the only management member of the Board of Executive Directors, serving as a non-voting member and as Chairman of the Board. The Executive Directors have established several Committees including:
Committee on Development Effectiveness
Audit Committee
Budget Committee
Personnel Committee
Ethics Committee
Committee on Governance and Administrative Matters
The Executive Directors and their Committees function in continuous session at the principal offices of IBRD, as business requires. Each Committee's terms of reference establishes its respective roles and responsibilities. As Committees do not vote on issues, their role is primarily to serve the full Board of Executive Directors in discharging its responsibilities.
Audit Committee
Membership
The Audit Committee consists of eight members of the Board of Executive Directors. Membership on the Committee is determined by the Board of Executive Directors, based upon nominations by the Chairman of the Board, following informal consultation with the Executive Directors. In addition, membership of the Committee is expected to reflect the economic and geographic diversity of IBRD's member countries. Other relevant selection criteria include seniority, continuity and relevant experience. Some or all of the responsibilities of individual committee members are performed by their alternates or advisors. Generally, Committee members are appointed for a two year term; reappointment to a second term, when possible, is desirable for continuity. Audit Committee meetings are generally open to any member of the Board who may wish to attend, and non-Committee members of the Board may participate in the discussion. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee may speak in that capacity at meetings of the Board of Executive Directors, with respect to discussions held in the Audit Committee.
Key Responsibilities
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board to assist it in the oversight and assessment of IBRD's finances and accounting, including the effectiveness of financial policies, the integrity of financial statements, the system of internal controls regarding finance, accounting and ethics (including fraud and corruption), and financial and operational risks. The Audit Committee also has the responsibility for reviewing the performance and recommending to the Board the appointment, of the external auditor, as well as monitoring the independence of the external auditor and meeting with it in executive session. The Audit Committee participates in oversight of the internal audit function, including reviewing the responsibilities, staffing and the effectiveness of internal audit. The Committee also reviews the annual internal audit plan and meets with the Auditor General in executive session. In the execution of its role, the Committee discusses with management, the external auditors, and the internal auditors, financial issues and policies which have a bearing on the institution's financial position and risk-bearing capacity. The Audit Committee monitors the evolution of developments in corporate governance and the role of audit committees on an
ongoing basis and revised its terms of reference in FY 2004.
Communications
The Audit Committee communicates regularly with the full Board through distribution of the following:
■	The minutes of its meetings.
•	Reports of the Audit Committee prepared by the Chairman, which document discussions held. These Reports are distributed to the Executive Directors, Alternates, World Bank Group Senior Management and Vice Presidents of IBRD.
•	“Statement(s) of the Chairman" and statements issued by other members of the Committee.
•	The Annual Report to the Board of Executive Directors, which provides an overview of the main issues addressed by the Committee over the year.
The Audit Committee's communications with the external auditor are described in the Auditor Independence section.
Executive Sessions
Members of the Committee may convene in executive session at any time, without management present. Under the Committee's terms of reference, it meets separately in executive session with the external and internal auditors.
Access to Resources and to Management
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee receives a large volume of information, which supports the preparation of the financial statements. The Audit Committee meets both formally and informally throughout the year to discuss financial and accounting matters. Executive Directors have complete access to management. The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management the quarterly and annual financial statements. The Committee also reviews with the external auditor the financial statements prior to their publication and recommends them for approval to the Board of Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has the capacity, under exceptional circumstances, to obtain advice and assistance from outside legal, accounting or other advisors as deemed appropriate.
Code of Ethics
IBRD strives to foster and maintain a positive work environment that supports the ethical behavior of its
staff. To facilitate this effort, IBRD has in place a Code of Professional Ethics-Living our Values. The Code applies to all staff (including managers, consultants, and temporary employees) worldwide.
This Code is available in nine languages on IBRD's website, www.worldbank.org. Staff relations, conflicts of interest, and operational issues, including the accuracy of books and records, are key elements of the Code.
In addition to the Code, an essential element of appropriate conduct is compliance with the obligations embodied in the Principles of Staff Employment, Staff Rules, and Administrative Rules, the violation of which may result in disciplinary actions. In accordance with the Staff Rules, senior managers must complete a confidential financial disclosure instrument with the Office of Ethics and Business Conduct.
Guidance for staff is also provided through programs, training materials, and other resources. Managers are responsible for ensuring that internal systems, policies, and procedures are consistently aligned with IBRD's ethical goals. In support of its efforts on ethics, IBRD offers a variety of methods for informing staff of these resources. Many of these efforts are headed by the following groups:
■	The Office of Ethics and Business Conduct provides leadership, management and oversight for IBRD's ethics infrastructure including the Ethics Help Line, a consolidated conflicts of interest disclosure/resolution system, financial disclosure, ongoing training to both internal and external audiences, and communication resources.
•	The Department of Institutional Integrity is charged with investigating allegations of fraud and corruption in IBRD-funded projects worldwide. The Department also investigates allegations of misconduct by IBRD staff, and trains and educates staff and clients in detecting and reporting fraud and corruption in IBRD-funded projects.
The Department reports directly to the President and is composed of professionals from a range of disciplines including financial analysts, researchers, investigators, lawyers, prosecutors, forensic accountants, and IBRD staff with operational experience.
IBRD has in place procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints received regarding accounting, internal control and auditing matters.
IBRD offers both the Ethics Help Line, as well as a Fraud and Corruption hotline run by an outside firm staffed by trained specialists. This third-party service offers numerous methods of communication in addition to a toll free hotline in countries where access to telecommunications may be limited. In addition there are other methods by which the Department of Institutional Integrity may receive allegations, including directly by email, anonymously, or through confidential submission through its website, as well as the postal service and telephone.
Auditor Independence
In FY 2003, the Board of Executive Directors adopted a set of principles applicable to the appointment of the external auditor for IBRD. Key features of those principles include:
■	Prohibition of the external auditor from the provision of all non audit-related services.
■	All audit-related services must be preapproved on a case-by-case basis by the Board of Executive Directors, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee.
•	Mandatory rebidding of the external audit contract every five years.
•	Prohibition of any firm serving as external auditors for more than two consecutive five-year terms.
■	Mandatory rotation of the senior partner after five years.
•	An evaluation of the performance of the external auditor at the mid-point of the five year term.
In FY 2004, IBRD's external auditor, Deloitte and Touche, began a new five-year term and will have served 11 years as auditor upon completion of that term, pursuant to a one-time grandfathered exemption from the above-referenced ten-year limit. Even within a five-year term the service of the external auditors is subject to recommendation by the Audit Committee for annual reappointment and approval of a resolution by the Board of Executive Directors.
As a standard practice, the external auditor is present as an observer at virtually all Audit Committee meetings and is frequently asked to present its perspective on issues. In addition, the Audit Committee meets periodically with the external auditor in private session without management present. Communication between the external
auditor and the Audit Committee is ongoing, as frequently as is deemed necessary by either party. IBRD's auditors follow the communication requirements with audit committees set out under U.S. generally accepted auditing standards and International Standards on Auditing. In keeping with these standards, significant formal communications include:
•	Quarterly and annual financial statement reporting.
•	Annual appointment of the external auditors.
•	Presentation of the external audit plan.
•	Presentation of control recommendations and discussion of the COSO attestation and report.
■	Presentation of a statement regarding independence.
In addition to Committee meetings, individual members of the Audit Committee have independent access to the external auditor.
10.	RECONCILIATION OF PRIOR YEAR CURRENT VALUE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO REPORTED BASIS
IBRD's Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet at June 30,2004 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 19 below. Similarly, IBRD's Condensed Current Value Statement of Income for the year ended June 30,2004 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 20.
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed by a trust.
Currency Swaps (including Currency Forward Contracts):
Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal.
Duration: Duration provides an indication of the interest rate sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in its underlying yield.
Equity-to-Loans Ratio: This ratio is the sum of usable capital plus the special and general reserves, cumulative translation adjustment (excluding amounts associated with applying the provisions of FAS 133) and the proposed transfer from unallocated net income to general reserves divided by the sum of loans outstanding, the present value of guarantees, net of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees and deferred loan income.
Failed Trades: Failed trades are securities transactions that do not settle on the contractual settlement date.
FAS 133: FAS 133 refers collectively to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", along with its amendments, as well as the derivative accounting requirements of International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39, "Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement" and its subsequent amendments.
Forward Starting Swaps: A forward starting swap is an agreement under which the cash flow exchanges of the underlying interest rate swaps would begin to take effect from a specified future date.
Futures: Futures are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on U.S. and international regulated exchanges.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments.
Hedging: Hedging is a risk management technique of entering into offsetting commitments to eliminate or minimize the impact of adverse movements in value or cash flow of the underlying.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time.
LIBOR: London interbank offered rate.
Maintenance of Value: Agreements with members provide for the maintenance of the value, from the time of sub-
scription, of certain restricted currencies. Additional payments to (or from) IBRD are required in the event the par value of the currency is reduced (or increased) to a significant extent, in the opinion of IBRD.
Net Disbursements: Loan disbursements net of repayments and prepayments.
New Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998.
Old Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued prior to July 31, 1998.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans:
Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Return on Equity: This return is computed as net income divided by the average equity balance during the year.
Risk-bearing Capacity: The ability to absorb risks in the balance sheet while continuing normal operations without having to call on callable capital.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller's portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
Statutory Lending Limit: Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement, as applied, the total amount outstanding of loans, participations in loans, and callable guarantees may not exceed the sum of subscribed capital, reserves and surplus.
Swaptions: A swaption is an option that gives the holder the right to enter into an interest rate or currency swap at a certain future date.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
The management of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of its published financial statements and all other information presented in the accompanying Management's Discussion and Analysis. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards and, as such, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management.
The financial statements have been audited by an independent accounting firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of the Board of Executive Directors and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate. The independent auditors' report accompanies the audited financial statements.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards. The system of internal control contains monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified. Management believes that internal controls for external financial reporting, which are subject to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and are revised as considered necessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal control can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time.
IBRD assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards as of June 30, 2005. This assessment was based on the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon this assessment, management believes that IBRD
maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards, as of June 30, 2005. The independent accounting firm that audited the financial statements has issued an attestation report on Management's assessment of IBRD's internal control over external financial reporting.
The Board of Executive Directors of IBRD has appointed an Audit Committee responsible for monitoring the accounting practices and internal controls of IBRD. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of Executive Directors who are independent of IBRD's management. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of Executive Directors the selection of independent auditors. It meets periodically with management, the independent auditors, and the internal auditors to ensure that they are carrying out their responsibilities. The Audit Committee is responsible for performing an oversight role by reviewing and monitoring the financial, accounting and auditing procedures of IBRD in addition to reviewing IBRD's reports. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or without the presence of management, to discuss the adequacy of internal control over external financial reporting and any other matters which they believe should be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
President and Board of Governors
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
We have examined management's assertion, included in the accompanying Management's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Controls over External Financial Reporting, that the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards as of June 30,2005, based on the criteria established in "Internal Control — Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO report). Management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, testing, and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over external financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over external financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assertion that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards as of June 30,2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
President and Board of Governors
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30,2005 and 2004, including the summary statement of loans and the statement of subscriptions to capital stock and voting power as of June 30,2005, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30,2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30,2005 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards.
OilciZtl & /(PLooUt
Notes to Financial Statements
PURPOSE AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization which commenced operations in 1946. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. The activities of IBRD are complemented by those of three affiliated organizations, the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these organizations is legally and financially independent from IBRD, with separate assets and liabilities, and IBRD is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliates are disclosed in the notes that follow. IDA’s main goal is to reduce poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership by providing a combination of grants and financing on concessionary terms. IFC’s purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member's guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
NOTE A—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
IBRD's financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). On August 4,2005, the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the
valuation of certain financial instruments, the determination of the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, the determination of net periodic income from pension and other postretirement benefits plans, and the present value of benefit obligations.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years' information have been made to conform with the current year's presentation.
Translation of Currencies .IBRD’s financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IBRD's financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. IBRD's resources are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in those various currencies. IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at minimizing exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment. IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swaps) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement. In addition, IBRD periodically undertakes currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its Equity with those of the net loans outstanding.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates on which they are recognized or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
Valuation of Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of IBRD is expressed in terms of "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944" (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IBRD have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944" in Article II, Section 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of IBRD are interpreted to
mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being $1.20635 for one SDR (1974 SDR).
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of the value (MOV),at the time of subscription, of restricted currencies (see Note B). Maintenance of value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value of a member's currency against the standard of value of IBRD capital based on the 1974 SDR. Members are required to make payments to IBRD if their currencies depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the Executive Directors have adopted a policy of reimbursing members whose currencies appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value.
The net MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan, invested, swapped, or loaned to the member by IBRD or through IFC, and amounts that have been reclassified from receivables for those countries that have been in arrears for two years or more, are included as a component of equity under Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings. For restricted currencies used in IBRD's lending and investing operations, these MOV amounts are shown as a component of Equity since MOV becomes effective only as such currencies are repaid to IBRD.
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings consists of allocated amounts (Special Reserve, General Reserve, Pension Reserve, Surplus and Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments) and Unallocated Net Income.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6 of the Articles of Agreement, which are to be held in liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by IBRD. The Special Reserve assets are included under Investments— Trading, and comprise obligations of the United States Government, its agencies, and other official entities. The allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in 1964 with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
The General Reserve consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which, in the judgment of the Executive Directors, should be retained in IBRD's operations.
The Pension Reserve consists of the difference between the cumulative actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) and other postretirement benefits plans, and the cumulative accounting income or expense for these plans, from prior fiscal years. This Pension Reserve is reduced when pension accounting expenses exceed the actual funding of these plans.
Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are retained by IBRD until a further decision is made on their disposition or the conditions of transfer for specified uses have been met.
The Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments consist of the effects associated with the application of FAS 133a from prior years. At June 30,2005, this amount includes the one-time cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 133 on July 1,2000, the reclassification and amortization of the transition adjustments for prior fiscal years, and the unrealized gains or losses on certain derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, for prior fiscal years.
Unallocated Net Income consists of earnings in the current fiscal year. Upon recommendation by the Executive Directors, the Board of Governors, consisting of one Governor appointed by each member, periodically approves transfers out of unallocated Net Income and Surplus to various entities for development purposes consistent with IBRD's Articles of Agreement.
Transfers Approved by the Board of Governors: In accordance with IBRD's Articles of Agreement, the Board of Governors may exercise its reserved power to approve transfers to other entities. Such transfers are considered to be transactions with shareholders and accordingly are accounted for as direct reductions to equity.
Loans: All of IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans to IFC. The majority of IBRD's loans have repayment obligations based on specific currencies. IBRD also holds multicurrency loans which have repayment obligations in various currencies determined on the basis of a currency pooling system.
Any loan origination fees incorporated in a loan's terms are deferred and recognized over the life of the loan as an adjustment of yield. However, incremental direct costs associated with originating loans are
a. For the purpose of this document, FAS 133 refers collectivelyto the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, along with its amendments, as well as the derivative accounting requirements of International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
expensed as incurred as such amounts are considered insignificant. The unamortized balance of loan origination fees is included as a reduction of Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet, and the loan origination fee amortization is included in Interest under Income from Loans on the income statement.
It is IBRD's practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. In exceptional cases, however, such as when implementation of a financed project has been delayed, the loan amortization schedule may be modified to avoid substantial repayments prior to project completion.
In addition, during fiscal years 1996 and 2002, exceptions were made to that practice with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro (SAM), formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, respectively, in connection with their succession to membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). One component of the financial assistance packages for BiH and SAM was a plan for the clearance of arrears under all loans to the former SFRY for which they undertook responsibility. Under the arrears clearance plans, the accumulated arrears on loans to the former SFRY which were assumed by BiH and SAM were cleared through the issuance of new loans extended by IBRD. IBRD's treatment of BiH and SAM was based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for BiH in fiscal year 1996. These criteria limit eligibility for such treatment to a country: (a) that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD; (b) that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member; (c) that, because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming; and (d) for which rescheduling/refinancing would result in a significant improvement in its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken. This treatment was based on a precedent established in 1975 after Bangladesh became independent from Pakistan.
IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria.
It is the policy of IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines that the
overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if development credits made by IDA to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all loans made to or guaranteed by that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IBRD. On the date a member's loans are placed into nonaccrual status, unpaid interest and other charges accrued on loans outstanding to the member are deducted from the income of the current period. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included in income only to the extent that payments have been received by IBRD. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member's loans may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member's eligibility for new loans may have been restored. In such instances, a decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance.
Guarantees: IBRD generally provides guarantees of loans undertaken for, or securities issued in support of, projects located within a member country eligible for IBRD loans, as well as loans undertaken or securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD development policy lending. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IBRD to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IBRD would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed were not made by the debtor and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IBRD in accordance with the terms of the guarantee. In the event that a guarantee is called, IBRD has the contractual right to require payment from the member country that has provided the counter guarantee to IBRD on demand, or as IBRD may otherwise direct.
For guarantees issued or modified after December 31,
2002,	in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, IBRD records the fair value of the obligation to stand ready, and a corresponding asset in the financial statements.
For guarantees issued prior to January 1,2003, fee income received is deferred and amortized over the period of benefit.
IBRD records a contingent liability for the probable losses related to guarantees outstanding. This provision, as well as the unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee income, and the unamortized balance of the obligation to stand ready, are included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees: Delays in receiving loan payments result in present value losses to IBRD since it does not charge fees or additional interest on any overdue interest or loan charges. These present value losses are equal to the difference between the present value of payments of interest and charges made according to the related loan's contractual terms and the present value of its expected future cash flows. IBRD has not written off any of its loans.
Management determines the appropriate level of accumulated provisions for losses on loans and guarantees. IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees reflects the probable losses inherent in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. There are several steps required to determine the appropriate level of provisions for each portfolio. First, the total loan portfolio is segregated into the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. In both portfolios, the exposure for each country (defined as loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees) is then assigned a credit risk rating. With respect to countries with loans in the accrual portfolio, these loans are grouped according to the assigned borrower risk rating. Each risk rating is mapped to an expected default frequency using IBRD's credit migration matrix. The provision required is calculated by multiplying the outstanding exposure, by the expected default frequency (probability of default to IBRD) and by the assumed severity of the loss given default.
The determination of borrowers' ratings is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors. IBRD periodically reviews these factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or addition to income.
Investments: Investment securities are classified based on management's intention on the date of purchase, their nature, and IBRD's policies governing the level and use of such investments. At June 30,
2005	and June 30,2004, all investment securities were held in a trading portfolio. Investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD's trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value, using trade-date accounting. The first-in first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Unrealized gains and losses for investment securities and related financial instruments held in the trading portfolio are included in income. Derivative instruments are used in liquidity management to take advantage of profitable trading opportunities. These derivatives are carried at fair value. From time to time, IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of commitment.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and Payable for Cash Collateral
Received:Securities purchased under resale agreements, securities lent under securities lending agreements, and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IBRD receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, closes out transactions and enters into new repriced transactions. The securities transferred to IBRD under the repurchase and security lending arrangements and the securities transferred to counterparties under the resale agreements have not met the accounting criteria for treatment as a sale. Therefore, securities transferred under repurchase agreements and security lending arrangements are retained as assets on IBRD's balance sheet, and securities received under resale agreements are not recorded on IBRD's balance sheet.
Nonnegotiable, Noninterest-bearing Demand Obligations on Account of Subscribed Capital:
Payments on these instruments are due to IBRD upon demand and are held in bank accounts which bear IBRD's name. Accordingly, these instruments are carried and reported at face value as assets on the balance sheet.
Premises and Equipment: Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. IBRD computes depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the owned assets, which range between two and fifty years. For leasehold improvements, depreciation and amortization is computed over the
lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated economic life of the improvement.
Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major improvements are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life.
Borrowings:To ensure funds are available for lending and liquidity purposes, IBRD borrows in the worldwide capital markets offering its securities to private and governmental buyers. IBRD issues shortterm and medium- and long-term debt instruments denominated in various currencies with both fixed and adjustable interest rates. Borrowings are carried on the balance sheet at their par value (face value), adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts, and include adjustments for embedded derivatives and fair value hedges that existed at June 30,2000, as required by FAS 133. Issuance costs associated with a bond offering are deferred and amortized over the period during which the related indebtedness is outstanding. Amortization of discounts and premiums is included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
IBRD uses derivatives in its borrowing and liability management activities. In the borrowing portfolio, derivatives are used to take advantage of cost saving opportunities in non-target currencies in various capital markets. These derivatives are used to modify the interest rate and/or currency characteristics of the borrowing portfolio, and are carried at fair value in accordance with FAS 133. The interest component of these derivatives is recognized as an adjustment to the borrowing cost over the life of the derivative contract and included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
Accounting for Derivatives: IBRD complies with the derivative accounting requirements of FAS 133. FAS 133 requires that derivative instruments, as defined by these standards, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
IBRD uses derivative instruments in its investments, loans and borrowings portfolios and for asset/liability management purposes. In applying FAS 133 for the purposes of financial statement reporting, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships. Rather, all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, have been marked to fair value and all changes in fair value have been recognized in net income. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of FAS 133 qualifying hedge criteria would not make fully evident the risk management strategies that IBRD employs.
Valuation of Financial Instruments: Derivative financial instruments and investment securities are recorded in IBRD's financial statements at fair value. Disclosures related to the fair value of these, and other financial instruments are included in Note O. Fair value is based on market quotations when possible. Financial instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates. All the financial models used for valuing IBRD’s financial instruments are subject to both internal and periodic external verification and review. These models use market sourced inputs such as interest rates, exchange rates, and volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgement, as does estimating prices when no external parameters exist.
Accounting and Reporting Developments:
International Accounting Standards Board (LASB) Improvements Project: In December 2003, as part of its improvements project, the IASB issued fifteen revised standards to eliminate redundancies and conflicts between existing standards. These revised standards are to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1,2005. Of the fifteen standards issued, eight of these are relevant to IBRD, namely, IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, IAS 10, Events After the Balance Sheet Date, IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment, IAS 17, Leases, IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, and IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements. IBRD is still assessing the impact on its financial reporting, if any, of the adoption of the revision of IAS 21. IBRD has reviewed the remaining applicable standards and determined that only two of these will have a material impact on its financial reporting. Since IAS 8 requires that, in the absence of specific transitional provisions applying to a change in accounting policy (including adoption of a new standard), any such change should be applied retroactively, it will affect IBRD's application and presentation of future accounting changes in its financial reporting in future fiscal years. IAS 24 will require additional disclosures in the financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30,2006.
Other LASB Amendments: In addition to the fifteen standards issued as part of the IASB improvement project, other amendments have also been made. IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, (Revised), issued in December 2003, is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January1,2005.
IBRD is still assessing the impact, if any, of the adoption of this revised standard on its financial reporting. IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (Revised), issued in December
2003,	is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1,2005, and will not have a material impact on IBRD's financial reporting.
In addition to IAS 39 (Revised), further amendments were subsequently made to IAS 39, relating to (i) Transition and Initial Recognition of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, (ii) Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions, (iii) Fair Value Hedge Accounting for a Portfolio Hedge of Interest Rate Risk, and (iv) the Fair Value Option. The Transition and Initial Recognition of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1,2005, and will not have a material impact on IBRD's financial reporting. Since IBRD has elected not to use hedge accounting, the Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions amendment, which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1,2006, and the Fair Value Hedge Accounting for a Portfolio Hedge of InterestRate Risk amendment which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1,2005, will not have an impact on IBRD's financial reporting. IBRD is still evaluating the Fair Value Option amendment. This amendment is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after January 1,2006, with specific transition rules for existing IFRS filers. IAS 19, Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures, issued in December 2004, is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1,2006, and will result in additional disclosures in the financial statements.
New LASB Pronouncements: The IASB issued IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts in March 2004. This standard is required to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1,2005. Financial guarantee contracts which IBRD issues are within the scope of this standard. Application of this standard will not have a material impact on IBRD's financial reporting.
In March 2004, IASB also issued IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1,2005. IBRD has determined that the application of this standard will not have a material impact on its financial reporting.
In November and December 2004, the International Financial Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) issued Interpretation 2, Members' Shares in Co-operative
Entities and Similar Instruments (IFRIC 2), and Interpretation 4, Determining whether anArrangement contains a Lease (IFRIC 4), respectively. These interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1,2005 and January 1, 2006, respectively. IBRD has determined that the requirements under IFRIC 4 will not have a material impact on its financial reporting. IBRD is still evaluating the requirements under IFRIC 2.
NewFASB Pronouncements: FASB Interpretation 46 (R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (FIN 46(R)), was issued in December 2003 and is effective for IBRD for the first annal period beginning after December 15,2004. FIN 46(R), together with its related final FASB Staff Positions will not have a material impact on IBRD's financial reporting. In May 2005, FASB Issued FAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. This statement is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15,2005. As this standard requires that, in the absence of specific transitional provisions applying to a change in accounting policy (including adoption of a new standard), any such change should be applied retroactively, it will affect IBRD's application and presentation of future accounting changes in its financial reporting in future fiscal years.
NOTE B—CAPITAL STOCK, RESTRICTED CURRENCIES, MAINTENANCE OF VALUE, AND MEMBERSHIP
Capital Stock:At June30,2005, IBRD's capital comprised 1,581,724 authorized shares (1,581,724 shares—June30, 2004), ofwhich 1,572,661 shares had been subscribed (1,572,661 shares—June30,2004). Each share has a par value of 0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1.20635 per 1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $11,483 million ($11,483 million-June 30,2004) has been paid in, and the remaining $178,235 million ($178,235 million—June
30,2004)	is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans.
Currencies Subject to Restrictions: A portion of capital subscriptions paid in to IBRD has been paid in the local currencies of the members. These amounts, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by IBRD in its lending and investing operations, only with the consent of the respective members, and for administrative expenses.
Maintenance cf Value: As of June 30,2005, IBRD had positive $46 million (negative $73 million—June
30,2004)	of net MOV amounts classified as a component of equity. Of this amount, IBRD had a net MOV payable of $205 million ($119 million—June 30,
2004)	relating to restricted currencies out on loan, invested, swapped, or loaned to the member to IBRD or through IFC, which become payable by IBRD on the same terms as other MOV obligations only after such currencies are repaid to IBRD. The remaining amount is a net MOV receivable of $159 million ($192 million—June 30, 2004), representing receivables for countries that have amounts in arrears for two years or more. IBRD still considers these MOV receivables in arrears as obligations due from the members concerned.
NOTE C—INVESTMENTS
As part of its overall portfolio management strategy, IBRD invests in government and agency obligations, time deposits, corporate and asset—backed securities, repurchase agreements, securities loans, resale agreements and related financial derivatives including futures, currency swaps (including currency forward contracts), interest rate swaps and options.
For government and agency obligations, IBRD may only invest in obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries with a minimum credit rating of AA-; however, if such obligations are denominated in the home currency of the issuer, no rating is required. IBRD may only invest in obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality
of a government of a member country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity other than the government of a member country, with a minimum credit rating of AA—. For corporate and asset—backed securities, IBRD may only invest in securities with a AAA credit rating.
Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks or other financial institutions. IBRD may only invest if these time deposits are issued or guaranteed by financial institutions whose senior debt securities are rated at least A—.
With respect to futures and options, IBRD generally closes out most open positions prior to maturity or expiration. Futures are settled on a daily basis. For options, IBRD only invests in exchange—traded options. IBRD does not write uncovered option contracts as part of its investment portfolio strategy.
As of June 30,2005 and June 30,2004 there were no short sales included in Payable for Investment Securities Purchased on the balance sheet.
As of June 30,2005, IBRD had received $713 million ($851 million—June 30,2004) of securities under resale agreements. None of these securities had been transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements as of June 30,2005 or June 30,2004.
For the fiscal year ended June 30,2005, IBRD had included $3 million of unrealized gains in income (unrealized gains of $54 million—June 30,2004 and unrealized losses of $21 million—June 30,2003).
NOTE D—LOANS, GUARANTEES AND DERIVATIVES FOR BORROWERS
IBRD’s loan portfolio includes multicurrency loans, single currency pool loans, single currency loans and fmed spread loans. Single currency loans (variable spread loans and fmed-rate single currency loans), and fmed spread loans, include special development policy loans. At June 30,2005 only variable spread loans and fmed spread loans, including special development policy loans, were available for new commitments.
Waivers of Loan Charges
Waivers of a portion of interest owed by all eligible borrowers, as well as waivers of a portion of the commitment charge on undisbursed balances on all eligible IBRD loans, have been approved annually by the Executive Directors of IBRD since fiscal year 1990 in the case of commitment charge waivers, and since fiscal year 1992 in the case of interest waivers. These
waivers have been approved for the fiscal year ended June 30,2005. For the fiscal year ended June 30,2005, the effect of the interest waiver was to reduce net income by $125 million ($112 million—June 30,
2004, $93 million — June30,2003). For the fiscal year ended June 30,2005, the effect of the commitment charge waiver was to reduce net income by $125 million ($133 million — June30,2004, $146 million — June 30,2003).
On August 3,2004, the Executive Directors approved a waiver of 50 basis points of the front-end fee charged on all loans, with the exception of Special Development Policy loans. This waiver is effective for all loans presented to the Board in fiscal year 2005, with retroactive effect to fiscal year 2004 for all loans presented to the Board on or after March 1,2004. For the fiscal year ended June 30,2005, the effect of this waiver was to reduce net income by $1 million.
amount represents the maximum potential amount of undiscounted future payments that IBRD could be required to make under these guarantees, and are not included in the balance sheet. Most of these guarantees have maturities ranging between 10 and 15 years, and expire in decreasing amounts through 2015.
At June 30, 2005, liabilities related to IBRD's obligations under guarantees of $22 million ($23 million—June 30, 2004), have been included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet. These include the accumulated provision for guarantee losses of $13 million ($15 million — June 30,2004).
During the fiscal years ended June 30,2005 and June
30,2004,	no guarantees provided by IBRD were called.
Derivatives for Borrowers
During the fiscal year ended June 30,2004, the first currency swap transaction was executed between IBRD and one of its borrowers, under a master derivatives agreement. No other transactions of this nature have been executed. The net interest income associated with this swap is included in Loan Interest income on the income statement. As of June 30,2005, the receivable and payable legs of this swap each had carrying values of $89 million ($90 million and $93 million, respectively—June30,2004). This swap matures in 2017.
Overdue Amounts
At June 30,2005, there were no principal or interest amounts on loans in accrual status, which were over— due by more than three months. The following tables provide a summary of selected financial information related to loans in nonaccrual status as of June 30:
During the fiscal year ended June 30,2005, loans made to or guaranteed by Cote d’Ivoire were placed into nonaccrual status. Loan income for the fiscal year ended June 30,2005 would have been higher by $32 million, had these loans not been in nonaccrual status.
During the fiscal year ended June 30,2005, Iraq cleared all of their overdue loan principal, interest and charges due to IBRD. As a result of this event, loan income for the year ended June 30,2005 increased by $56 million, $51 million of which represents income that would have been earned in previous years had these loans not been in nonaccrual status.
During the fiscal year ended June 30,2004 there were no loans placed into nonaccrual status or restored to accrual status.
Serbia and Montenegro's arrears to IBRD were cleared through exceptional rescheduling arrangements in January, 2002. Under these arrangements, all loans to the country are to remain in non-accrual status pending completion of a period of policy and
payments performance, even though they are current on all obligations to IBRD.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest on its loans. However, IBRD suffers losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of payments for interest and charges according to the related loan's contractual terms and the actual cash flows. Certain borrowers have found it difficult to make timely payments for protracted periods, resulting in their loans being placed in nonaccrual status. Several borrowers have emerged from nonaccrual status after a period of time by bringing up-to-date all principal payments and all overdue service payments, including interest and other charges. To recognize the probable losses inherent in its loan and guarantee portfolio, IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
IBRD has endorsed a multilateral initiative for addressing the debt problems of a group of countries, identified as heavily indebted poor countries (HIPC), to ensure that the reform efforts of these countries will not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. Under this initiative, creditors are to provide debt relief for those countries that have demonstrated good policy performance over an extended period to bring their debt burdens to sustainable levels. IBRD has not entered into any commitments to provide debt relief under this initiative. Under the HIPC debt initiative, IDA has extended a new credit to an IDA-eligible country no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but with outstanding IBRD debt. This credit is funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD. In determining the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, IBRD has taken the situation of these countries into consideration.
Local Currency Lending
During the fiscal year ended June 30,2005, IBRD entered into a Local Currency Loan Facility Agreement with IFC which is capped at $300 million.
At June 30,2005, a loan commitment amounting to $50 million had been made under this facility.
Fifth Dimension Program
Under IDA’s Fifth Dimension program established in September 1988, a portion ofprincipal repayments to IDA are allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA development credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988 and have in place an IDA-supported structural adjustment program. Such supplementary IDA development credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions, in proportion to each country's interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for such IDA supplemental development credits, a member country must meet IDA’s eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan approved within the last twelve months. To receive a supplemental development credit from the program, a member country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA.
A summary of cumulative IDA development credits committed and disbursed under this program from inception, at June 30,2005 and June 30,2004 is presented below:
In millions of U.S. dollars
NOTE E-BORROWINGS
Providing liquidity and minimizing the cost of funds are key objectives to IBRD's overall borrowing strategy. IBRD uses swaps in its borrowing strategy to lower the overall cost of its borrowings for those members who benefit from IBRD loans. IBRD initiates swap transactions with a list of authorized counterparties. Credit limits have been established for each counterparty.
NOTE G—CREDIT RISK
Country Credit Risk:This risk includes potential losses arising from protracted arrears on payments from borrowers for loans, guarantees or related derivatives. IBRD manages country credit risk through individual country exposure limits according to creditworthiness. These exposure limits are tied to performance on macroeconomic and structural policies. In addition, IBRD establishes absolute limits on the share of outstanding loans to any individual borrower. The country credit risk is further managed by financial incentives such as pricing loans using IBRD's own cost of borrowing and partial interest charge waivers conditioned on timely payment that give borrowers self-interest in IBRD's continued strong intermediation capacity. Collectibility risk is covered by the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees. IBRD also uses a simulation model to assess the adequacy of its equity including reserves in case a major borrower, or group of borrowers, stops servicing its loans for an extended period of time.
Commercial Credit Risk: For the purpose of risk management, IBRD is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. For all securities, IBRD limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit risk is controlled through
application of eligibility criteria and volume limits for transactions with individual counterparties and through the use of mark-to-market collateral arrangements for swap transactions. IBRD may require collateral in the form of cash or other approved liquid securities from individual counterparties in order to mitigate its credit exposure. As of June 30,2005, IBRD had received collateral of $7,278 million in connection with swap agreements ($4,169 million—June 30, 2004), of which $4,181million had been transferred under security lending agreements ($nil million—June 30,2004).
As the transfer of this collateral did not meet the requirements of a sale, the collateral has not been included in the assets of IBRD.
IBRD has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable close—out netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. Credit risk with financial assets subject to a master derivatives arrangement is further reduced under these agreements to the extent that payments and receipts with the counterparty are netted at settlement. The reduction in exposure as a result of these netting provisions can vary as additional transactions are entered into under these agreements. The extent of the reduction in exposure may therefore change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
The contract value/notional amounts and credit risk exposure, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30,2005 and June 30,2004 (prior to taking
into account any master derivatives or collateral arrangements that have been entered into) are given below:
IBRD makes net income allocation decisions on the basis of reported net income, after adjustment for the
effects associated with the application of FAS 133 and pension income or expense. On August 3,2004, IBRD's Executive Directors approved the allocation of $680 million of the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30,2004, to the General Reserve and an increase of $21 million in the Pension Reserve. There was a $4,100 million reduction in Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments, representing the "net unrealized (gains) losses on non-trading (borrowings related) derivative instruments, as required by FAS 133 and IAS 39”, for fiscal year 2004.
On October 3,2004, IBRD's Board of Governors approved the following transfers out of the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30,2004: $300 million to the International Development Association (IDA), $240 million as an immediate transfer to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative Trust Fund, $50 million as an immediate transfer to the Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries, and the retention of $405 million as Surplus.
On October 13,2004, IBRD’s Board of Governors approved the transfer of $25 million from Surplus to the Trust Fund for Liberia, administered by IDA.
On April 22,2005, IBRD's Board of Governors approved the transfer of $25 million and $2.5 million
from Surplus to the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra, and the Trust Fund for Tsunami Disaster Recovery in India respectively, to support tsunami recovery activities. These trust funds are being administered by IDA.
The aggregate transfers and amounts payable for these transfers approved by the Board of Governors at June 30, 2005 and June 30,2004 are included in the following table:
NOTE I —ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES, CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL PROGRAMS, AND OTHER INCOME
Administrative Expenses for the fiscal year ended June
30,2005	are net of the share of administrative expenses allocated to IDA of $891 million ($908 million—June 30,2004, $846 million — June30,
2003). The allocation of expenses between IBRD and IDA is based on an agreed cost sharing formula that reflects the administrative costs of service delivery to countries that are eligible for lending from IBRD and IDA.
Contributions to special programs represent grants for agricultural research, and other developmental activities.
Other income primarily consists of service fee revenue. IBRD recovers certain of its administrative expenses by billing third parties, including IFC, MIGA, and certain trust funds for services rendered.
For the fiscal years ended June 30,2005, June 30,2004, and June 30,2003, the amount of fee revenue associated with administrative services is as follows:
At June 30,2005 and June 30,2004, IBRD had the following payables to (receivables from) its affiliated organizations with regard to administrative services and pension and other postretirement benefits.
NOTE J —MANAGEMENT OF EXTERNAL FUNDS
Trust Funds
IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses which include the cofinancing of IBRD lending projects, debt reduction operations, technical
assistance for borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs and research and training programs. These funds are held in trust with IBRD and/or IDA, and are held in a
separate investment portfolio which is not commingled with IBRD’s funds, nor are they included
in the assets of IBRD.
The responsibilities of IBRD under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services. During the fiscal year ended June 30,2005,
IBRD received $17 million ($14 million—June 30,
2004	and $14 million—June 30,2003) as fees for administering trust funds. These fees have been recorded as Other Income.
Investment Management Services
IBRD offers investment management services to one non—affiliated organization and one affiliated organization. Under these arrangements, IBRD is responsible for managing investment account assets on behalf of these institutions, and in return receives a quarterly fee based on the average value of the portfolios.
In addition, IBRD offers asset management and technical advisory services to central banks of member countries, under the Reserves Advisory and Management Program, for capacity building and other development purposes. One objective of this program is to assist these central banks in developing their portfolio management skills. IBRD receives a fee for these services.
The fee income from all of these investment management activities is included in service fee revenues described in Note I.
At June 30,2005, the assets managed under these agreements had a value of $9,180 million ($8,789 million—June 30,2004). These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD.
NOTE K—PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
IBRD, IFC and MIGA participate in a defined benefit SRP, a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) and a PostEmployment Benefits Plan (PEBP) that cover substantially all of thdr staff members.
The SRP provides regular pension benefits and includes a cash balance plan. The RSBP provides certain health and life insurance benefits to eligible
retirees. The PEBP provides certain pension benefits administered outside the SRP.
IBRD uses a June 30 measurement date for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
The amounts presented below reflect IBRD’s respective share of the costs, assets and liabilities of the
plans. Since each participating employer presents its
respective share of these plans, certain prior year
disclosures have been amended to reflect only IBRD’s
proportionate share of these plans.
All costs, assets and liabilities associated with these plans are allocated between IBRD, IFC, and MIGA based upon their employees' respective participation in the plans. Costs allocated to IBRD are then shared between IBRD and IDA based on an agreed cost sharing ratio. IDA, IFC and MIGA reimburse IBRD for their proportionate share of any contributions made to these plans by IBRD. Contributions to these plans are calculated as a percentage of salary.
The following table summarizes the benefit costs associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30,2005, June 30,2004, and June 30,2003:
IDA’s share of the net periodic pension incornelcost is included as a payable to/receivable from IDA in Miscellaneous Assets and Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous liabilities on the balance sheet.
The expenses for the SRP, RSBP and PEBP are included in Administrative Expenses.
For the fiscal years ended June 30,2005, June 30,
2004,	and June 30,2003, expenses for these plans of $16 million, $20 million and $24 million, respectively, were allocated to IFC, and $1 million, $1 million and $2 million, respectively, were allocated to MIGA.
The following table summarizes the projected benefit obligations, fair value of plan assets, and funded status associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30,2005, June
30,2004,	and June 30,2003. Since the assets for the PEBP are not held in an irrevocable trust separate from the assets of IBRD, they do not qualify for off-balance sheet accounting and are therefore included in IBRD's investment portfolio. The assets of the PEBP are invested in fixed income instruments.
The $1,779 million prepaid SRP cost at June 30,2005 ($1,622 million—June 30,2004) is included in Prepaid Pension Cost on the balance sheet. Of this amount $748 million was attributable to IDA ($661 million—June 30,2004) and is included in Accounts
Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet.
The $152 million prepaid RSBP cost at June 30,2005 ($149 million—June 30, 2004), is included in Prepaid Pension Cost on the balance sheet. Of this amount
$54 million was attributable to IDA ($52 million— June 30,2004) and is included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet.
Assumptions
The actuarial assumptions used are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management's best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. Changes in these assumptions will impact future benefit costs and obligations.
The expected long-term rate of return for the SRP assets is a weighted average of the expected long-term (10 years or more) returns for the various asset classes, weighted by the portfolio allocation. Asset class returns are developed using a forward-looking building block approach and are not strictly based on historical returns. Equity returns are generally developed as the sum of expected inflation, expected real earnings growth and expected long-term dividend yield. Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of expected inflation, real bond yield, and risk premium/spread (as appropriate). Other asset class
returns are derived from their relationship to equity and bond markets. The expected long-term rate of return for the RSBP is computed using procedures similar to those used for the SRP. The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation is selected by reference to the year-end AAA and AA corporate bonds.
Actuarial gains and losses occur when actual results are different from expected results. Amortization of these unrecognized gains and losses will be included in income if, at the beginning of the fiscal year, they exceed 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. If required, the unrecognized gains and losses are amortized over the expected average remaining service lives of the employee group.
The following tables present the weighted-average assumptions used in determining the projected benefit obligations and the net periodic pension costs for the fiscal years ended June 30,2005, June 30,2004, and June 30,2003:
The medical cost trend rate can significantly affect the	shows the effects of a one-percentage-point change in
reported postretirement benefit income or costs and	the assumed healthcare cost trend rate:
benefit obligations for the RSBP. The following table
Investment Strategy
The investment policy for the SRP and the RSBP is to optimize the risk-return relationship as appropriate to the respective plan's needs and goals, using a global diversified portfolio of various asset classes. Specifically, the long-term asset allocation is based on an analysis that incorporates expected returns by asset class as well as volatilities and correlations across asset classes and the liability profile of the respective plans.
This analysis, referred to as an asset-liability analysis, also provides estimates of potential future contributions and future asset and liability balances. Plan assets are managed by external investment managers and monitored by IBRD’s pension investment department. The pension plan assets are invested in diversified portfolios of public equity, fixed income, and alternative investments. The fixed-income and public equity asset classes are rebalanced on a monthly basis.
Estimated Future Benefits Payments
The following table shows the benefit payments expected to be paid in each of the next five years and subsequent five years. The expected benefit payments are based on the same assumptions used to measure the benefit obligation at June 30,2005:
Expected Contributions
IBRD’s contribution to the SRP and RSBP varies from
year to year, as determined by the Pension Finance
Committee, which bases its judgement on the results of annual actuarial valuations of the assets and
liabilities of the SRP and RSBP. The best estimate of
the amount of contributions expected to be paid to the SRP and RSBP for IBRD and IDA during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2005 is $211 million and S63 million, respectively.
NOTE L—SEGMENT REPORTING
Based on an evaluation of IBRD’s operations, management has determined that IBRD has only one reportable segment since IBRD does not manage its operations by allocating resources based on a determination of the contribution to net income from individual borrowers. In addition, given the nature of IBRD, the risk and return profiles are sufficiently similar among borrowers that IBRD does not differentiate between the nature of the products or services provided, the preparation process, or the method for providing the services among individual countries.
For fiscal year 2005, loans to each of two countries
generated in excess of 10 percent of loan income.
Loan income from these two countries was $486
million and $466 million. Loan income comprises
interest, commitment fees, loan origination fees and prepayment premia, net of waivers.
The following table presents IBRD’s loan outstanding balances and associated loan income, by geographic region, at June 30,2005 and June 30,2004:
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting equity that, under U.S. GAAP and IFRS, are excluded from net income. For IBRD, comprehensive income comprises the cumulative effects of a change in accounting principle
related to the implementation of FAS 133, currency translation adjustments, and net income. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
a
NOTE N-NET UNREALIZED GAINS (LOSSES) ON NON-TRADING (BORROWINGS RELATED) DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS, AS REQUIRED BY FAS 133 AND IAS 39
On July 1,2000, IBRD adopted FAS 133. These standards require that derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. IBRD has not defined any qualifying hedging relationships under this standard.
Prior to the adoption of FAS 133, the derivative instruments in the borrowing portfolio were recorded using synthetic accounting. The derivative instruments in the investment portfolio were, and continue to be, recorded at fair value in accordance
with the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.
Upon adoption of FAS 133, IBRD’s net income was increased by $219 million, and an additional $500 million was reported in other comprehensive income. The allocation between net income and other comprehensive income was based upon the hedging relationships that existed under generally accepted accounting principles before the initial application of FAS 133.
The $500 million difference between the carrying value and the fair value of those derivatives that were hedging a cash flow exposure prior to the initial
application of FAS 133, was included in Other Comprehensive Income at the time FAS 133 was implemented. This amount is being reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings.
Any gains or losses on those borrowings for which a fair value exposure was being hedged prior to adoption of FAS 133 were recorded in income at the
time of implementation, and were offset by the mark-to-market adjustments on the related derivative instruments. The mark-to-market adjustments on the bonds are being amortized over the remaining lives of the related bonds.
The following table reflects the components of the effects of applying FAS 133 for the fiscal years ended June 30,2005, June 30,2004, and June 30,2003.
Valuation Methods and Assumptions Due from Banks
The carrying amount of unrestricted and restricted currencies is considered a reasonable estimate of the fair value of these positions.
Investments
IBRD's investment securities and related financial instruments held in the trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. Therefore, for the investment portfolio, no additional adjustment is necessary. Fair value is based on market quotations. Instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information. (See Note
Net Loans Outstanding
All of IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD, except for those
loans made to IFC. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does it believe there is a comparable market for its loans. The current value of loans outstanding incorporates management's best estimate of the probable expected cash flows of these instruments to IBRD.
The current value of loans, including associated financial derivatives is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted using the rate at which IBRD would originate a similar loan at the reporting date. The cash flows of these instruments are based on management's best estimnates taking into account market exchange rates and interest rates.
The current value of net loans outstanding also includes IBRD's assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering its history of collections from
borrowers. This is reflected in the accumulated provision for loan losses.
Swaps Receivable and Swaps Payable
Certain derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, are recorded in the balance sheet at estimated fair value. The fair value of swaps is based on market prices, where such prices are available. Where no quoted market price is available, the fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow method representing the estimated cost of replacing these contracts on that date. (See Note A).
Borrowings
The fair value of borrowings is predominantly based on discounted cash flow techniques using appropriate market yield curves.
Other Assets and Other Liabilities
These amounts are generally short-term in nature. Therefore, the carrying value is a reasonable estimate of fair value. The difference between the carrying value and fair value of other assets is due to the carrying value of debt issuance costs being included in other assets while the fair value of these costs is included as part of the fair value of borrowings.
The management of the International Development Association (IDA) is responsible for, the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of its published special purpose financial statements and all other information presented in this annual report. The special purpose financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements and, as such, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management.
The special purpose financial statements have been audited by an independent accounting firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of the Board of Executive Directors and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate. The independent auditors' report accompanies the audited special purpose financial statements.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements. The system of internal control contains monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified. Management believes that internal controls for external financial reporting, which are subject to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and are revised as considered necessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal control can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time.
IDA assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA's special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2005. This assessment was based on the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon this assessment, management believes that IDA maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles described in Note
A to IDA's special purpose financial statements, as of June 30, 2005. The independent accounting firm that audited the special purpose financial statements has issued an attestation report on Management's assessment of IDA's internal control over external financial reporting.
The Board of Executive Directors of IDA has appointed an Audit Committee responsible for monitoring the accounting practices and internal controls of IDA. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of Executive Directors who are independent of IDA's management. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of Executive Directors the selection of independent auditors. It meets periodically with management, the independent auditors, and the internal auditors to ensure that they are carrying out their responsibilities. The Audit Committee is responsible for performing an oversight role by reviewing and monitoring the financial, accounting and auditing procedures of IDA in addition to reviewing IDA's reports. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or without the presence of management, to discuss the adequacy of internal control over external financial reporting and any other matters which they believe should be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
President and Board of Governors International Development Association
We have examined management's assertion, included in the accompanying Management's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Controls over External Financial Reporting, that the International Development Association maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the International Development Association's special purpose financial statements as of June 30,
2005,	based on the criteria established in "Internal Control — Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO report). Management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, testing, and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over external financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over external financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assertion that International Development Association maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the International Development Association's special purpose financial statements as of June 30,2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in " Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have audited the accompanying special purpose statement of sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30,2005 and 2004, including the summary statement of development credits and statement of voting power and subscriptions and contributions as of June 30,2005 and the related special purpose statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in accumulated deficit, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30,2005. These special purpose financial statements are the responsibility of the International Development Association's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these special purpose financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the special purpose financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the special purpose financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall special purpose financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The accompanying special purpose financial statements were prepared to reflect the sources and applications of development resources, operations, and cash flows of the International Development Association to comply with Article VI, Section 1 1 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association, as discussed in Note A to the special purpose financial statements, and are not intended to be a presentation in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or International Financial Reporting Standards.
In our opinion, such special purpose financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30,2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30,2005 in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the special purpose financial statements.
Our audits were conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the basic special purpose financial statements taken as a whole. The Supplementary Information on the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative listed in the table of contents is presented for the purpose of additional analysis. This additional information is the responsibility of the International Development Association's management. Such information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in our audits of the basic special purpose financial statements.
This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Governors, management, and members of the International Development Association. However, under the International Development Association's Articles of Agreement, this report is a matter of public record and its distribution is not limited.
August 4,2005
Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements
NOTE A—ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
Purpose and Affiliated Organizations
The International Development Association (IDA) is an international organization that was established on September 24, 1960. IDA’s main goal is reducing poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership, by extending concessionary financing in the form of grants, development credits and guarantees. IDA has three affiliated organizations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these other organizations is legally and financially independent from IDA, with separate assets and liabilities, and IDA is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliates are disclosed in the notes that follow. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. IFC's purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member's guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Due to the nature and organization of IDA, these financial statements have been prepared for the specific purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of member subscriptions and contributions and other development resources. These financial statements are not intended to be a presentation in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or with International Financial Reporting Standards. These special purpose financial statements have been prepared to comply with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA, and are prepared in accordance with the accounting policies outlined below. On August 4,2005, the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
The preparation of these special purpose financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the computation of estimated fair values of development credits and allowances for the HIPC Debt Initiative.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications of the prior years' information have been made to conform to the current year's presentation.
Basis of Accounting
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. That is, the effects of transactions and other events are recognized when they occur (and not as cash or its equivalent is received or paid) and are recorded in the accounting records and reported in the financial statements of the periods to which they relate.
IDA follows a special basis of accounting for member subscriptions and contributions and for development credits as described under the discussion on significant accounting policies below.
Translation of Currencies
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IDA’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IDA is an international organization which conducts its operations in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) and U.S. dollars. Applications of development resources and sources of development resources are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period, except Member Subscriptions and Contributions which are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates of income and expense recognition, or at an average of the exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of development credits and development grants denominated in SDRs are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Other translation adjustments are shown in the Statement of Income.
Member Subscriptions and Contributions Recognition
Member Subscriptions and Contributions committed for each IDA replenishment are recorded based upon the full amount of Instruments of Commitment received from members upon effectiveness of the relevant replenishment. Prior to effectiveness, only a portion of the Instruments of Commitment received are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions committed. A replenishment becomes effective when IDA receives Instruments of Commitment from members for subscriptions and contributions of a specified portion of the full replenishment. Amounts not yet paid in, at the date of effectiveness, are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable and shown as a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed. These receivables become due throughout the replenishment period (generally three years) in accordance with an agreed maturity schedule. The actual payment of receivables when they become due from certain members is conditional upon the respective member's budgetary appropriation processes.
The Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable are settled through payment of cash or deposit of nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes. The notes are encashed by IDA as provided in the relevant replenishment resolution over the disbursement period of the credits committed under the replenishment.
In certain replenishments, donors have had the option of paying all of their subscription and contribution amounts in cash before they become due, and thereby receiving discounts. In addition, some replenishment arrangements have incorporated an accelerated encashment schedule. In these cases, IDA and the donor agree that IDA will invest the cash and retain the income. The related subscription and contribution is recorded at the full undiscounted amount. The discount is recorded as unamortized discounts on contributions (a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed) and amortized over the projected encashment period.
Under the provisions governing replenishments, IDA must encash the notes or similar obligations of contributing members on an approximately pro rata basis. As discussed in the previous paragraph, donors sometimes contribute resources on an advanced or an accelerated basis. IDA holds these resources until they become available for disbursement on a pro rata basis.
Transfers to IDA from IBRD are recorded under Sources of Development Resources and are receivable upon approval by IBRD’s Board of Governors.
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which make payments of subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations and (2) Part II members, which make payments of ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies, and the remaining 90 percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II members provide a portion of their subscriptions and contributions in the same manner as mentioned in (1) above. IDA’s Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA and located outside the territory of the member except by agreement between the member and IDA. The local currency portion of subscriptions of Part II members are recorded as restricted under Member Subscriptions and Contributions unless released under an agreement between the member and IDA or used for administrative expenses. The cash paid and notes deposited in nonconvertible local currencies for the subscriptions of Part II members are recorded either as currencies subject to restriction under Due from Banks, or as restricted notes included under Nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligations on account of member subscriptions and contributions. Restricted notes at June 30,2005 were $44 million ($44 million—June 30,2004).
Valuation
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed in terms of "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960" (1960 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre—existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IDA decided, with effect from that date and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1,1960" in Articlell, Section 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR introduced by the
International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being equal to $1.20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and have also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors.
The subscriptions and contributions provided
through the Third Replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market value of the SDR.
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the Fourth Replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members' currencies or SDRs and are payable in members' currencies. Beginning July 1,
1986,	subscriptions and contributions made available for disbursement in cash to IDA are translated at market exchange rates in effect on the dates they were made available. Prior to that date, subscriptions and contributions which had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market exchange rates in effect on dates of disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period.
Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA’s Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member's currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the member's territories, so long as, and to the extent that, such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the Third Replenishment, but are not applicable to those of the Fourth and subsequent replenishments.
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987 that settlements of maintenance of value, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements. These amounts are shown as Deferred Amounts Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings.
Development Credits
All development credits are made to or guaranteed by member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for development credits which have been made to regional development institutions for the benefit of members or territories of members of IDA). In order to qualify for lending on IDA terms, a country's per capita income must be below a certain level and the country may have only limited or no creditworthiness for IBRD lending. Development credits carry a service charge 0f 0.75
percent and generally have 35- or 40-year final maturities and a 10-year grace period for principal payments. Commitment charges on the undisbursed balances of IDA credits are set annually by the Board of Executive Directors of IDA. For the fiscal year ended June 30,2005 the rate for undisbursed credits was set at 0.35 percent (fiscal year ended June 30,
2004—0.50 percent). For the fiscal year ending June
30,2006	the rate has been set at 0.30 percent. Development credits are carried in the Special Purpose Financial Statements at the full face amount of the borrowers' outstanding obligations.
It is the practice of IDA to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to or guaranteed by a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such development credit are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA’s management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if loans by IBRD to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IDA. On the date a member's development credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued on development credits outstanding to the member which remained unpaid are deducted from the income from development credits of the current period. Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member's credits may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member's eligibility for new credits may have been restored. A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis.
In fulfilling its mission, IDA makes concessional loans to the poorest countries. Therefore, there is significant credit risk in the portfolio of development credits. Management continually monitors this credit risk.
No provision for credit losses, other than allowances for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, has been established. Should losses occur, they would be included in the Statement of Income.
The repayment obligations of IDA’s development credits funded from resources through the Fifth Replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars. In June
1987,	the Executive Directors decided to value those development credits at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis. Development credits funded from resources provided under the Sixth Replenishment and thereafter are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed.
Development Grants
IDA is authorized to provide a significant portion of financing under the Thirteenth Replenishment as development grants. The annual net income transfers from IBRD for fiscal years 1997 through 2005 also authorized the use of such funds for IDA development grants.
Development grants are charged to income when the development grant agreement is signed by the recipient.
Commitment charges on the undisbursed balances of IDA grants are set annually by the Board of Executive Directors of IDA. For the fiscal years ended June 30,
2005	and June 30,2004, the commitment charge rate on the undisbursed balances of IDA grants was zero percent. For the fiscal year ending June 30,2006 the rate will continue to be zero percent.
Guarantees
IDA provides guarantees for loans issued in support of projects located within a member country that are undertaken by private entities. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IDA to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IDA would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed are not made by the borrower and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IDA in accordance with the terms of the guarantee.
In the event that a guarantee is called, IDA has the contractual right to require payment from the
member country that has provided the counter guarantee to IDA, on demand, or as IDA may otherwise direct.
For guarantees issued prior to January 1,2003, the fee income received is deferred and amortized over the period of benefit.
For guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, IDA records the fair value of the obligation to stand ready in the financial statements.
The unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee income and the unamortized balance of the obligation to stand ready are included in Other Resources, net on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative
The HIPC Debt Initiative was launched in 1996 as a joint effort by bilateral and multilateral creditors to ensure that reform efforts of HIPCs would not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. As a part of this process, the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund was established on November 7, 1996. It is administered by IDA and constituted by funds of donors including the IBRD, to help beneficiaries reduce their overall debt, including IDA debt.
Under the Original Framework of the Initiative, eligible countries received relief on IBRD and IDA debt through three mechanisms: (i) partial financing of lending operations with development grants; (ii) purchase and cancellation of IDA credits by the IBRD/ IDA component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund subject to availability of funds; and (iii) the provision of debt service on selected IDA credits, in certain cases, by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund.
Under the Enhanced Framework of the Initiative, which was approved by IDA’s Executive Directors on January 27,2000, implementation mechanisms also include: (i) partial forgiveness of IDA debt service as it comes due, to be reimbursed to IDA by the IBRD/IDA component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund; and (ii) in the case of countries with a substantial amount of outstanding IBRD debt, partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt.
Upon approval of debt relief for a country under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative by the Executive Directors of IDA, the principal component of the estimated debt relief costs is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding development credits under the Allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative, and as a charge to income.
This estimate is subject to periodic revision. The Allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative is reduced when debt relief is provided by IDA.
Upon signature by IDA of the country specific legal notification, immediately following the decision by the Executive Directors of IDA to provide debt relief to the country (the decision point), a receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created (to the extent that funds are available) and income is recognized. The receivable is limited to the nominal value equivalent of one-third of the net present value of the principal component of the total debt relief committed to the specific country. The receivable is also the maximum debt relief that can be provided before the country reaches its completion point as defined by IDA’s Executive Directors, and the country's other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative to the satisfaction of IDA.
An additional receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created and income is recognized when the country reaches its completion point and the country's other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative to the satisfaction of IDA. This additional receivable represents the remaining principal component of the total debt relief committed that was not recognized at the decision point.
Cash and Liquid Investments
IDA considers unrestricted cash as well as securities held in the investment portfolio, as an element of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows, since they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
IDA carries its investment securities and related financial instruments at fair value, using trade date accounting. The first-in-first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in Income from investments.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements
Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IDA receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, closes out transactions and enters into new repriced transactions.
The securities transferred to IDA under the repurchase and security lending arrangements and the
securities transferred to counterparties under the resale agreements have not met the accounting criteria for treatment as a sale. Therefore, securities transferred under repurchase agreements and security lending arrangements are retained as assets on IDA's Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources and securities received under resale agreements are not recorded on IDA's Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
NOTE B—INVESTMENTS
As part of its portfolio management strategy, IDA invests in the following financial instruments.
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed separately. IDA may only invest in asset-backed securities with a AAA credit rating.
Currency Swaps: Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal. IDA is authorized to enter into currency swaps including currency forward contracts.
Futures: Futures are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument, at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on regulated United States and international exchanges. IDA generally closes out most open positions in futures contracts prior to maturity. Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures contracts. Futures contracts generally entail daily settlement of the variation margin.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments. Obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of member countries require a minimum credit rating of AA- if denominated in a currency other than the home currency of the issuer, otherwise no rating is required.
Obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a member country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity other than the government of a member country require a minimum credit rating of AA-.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option. IDA invests only in exchange-traded options. The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans: Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fmed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale
agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fmed price.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller's portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered. As of June 30,
2005,	IDA had $228 million ($1,010 million—June
30,2004)	of short sales included in Net payable on investment securities transactions in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and or other financial institutions. IDA may only invest in time deposits issued or guaranteed by financial institutions whose senior debt securities are rated at least A—.
Carrying Value
Government and agency obligations Time deposits Asset-backed securities
Gross investment holdings
Securities purchased under resale agreements Repurchase agreements and securities loans Receivable from currency and interest rate swaps Payable for currency and interest rate swaps
Investments —Trading
Receivable from securities traded Payable for securities traded
Net payable on investments securities transactions Investments
Cash held in Investment portfolio3 Net lnvestment Portfolio
$15,035
$14,358
a. This amount is included in Unrestricted Currencies under Due from Banks on the Statement of Sources and Applications of De velopmen t Resources.
A summary of the currency composition of investments at June 30,2005 and June 30,2004 is as follows: Gross investment holdings
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
2005
2004
	Carrying value	Average Yield (%)	Average Repricing (years)	Carrying value	Average Yield (%)	Average Repricing (years)
Euro	$8,337	2.43	3.49	$ 6,597	3.13	3.90
Pounds sterling	3,410	4.52	3.82	3,118	4.86	3.86
U.S. dollars	7,047	3.74	3.52	8,663	3.09	7.10
Other	403	4.69	3.28	17	3.97	2.72
Total	$19,197	3.33	3.56	$1 8,395	3.40	5.41
Net lnvestment Portfolio
In millions o f U.S. dollars equivalent
a. All Japanese yen investments are held in cash The World Bank Annual Report 2005
		2005			2004	
			Average			Average
	Carrying	Average Yield	Repricing	Carrying	Average Yield	Repricing
	value	(%)	(years)	value	(%)	(years)
Euro	$7,290	2.38	3.74	$ 5,526	3.31	4.52
Japanese yena	873					1,314	—	—
Pounds sterling	1,846	4.33	6.73	2,095	5.20	5.06
U.S. dollars	5,026	4.42	7.28	5,423	4.02	10.21
Total	$1 5,035	3.17	5.18	$14,358	3.53	6.33
For the purpose of risk management, IDA is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk in excess of the amount reflected in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. IDA limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit limits have been established for each counterparty by type of instrument and maturity category.
In addition, IDA has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable closeout netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. Credit risk with financial assets subject to a master derivatives agreement is further reduced under these agreements to the extent that payments and receipts with the counterparty are netted at settlement. The reduction in exposure as a result of these netting provisions can vary as additional transactions are entered into under these agreements. The extent of the reduction in exposure may therefore change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
The credit risk exposure and contract value, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30,
2005	and June 30,2004 (prior to taking into account any master derivatives agreements or collateral arrangements that have been made) are given below:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
Exchange traded Futures and options
•	Notional	Long position	$8,605	$7,769
•Notional	Short position	1,842	2,682
Currency swaps
•	Credit exposure	__	__
Interest rate swaps
•Notional	principal	1,280	80
•	Credit exposure	5	*
*Less than $0.5 million.
Exchange traded instruments are normally subject to daily margin requirements and are deemed to have no material credit risk. All outstanding futures and options contracts at the end of June 30,2005 and June
30,2004	were interest rate contracts.
As of June 30,2005, IDA had received $1,153 million ($954 million—June 30,2004) of securities under resale agreements. Of these instruments held by IDA, $369 million ($130 million—June 30,2004) has been
transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements. None of these securities have been included in the assets of IDA.
At June 30,2005, IDA maintained a line of credit facility with an independent financial institution. This facility was created for the benefit of both IBRD and IDA. The available line of credit to each institution is $500 million, but usage from both institutions cannot exceed this amount in aggregate. The line of credit facility is being used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. At June 30,2005, IDA had not drawn down under this facility ($nil million — June 30,2004).
NOTE C—MEMBER SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable: At June
30,2005,	receivables from subscriptions and contributions were $934 million ($4,589 million — June 30,2004) of which $355 million ($123 million — June 30,2004) was due and $579 million ($4,466 million—June 30,2004) was not yet due.
Subscriptions and contributions due at June 30,2005 were as follows:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent Amounts initially due from
July 1, 2004 through June 30,	2005	234
June 30, 2004 and earlier	121
Total	$355
Subscriptions and contributions not yet due at June 30, 2005 will become due as follows:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent Period
July 1, 2005 through	June	30,	2006	$475
July 1, 2006 through	June	30,	2007	56
Thereafter	48
Total	$579
FourteenthReplenishment:On March 10,2005, the Executive Directors approved the Fourteenth Replenishment report and subsequently submitted the report and draft resolution to the Board of Governors for their approval. The Board of Governors adopted the resolution on April 13,2005. Therefore, during the period July 1,2005 to June 30,2008, IDA is expected to provide concessional financing of about $35 billion (SDR 24 billion), including a significant portion as grants. Of this amount, new donor contributions are expected to total about $20 billion (SDR 14 billion). The Fourteenth Replenishment will become effective when IDA has received commitments for subscriptions and contributions of about $10 billion (SDR 7 billion).
NOTE D—TRANSFERS
At June 30,2005 and June 30,2004, transfers were comprised of:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
2005	2004
Transfers from the International		
Bank for Reconstruction and		
Development	$8,050	$7,738
Transfers from the Trust Fund for		
Bosnia and Herzegovina	135	135
Transfer from the Trust Fund for		
Kosovo	4	—
Total Transfers	$8,189	$7,873
IBRD’s Board of Governors has approved aggregate transfers to IDA totaling $7,957 million through June
30,2005	($7,657 million-June 30,2004). The aggregate transfers of $8,050 million reported in the above table differs from the amount of aggregate transfers approved due to exchange rate movements on the value of transfers that were approved in SDR.
Of the aggregate transfers, $300 million was approved by the IBRD Board of Governors in October 2004.
At June 30,2005, $740 million was receivable from IBRD ($1,584 million—June 30,2004). Of this amount, $383 million will be paid after all other resources available to IDA for the purpose of the Eleventh Replenishment have been drawn down. This is expected to occur in January 2006. The remaining $357 million will be paid in accordance with the donor encashment schedule for IDA’s Thirteenth Replenishment.
On June 30,2005, in accordance with the administration agreement for the Trust Fund for Kosovo, $4 million in cash was transferred from the trust fund to IDA.
On September 24,2003, in accordance with the administration agreement for the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Executive Directors of IDA approved the termination of the trust fund and the transfer of its assets to IDA. These assets included the right to receive repayments of credits totaling $124 million and $11 million in cash balances. At June 30,
2004,	these assets in the form of development credits and cash had been transferred to IDA.
NOTE E—DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
Currency Composition
The currency composition of IDA's development credits outstanding at June 30,2005 and June 30,2004 is as follows:
In millions oW.Sdollars equivalent
	2005	2004
USD	$ 12,072	$ 12,638
SDR	108,835	103,105
Development credits outstanding	$120,907	$115,743
Overdue Amounts
At June 30,2005, there were no principal or charges on development credits in accrual status which were overdue by more than three months.
On January 4,2005, Haiti cleared all overdue payments on principal and service charges to IDA and development credits made to or guaranteed by Haiti were restored to accrual status. As a result, income from development credits for the year ended June 30,
2005	increased by $14 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these credits not been in nonaccrual status.
Effective November 2,2004, development credits made to or guaranteed by Cote d’Ivoire were placed in nonaccrual status. Income for the year ended June 30,
2005	would have been higher by $21 million, had
these development credits not been in nonaccrual status.
During the fiscal year ended June 30,2004, there were no development credits which were either placed in nonaccrual status or restored to accrual status.
Serbia and Montenegro's arrears to IBRD were cleared through exceptional rescheduling arrangements in January, 2002. Under these arrangements, all development credits to the country are to remain in nonaccrual status pending completion of a period of policy and payments performance, even though they are current on all obligations to IDA.