MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD BANK AND CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
This Annual Report covers a year that saw a
revitalized global commitment to fighting poverty.
The 2005 "Year of Development" was an opportunity for stocktaking five years after 189 UN Member States agreed to a set of specific targets for reducing poverty, hunger, disease, gender inequality, illiteracy, and environmental degradation— the Millennium Development Goals.
The G-8 Summit in Gleneagles, UK, in July 2005 saw significant commitments by donors to double aid and cancel the debts of the poorest countries to multilateral organizations in order to accelerate progress toward these goals. G-8 leaders called on the World Bank, specifically, to help ensure results in Africa on poverty reduction and to create a new framework for mobilizing investment in clean energy and development.
At the Annual Meetings last September, this G-8 initiative became what Development Committee Chairman Trevor Manuel called "a G-184 initiative." In March of 2006, the Bank's Governors agreed to a financing package for the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI), cancelling $37 billion in IDA debt of some of the world's poorest countries over 40 years. This is in addition to some $17 billion of debt relief already committed by IDA under the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative.
In September, an Africa Action Plan was presented to the Board of Directors of the World Bank, setting specific targets on everything from closing the infrastructure gap and rolling back malaria to cutting through regulations that stifle business. Africa continues to present a serious development challenge. Despite global growth and declining poverty rates, between 1981 and 2002, the number of people living in
extreme poverty in Sub-Saharan Africa nearly doubled from 164 million to 303 million—almost half the total population.
By 2015, the number of poor is projected to rise still further to 336 million.
But there is reason for optimism. Since 1995, 15 non-oil producing African countries—representing 35 percent of Africa's population—had growth rates of 4 percent or better, with the median growth rate of 15 countries reaching
5.3	percent. Enrollment rates in primary education shot up from 73 percent in 1990 to 93 percent in 2004. Improvements in governance—public financial management, administrative, and transparency reforms in a number of countries—also promise to bring hope and opportunity to the people of Africa.
We now know that aid will not deliver sustainable results in the absence of strong governance. Good governance is essentially the combination of transparent and accountable institutions, strong skills and competence, and a fundamental willingness to do the right thing—the things that enable a government to deliver services to its people efficiently. Over the last year, the Bank stepped up governance and anticorruption efforts along three different fronts: at the country level; minimizing the risk of corruption in World Bank-funded projects; and expanding global partnerships with groups that have a stake in improving governance—including the private sector
Good governance is also critical for the investment that creates jobs and thus opportunities for poor people to escape poverty. Here too, important progress is being made. According to the World Bank Group's 2006 Doing Business report, 10 African countries introduced reforms to make it easier to do business in 2004. More importantly, the Doing Business index itself has become a catalyst for reform in
more than 20 countries, contributing to policy debates and legislative reform.
During fiscal 2006, total IBRD lending reached $14.1 billion. We provided $9.5 billion in IDA credit and grants, of which half—or $4.8 billion—went to Africa. IDA currently represents 13 percent of all external aid to Africa. IFC marked its 50th anniversary with a record year of commitments totaling $6.7 billion. And guarantees provided by MIGA increased to $1.3 billion, of which $180 million went to projects in Africa.
While Sub-Saharan Africa is the most important priority for the World Bank—it is not the only priority. Middle-income countries are home to 25 percent of the world's poor people: more people live in extreme poverty in Brazil, China, and India combined than in all of Sub-Saharan Africa. And, looking ahead, the Bank will continue to play a large role in the provision of global public goods, whether addressing the challenge of avian flu and other diseases or helping developing countries expand access to clean energy.
As the fiscal year came to a close, I announced structural changes designed to make the organization more effective: the former Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development and Infrastructure networks have become a single network called "Sustainable Development"; and the Financial Sector and Private Sector Development networks have been consolidated.
The integration of environmental and infrastructure projects represents an important outcome of lessons learned over the last decade. During the 1990s the World Bank significantly reduced infrastructure investments. But with 1.6 billion people in the world without access to even basic
energy services, we needed to reverse that trend, and we are. In doing so, the World Bank will take the lead in developing responsible and sustainable infrastructure—infrastructure that promotes human development.
Over the last year, I have had the privilege of visiting five continents and talking with policy makers, entrepreneurs, civil society leaders, farmers, and schoolchildren in almost 30 countries. These exchanges have convinced me that while we face a daunting challenge to eradicate poverty, we also face an unprecedented opportunity to make a difference. Over the last 25 years, the number of people worldwide living on less than a dollar a day fell by half a billion. If current trends continue, by the year 2015, another 400 million people, it is estimated, will escape poverty. Those numbers demonstrate that reducing poverty is not just a hope. It can become a reality with partnership, vision, good leadership, and investment from inside and outside developing countries.
THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Executive Directors are responsible for the conduct of the World Bank's general operations, performing duties under powers delegated by the Board of Governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement, 5 of the 24 Executive Directors are appointed by the member countries having the largest number of shares; the rest are elected by the other member countries, which form constituencies in an election process conducted every two years.
Executive Directors consider and decide on IBRD loan and guarantee proposals and IDA credit, grant, and guarantee proposals made by the President. Directors exercise an important role in shaping Bank policy and its evolution. In this capacity, they represent the evolving perspectives of member countries on the World Bank Group and its operations. The Executive Directors are responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors, at the Annual Meetings, audited accounts, an administrative budget, and an annual report (this report) on the Bank's operations and policies as well as other matters that, in their judgment, require submission to the Board of Governors.
The Board of Executive Directors (the Board) meets regularly at Bank headquarters in Washington, DC.
Directors serve on one or more standing committees: Audit, Budget, Development Effectiveness, Governance and Administrative Matters, and Personnel. With the committees' help, the Board discharges its oversight responsibilities through in-depth examinations of policies and practices. Committees are not empowered to make decisions for the entire Board. The Independent Evaluation Group, formerly the Operations Evaluation Department, provides independent assessments to the Board on the relevance, sustainability, efficiency, and effectiveness of operations. The group is directly accountable to the Board.
(See www.worldbank.org/boards and www.worldbank .org/ieg for more information.)
In fiscal 2006, the Board approved measures to improve its effectiveness and ensure earlier Board input into the Bank's decision making. Key measures include the introduction of a quarterly strategic review of the Board's work program, a scheduling process, and a tool to track policy issues. Steps to improve Board efficiency include changes to and clarification of procedures and guidelines for conducting meetings and for preparing and submitting documents for consideration. These measures are at different stages of implementation. The result has been an increased focus on outcomes and greater selectivity in issues discussed by Board committees. Additional steps being taken include developing a handbook on Board rules and procedures, defining a sanctions framework for violations of rules and procedures, and establishing a time frame for reviewing the implementation status of recommendations.
The Board works closely with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) through the Bank-Fund Development Committee. Directors play an active role in preparing agendas and issues papers for the Development Committee's semiannual meetings. Following the 2006 Spring Meetings, the Development Committee highlighted the need to promote good governance (including fighting corruption) and mutual accountability.
In fiscal 2006, the Board considered papers and reports on aid effectiveness, progress on the Doha Development Round of trade talks, the Bank's Africa Action Plan, implementation issues surrounding debt relief and implications for IDA, and implementation issues surrounding the status of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. The Board also noted the creation of the External Review Committee, which is tasked with reviewing Bank-Fund collaboration.
To assess project implementation firsthand, Directors traveled to Grenada, Guatemala, and Peru (November 2005); the Central African Republic, Gabon, and The Gambia (March 2006); and the Russian Federation (May 2006). They met with a wide range of stakeholders, including project managers, beneficiaries, government officials, representatives of civil society organizations and the private sector, other development partners, financial institutions, and resident mission Bank staff members.
STRATEGIC ISSUES
The major areas of Board emphasis during fiscal 2006 are highlighted below.
Strategic Framework
The Board's work continued to follow closely the twin pillars of the Bank's strategic framework: supporting the creation of a favorable investment climate and empowering poor people. The range of interventions include support for sound governance, sustainable development, inclusive delivery of social services, improved infrastructure, private sector development, and job creation. The Executive Directors reaffirmed the need for selectivity in the Bank's work and called for greater collaboration with development partners. The Executive Directors endorsed the Africa Action Plan and its 25 specific initiatives to be undertaken by the Bank's Africa region during the implementation period for the 14th Replenishment of IDA. Other issues discussed by the Board focused on progress in harmonizing operational policies, procedures, and practices among donors; progress in implementing the Paris Declaration, which outlines enhanced aid effectiveness through mechanisms aimed at a stronger focus on results; meeting the needs of low-income countries, including HIPCs
and fragile states; and strengthening partnerships with middle-income countries.
Poverty Reduction
The Board continued to monitor implementation of the Bank's poverty reduction mandate and its contributions toward attaining the Millennium Development Goals. The Board reviewed 10 Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) Papers and 20 PRS Progress Reports in fiscal 2006, and it identified areas for further refinement. The Board also discussed several other papers designed to strengthen the Bank's role in poverty reduction, including the efficacy of PRSs and the effectiveness of poverty reduction strategy credits, a Bank lending instrument that supports poverty reduction objectives.
Debt Relief
In March 2006, the Board approved the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI), which provides debt relief to countries that reach their completion points under the HIPC Initiative. The MDRI went into effect on July 1, 2006. The Board also discussed several joint Bank-Fund papers in support of debt relief, including one on the status of the implementation of the HIPC Initiative and another addressing IDA's implementation of the MDRI, including the so-called free-rider problem. In fiscal 2006, the Board also reviewed one HIPC completion point document. (See www.worldbank.org/debt and chapter 1.)
Country Programs
Country assistance strategies (CASs), country partnership strategies, and the Bank's policies with respect to low-income countries under stress, postconflict countries, and middle-income countries continued to guide the Bank Group's work. During the year, the Board reviewed 31 CASs
and other CAS products. Executive Directors commended the greater emphasis on poverty reduction as the overarching goal of the results agenda detailed in these strategy documents. To this end, Executive Directors welcomed the mainstreaming of the CAS completion report reviews, which for the first time provided systematic evaluation of CAS results. The Board supported the Bank's efforts to move toward assistance strategies developed by IBRD, IDA, IFC, and MIGA. It also supported increased partnerships with other development partners.
OVERSIGHT AND FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY
The Board exercises oversight and fiduciary responsibilities, in part through its Audit Committee. The Audit Committee has a mandate to assist the Board in overseeing and making decisions regarding the World Bank Group's financial condition, its risk management and assessment processes, the adequacy of its governance and controls, and its reporting and accounting policies and procedures.
ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET
The total administrative budget for fiscal 2006, reviewed by the Budget Committee and approved by the Executive Directors, was $2,102.8 million, net of reimbursements, including $171.9 million for the Development Grant Facility. The net administrative budget of $1,543.3 million represented a zero percent real increase over the fiscal 2005 budget (a 3 percent nominal increase). In June 2006, the Executive Directors approved a total administrative budget, net of reimbursements, of $2,118.6 million for fiscal 2007.
INSPECTION PANEL
The Inspection Panel received 4 requests for inspection involving Bank projects in Honduras (Land Management Project), Nigeria (West African Gas Pipeline Project), Romania (Mine Closure and Social Protection), and the Democratic Republic of Congo (Transitional Support for Economic Recovery Credit and Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support Project). Since the panel's establishment, 40 requests for inspection have been received: 13 from Africa, 12 from Latin America, 10 from South Asia, 4 from East Asia and Pacific, and 1 from Eastern Europe. Of the 40 requests, 35 were registered and the panel has recommended investigations in 20 cases, 6 under the rules that applied before the April 1999 clarifications to the resolution that established the panel, and 14 since those clarifications were adopted. As of June 2006, the panel was conducting 2 investigations.
The Inspection Panel provides a vehicle for private citizens, especially poor people, to bring claims to the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors, who then decide, on the recommendation of the panel, whether an investigation will take place. The process for addressing claims has empowered and given voice to people who may have been affected adversely by Bank-financed projects.
Requests for inspection, management responses, panel recommendations, panel investigation reports, and management recommendations for projects reviewed this fiscal year can be found at www.worldbank.org/inspectionpanel.
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
The World Bank Group comprises five closely associated institutions that collaborate to support development projects worldwide. Examples of Bank Group cooperation include joint country assistance strategies; investment promotion initiatives; the Foreign Investment Advisory Service; guarantee programs for major infrastructure projects; joint programs for developing micro, small, and medium enterprises; and awareness and prevention of HIV/AIDS (human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome).
IBRD, the oldest of the World Bank Group institutions, aims to reduce poverty in middle-income and creditworthy poorer countries by promoting sustainable development through loans, guarantees, risk management products, and (nonlending) analytic and advisory services. The income that IBRD has generated over
the years has allowed it to fund developmental activities and ensure its financial strength, enabling it to borrow in capital markets at low cost and offer clients good borrowing terms. IBRD's 24-member Board is made up of 5 appointed and 19 elected Executive Directors who represent the institution's 184 member countries.
IDA provides highly concessional financing to the world's 81 poorest countries. IDA's interest-free credits and grants, financed by contributions to IDA from donor countries and IBRD's net income transfers, are vital because these countries have little or no capacity to borrow on market terms. IDA's resources
help support country-led poverty reduction strategies in key policy areas, including raising productivity, providing accountable governance, building a healthy investment climate, and improving access to basic services, including education and health care. (See www.worldbank.org/idaj
IFC is the private sector investment entity of the World Bank Group. It invests in sustainable private enterprises in developing and transition countries without accepting government guarantees, thereby helping to reduce poverty and improve people's lives. It provides equity, long-term loans, structured finance and risk management products, and technical assistance and advisory services to its clients. IFC seeks to reach businesses in
regions and countries that have limited access to capital. It provides financing in markets deemed too risky by commercial investors in the absence of IFC participation and adds value to the projects it finances through its corporate governance, environmental, and social expertise. IFC partners with IBRD, IDA, MIGA, and ICSID on private sector initiatives. Additional information can be found in IFC's annual report. (See www.ifc.org.)
SME DEVELOPMENT IN AFRICA: IDA-IFC COOPERATION
Development of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in Africa is one of the World Bank Group's strategic goals: it is seen as one of the best hopes for building economies and reducing poverty. But SMEs are often limited in their access to financial resources. To bridge this gap, IFC and IDA are partnering to improve access to financing by strengthening the local environment for financial markets, enhancing the ability of local financial institutions to lend profitably to SMEs, and developing
innovative vehicles to supply risk capital. Structured financial instruments, such as partial credit guarantees to help local banks refinance their lending to SMEs, are also used. The IDA-IFC program is being piloted in 10 African countries: Burkina Faso, Ghana, Kenya, Madagascar, Mali, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda. Interventions include technical assistance, capacity building, output-based grants, and regulatory assistance.
MIGA provides noncommercial guarantees (insurance) for foreign direct investment in developing countries. It addresses concerns about investment environments and perceptions of risk, which often inhibit investment, by providing political risk insurance. MIGA's guarantees offer investors protection against noncommercial risks such as expropriation, currency inconvertibility, breach of contract, war, and civil
disturbance. MIGA also provides advisory services to help countries attract and retain foreign investment, mediates investment disputes to keep current investments intact and to remove possible obstacles to future investment, and disseminates information on investment opportunities to the international business community. Additional information can be found in MIGA's annual report. (See www .miga.org.)
foreign investors. Many international agreements concerning investment refer to ICSID's arbitration facilities. ICSID also conducts research and publishing activities in the areas of arbitration law and foreign investment law. Additional information can be found in ICSID's annual report. (See www.worldbank .org/icsid.)
ICSID, founded in 1966, was designed to facilitate the settlement of investment disputes between foreign investors and host states. It encourages foreign investment by providing neutral international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes, thereby helping foster an atmosphere of mutual confidence between states and
An investment project in which the Bank, IFC, and MIGA all played a role during the past year was the Kupol Mining Project in the Russian Federation. The Bank's 2002-06 country assistance strategy for Russia laid the foundation for understanding the need for economic development and growth in this remote region of northeastern Russia. IFC provided a $35 million loan to the Bema Gold Corporation to open and operate a gold mine that
could generate up to 750 jobs. MIGA issued $305 million in guarantees to cover equity investments, which, according to project lenders, made their financing possible. In line with the Bank's policy on extractive industries, this involvement will bring expertise and guidance to help ensure that the mine's social and environmental performance meets international standards.
In fiscal 2006, 15 countries, not including those with oil resources, extended a decade-long median annual growth rate of 5.3 percent. Additionally, five countries recorded sharp reductions in under-five child mortality, and one of the worst performers in expanding primary education, Niger, became one of the best. Yet Africa remains the world's biggest development challenge. More than 314 million Africans—nearly twice as many as in 1981 — live on less than $1 a day. Thirty-four of the world's 48 poorest countries, and 24 of the 32 countries ranked lowest on the United Nations Development Programme's Human Development Index, are in Africa. More than 3 million Africans are killed each year by HIV/AIDS and malaria, diseases that, combined, are estimated to cost more than 1 percentage point of Africa's per capita growth each year.
In mid-2005, the donor community committed to doubling aid to Africa to $50 billion per year by 2010. The World Bank is a participant in the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative, under which it expects to provide $37 billion in debt relief over 40 years. The bulk of it will go to African
countries with sound financial management and a commitment to poverty reduction. The Bank also adopted its first Africa Action Plan, which is focused on improving governance, closing the infrastructure gap, and ensuring that the benefits of development are shared more equitably. To promote good governance, accountability, and a sustained focus on pro-poor programs, the Bank took decisive action in Chad, the Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, and Kenya.
During the past year, Africa experienced positive governance and leadership changes. The first female African president was elected in Liberia. Ghana and Rwanda became the first African countries to submit their governance programs to scrutiny by the African Peer Review Mechanism. (See www.nepad.org.) For the first time, a former African president was arrested and charged before an international tribunal for his role in violent conflicts. Cabinet ministers resigned or were jailed in Cameroon and Kenya. And a South African vice president was dismissed for alleged involvement in corruption.
The positive developments leave Africans upbeat about their future. A Gallup Poll found that 52 percent of respondents expected 2006 to bring economic prosperity, and 57 percent expected the year to be better than 2005.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The Bank is the largest provider of development assistance to Africa, and it has increased its support dramatically over the past five years. IDA funding in fiscal 2006 of $1.1 billion in grants and $3.5 billion in credits represented a doubling of aid from fiscal 2000, and disbursements of $4 billion represented an increase of more than 100 percent. Two IBRD loans totaled $40 million.
The Bank's strategy for assisting Africa is outlined in the report titled Strategic Framework for Assistance to Africa, which draws on the report Can Africa Claim the 21st Century? The framework focuses on reducing conflict, improving governance, investing in people, improving aid effectiveness, and increasing economic growth through enhanced competitiveness and trade. It is complemented by the Africa Action Plan. (See chapter 1, "Africa Action Plan.")
The Bank maintained its focus on poverty reduction.
Among other initiatives, it provided funding to improve basic service delivery in Niger; expanded access to financial services in Tanzania; funded labor-intensive public works and job creation programs in Benin, Burundi, and the Democratic Republic of Congo; mobilized local government and civic participation to preserve critical services in health, education, agriculture, and access to safe water in Ethiopia; built the capacity of key ministries in Kenya to fight corruption, and enhanced transparency and accountability; and improved governance in the forestry and mining sectors in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The Bank teamed with development partners to launch programs including the Africa Stockpiles Program, which is aimed at eliminating stocks of obsolete pesticides, and the PROFISH Partnership, which addresses fisheries depletion and the degradation of marine habitats. Funds also went to Nigeria to combat avian flu, and to Zambia to increase the commercialization of smallholder agriculture. In Malawi, assistance was provided to feed people affected by the drought-induced famine. Program funding was also used to
develop irrigation and increase access to capital for agricultural investment, with the goal of raising agricultural production and incomes for some 200,000 households.
The Global Strategy and Booster Program for malaria control increased overall Bank funding to fight this deadly disease in eight countries by more than 300 percent over the previous year. In Benin, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Niger, and Zambia, the program focused on the rehabilitation of basic health infrastructure and the provision of insecticide-treated mosquito bed nets and malaria treatment. In four riparian countries of the Senegal River Basin—Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal—malaria control will be part of a water resources development program funded by the Bank.
REDUCING CONFLICT AND FORGING ENGAGED SOCIETIES
Conflict is estimated to cost affected African countries 2.2 percentage points of economic growth each year. In collaboration with the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), the Bank is working to achieve peace and stability, both of which are needed to accelerate growth, attract foreign investment, and increase exports. In fiscal 2006, the Bank began disbursements from two multidonor trust funds for the reconstruction of Sudan. Torn apart by 21 years of armed conflict, Sudan is one of the countries where the Bank works toward economic recovery and reintegration of former combatants into society under the Low-Income Countries under Stress Initiative. Throughout Africa, the Bank also has pursued its commitment to increasing transparency and reducing profits from the illegal trade in commodities linked to conflict, such as oil, gas, diamonds, timber, and precious metals.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The Africa Action Plan promotes expansion of public-private partnerships and innovative financing approaches. The Bank, IFC, and MIGA are working to combine the complementary skills of the World Bank Group to support additional private participation in priority infrastructure projects. The Africa Catalytic and Growth Fund—established in March 2006 to accelerate growth, poverty reduction, and attainment of the Millennium Development Goals in well-performing countries—supports regional programs and strengthens economic reforms. The Bank Group's Doing Business 2005: Removing Obstacles to Growth
noted that most African countries remain high-cost, high-risk places to do business, although Rwanda's reforms to nurture private sector potential as an engine for growth and job creation were cited as a positive development. As a result of the challenges and the cost of doing business, the region received just $22 billion of the $237 billion in total foreign direct investment in developing countries in 2005. The bulk of this investment was in oil, gas, minerals, and services.
Most oil producers benefited from higher oil prices, but the region's net oil-importing countries experienced a cumulative loss of around 3.5 percent of gross domestic product, largely as a result of those prices. Many countries' exports expanded by about 8 percent, but failure to reach an agreement on the Doha Round of trade negotiations, combined with restrictions on global trade, made this success inadequate to offset the continuing drop in Africa's share of world trade.
Trade expansion requires a stronger agricultural sector, which employs 70 percent of Africa's labor force and accounts for 40 percent of its exports. The Bank supports NEPAD's Comprehensive African Agricultural Development Program, which is aimed at increasing agricultural output by 6 percent a year through 2015. The Bank and NEPAD are also working to liberalize intraregional trade; set up capital markets; clear obstacles to starting a business, protecting investors, and
registering property; and advocate for the elimination of the cascading tariffs that penalize value-added "made in Africa" goods in global markets.
REGIONAL INTEGRATION: A PILLAR FOR BUILDING PROSPERITY
The Africa Action Plan recognizes regional integration as one of the main pillars on which prosperity will be achieved on a continent with 15 landlocked economies and a gross domestic product the size of Belgium's. Regional lending in Africa (for multicountry pilot projects) in fiscal 2006 exceeded $475 million, three times that of fiscal 2005. The programs funded trade facilitation, regional approaches to HIV/AIDS, private sector development, regional power systems, telecommunications, transport, health, tertiary education, agricultural research, migratory pests, food security, transnational environmental issues, and the weather-related vulnerability of rural communities. In Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda, the Bank funded programs to facilitate regional trade and transport systems, focusing on railways in particular. The Bank also extended support to Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Guinea, and Mali for a project to improve air transport safety and bring the industry closer to full compliance with the safety standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization.
AUGMENTING, SIMPLIFYING, AND HARMONIZING AID FLOWS
The Bank supports implementation in Africa of the Paris Declaration, which recognizes that governments must design and own development priorities, and their international partners must scale up and provide dependable and outcome-oriented financial flows at lower cost. To be successful,
African governments must commit themselves to combating corruption, equitably sharing the dividends of growth, and delivering meaningful and measurable development results. The Bank is urging donors to honor the pledges made in 2003 at the Monterrey Summit and in 2005 at the G-8 Summit in Gleneagles, thereby helping Africa attain the 7 percent annual economic growth needed to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. (See www.worldbank.org/afr.)
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
Economies in the East Asia and Pacific region continued to grow at a steady pace of 8.2 percent in 2005 and continued at about the same rate in the first half of 2006. Sustained growth has lifted 50 million people out of poverty each year for the past five years. With just 8 percent of the population living below $1 a day, East Asia has the chance to reduce absolute poverty significantly by 2010. Much of the region's poverty reduction has resulted from rapid growth in China, which in turn has increased exports from China's neighbors. The region's exports have almost doubled over the last three years. Despite the highest real oil prices in more than 25 years, growth in 2005 has been only moderately affected. Several countries, most notably Indonesia, have taken action to reduce costly and regressive fuel subsidies while also encouraging consumers and firms to adapt to higher oil prices.
Developing countries in the region are now being challenged to improve their investment climate, boost efforts to innovate and build skills, and protect those vulnerable to devastating shocks like health crises, job losses, and natural disasters. The threat of avian flu also presents a major
uncertainty. Countries across the region are taking steps to manage possible outbreaks. Although avian flu has severely affected those connected to poultry farming, the impact has not spilled into the overall economy.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The Bank's strategy for the region is to support broad-based economic growth, promote trade and integration, enhance the environment for good governance, increase social stability, and achieve the Millennium Development Goals. To help reach those goals, the Bank approved $3.4 billion for the region in fiscal 2006, $1 billion in IDA credits, $84.5 million in IDA grants, and $2.3 billion in IBRD loans. Carbon fund contracts in the amount of $939.3 million were signed this year, bringing the regional total committed for reducing global greenhouse gas emissions to $1.1 billion.
In China, the Bank approved a new country partnership strategy that addresses equity, the environment, and the rural-to-urban transition. With an updated strategy for assistance to Indonesia, the Bank has reinforced its support
for anticorruption efforts and improvements in the investment climate. Post-tsunami reconstruction in Indonesia's Aceh province has accelerated significantly (see box 2.1), with thousands of land titles distributed as part of the Bank's efforts to promote community-led reconstruction; $28.5 million has been allocated for this activity under the World Bank-managed $526 million Multi-Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias, to which 15 donors make contributions, with the European Commission and the Netherlands being the largest contributors. At the Indonesian government's request, the Bank organized a donor meeting just two days after the May 27, 2006, Yogyakarta earthquake and worked with the government to assess the damage in time for the annual donors' meeting in June. In Timor-Leste, the Bank's assistance strategy is being reoriented to take into account the factors leading to the deteriorating security situation. The Bank is continuing harmonization efforts with development partners to assist the country in refocusing the reform agenda on governance issues, public finances, service delivery, and job creation, and to ensure that achievements made in strengthening institutional capacities around petroleum revenues are not lost to conflict.
Groundbreaking work on improving governance and fighting corruption is being done in the region. Indonesia's country assistance strategy, for example, was the first with a governance focus. It is supported by the evolving work on safeguards strengthening in the region's project portfolio and, more broadly, by public service and systems reforms.
The Bank is working to address challenges posed by the Millennium Development Goals. In Mongolia, the Rural Education and Development Project will enhance the quality of education in rural primary schools. In Vietnam, where access to clean water and household sanitation services is a critical need, the Red River Delta Water Supply and Sanitation Project will improve services in four provinces.
The Bank is working closely with technical agencies and governments to prevent, prepare for, and control the spread of avian flu, which continues to be a threat in East Asia. In Vietnam, projects to address both animal and human health issues are under way; a new operation for the Lao People's Democratic Republic was approved. Other risks come from natural disasters, especially hurricane-strength cyclones.
Much of the region's gross domestic product comes from coastal areas (especially in China), where the impact of rising sea levels and weather-related disasters is greatest. The Bank report Not If, But When examines disaster preparedness for the Pacific Islands, some of which are extremely prone to these threats. In Vietnam, a natural disaster risk-management project is taking an innovative approach to reducing the impact of natural hazards, especially at the community level, where vulnerability is often greatest.
Under the auspices of the World Bank's Umbrella Carbon Facility, two Chinese companies agreed to the largest HFC-23 (trifluoromethane) emissions reduction project on record. The companies are expected to reduce emissions by about 19 million tons of carbon dioxide annually. More than half of the HFC-23 revenues flowing to the government of China will be used by a new Clean Development Fund to invest in climate change-related activities such as energy efficiency, renewable energy, and coal mine methane recovery and use.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The Bank's policy-based lending builds institutions that support investment and promote economic growth. A $400 million second development policy loan for Indonesia supports improvements in the investment climate, public financial management, and other key priorities. It also brings the World Bank, the government of Japan, and the Asian Development Bank together around a common policy framework. Almost a dozen donors have united behind the reform programs financed by poverty reduction support credits in Vietnam. Progress also continues under the economic and structural reform program in Lao PDR, one of the poorest countries in East Asia.
Trade and integration are playing a significant role in the region's poverty reduction efforts, and the Bank is supporting new areas of that work with a customs modernization project in Vietnam. The Bank cosponsored a conference on financial sector diversification, with a final report on the issue to be presented at the Bank's Annual Meetings in Singapore in September 2006.
Infrastructure continues to be a challenge, as noted in last year's joint study, Correctirg East Asia. With new
energy projects this fiscal year in China, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Vietnam, the Bank is contributing to energy efficiency and improved transmission and distribution. Construction on the Nam Theun 2 Hydropower Project in Lao PDR is moving ahead satisfactorily, with continued efforts to ensure that construction progress is matched by efforts to mitigate the impact on people and the environment.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
The Bank is working to enhance the environment for governance at national and subnational levels. A community-driven development initiative is investigating how community development projects can enhance demand for good governance. Missions to Cambodia and the Philippines under the Forest Law Enforcement and Governance Initiative are looking at how improved law enforcement can contribute to sustainability in the
region's forests. A major judicial conference held in the Philippines brought together judges from around the world to talk about improving the skills and effectiveness of the courts. The multidonor, Bank-administered Mindanao (Philippines) Trust Fund-Reconstruction and Development Program was launched to promote inclusive and effective governance processes. The first phase of this program has begun and is focused on developing the capacity of local institutions.
China, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, and Vietnam all held development marketplaces this year, granting more than $2.3 million to civil society groups to test new approaches to local development challenges (see box 1.5). Public information centers around the region have made more information available to people with disabilities, especially the blind, and are working with local groups to increase understanding of development issues. (See www .worldbank.org/eap]
REBUILDING PEACE IN ACEH
After the August 2005 Helsinki Peace Accord between the government of Indonesia and the Free Aceh Movement, the government asked the Bank to help support the peace process. The Bank has since distributed peace posters and copies of the peace agreement, piloted peace radio training, and taken part in Forum Bersama to reintegrate former combatants into their communities. The Kecamatan Development Program is working with the International Organization for Migration to provide reintegration grants, and the Support for Poor and Disadvantaged Areas Program will bring those areas into the reconstruction process and provide transitional support to ex-combatants.
Bank support for the peace process includes working closely with the Aceh Monitoring Mission, the European Union,
the International Organization for Migration, the United Nations Development Programme, Japan, and the United States in cooperation with the provincial government. The program includes a comprehensive research program to support policy making, which involves completing an assessment of reintegration needs. The program will include analytic work on the elections, an evaluation of the reintegration program, and a study analyzing how to mainstream conflict-sensitive principles into tsunami aid.
The Bank has helped develop innovative approaches for monitoring corruption across the main Aceh transport routes so that demands for illicit payments, which have contributed to rising construction costs, can be tracked. The Bank is also monitoring conflict trends and reintegration dynamics at the request of the provincial government.
SOUTH ASIA
Domestic reforms and external assistance in South Asia have helped fuel rapid economic growth, which has averaged 5.5 percent a year for the past two decades. Gross domestic product is estimated to have grown by 6.9 percent in 2005. This strong performance has put South Asia on track to achieve the Millennium Development Goal of halving poverty by 2015. Long-term growth in South Asia is forecast to remain around
5.5	percent through 2015, reflecting a rising contribution to growth from the private sector. Trade reforms, privatization, infrastructure development, and liberalization and deregulation of the banking sector are all expected to improve the investment climate, productivity growth, and ultimately, incomes.
But South Asia faces enormous human development challenges. Four hundred million South Asians live on less than $1 a day. Human deprivation remains extreme, especially for disadvantaged populations and children. Malnutrition is pervasive. South Asia is not on track to achieve the child mortality Millennium Development Goal, and India's population of HIV-infected people numbers among the highest in the world. The region also contains the world's
largest conflict-affected population—some 71 million people in Afghanistan, Nepal, and Sri Lanka.
The vulnerability of the region to frequent and severe natural disasters—including annual flooding in Bangladesh; the 2004 tsunami affecting Maldives, Sri Lanka, and southern India; and the October 2005 earthquake in northern Pakistan—has led the Bank to focus on emergency preparedness. Following the massive earthquake in Pakistan that left 73,000 people dead, more than 70,000 severely injured or disabled, and more than 2.8 million without shelter, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank undertook a joint Damage and Needs Assessment that estimated the cost of the disaster at $5.2 billion. Two weeks after the earthquake, the Bank provided $470 million to help with reconstruction and to safeguard ongoing reform and poverty reduction programs. In December, an additional $400 million was approved to reduce immediate suffering and restore livelihoods, reconstruct housing, and finance needed imports. These commitments, mostly IDA credits, were part of the institution's overall pledge of $1 billion for earthquake recovery (see box 1.1).
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The Bank approved nearly $3.8 billion for South Asia in fiscal 2006, $1.2 billion in loans from IBRD and $2.6 billion in IDA commitments, of which $275 million were grants. This assistance seeks to address the region's vast urban and rural infrastructure deficit and weaknesses in its investment climate, including corruption and red tape. Bank support is designed to help accelerate human development in the region by focusing on four cross-cutting issues: equity and inclusion, HIV/AIDS, regional integration, and public accountability. The Bank is focusing on improved governance, for example, by supporting government procurement reforms in Bangladesh, India, and Nepal.
The Bank continued its support for rural development, education, and health. In Sri Lanka, approximately 550,000 mostly poor children who are at risk of not completing basic education will benefit from a $60 million grant that improves access to education. In Afghanistan, which has one of the worst health systems in the world, the Bank approved a $30 million supplemental grant to expand basic health service delivery. The Indian state of Tamil Nadu received a $120 million credit to build social capital in poor communities by involving them in the design and implementation of changes that will affect them.
Since 1982, the Bank has committed some $380 million in South Asia to support HIV/AIDS projects in Bangladesh, Bhutan, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, and to assess HIV/AIDS work in Afghanistan and Maldives. The region's prevalence rate of HIV/ AIDS is about 1 percent, small enough that concerted action could stem an epidemic, but with pockets of higher prevalence that need urgent attention. The Bank also began preparing the Third National AIDS Control Program for India and initiated a study on the economic impact of the disease there.
A strong component of the Bank's strategy is its analytic and advisory work. A recent report on public finance management in Afghanistan recommended an agenda for establishing a fiscal framework that facilitates growth, service delivery, and poverty reduction. The Bank undertook a gender equality study in Pakistan, a regional HIV/AIDS study, a report on the role of civil society organizations in Bangladesh, a social exclusion study in Nepal, and a development policy review for India that focuses on equity and service delivery.
The Bank's Board discussed new country assistance strategies for Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Pakistan. The theme
of the Bangladesh strategy is governance (see box 2.2); the Bhutan strategy focuses on connecting communities to markets and promoting private sector development; and the Pakistan strategy sets forth a broad-based plan for addressing poverty in various dimensions, including human development, infrastructure, governance, and vulnerability.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The Bank completed two investment climate assessments in South Asia: one for Afghanistan, the first in a postconflict country; and one in Maldives. The Bank also started work on new investment climate assessments for Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan.
The Bank is addressing deficiencies in the region's investment climate—weak infrastructure, red tape, and corruption. In Afghanistan, the challenge is to extend reforms beyond Kabul and implement reforms that will generate broad-based growth. An $80 million second institution-building project seeks to expand and sustain reforms in the country's public administration and fiscal management. Bangladesh received a $200 million development support credit to reduce the scope for corruption and, in turn, build more effective government institutions and improve public service delivery. India, which continues to face severe power shortages, received a $400 million loan to increase reliable power exchanges between the country's regions and
states. Urban development was supported in the Indian states of Tamil Nadu, with a $300 million loan, and Karnataka, with a $216 million loan. In Sri Lanka, years of poor maintenance have resulted in a degraded road network. A $100 million credit will help improve 620 kilometers of national roads and reduce the proportion of national highways in poor condition from 52 percent in 2005 to 35 percent in 2010.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
The Bank's approach to participation empowers community groups in South Asia to make development decisions, direct resources, and have a role in projects. The emphasis is on equity and the inclusion of poorer regions, communities, and households in development projects. For instance, in India and Pakistan, the Bank supports livelihood programs that provide microfinance and self-employment opportunities to millions of poor women. In Afghanistan, the Bank approved a $40 million additional financing grant for the National
boXT^^^I THE BANGLADESH CONUNDRUM
Solidarity Program, a community-led reconstruction and rural infrastructure initiative that has reached about 8.5 million people since its start in 2002. The Bank's own program for youth focuses on the school-to-work transition. (See www .worldbank.org/sar.)
Bangladesh is 1 of only 18 developing countries with an annual growth rate that has never fallen below 2 percent. Since the 1990s, economic growth has been steady at 4 to 5 percent annually, with relatively low inflation and stable domestic debt, interest, and exchange rates. Its gross domestic product growth rate has accelerated by 1 percentage point every decade, despite floods and other weather-related catastrophes. This growth, coupled with an impressive decline in population growth rates, has led to a doubling of annual per capita growth from 1.6 percent in the 1980s to
3.3	percent from 1990 to 2004. The country has achieved universal primary education and has an equal number of girls and boys in secondary school, and it is on track to reach the Millennium Development Goal in child mortality.
These growth and development gains have taken place despite widely held perceptions of weak governance, a
phenomenon referred to as the Bangladesh conundrum. If not addressed, poor governance will be a growth constraint, particularly in critical areas such as power and transport. The Bangladesh Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper strongly recognizes the need to improve governance and the investment climate. The Bangladesh country assistance strategy is aligned with the strategy paper and mainstreams governance so that all Bank Group interventions are as much about governance as they are about improving sector performance.
The Bank's program will support Bangladesh by improving weak regulatory frameworks, increasing transparency, enhancing capacity for public financial management and procurement, and strengthening institutions of accountability. The country assistance strategy covers the period from 2006 to 2009; lending is estimated to be $3 billion.
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
The Europe and Central Asia region is progressing steadily beyond the transition phase, which began in 1989 with the fall of the Berlin Wall. Markets in most of the region's 28 countries have responded favorably to reforms, and political change in some of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) has improved performance. Regional economic growth eased to 5.7 percent in 2005, down from 8 percent in 2004. Sustained expansion of the financial sector is boosting demand, but it is also increasing risks.
Political developments continued apace during the fiscal year. The European Union opened accession negotiations with Turkey and Croatia; it also signed a pre-membership agreement with Albania. Following a referendum in May 2006, Montenegro declared its independence from the union of Serbia and Montenegro.
While membership in the European Union has spurred many countries to move ahead with complex reforms that are owned by countries themselves, challenges remain across the region. Long-term unemployment and an inability to shift jobs to the formal sector remain nagging problems. Bulgaria, the Russian Federation, and other countries are faced with a range of prob-
lems including rural poverty, weak local institutions, decaying infrastructure, depressed one-company towns, state-owned enterprises in need of reform, and environmental degradation (see box 2.3). Legacies of central planning, these problems are compounded in some countries by shrinking populations.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
Assistance during fiscal 2006 reached $4 billion, including $3.5 billion in IBRD loans and guarantees and $500 million in IDA commitments. The Bank delivered 98 pieces of economic and sector work and completed 59 technical assistance activities.
Increasingly, Bank partnerships that involve representatives from various levels of government are the preferred mode of business with low- and middle-income countries in the region. This new approach responds to increased decentralization and recognition by governments that results at the local level often spur broader reforms. Examples include the Georgia Country Partnership Strategy for 2006 to 2009 and a new Albania Country Assistance Strategy, both discussed by the Board in fiscal 2006. Because governance and corruption are top concerns, the region is focusing on projects to reform public
finances and modernize courts. Bank experts continue to use enterprise surveys to gauge perceptions about corruption.
The Bank responded quickly to requests for support in preempting an avian flu health crisis. Assistance was approved for Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan (loan reallocation), Georgia, Moldova, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Turkey, and similar operations are under development for other countries. These operations deal primarily with animal and human health, public awareness and information, monitoring and evaluation, and emergency imports.
Several innovative projects were launched during fiscal
2006	in line with the particular technology needs of countries poised to join the European Union. They included the Romania Knowledge Economy Project and the Croatia Science and Technology Project. The Romania project will help remote and poorly connected communities participate more actively in the country's knowledge-based society, raise digital literacy, develop e-government services, and support small business innovation. The Croatia initiative aims to improve the ability of research and development institutions to promote applied research and arm businesses with the skills they need to effectively apply technology for commercial uses.
Through in-depth studies and advisory activities focused on such crucial issues as employment, trade, poverty and inequality, and the economic cost of HIV/AIDS, the Bank was able to increase knowledge and spark debate on high-priority development topics. At the regional level, three flagship reports were produced in fiscal 2006: Growth, Poverty, and Inequality: Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union; Enhancing Job Opportunities: Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union; and From Disintegration to Reintegration: Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union in International Trade. Other major studies—on regional labor migration, demographic trends, and productivity growth—are under way. The periodic Russian Economic Report and the EU-8 Quarterly Economic Report allow journalists, economists, and policy makers to track macroeconomic trends in key countries.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Eastern European and Baltic countries are aggressively courting entrepreneurs with far-reaching reforms that streamline business regulations and taxes. According to the
Bank Group's annual Doing Business report, every country in Eastern Europe improved at least one aspect of its business environment in 2005—the highest rate of reform of any region. Serbia and Montenegro, the Slovak Republic, Romania, and Latvia topped the global rankings for most reforms enacted.
To boost the investment climate, the Bank is helping governments enhance enterprise competitiveness and improve the judicial system and other institutions that bring discipline to key economic sectors. Examples include the Moldova Competitiveness Enhancement Project and the Serbia and Montenegro Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Credit. On the policy side, a 2006 Country Economic Memorandum for Turkey focused on promoting sustained growth and convergence
with the European Union. And because businesses need recourse to well-run courts, the Bank is also supporting judicial reform in Armenia by upgrading courthouses and making the judicial process more efficient and transparent.
In Russia, the development of real estate markets is being supported through a Bank-assisted Cadastre Project. Along with other Bank activities supporting access to land and real estate reforms, the project aims to improve Russia's investment climate as well as provide a predictable source of income from land taxes for local authorities.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
To ensure benefits to a broad section of society and to encourage participatory development, Bank operations emphasize improvement of public services and inclusion of vulnerable groups in innovative projects and research initiatives. A Poland Post-Accession Rural Support Project is targeting underdeveloped villages by helping local governments implement social protection strategies,
supporting a farm insurance fund, and executing a social inclusion strategy that will help small-scale farmers and their communities. In Albania, people overlooked by the existing health system will become eligible for basic health services. Health care improvements being rolled out across the country, as part of the Health System Modernization Project, will also enable poor people to choose their own primary-care doctor.
The Bank is supporting nonlending initiatives in the region. Development Marketplace programs encourage civil society organizations to compete for microgrants. A multidonor Roma Education Fund is boosting school opportunities for Europe's largest minority. A study of Russian youth in North Caucasus is shedding light on a segment of the population that faces high unemployment, social insecurity, and marginalization. And the report Dying Too Young brought the attention of policy makers to Russia's crisis in mortality and morbidity relative to other countries at similar income levels. (See www .worldbank.org/eca.)
By early 2005, the surface of the Northern Aral Sea had shrunk to half its original size as a result of overimgation and ecological mismanagement. A dike completed in August helped to partly refill the sea, lifting the hopes of the region's people. The Aral Sea is shared by Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, but its basin also encompasses Afghanistan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan. Shrinkage began in the 1960s, when massive diversions of water for cotton cultivation drained the two rivers that feed into the sea. As a result, by 1996 the volume of the Aral Sea had declined by 75 percent, devastating the surrounding environment and ruining the traditional fishing economy of the bordering villages. By the late 1990s, the Aral Sea had been split into three parts, two in the south and one in the north.
An $85.8 million project for the improvement of waterworks along the Syr Darya River and for construction of the 13-kilometer-long Kok-Aral dike between the Northern and Southern Aral Seas was implemented jointly by the government of Kazakhstan and the Bank, with the Bank providing a loan of $65 million. The Syr Darya Control and Northern Aral Sea Project built and restored waterworks along the river to revive opportunities for fishing, farming, and hydroelectric power generation. Already, fish stocks are growing and freshwater bird species are returning to the Northern Aral Sea and surrounding lakes. In addition to spurring an ecological revival, the project helps reduce tensions between upstream countries using water for hydropower generation during the winter and downstream countries drawing on water for irrigation during the summer
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
In 2006, the Latin America and the Caribbean region benefited from higher export volumes and revenues resulting from record commodity prices and high world growth. The region grew by 4.4 percent in 2005 and expects a growth rate of 4.6 percent for 2006, after experiencing its strongest growth in 25 years (6 percent) in 2004. The region's main development challenge continues to be persistent poverty and high inequality. In a region rich in natural resources and human capital, nearly a quarter of the population lives on less than $2 a day.
The region's political map is being redrawn in 2006: elections in almost one-third of the 30 countries the Bank serves will affect nearly half of the people living in the region. The Bank maintains dialogue with all major constituencies and candidates and is working with their respective governments to help ensure continuous support for the region's poor.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The Bank's strategy for the region is to respond to citizens' needs for employment, safe and secure environments for their families, access to education and public services, a voice
in their future, and effective and accountable government. The Bank is tailoring assistance to meet these needs, particularly in middle-income countries with high poverty. In Chile, for instance, the Bank has moved from financing a broad range of projects to supporting selected areas of focus (education, social protection, and innovation) that are part of the country's overall strategy to ensure high growth with equity.
In fiscal 2006, Bank financing for Latin America and the Caribbean reached $5,654.1 million in IBRD lending,
$179.5 million in IDA credits, and $76.9 million in IDA grants. This financing included a $601.5 million loan to Brazil to support microeconomic reforms needed to enhance the country's long-term growth prospects and a $501 million loan to Mexico to help strengthen the financial system and reduce the risk of future financial crises. In Argentina, the Bank launched a new country assistance strategy that seeks to build an investment partnership to support sustained economic growth with equity, greater social inclusion, and improved governance. The new assistance strategy for the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States aims to help the six
member states accelerate growth, improve competitiveness, and reduce vulnerability to external shocks, particularly natural disasters. Interim strategies for Nicaragua and Panama are supporting these countries' efforts to reduce persistent poverty. Bolivia, Guyana, Honduras, and Nicaragua became eligible for 100 percent debt cancellation under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative in fiscal 2006. (See "Initiating Multilateral Debt Relief" in chapter 1.)
Another regional priority is helping countries tackle the issue of low public trust in institutions resulting from perceived corruption and inefficiency. For example, in Peru, the Bank is helping to modernize the justice system and make it more accessible to indigenous people and the poor. In Guatemala, the Bank has assisted in setting up a government e-procurement system that has increased transparency and competition among vendors, thereby improving efficiency and reducing costs.
The Bank's latest major report on the region, Poverty Reduction and Growth: Virtuous and Vicious Circles, examines the ways poverty hampers achievement of high and sustained growth rates in Latin America and the Caribbean. The report recommends packages of policies to convert vicious circles of low growth and high poverty into virtuous circles in which poverty reduction and high growth reinforce each other.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The Bank is helping governments throughout the region improve the investment climate. For example, a $300 million loan to Mexico is helping small businesses participate in the formal market and improve competitiveness. A $250 million loan to Colombia is facilitating the creation and operation of businesses and improving access to finance. Perhaps most important, the Bank is helping governments address their development priorities through a series of development loans. These loans are intended to boost growth, reduce poverty, improve social indicators, reinforce macroeconomic stability, and increase the efficiency of the public sector. For example,
El Salvador and Guatemala have received loans of $100 million, each under this program.
According to the Bank report Infrastructure in Latin America and the Caribbean: Recent Developments and Key Challenges, the region has experienced a sharp decline in investment in infrastructure, which is hindering economic growth, poverty
reduction, and the region's ability to compete with China and other dynamic Asian economies. Bank support for infrastructure in fiscal 2006 included new financing to improve access to electricity in rural areas of Honduras and Peru and to increase access to and reduce the costs of telecommunications services in rural areas of Nicaragua. Two Bank-financed projects in Peru have rehabilitated 13,000 kilometers of rural roads, reducing travel time by an average of 68 percent. The road rehabilitation has also increased school enrollment by 8 percent and visits to health centers by 55 percent.
A report by the Bank on the Central America-Dominican Republic-United States Free Trade Agreement found that it has the potential to increase trade and investment, thus boosting economic growth and poverty reduction in Central America. The report advises countries to undertake complementary investments and reforms to realize benefits for all.
Its findings informed parliamentary discussions in all countries party to the agreement.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
With equity, inclusion, and sustainability as its goals, the Bank is promoting efforts across the region to improve governance, stakeholder and beneficiary participation in projects, and access to and the quality of service delivery. The Bank also supports efforts to achieve an inclusive but affordable welfare system and promote effective natural resource use and environmental institutions. Major financing to the region in fiscal 2006 included loans for social protection and rural education improvement in Argentina; human development and social inclusion in Brazil; and school-based management, affordable housing, and urban poverty reduction in Mexico.
Other innovative projects include Bolsa Familia (Family Grant) in Brazil and basic education development in Mexico. To date, the Bank has provided $572 million for the Bolsa Familia program, the flagship of social policy in Brazil and the largest conditional cash transfer program in the world. Bolsa Familia combines four existing social programs into one to reduce poverty through transfers and to promote delivery of education and health services to the poorest families (see box 2.4). The Bank has so far provided $715 million for a program that strengthened Mexico's compensatory education program (CONAFE). The program has improved primary school math learning and secondary school Spanish learning and lowered grade repetition and failure rates. (See www.worldbank.org/lac.)
CONDITIONAL CASH TRANSFER PROGRAMS
Latin American and Caribbean governments are adopting conditional cash transfer programs to break the cycle of poverty. The programs provide cash to poor families on the condition that they make verifiable investments in human capital, such as regular school attendance or the use of basic health care services. The impact of cash transfers on poverty goes beyond the increased incomes for poor households provided by straight transfer policies. The programs also relieve credit constraints and encourage the accumulation of human capital that raises household incomes and promotes long-term income growth throughout the economy.
The Bank has supported conditional cash transfer programs since the late 1990s in Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Jamaica, and Nicaragua (the last, a pilot project). In 2005, the Bank approved financing for El Salvador's innovative Red Sdidana a la Familia (Family Solidarity Network), which will benefit disadvantaged
families living in the 100 poorest municipalities. The Bank also supported expansion of Colombia's Familias en Accion (Families in Action) from 340,000 to 400,000 families by including extremely poor families in marginalized urban areas and zones affected by violence.
Impact evaluations confirm these programs' success in reaching the poor and improving consumption, education, and health, especially in middle- and upper-middle-income countries where high inequality dampens the poverty reduction effects of economic growth. In Colombia, for example, beneficiaries increased average consumption by 15 percentage points more than control households, and children under age two grew taller by up to 0.78 centimeters. In Ecuador, secondary enrollment grew by 10 percentage points between 2003 and 2005, and child labor fell 17 points among beneficiary families of the Bono de Desarrollo Humano (Human Development Transfer) conditional cash transfer program.
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
From 2003 to 2005, economic growth in the Middle East and North Africa (excluding Iraq) was the strongest in nearly three decades, averaging 6.2 percent a year, up from an average annual growth rate of 3.7 percent during the 1990s. Countries have used the opportunities presented by this wave of economic growth to press ahead with reforms. The new government in the Arab Republic of Egypt is engaged in a range of reforms affecting the financial sector, the investment climate, social protection, education, and urban renewal. Jordan's reforms in education and the investment climate continue apace. Morocco is pushing forward its governance agenda and trade reforms. Tunisia is making progress on its trade agenda and in telecommunications reform.
The Republic of Yemen's new country assistance strategy foresees a new commitment to improved governance, better use of water resources, and economic diversification, while Lebanon's new government is building the foundation for improved transparency and accountability and is laying the groundwork for sustainable economic growth. The Gulf Cooperation Council countries—buoyed by high oil prices—are
moving forward on reforms, from private sector development and privatization in Kuwait to innovative and participatory urban development programs in Saudi Arabia. Qatar is implementing a labor market strategy and a program on the knowledge economy. However, employment creation for the region's youth remains a central challenge to bridging the gap between resource-rich economies and those less endowed.
Job creation continues to be the region's major development challenge. Forecast growth rates, expected to ease to 5.2 percent in 2007 and 2008, remain insufficient to fully address the employment challenges in the region. Close to 100 million new jobs, double the current number, will need to be created over the next 20 years to keep pace with new labor force entrants and absorb those currently unemployed. The current reformist momentum makes it more likely that regional economies will be able to build competitive and diversified private sector-led economies that will generate the growth rates needed to meet the region's needs.
Other challenges include trade reform, since the region remains behind most other middle-income regions, with high
tariffs in many countries and the continuing use of nontariff barriers in some. The region has achieved more progress in reforming the business environment, but it still remains below the average for middle-income countries. A major concern is the slow pace of regional progress in improving governance.
The region's rankings on the quality of administration are generally consistent with global trends, although on average, the region ranks in the bottom fifth of countries worldwide on public sector accountability. The lack of rapid reform in implementing inclusiveness and accountability in several countries is of some significance given the implications for the success of broader economic reform efforts across the region.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
Financing during fiscal 2006 reached $1.7 billion, including $1.3 billion in IBRD loans and $307 million in IDA credits; $17.2 million was financed through the Iraq Trust Fund. The Bank delivered 44 pieces of economic and sector work and completed 39 technical assistance assignments. Assistance is directed at supporting reforms and investments across a wide range of sectors. In response to the threat of avian flu, rapid preparedness assessments were completed in several of the region's countries to identify immediate and long-term gaps in institutional capacities.
Education remains an important focus for Bank activities in the region. In November 2005, the Bank approved its first loan to Iraq in 30 years: a $100 million IDA-financed Third Emergency Education Project to help alleviate school overcrowding and promote educational reform. In Djibouti, a $10 million IDA financing arrangement increases equitable access to better quality education, especially for girls and underserved groups. In Tunisia, the Bank is helping the government increase access to and improve the quality of higher education through a $76 million loan. In the West Bank and Gaza, the Bank is providing advice on the creation of a comprehensive education development plan and is analyzing the efficiency and equity of public resource use in education. In Egypt, the Bank supported the decentralization of the education system through the establishment of boards of trustees that include parents and community leaders. Projects and sector work in Egypt and Jordan have supported the introduction of early childhood development interventions. Finally, ongoing sector work in
Egypt and in the West Bank and Gaza is focused on taking stock of educational achievements and preparing a strategy for the next phase of education reforms.
In conflict-affected countries, the Bank is addressing emergency reconstruction and capacity-building issues. In addition to the education loan in Iraq, the Bank is financing a $135 million Emergency Roads Rehabilitation Project and managing the multidonor World Bank Iraq Trust Fund. In the West Bank and Gaza, the Bank is financing projects for water and sanitation, community development, social safety nets, land administration, and education. It is also managing the Public Financial Management Reform Trust Fund, a multidonor budget support instrument through which $96 million was disbursed in fiscal 2006 against progress in the Palestinian Authority's reform program. The Bank is also a leading agency for economic and policy analysis in the West Bank and Gaza. At the request of donors, two reports have been prepared on the Palestinian economy and its prospects for recovery. (See www.worldbank.org/ps.]
Analytic and advisory services have become a major tool for policy dialogue and reform in response to growing client demand. A programmatic economic and sector work approach was introduced to engage partners across the region in a sustained, multiyear program, and technical assistance and training were tailored to the capacity-building needs of the Bank's partners. There are six ongoing activities.
To strengthen the impact of its analytical work, the Bank has boosted staff capacity and improved cooperation with donors, other international organizations, and Bank Group partners on fiduciary issues and promotion of foreign investment. A series of regional flagship reports was also launched. The first reports were devoted to governance, trade and investment, employment, and gender; the latest reports are on education and water. In the wake of the governance report, the Bank prepared a 10-point strategy for expanding and strengthening its work on governance and public sector management. It envisions progress along a range of dimensions, from improving the treatment of governance in country assistance strategies; to developing better coordination, oversight, and dialogue with clients in high-risk environments; to strengthening regional analytic work on comparative public sector reforms and governance performance indicators.
Knowledge sharing has been at the core of the Bank's development assistance to high-income Gulf countries. The Bank continues to provide technical and advisory services on demand through the Reimbursable Technical Assistance Program. In Saudi Arabia, the Bank provides policy advice in several sectors. In Kuwait, assistance has been provided to the Education Indicators and Assessment Program, and in Bahrain, the Bank's policy advice was requested to develop social safety nets and redefine the Bahrain Stock Exchange as a Gulf financial center.
In the social sectors, the Bank published a regional review, Pensions in the Middle East and North Africa: Time for Change, to highlight the urgent need for pension reform. Analytic and advisory activities were undertaken in the Islamic Republic of Iran and Egypt for pension reform and in Algeria for social insurance. A regional strategy to help prevent a major surge in HIV/AIDS infections was also launched. Although the region's level of infection is relatively low (an estimated 0.2 percent of adults], risk of infection cannot be underestimated.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The Bank helped strengthen the framework for private sector-led growth through analytic work such as invest-
ment climate assessments in Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, and the Republic of Yemen. The Bank also produced public expenditure reviews in Egypt, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and the Syrian Arab Republic to encourage sound financial management and good corporate governance. It provided technical assistance for reforms such as reducing the cost of doing business in Algeria and Morocco; strengthening trade facilitation in Lebanon, Tunisia, and the West Bank and Gaza; and developing export markets in Saudi Arabia.
In Morocco, a $200 million financial sector development policy loan was provided to strengthen the enabling environment for financial intermediation and risk management. The Bank is also supporting Egypt's financial sector reform program.
Improving infrastructure services is essential for improving the investment climate. The Bank has demonstrated several models for public-private partnerships in this regard through support to the transport and power sectors in Djibouti, Egypt, Morocco, and the Republic of Yemen; rural road development in Morocco; and water services quality and reliability in Morocco and Tunisia. It is providing fee-based technical assistance to develop Algeria's water resources. The Bank has also worked with the Tunisian government to develop a public-private partnership strategy for the development and management of infrastructure services.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
Recognizing the diversity of social groups and opinions and the growing momentum of reform throughout the region, the Bank opened dialogue with parliamentarians, youth, women, the private sector, and the media. In Egypt, Lebanon, and Morocco, these groups participated in country assistance strategy consultations. Regionwide, the Bank engaged such groups in debates on trade reforms, governance, the rule of law, and gender issues. The Bank also worked to empower youth to participate in development through organization of the Small Grants Workshop for youth groups in Egypt and the Republic of Yemen and through World Development Report
2007	consultations with more than 150 young Egyptians. (See www.worldbank.org/mna]
SHARING KNOWLEDGE
The Bank assists client countries not only by funding projects and programs but also by providing access to its development knowledge resources. The Bank's knowledge activities range from conducting country research, to developing analytic and conceptual frameworks for country assistance, to building the capacity for sustainable development within client countries.
Research
The Bank's research program supports studies on the implications of a range of development issues. The resultant findings facilitate a deeper understanding of development challenges and can be used to influence policy, thereby leading to better outcomes for poor people. For example, a Bank survey revealing the extent of absenteeism among teachers and health workers in Bangladesh, Ecuador, India, Indonesia, Uganda, and Zambia led to vigorous government campaigns in India to ensure that teachers and health service providers report to work, and to the inclusion of "citizen report cards" on health and education services in Africa as part of the Bank's development assistance strategies in that region.
Environmental research has led to significant pollution reductions by industrial plants in Asia. Armed with evidence that public disclosure of factory emissions increases public pressure to reduce those emissions, the Bank supported trials in China, India, Indonesia, and Vietnam in which polluters' emissions were monitored and performance ratings disclosed. In all four countries, rates of compliance with pollution regulations in test areas increased by 10 to 50 percent.
Economic and Sector Work and Nonlending Technical Assistance
Most of the Bank's analytic and advisory activities consist of economic and sector work and nonlending technical assistance. Analytic and advisory activities are an integral part of overall country assistance programs, which increasingly emphasize country ownership, participatory processes, capacity building, partnerships, and results. For that reason, the Bank has sought to strengthen its capacity to share knowledge with the donor community, looking to harmonize its policies and procedures with those of other donors and
produce joint analytic work in partnership with them. The Bank delivered 601 economic and sector work products and 307 technical assistance activities in fiscal 2006. Financial and private sector development and public sector governance were the leading themes for both economic and sector work and technical assistance.
Sector Strategies
In fiscal 2006, the Bank produced the second Sector Strategy Implementation Update, which provides an integrated assessment of progress across all sectors and thematic areas in which the Bank is engaged. This update also focused on strategies in four specific sectors: water supply and sanitation, health, rural development, and public sector governance. The Bank's efforts also concentrated on implementing the HIV/AIDS action plan and the multisectoral Africa Action Plan, and two newly updated strategies in the social development and education sectors.
CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT
For development programs to be effective and sustainable, country partners must have the capacity to manage them. The Bank supports upgrading the skills of its partners through the World Bank Institute (WBI) and specific capacity-building projects.
World Bank Institute
The World Bank Institute identifies countries' capacity needs and provides capacity development services that include technical assistance, thematic learning activities, cabinet-level retreats, and other leadership development programs. In fiscal 2006, nearly 100,000 people took part in WBI training and capacity-building activities.
WBI supports long-term capacity development in 45 focus countries through multiyear programs. Fourteen of these countries are in Africa, where WBI will play a key role in the Bank's Africa Action Plan (see chapter 1). WBI's Global Governance Program supports the Bank's governance and anticorruption agenda by conducting empirical research and publishing worldwide indicators of the prevalence and socioeconomic impact of corruption in more than 200 countries and territories (see chapter 1). It also works with the
media, legislatures, and civil society to support public demand for good governance. In fiscal 2006, the program worked with more than 30 countries. (See www.worldbank .org/wbi/governance.)
Global Development Learning Network
The urgency of connecting people with knowledge for development led the World Bank to initiate the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) with 11 Affiliates in June 2000. Initially conceived as a one-directional learning channel,
GDLN today is a community dedicated to just-in-time knowledge exchanges that use interactive videoconferencing and e-learning techniques through more than 100 Affiliates worldwide. Three-quarters of GDLN clients are government agencies, civil society organizations, and donor institutions. In fiscal 2006, GDLN Affiliates hosted more than 900 activities on behalf of their clients, providing expert facilitation, event coordination, and technology services.
Initiatives to Improve Statistical Capacity
To develop programs targeting specific development results, reliable and timely statistics are needed. However, many national statistical systems are underfunded and unable to produce basic indicators. In fiscal 2005, the Bank introduced a new lending program, STATCAP, which simplifies the process of investing in statistical systems so that project quality can ultimately be improved. STATCAP complements the Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building.
The Bank is also supporting a new global partnership through the Development Grant Facility. This partnership aims to implement the Marrakech Action Plan for Statistics, which was agreed to at the Second Roundtable on Managing for Development Results. The action plan helps countries develop and implement national strategies for improving official statistics, and it better supports the efforts of international statistical agencies working in priority areas such as population censuses, education statistics, and household surveys. (See www.worldbank.org/data/statcapJ
WORLD BANK LENDING
The World Bank comprises cooperative institutions that mobilize financing from member shareholder equity by borrowing from international capital markets (for IBRD) and by means of outright contributions from the richer member countries (for IDA). It channels these resources to benefit poor people in borrowing countries. Figures 3.1—3.3 and table 3.1 provide a summary of this year's IBRD-IDA lending.
Country Lending
Country lending reflects the Bank's focus on achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). It is tailored to meet
7%
individual country needs and uses lending instruments that are becoming increasingly flexible. The Bank has eased access to country lending information for country partners by developing a Web site that compiles all country lending data into a user-friendly format. More than 5,000 individuals working for member governments and project-implementing entities (representing more than 75 percent of current Bank lending operations) are accessing information from and conducting business with the World Bank through the site. This secure site, launched with 10 pilot countries in 2003 and opened to all countries in 2004, offers current data on projects, loans, and trust funds and allows users to transmit procurement documents to the Bank for review. (See clientconnection .worldbank.org.)
Country Assistance Strategies
A country assistance strategy (CAS) guides World Bank Group activities within a borrowing member country. Starting with a country's vision of its development goals, a CAS is prepared in consultation with the government, civil society organizations, development partners, and other stakeholders. It assesses the country's development situation and suggests a program of support tailored to meet the country's needs. The objective is to identify areas in which Bank Group support can best assist the country's own efforts to achieve sustainable development and reduce poverty. During fiscal 2006, the Bank prepared 31 CAS products, including 7 CAS Progress Reports and 6 interim strategy notes, which are prepared when a country assistance strategy cannot be completed because of specific country circumstances. Of these, 17 were prepared jointly with IFC, and two (Bangladesh and Uganda) were prepared collaboratively with other donors. (See www .worldbank.org/cas.)
LOW-INCOME COUNTRIES
The poverty reduction strategy (PRS) approach is key to the Bank's support for low-income countries. PRSs are country-authored, results-oriented, comprehensive road maps that articulate a country's development priorities and then specify the steps necessary to address them. The PRS approach redefined aid by empowering governments to set their own priorities (and holding them accountable for the results) and encouraging donors to provide predictable, harmonized assistance aligned with those priorities. Currently 50 countries, of which half are in Africa, have prepared a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.
The 2005 PRS review examined implementation experience over the past five years. While experiences have been varied, the need to implement challenging development agendas in environments with little capacity and weak institutions is common. In many countries, the PRS approach has increased
the focus on setting clear goals that are linked to public actions, improving budget and monitoring systems, opening space for discussion of national priorities and policies that will lead to poverty reduction and growth, filling country-specific analytic gaps, and aligning and harmonizing donor assistance with national priorities. (See www.worldbank.org /prspreview.)
The Role of IDA
IDA is the largest source of concessional financial assistance for the world's poorest countries. In fiscal 2006, countries with annual per capita income of up to $965 were eligible for IDA assistance. IDA also supports some countries, including several small island economies, that are above the income cutoff but lack sufficient creditworthiness to borrow from IBRD. The amount of IDA resources a country receives depends largely on performance factors such as the quality of governance and of policies to promote growth and reduce poverty, which are assessed annually.
IDA recipient countries face complex challenges in meeting the MDGs. Policy priorities include promoting growth and reducing poverty; enhancing public sector governance and transparency; helping countries recover from conflicts; developing infrastructure; improving the quality of basic education and poor people's access to it; strengthening the fight against HIV/AIDS, avian flu, and other communicable diseases; building a healthy investment climate as a prerequisite for private sector investment; and increasing access to financing.
Traditionally, IDA provided assistance in the form of highly concessional credits. Since fiscal 2003, it has expanded the use of grants, and with the 14th Replenishment of IDA (IDA14), it began to use them to finance projects in the most debt-vulnerable IDA countries. (See "IDA Resources" and www.worldbank.org/ida.)
IDA Commitments
Fiscal 2006 marked the first year of IDA14 and the highest volume of IDA commitments in history. Commitments reached $9.5 billion for 167 operations, consisting of $7.6 billion in credits, $1.8 billion in grants, and $60 million in guarantees. The largest share went to Africa, with $4.7 billion, constituting 50 percent of total IDA commitments. South Asia and East Asia and Pacific followed with $2.6 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. Among countries, Pakistan represents the largest single recipient. In fiscal 2006, about 19 percent of total IDA financing was provided in the form of grants.
Public administration, including law and justice, was the leading sector receiving IDA support, with $2.8 billion, or 28 percent of the total. The transportation and health and social services sectors received significant support: $1.1 billion and
$1 billion, respectively. The two most prominent themes were public sector governance and financial and private sector development, accounting for 19 percent of IDA commitments each. Human development (15 percent), rural development (14 percent), and social protection and risk management (9 percent) also attracted major attention. Figures 3.4-3.6 show IDA lending by region, theme, and sector. Also see figure 3.7.
IDA Resources
IDA is financed by its own resources and by donor governments (see figure 3.8). Every three years, IDA donor governments and representatives of borrower countries meet to discuss IDA's policies and priorities and to agree on the amount of new resources required to fund IDA’s lending program for the following three years. Historically, the major industrial nations have been the largest contributors to IDA. Donor nations also include developing and transition coun-tries—some of them current IBRD borrowers and former IDA borrowers.
Fiscal 2006 was the first year of IDA14, which will fund commitments for fiscal years 2006 through 2008. During this three-year period, concessional financing commitments of special drawing rights (SDR) 21.9 billion (about $32 billion) will be made to IDA-eligible countries. This amount includes SDR 12.1 billion (about $17.7 billion) in new donor contributions; SDR 8.7 billion (about $12.7 billion) in internal resources, including repayments of principal from past credits and investment income; and SDR 1.1 billion (about $1.5 billion) in IBRD net income transfers, subject to annual approval by IBRD's Board of Governors. Under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI), don ors have committed to providing additional resources in the amount of SDR 24.8 billion (about $37 billion) over 40 years. (See "Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative" in chapter 1.) The debt relief initiative went into effect on July 1, 2006. For fiscal 2006, debt relief programs were ongoing from past years through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative (see figures 3.9 and 3.10).
Fragile States
Analytic work suggests that there is a need to increase fragile states' capacity and accountability; to forge peace, security, and development links; to harmonize donor assistance; and to develop strong and flexible institutional responses.
In fiscal 2006, the Bank collaborated with United Nations system partners to better coordinate postconflict recovery processes and to integrate the political, security, economic, and social aspects of reconstruction. As cochair of the Development Assistance Committee Fragile States Group,
the Bank continued to build policy consensus on state building as the central objective, integrated approaches for effective donor programs, fast and flexible responses, and long-term engagement through nine country pilots of the Principles for Good International Engagement in Fragile States. These points were incorporated into a new fragile states strategy that was approved by the Board along with a $25 million replenishment of the LICUS Trust Fund, which supports reform and transition efforts. (See www.worldbank .org/licus.)
Small States
Since 2000, when the Development Committee discussed the small states agenda set out in a joint World Bank-Commonwealth task force report, the Bank has been engaged in a new partnership with the world's 45 smallest developing countries (most with populations of less than 1.5 million) and the international community to respond to the development needs of small states. In this partnership, the Bank committed to hosting a Small States Forum each year during the World Bank-International Monetary Fund Annual Meetings in order to give small states an opportunity to exchange information and set priorities for future work. The forum complements the substantial lending and advisory assistance provided to small states as part of the Bank's regular country programs. In 2005, the forum reviewed the small states agenda and discussed the Bank's proposal for an innovative mechanism to provide catastrophe insurance, which would help vulnerable small states—especially those in the Caribbean, Indian Ocean, and Pacific regions—better cope with mobilizing adequate and timely financing following natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes. (See www.worldbank.org/smallstates.)
MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
Middle-income countries continue to face substantial development challenges: achieving sustained growth that provides productive employment; reducing poverty and inequality; reducing volatility, particularly in their access to private financial markets; and strengthening the institutional and governance structures that underpin viable market-based economies. The Bank is uniquely placed to help these countries craft institutional reforms, attract infrastructure investment across the public-private spectrum, improve social service delivery, and cope with volatility. Middle-income countries are generally eligible to receive IBRD assistance.
The Role of IBRD
IBRD is a AAA-rated financial institution—with some unusual characteristics. Its shareholders are sovereign
governments, each of which has a voice in setting IBRD policies and many of which are eligible to borrow from it. IBRD's main goal is to reduce poverty by promoting sustainable economic development in middle-income and creditworthy low-income borrowing countries. It provides financing (loans, guarantees, and related risk management tools) and expertise in development-related technical disciplines.
IBRD helps clients gain access to capital and financial risk management tools in larger volumes, on better terms, at longer maturities, and in a more sustainable manner than they could receive from other sources. Unlike commercial banks, IBRD is driven by development impact rather than profit maximization. (See www.worldbank.org/mic.)
IBRD Lending
At $14.1 billion for 112 operations, new lending commitments by IBRD in fiscal 2006 exceeded the previous year's level by $0.5 billion. This represents the highest volume of IBRD lending in the past seven fiscal years. The share of policy-based lending was slightly higher than in fiscal 2005. Latin America and the Caribbean received the highest level of IBRD lending, with $5.7 billion, or 40 percent of total IBRD commitments, followed by Europe and Central Asia with $3.5 billion and East Asia and Pacific with $2.3 billion. Five countries—Brazil, China, India, Mexico, and Turkey— received a combined commitment volume equaling 52 percent of total IBRD lending in fiscal 2006.
Among sectors, public administration, including law and justice, received the highest volume of IBRD lending ($3.1 billion), followed by transportation ($2.1 billion), and energy and mining ($2.1 billion). The thematic composition of lending in fiscal 2006 was led by financial and private sector development, followed by public sector governance and urban development. Figures 3.11-3.13 show IBRD lending by region, theme, and sector. Development policy-based lending commitments are shown on the accompanying CD-ROM.
IBRD Resources
IBRD obtains most of its funds by selling bonds in international capital markets. In fiscal 2006, it raised $10 billion at medium- to long-term maturities, lower than the $13 billion raised in fiscal 2005. Debt securities, with a wide range of maturities and structures, were issued in 11 currencies.
IBRD is able to borrow high volumes for long maturities on very favorable terms. IBRD's financial strength is based on its prudent financial policies and practices, which help it maintain its high credit rating.
As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn enough income to ensure its financial
0
SUMMARY OF FISCAL YEAR ACTIVITIES
61
strength and sustain its development activities. IBRD's operating income was $1,740 million in fiscal 2006. IBRD retained $1,036 million in its general reserve and $64 million in its pension reserve and added $140 million to the surplus account. In August 2006, the Executive Directors proposed that the Board of Governors approve a transfer of $500 million to IDA from allocable net income in fiscal 2006 and an additional transfer of $300 million to IDA from the surplus account. (See "Financial Statements" on the accompanying CD-ROM.)
IBRD maintained adequate liquidity in fiscal 2006 to ensure its ability to meet its obligations. As of June 30, 2006, it held about $24.9 billion in liquid assets. Also as of June 30, 2006, IBRD's outstanding borrowings from capital markets were about $91.6 billion (net of swaps) (see figure 3.14). Borrowings exceeded equity by a factor of about three.
Total disbursed and outstanding loans were $103 billion. In addition to variable-spread loans (40 percent of total loans) and fixed-spread loans (with variable rate, 19 percent, and with fixed rate, 8 percent) that are available for new commitments, IBRD's loan portfolio includes old legacy loans: multicurrency pool loans, 12 percent; single currency pool loans, 9 percent; and fixed-rate single currency loans, 8 percent. On May 2, 2006, the Executive Directors approved the adoption of a lower and more transparent lending rate for multicurrency pool loans and dollar single-currency pool loans at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus 100 basis points (or the fixed-rate equivalent) for borrowers that agree to execute an omnibus amendment to their existing loan agreements.
Consistent with IBRD's development mandate, the principal risk it takes is the country credit risk inherent in its portfolio of loans and guarantees. Risks related to interest and exchange rates are minimized. One summary measure of the Bank's risk profile is the ratio of balance sheet equity to outstanding net loans, which is closely managed in line with the Bank's financial and risk outlook. This ratio stood at 33 percent as of June 30, 2006 (see figure 3.15).
Partnerships
Global partnerships are increasing because of the growing integration of the world's economies and the existence of development challenges that cross national boundaries.
These partnerships promote efforts in areas of common concern such as combating communicable diseases, preserving the environment, acquiring and sharing knowledge, integrating trade, addressing international migration issues, and developing infrastructure. The Bank participates in some 160 global and regional partnerships, for which it committed more than $170 million from its own resources in fiscal 2006.
The Bank plays different roles in these initiatives, including trustee of donor funds, financial contributor, and implementing agency.
Trust Funds
World Bank-administered trust funds foster partnerships by mobilizing and directing concessional resources to support poverty reduction across a wide range of sectors and regions, thereby supporting clients in achieving development results at the global, regional, and country levels. Much of this growth responds to the international community's desire for the Bank to help manage broad global initiatives through multilateral partnerships, such as the Global Fund to Combat AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; the Global Environment Facility; and the HIPC Initiative. Trust funds also support the World Bank Group's own development operations and work programs. Many of these activities are further described in the World Bank's Trust Funds Annual Report. (See site index at www.worldbank.org]
Contributions, Funds Held in Trust, and Disbursements
The Bank's trust fund portfolio expanded in fiscal 2006. Contributions from donors totaled $5.3 billion, an increase of
9.5	percent over fiscal 2005. Funds held in trust rose to $10.3 billion, a 10.5 percent increase. The top 10 donors accounted for 80 percent of all contributions (see table 3.2).
Major New Trust Fund Programs
In response to emerging development challenges, the donor community agreed to establish several new major trust fund programs during fiscal 2006, including the four highlighted here.
The Avian and Human Influenza Facility This facility comprises several trust funds to address unmet financing needs and has pledges of more than $70 million. Funds support integrated country action plans and other activities as endorsed by the facility's advisory board.
The Africa Catalytic Growth Fund This fund was established as a mechanism for growth with an initial contribution of £200 million from the United Kingdom. The fund seeks to leverage funds from other partners and support ongoing government programs to achieve the MDGs.
Trust Fund for Anti-Money-Laundering and Combating Financing of Terrorism for Asia-Pacific and for Central America and the Caribbean This Canadian-financed fund strengthens the skills of agencies responsible for antimoney-laundering activities and combating terrorism financing.
Red Sea-Dead Sea Water Conveyance Feasibility Study This $15.5 million multidonor trust fund finances studies on possible solutions to the declining level of the Dead Sea through a determination of whether the transfer of water from the Red Sea to the Dead Sea is feasible. (See www .worldbank.org/cfp.)
Cofinancing
Cofinancing is any arrangement under which funds from the Bank are associated with funds provided by sources from outside the recipient country for a specific lending project or program. In fiscal 2006, 141 Bank projects leveraged $4.9 billion in cofinancing. Major cofinanciers were the Inter-American Development Bank ($1.3 billion) and the United Kingdom's Department for International Development ($0.5 billion). Multilateral agencies contributed $3.5 billion in cofinancing. The regions benefiting most from these cofinancing arrangements were Latin America and the Caribbean ($1.5 billion), East Asia and Pacific ($1.2 billion), and Africa ($1 billion).
Furthering Bank-Fund Collaboration
In March 2006, the Bank President and the IMF Managing Director agreed to establish a six-member External Review Committee comprising current and former Bank and IMF officials, senior international finance executives, and government finance officials. The committee will solicit views from member countries on Bank-Fund collaboration, which has increased significantly over time. The committee is expected to recommend specific improvements in Bank-Fund collaboration in such areas as policy advice, lending operations, technical assistance, and ways to tailor programs to meet specific country needs.
Financial Management Framework Agreement
Harmonizing and aligning donor assistance occurs at the country level through, for example, participation in joint analytic work, collaborative preparation of country and sector strategies, and development of common arrangements to finance projects and programs. The Bank made further progress with other donors on this agenda by signing a Financial Management Framework Agreement with the United Nations in March 2006. This agreement represents a significant milestone in the Bank's ongoing program of financial management harmonization, which had, until now, focused on bilateral and multilateral development agencies. This new agreement allows the Bank to rely on the UN's financial management regulations within a framework that continues to provide the Bank with reasonable assurance that its funds will be used for the intended purposes.


1.	OVERVIEW
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization established in 1945 and is owned by its member countries. IBRD's main goals are promoting sustainable economic development and reducing poverty in its developing member countries. It pursues these goals primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for projects and for programs for economic reform. IBRD's ability to intermediate funds from international capital markets for lending to its developing member countries is an important element in achieving its development goals. IBRD's financial objective is not to maximize profit, but to earn adequate net income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities. Box 1 presents selected financial data for the last five fiscal years.
The financial strength of IBRD is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices. Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members and in the record of its borrowing members in meeting their debt-service obligations to it. IBRD's financial policies and practices have led it to build reserves, to diversify its funding sources, to hold a large portfolio of liquid investments, and to limit a variety of risks, including credit, market and liquidity risks.
IBRD's principal assets are its loans to member countries. The majority of IBRD's outstanding loans are priced on a cost pass-through basis. (See Tables 5 and 6 for loan pricing details).
To raise funds, IBRD issues debt securities in a variety of currencies to both institutional and retail investors. These borrowings, together with IBRD's equity, are used to fund its lending and investment activities, as well as general operations.
IBRD holds its assets and liabilities primarily in U.S. dollars, euro and Japanese yen. IBRD mitigates its exposure to exchange rate risks by matching the currencies of its liabilities and equity with those of its assets. However, the reported levels of its assets, liabilities, income and expenses in the financial statements are affected by exchange rate movements in all the currencies in which IBRD transacts compared to IBRD's reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Since IBRD matches the currencies of its equity with those of its loans, the fluctuations captured in the cumulative translation adjustment for purposes of financial statement reporting do not significantly impact IBRD's risk-bearing capacity.
Lending commitments to member countries in FY 2006 were $14.1 billion, reflecting an increase of $0.5 billion from the FY 2005 level of $13.6 billion.
For the purposes of this document Operating Income refers to net income before Board of Governors-approved transfers and the effect of net unrealized gains (losses) on non-trading derivative instruments, as required by FAS 133. FY 2006 Operating Income was $1,740 million, $420 million more than that for FY 2005. This had the effect of increasing IBRD's return on equitya from 3.90% in FY 2005 to 5.05% in FY 2006 (see Boxl).
During FY 2006, provisioning requirements for probable losses on loans and guarantees were reduced by $724 million due to the combined impact of changes in the creditworthiness of the loans portfolio, the annual update of the expected default frequencies (probability of default to IBRD), developments in the nonaccrual portfolio and the reduction in the volume of the loans portfolio.
In the context of assessing changes in IBRD's operating environment, it is management's practice to recommend each year the allocation of net income to augment reserves, waivers of loan charges to benefit eligible borrowers, and allocation of net income to support developmental activities.
On August 7,2006, the Executive Directors approved the following allocations from FY 2006 net income: $1,036 million to the General Reserve and $64 million to the Pension Reserve. In addition, the Executive Directors recommended to IBRD's Board of Governors the following transfers from unallocated net income: $140 million to Surplus, and $500 million to the International Development Association (IDA) as well as the transfer of $300 million to IDA out of Surplus.
The Executive Directors also approved a 100 basis point waiver of the front-end fee on all loans (other than special development policy loans) presented to the Executive Directors between August 7,2006 and the date on which the Board approves a front-end fee waiver for FY 2008. The Executive Directors also approved that (i) interest charge waivers will be maintained at 5 basis points for old loans and 25 basis points for new loans, respectively, to eligible borrowers for payment periods commencing during FY 2007 and (ii) waivers of 50 basis points on commitment charges for FY 2007 will be maintained for all loans.
a.	Before the effects of Board of Governors-approved transfers and FAS 133.
2.	BASIS OF REPORTING
Financial Statement Reporting
IBRD prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and referred to in this document as the ‘reported basis’.
As allowed under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended (herein referred to as “FAS 133"), IBRD has marked all derivative instruments, as defined by this standard, to fair value, with changes in fair value being recognized immediately in earnings.
FAS 133 allows hedge accounting for qualifying hedging relationships, if certain criteria are met. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of these criteria to IBRD's derivative portfolio would not consistently reflect its hedging strategies. Therefore, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships and, as a result, all changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments are recognized immediately in earnings.
Effective July 1, 2005, IBRD ceased preparing financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This action was taken in order to allow IBRD to evaluate the
Amendment to International Accounting Standard No. 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, The Fair Value Option, issued in June
2005,	and in particular, to examine whether refinements to its loan valuation model would permit application of the fair value option to such financial assets.
Management Reporting
In implementing its risk management (interest rate and currency risk) and funding strategies, IBRD makes extensive use of derivatives. In addition, IBRD uses derivative instruments for asset/ liability management of individual positions and portfolios.
IBRD's funding operations are designed to meet a major organizational objective of providing lower cost funds to borrowing members. Because of the extent of IBRD's long-dated funding, the reported volatility under FAS 133 may be more pronounced than for many other financial institutions. The effects of applying FAS 133 may significantly affect reported results in each accounting period, depending on changes in market rates. However, IBRD believes that its funding and asset/liability management strategies accomplish its objectives of protection from market risk and provision of lower cost funding, and that a current value basis provides more meaningful information for risk management and management reporting.
Box 2: Hedging Strategy and Use of Derivatives
IBRD is a financial intermediary, borrowing funds in international capital markets for on-lending to member countries. In order to achieve the lowest funding costs, IBRD issues bonds in those currencies and markets throughout the world in which it has a comparative funding cost advantage. As a matter of policy, IBRD avoids interest rate risk in its financing operations and avoids open foreign exchange risk positions. Therefore, both on a transaction-by-transaction basis and on a portfolio basis, IBRD enters into derivatives transactions to eliminate mismatches between the interest rate and currency composition of its assets and liabilities. This approach insulates IBRD's balance sheet from material interest rate or currency exposure. (See Section 6 - Financial Risk Management)
FAS 133 requires that all derivatives be accounted for at market values in the balance sheet; for derivatives that are not part of a qualifying hedging strategy, changes in the market values must be recognized in earnings. IBRD has a large portfolio of derivatives that convert long-dated fixed-rate borrowings into floating-rate obligations. These derivatives are financially equivalent to non-U.S. dollar fixed rate assets, and in general, when market interest rates increase, the reported value of these derivatives will decline, and vice-versa. Although these derivatives economically offset other financial positions on bonds and loans, those positions are generally not marked to market, so their reported values are not affected by interest rate movements. Thus, an asymmetry results in the reported financial statements when the values of economically offsetting transactions are reported on different bases.
FAS 133 contains hedge accounting provisions which are intended to mitigate this mismatch but in order to qualify for hedge accounting, transactions must meet particular criteria. A number of risk management techniques that IBRD utilizes would not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. Accordingly, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedge relationships, though IBRD's policies and hedging strategy achieve its risk minimization objectives. For management reporting purposes, IBRD instead uses current value financial statements, as shown in Tables 1 and 2 in Section 2, which marks both the derivatives and the underlying liabilities and assets to current value. IBRD focuses on operating income in its annual allocation and distribution decisions.
In FY 2006 with higher interest rates (see Figure 12) application of FAS 133 resulted in reported net income being lower by $3,479 million. Conversely, in FY2005, with interest rate curves shifting downward at the medium to long term, application of FAS 133 resulted in reported net income being higher by $2,511 million than it would otherwise have been. Application of FAS 133 in FY2004 in a rising interest rate environment resulted in a net loss on a reported basis (including a loss of $4,100 million due to application of FAS 133). Both the positive and negative FAS 133 adjustments reflect the impact of changing rates on the marked-to-market value of the derivatives, which represent only one side of the hedged transactions. The impact of changing market rates on the other side of hedged transactions - the underlying liabilities or assets - generally is not reflected in the reported financial statements. Therefore, IBRD uses current value financial statements for management reporting purposes and focuses on operating income in its annual allocation and distribution decisions.
IBRD believes that a current value presentation reflects the economic value of all of its financial instruments. The current value model is based on the present value of expected cash flows. The model incorporates available market data in determining the cash flow and discount rates for each instrument. The current value financial statements do not purport to present the net realizable, liquidation, or market value of IBRD as a whole. Figure 1 below depicts the impact on IBRD's total equity, from the effects of applying FAS 133 as compared to applying current value measurement.
Figure 1: Impact on Retained Earnings and Other Equity: FAS 133 versus Current Value Adjustments
Current Value Basis
The Condensed Current Value Balance Sheets in Table 1 present IBRD's estimates of the economic value of its financial assets and liabilities, after considering market and credit risks. The current year's Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet is presented with a reconciliation to the reported basis. The prior year's Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 20 in Section 10.
IBRD's Condensed Current Value Statement of Income is presented in Table 2. The "Adjustments to Current Value" column provides a reconciliation between net income on a reported basis and net income on a current value basis. The movement in unrealized mark-to-market gains from the investment portfolio of $4 million, and the reduction in the provision for losses on loans and guarantees of $724 million are reversed from the year-to-date reported operating income, to arrive at Si,012 million in operating income on a current value basis before the effects of unrealized gains and losses. To arrive at net income on a current value basis, the Current Value adjustment of $446 million for market risk and the reduction in the provision for losses on
loans and guarantees of S 724 million reflecting credit risk are added while the S3,479 million effect of FAS 133 is reversed. The prior year's Condensed Current Value Statement of Income is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 21 in Section 10.
A summary of the effects on net income of the current value adjustments in the balance sheet is presented in Table 3.
Current Value Balance Sheets
Loan Portfolio
All of IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD. In addition, IBRD may also make loans to the International Finance Corporation, an affiliated organization, without any guarantee. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does management believe there is a market for loans comparable to those made by IBRD.
The current value of loans, including associated financial derivatives, is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted using the rate at which IBRD would originate a similar loan at the reporting date. The cash flows of these instruments are based on management's best estimates, taking into account market exchange rates and interest rates.
The current value also includes IBRD's assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering various factors including its history of payment receipts from borrowers. IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest due on its loans. However, IBRD has suffered losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of payments for interest and charges, according to the loan's contractual terms, and the actual timing of cash flows. To recognize the credit risk inherent in these and any other potential overdue payments, IBRD adjusts the value of its loans through its loan loss provision.
At June 30, 2006, the S881 million (S3,148 million— June 30,2005) increase in IBRD's loan portfolio from the reported basis to the current value basis reflects the fact that the loans in the portfolio, on average, carry a higher rate of interest than the rate at which IBRD would currently originate a similar loan at the reporting date. The S2,267 million decrease in the current value adjustment from June 30, 2005 was primarily due to the decrease in the mark on U.S. dollar denominated loans, consistent with the rise in the reference market yield curve for the U.S. dollar during this period (see Figure 12).
*	Indicates amounts less than $0.5 million.
Investment Portfolio
Under both the reported and current value basis, the investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD's trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair values. Therefore, for the investment portfolio, no additional adjustment is necessary. Fair value is based on market quotations. Instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information.
Borrowings Portfolio
The borrowings portfolio on a current value basis includes debt securities and associated financial derivatives, and represents the present value of expected cash flows on these instruments discounted by the cost at which IBRD would obtain funding at the reporting date. The valuation model incorporates available market data in determining the expected cash flow and discount rates for each instrument.
Market data include exchange rates and reference market interest rates. The current value for the
borrowings portfolio includes current value adjustments for borrowings, swaps payable, swaps receivable and the reduction in other assets due to
unamortized issuance costs.
At June 30, 2006 the	miHion ($2,793 million—
June 30,2005) increase in IBRD's borrowings
portfolio from the reported basis to the current value basis as shown in Table 3 reflects the average cost of
the borrowings portfolio being higher than the rate at
which IBRD could obtain funding at the reporting
date. The $1,717 million decrease from June 30,2005
in the current value adjustment was due primarily to
the decrease in the mark-to-market adjustment on the
U.S. dollar denominated debt consistent with the rise
in the reference market yield curve for the U.S. dollar
during this period (see Figure 12).
(i)	IBRD makes loans to governments, governmental authorities or private enterprises in the territories of member countries. A loan that is not made directly to the member in whose territories the project is located must be guaranteed as to principal, interest and other charges by the member or its central bank or a comparable agency of the member acceptable to IBRD. A guarantee by the member itself has been obtained in all such cases to date.
(ii)	IBRD's loans are designed to promote the use of resources for productive purposes in its member countries. Investment projects financed by IBRD loans are required to meet IBRD's standards for technical, economic, financial, institutional and environmental soundness. Specific provisions apply to development policy lending financed by IBRD loans, including the treatment of the macro-economic framework, poverty and social impact, environment, forests and other natural resources.
(iii)	In making loans, IBRD must act prudently and pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Decisions to make loans are based upon, among other things, studies by IBRD of a member country's economic structure, including assessments of its resources and ability to generate sufficient foreign exchange to meet debt-service obligations.
(iv)	IBRD must be satisfied that in the prevailing market conditions (taking into account the member's overall external financing requirements), the borrower would be unable to obtain financing under conditions which, in the opinion of IBRD, are reasonable for the borrower. However, this does not preclude lending to members who may have access to international credit markets. It is the intention of IBRD to promote private investment, not to compete with it.
(v)	The use of loan proceeds is supervised. IBRD makes arrangements intended to ensure that funds loaned are used only for authorized purposes and, where relevant, with due attention to considerations of cost-effectiveness. This policy is enforced primarily by requiring borrowers (a) to submit documentation establishing, to IBRD's satisfaction, that the expenditures financed with the proceeds of loans are made in conformity with the applicable lending agreements and (b) to maximize competition in the procurement of goods and services by using, wherever possible, international competitive bidding or, when it is not appropriate, other procedures that ensure maximum economy and efficiency. In addition, under a pilot program approved by the Executive Directors in March 2005, IBRD considers the use of borrower country environmental and social safeguard systems in selected operations where these systems are assessed as being equivalent to IBRD's systems and where the borrower's implementation practices, track record, and capacity are considered acceptable to IBRD.
Current Value Statements of Income
Income from Loans
Income from loans increased by $709 million during FY 2006 in comparison with FY 2005. The main reason for this increase was higher lending rates which contributed $1,005 million. This was partially offset by a $231 million reduction in income due to lower average loan balances outstanding.
Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees During FY 2006, there was a $724 million release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees in comparison to a release of $502 million during FY
2005.	The release of provision in each period reflects the combined impact of changes in the creditworthiness of the loans portfolio, changes in the volume and distribution of loans and guarantees outstanding, net of translation adjustments and the annual update of the expected default frequencies (probabilities of default to IBRD) and developments
in the nonaccrual portfolio. The effect has been an increase in net income of $222 million between the two fiscal years.
Income from Investments
During FY 2006, income from investments increased by $429 million due to higher average short-term interest rates, in comparison with FY 2005 (see Figure 11). IBRD holds primarily short-term U.S dollar fixed income investments with an average duration of less than three months.
Borrowing Expenses
Borrowing expenses increased by $904 million during FY 2006, in comparison with FY 2005. With approximately two-thirds of borrowings based on short-term U.S. dollar interest rates, the increase in U.S. dollar six-month LIBOR in FY 2006 (see Figure 11), resulted in higher borrowing expenses. This was
partly offset by a reduction in the average portfolio size.
Administrative Expenses (IncludingContributions to Special Programs)
Administrative expenses increased by $34 million during FY 2006 compared to FY 2005. Costs related to pension and postretirement benefits accounted for $28 million of this increase. (see Table 19).
Current Value Adjustments
As part of its risk management strategy, IBRD closely aligns the duration (interest rate sensitivity) and the currency composition of its equity to that of its loan portfolio in order to minimize the impact of any interest rate and currency exchange rate movements on its risk bearing capacity. Therefore, on a current value basis while there will be some mark-to-market effect on equity, such an impact will not significantly affect IBRD's risk bearing capacity. Consistent with the positive duration of IBRD's equity, in a rising interest rate environment, the current value adjustment decreased net income in FY 2006 by $446 million (decrease of $273 million in FY 2005) as shown in Table 3.
Impact of changes due to interest rates The current value effect on the Income Statement of negative $588 million, due to interest rate changes during FY 2006, was primarily due to the higher U.S. dollar reference market yield curve (see Figure 12). The negative $588 million adjustment was due to the decrease in the current value mark on the loans portfolio of $2,267 million partially offset by the decrease in the current value mark on the borrowings portfolio of $1,717 million. These adjustments have been explained under the Current Value Balance Sheet Section. Similarly during FY
2005,	IBRD's net income on a current value basis included a negative adjustment of $227 million, primarily reflecting the negative effects resulting from the upward movements in the discount curves for the major reference currencies with the exception of the euro. These losses were partially offset by net gains on the euro loans and borrowings portfolio, reflecting the significant decrease in the euro interest rate curve.
Impact of changes due to currency translation The current value adjustment from currency translation adjustments of positive $138 million was primarily due to the appreciation of the euro (3.8%) offset by the depreciation of the Japanese yen (5.5%) against the U.S. dollar during FY 2006. Table 4 provides a breakdown of this adjustment by the loans and borrowings portfolios. The loans portfolio contributed $347 million towards this increase. The
euro and the Japanese yen accounted for approximately 16% and 4% of the total loan portfolio, and 97% of total non-U.S. dollar denominated loans at June 30,2006. The borrowings portfolio accounted for a negative $216 million. The euro and the Japanese yen accounted for approximately 12% and 3% of the total borrowing portfolio, and 98% of total non-U.S. dollar denominated borrowings at June 30,2006.
In comparison, during FY 2005 the impact of exchange rate changes on IBRD's net assets resulted in a negative translation adjustment of $49 million due to the slight depreciation of both the euro (1.6%) and the Japanese yen (0.5%) against the U.S. dollar.
Given IBRD's risk management strategy, the stability of the current value equity-to-loans ratio is considered more significant than fluctuations in the net current value adjustments.
3.	DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
IBRD offers loans, related derivative products, and guarantees to its borrowing member countries to help meet their development needs. It also provides technical assistance and other advisory services to support poverty reduction in these countries.
Loans
From its establishment through June 30,2006, IBRD had approved loans, net of cancellations, totaling $367,002 million to borrowers in 130 countries. A summary of cumulative lending is contained in Table 5.
At June 30,2006, the total volume of outstanding loans was $103,004 million, $1,397 million lower than the $104,401 million of outstanding loans at June 30,2005. This decrease was due primarily to negative net disbursements of $1,741 million, including $2,068 million of prepayments. Undisbursed balances at June 30,2006 totaled $34,938 million, reflecting an increase of $1,194 million from June 30,2005. This change was due to new commitments and positive currency translation adjustments, partially offset by cancellations and disbursements of loans.
a.	Net of cancellations
b.	Multicurrency pool loan repayments are included at exchange rates in effect on the date of original disbursement. All other amounts are based on U.S. dollar equivalents at the time of repayment by borrowers.
During FY 2006, new loans, guarantee commitments and guarantee facilities to member countries were $14,135 million, ($13,611 million—FY 2005). During the four year period from FY 2003 to FY
2006,	Latin America and the Caribbean region accounted for the largest share of commitments. Figure 2 presents the regional composition of commitments from FY 2001 to FY 2006.
Figure 2: Commitments including Guarantee Facilities by Region
Under IBRD's Articles of Agreement (the Articles), as applied, the total amount outstanding of direct loans made by IBRD, including participation in loans and callable guarantees may not exceed the statutory lending limit. At June 30, 2006, outstanding loans and callable guarantees (net of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees) totaled $100,888 million, equal to 47% of the statutory lending limit.
IBRD's lending operations have conformed generally to five principles derived from its Articles. These principles, taken together, seek to ensure that IBRD loans are made to member countries for financially and economically sound purposes to which those
countries have assigned high priority, and that funds lent are utilized as intended. The five principles are described in Box 3. Within the scope permitted by the Articles, application of these principles must be developed and adjusted in light of experience and changing conditions.
Lending Cycle
The process of identifying and appraising a project, and approving and disbursing a loan, often extends over several years. However, on numerous occasions IBRD has shortened the preparation and approval cycle in response to emergency situations such as natural disasters.
Generally, the appraisal of projects is carried out by IBRD's operational staff (economists, engineers, financial analysts, and other sector and country specialists). With certain exceptions'1, each loan must be approved by IBRD's Executive Directors.
Loan disbursements are subject to the fulfillment of conditions set out in the loan agreement. During implementation of IBRD-supported operations, experienced IBRD staff review progress, monitor compliance with IBRD policies and assist in resolving any problems that may arise. The Independent Evaluation Group, an IBRD unit whose director reports to the Executive Directors rather than to the President, evaluates the extent to which operations have met their major objectives.
Lending Instruments
IBRD lending generally falls into one of two categories: investment or development policy lending (previously referred to as adjustment lending). Investment lending is generally used to finance goods, works, and services in support of economic and social development projects in a broad range of sectors. In contrast, development policy lending is generally provided in exchange for commitments by borrowers to implement social, structural, and institutional reforms. The majority of IBRD loans are for investment projects or programs. Figure 3 shows the percentage of IBRD loans approved for development policy lending over the past eight years.
a.	For Adaptable Program Loans (APLs), the Board approves all first-phase APLs and delegates to Management the approval of subsequent phases subject to agreed procedures. Learning and Innovation Loans are loans of $5 million or less approved by Management.
the borrower provided it is a currency in which IBRD can efficiently intermediate: variable-spread loans, and fixed-spread loans. Variable-spread loans, which were introduced in FY 1993, have a variable spread over LIBOR that is adjusted every six months. Fixed-spread loans, which were introduced in FY 2000, have a fixed spread over LIBOR that is fixed for the life of the loan.
Borrowers selecting the fixed-spread loan product may, for a fee, change the currency or interest rate basis over the life of the loan. For example, borrowers have the option to fix, unfix, or re-fix the interest rate at market rates on all or a part of the disbursed amounts for up to the remaining maturity of the loan.
The transaction fees for changing the currency or interest rate basis of fixed-spread loans were revised during FY06. On undisbursed loans, the fee (based on percentage of principal amount converted) for currency conversion is an up-front charge of 0.125% of the principal to be converted. On disbursed loans, the fee for currency conversion is an annual charge of 0.02% of the amount converted. Interest rate conversion carries no transaction fee.
Table 6 summarizes the contractual terms for these types of loans.
In FY 2006, new IBRD commitments for development policy lending accounted for 35% of total commitments (31%-FY 2005; 40%-FY 2004).
Contractual Terms of Loans
Contractual Terms of Currently Available Products IBRD currently offers a product mix that is intended to provide borrowers with the flexibility to select terms that are both compatible with their debt management strategy and suited to their debt-servicing capacity. As of June 30, 2006, IBRD offers the following two basic types of loan terms, each denominated in the currency or currencies chosen by
Repayment terms for fmed-spread loans are more flexible than for variable-spread loans, subject to certain constraints on the average repayment maturity and final maturity on a country basis. Within these constraints, borrowers have flexibility to configure grace periods and maturity profiles in a manner consistent with the purpose of the loan. Repayment profiles may be level repayment of principal, an annuity type schedule, a single lumpsum repayment, or a customized schedule. Repayment profiles cannot be changed after a loan is signed.
At June30,2006, 71% (63%—June30,2005) ofloans outstanding were made on currently available terms.
Local Currency Lending
IBRD offers its borrowers products to convert or swap their IBRD loans into their domestic currencies to reduce their foreign currency exposure that do not generate foreign currency revenues. These local currency loans have Fixed Spread Loan terms. The balance of such loans outstanding at June 30,2006 was $50 million.
As part of the initiative taken during FY 2005 by the Board of Executive Directors to increase the usability of local currency paid-in capital, IBRD entered into a Local Currency Loan Facility Agreement with IFC which is capped at $300 million. Under this agreement, IBRD would lend local currencies of its member countries, funded from paid-in capital, to IFC. These currencies would subsequently be used by IFC to finance projects in those member countries. Loan commitments under this facility are subject to consents of the respective IBRD member countries whose currency is involved. At June 30,2006, loans outstanding equivalent to $50 million had been made under this facility.
Loans with a Deferred Drawdown Option A Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO) for use with IBRD development policy loans gives IBRD borrowers the option of deferring the loan's disbursement for up to three years. Loans with a DDO are subject to a commitment fee of 100 basis points, which is 25 basis points higher than that for standard IBRD loans. Also, the front-end fee which is normally payable at the time a loan becomes effective, is only payable for a DDO loan at the time it is disbursed.
Derivative Products
Along with the approval of the introduction of the fixed-spread loan product with its various risk management features such as rate fixing and currency conversion, IBRD also offers derivative products to borrowers. These products respond to borrowers' needs for access to better risk management tools in connection with existing IBRD loans. These derivative products include currency and interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps and collars.
IBRD will pass through its market cost of the instrument to the borrower, and will charge a transaction fee comparable to the fee charged on the fixed-spread loan conversion features. These instruments may be executed either under a master derivatives agreement, which substantially conforms to industry standards, or in individually negotiated transactions. The first currency swap transaction was executed in FY 2004 between IBRD and one of its borrowers under a Master Derivatives Agreement. Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers.
Contractual Terms of Previously Available Products
In previous years, IBRD offered loans with a variety of other contractual terms including: multicurrency pool loans and fmed-rate single currency loans.
Table 7 summarizes the contractual terms for variable-rate multicurrency and single-currency pool loans, and fixed-rate single-currency loans.
In 1980, IBRD established the currency pool system, funded primarily with fmed rate medium-to-long term borrowings. In 1982, IBRD mitigated its interest rate risk by moving from offering a fixed rate to a variable rate on these loans.
The currency composition of multicurrency pool loans is determined on the basis of a pool, which provides a currency composition that is the same for all loans in the pool. Pursuant to a policy established by the Executive Directors, and subject to their periodic review, at least 90% of the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the pool is in a fmed ratio of one U.S. dollar to 125 Japanese yen to one euro. The lending rate formulation for loans with single currency pool terms is the same as that for multicurrency pool loans. Single-currency pool loans are held in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, and euro.
During FY 2006 the Executive Directors approved the revision of variable rate multi-currency pool and variable rate U.S. dollar pool lending rates to composite LIBOR +100 basis points or the fmed rate equivalent thereof (at the borrower's choice) for borrowers that agree to certain amendments to their loan agreements. This revision has been approved in order to adjust the pool lending rates, which are rising above market rates as these products are phased out, in a manner that was not envisioned at the time that borrowers signed their loan agreements. These revised loan terms will be offered from July 2006, and will apply on interest rate reset dates that occur on or after January 1,2007.
Any fmed-rate multicurrency pool loans that were converted to single currency pools continued to carry their fmed rate.
Fixed-rate single currency loans carry lending rates fmed on semi-annual rate fixing dates for amounts disbursed during the preceding six months. For the interim period from the date each disbursement is made until its rate fixing date, interest accrues at the rate applicable to variable-spread loans.
At June 30, 2006, 29% (37%-June 30,2005) of loans outstanding carried these previously available contractual terms.
Figure 4 presents a breakdown of IBRD's loan portfolio by loan product. For more information, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers.
Waivers
Waivers of a portion of charges and interest owed by all eligible borrowers are determined annually and have been in effect since FY 1992. Eligibility for the partial waiver of interest is limited to borrowers that have made full payments of principal, interest and other charges within 30 calendar days of the due dates during the preceding six months, on all their loans. Waivers of a portion of the commitment charge owed on the undisbursed portion of loans are also determined annually and have been in effect since FY 1990. All borrowers receive the commitment charge waiver on their eligible loans. Table 8 presents a breakdown of IBRD's loan charge waivers. Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers.
Guarantees
IBRD offers guarantees on loans from private investors for projects in countries eligible to borrow from IBRD. These guarantees can also be offered on securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD loans, and in exceptional cases offered in countries only eligible to borrow from IDA. IBRD applies the same country creditworthiness and project evaluation criteria to guarantees as it applies to loans.
IBRD guarantees can be customized to suit varying country and project circumstances, and may be provided directly or via facilities. They can be targeted to mitigate specific risks or generally risks relating to political, regulatory and government performance, which the private sector is not normally in a position to absorb or manage.
Each guarantee requires the counter-guarantee of the member government. IBRD prices guarantees consistent with the way it prices its loans.
IBRD generally provides the following types of guarantees:
Partial risk guarantees: These cover debt-service defaults on a loan that result from non-performance of government obligations.
Partial credit guarantees: These are used for public sector projects when there is a need to extend loan maturities and guarantee specified interest or principal payments on loans to the government or its agencies.
Policy-basedguarantees: When partial credit guarantees are used in support of agreed structural, institutional and social policies and reforms, they are considered policy-based guarantees. Eligibility for IBRD development policy lending is a necessary condition for eligibility for policy-based guarantees.
Enclave guarantees: These partial risk guarantees are offered in exceptional cases for loans for foreign-exchange generating projects in a member country usually eligible only for credits from IDA. Fees charged for enclave guarantees are higher than those charged for non-enclave guarantees. The annual commitment of enclave guarantees is limited to an aggregate guaranteed amount of $300 million. As of June 30,2006 commitments made under enclave guarantees were $30 million.
IBRD's exposure at June 30,2006 on its guarantees (measured by discounting each guaranteed amount from its first call date) is detailed in Table 9. For additional information see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers.
Table 9: Guarantee Exposure
Other Activities
Consultation: In addition to its financial operations, IBRD provides technical assistance to its member countries, both in connection with, and independently of, lending operations. There is a growing demand from borrowers for strategic advice, knowledge transfer, and capacity building. Such assistance includes assigning qualified professionals to survey developmental opportunities in member countries, analyzing their fiscal, economic and developmental environment, assisting member
countries in devising coordinated development programs, appraising projects suitable for investment and assisting member countries in improving their asset and liability management techniques.
Research and Training: To assist its developing member countries, IBRD-through the World Bank Institute and its partners-provides courses and other training activities related to economic policy development and administration for governments and organizations that work closely with IBRD.
Trust Fund Administration: IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, funds restricted for specific uses. These funds are held in trust and are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements — Note J-Management of External Funds.
Investment Management: IBRD offers investment management services to several types of external institutions, including central banks of member countries. One objective of providing the services to central banks is to assist them in developing portfolio management skills. These managed funds are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements — Note J-Management of External Funds.
4.	LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
IBRD's liquid assets are held principally in highly -rated fixed income securities. These securities include obligations of governments and other official entities, time deposits and other unconditional obligations of banks and financial institutions, currency and interest rate swaps (including currency forward contracts), asset-backed (including mortgage-backed) securities, and futures and options contracts.
Liquidity risk arises in the general funding of IBRD's activities and in the management of its financial positions. It includes the risk of being unable to fund its portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price. The objective of liquidity management is to ensure the availability of sufficient cash flows to meet all of IBRD's financial commitments.
As one component of liquidity management, IBRD maintained a $500 million line of credit as of June 30,
2006,	with an independent financial institution.” This facility was used to cover any overnight
a This line of credit a held jointly with the International Development Association (IDA), an affiliated organization
overdrafts that may have occurred due to failed trades. For further details about this facility, see the Notes to Financial Statements — Note E-Borrowings.
The primary objective for IBRD in the management of liquid assets is to protect the principal amount of these investments. In addition, IBRD seeks to achieve a reasonable return on the liquid asset portfolio using prudent asset and risk management techniques. The General Investment Authorization for IBRD approved by the Executive Directors provides the basic authority under which the liquid assets of IBRD can be invested. Further, all investment activities are conducted in accordance with a more detailed set of Investment Guidelines. The Investment Guidelines are approved by the Chief Financial Officer and implemented by the Treasurer. These Investment Guidelines set out detailed trading and operational rules including providing criteria for eligible instruments for investment, establishing risk parameters relative to benchmarks, such as an overall stop—loss limit and duration deviation, specifying concentration limits on counterparties and instrument classes, as well as establishing clear lines of responsibility for risk monitoring and compliance.
Under IBRD's liquidity management guidelines, aggregate liquid asset holdings are kept at or above a specified prudential minimum in order to safeguard against cash flow interruptions. That minimum is equal to the highest consecutive six months of expected debt service obligations for the fiscal year, plus one—half of net approved loan disbursements as projected for the fiscal year. The FY 2007 prudential minimum liquidity level has been set at $15.5 billion, a decrease of $2.5 billion from that set for FY 2006. IBRD also holds liquid assets over the specified minimum to provide flexibility in timing its borrowing transactions and to meet working capital needs.
Liquid assets maybe held in three distinct subportfolios: stable; operational; and discretionary, each with different risk profiles and performance benchmarks.
The stable portfolio is principally an investment portfolio holding the prudential minimum level of
liquidity, which is set at the beginning of each fiscal year. Investment of up to 20% of the stable portfolio may be contracted out to external managers. Separate investment guidelines which conform to IBRD's overall Investment Guidelines are provided to each external manager.
The operational portfolio provides working capital for IBRD's day—to—day cash flow requirements.
The discretionary portfolio, when used, provides flexibility for the execution of IBRD's borrowing program and can be used to take advantage of attractive market opportunities. During FY 2005, this portfolio was liquidated, however, in FY 2006, it was replenished by funds that were available above the requirements of the stable and oper56+ational portfolios.
Figure 5 represents IBRD's liquid asset portfolio size and structure at the end of FY 2006 and FY 2005, excluding investment assets associated with certain other postemployment benefits. At the end of FY
2006,	the aggregate size of the IBRD liquid asset portfolio was $24,655 million, reflecting a decrease of $l,515million from FY 2005. Of this amount, $1,443 million ($1,383 million in FY 2005) in the stable portfolio was managed by external firms. IBRD's liquid asset portfolio is largely composed of assets denominated in U.S. dollars with net exposure to short—term interest rates. The debt funding these liquid assets also shares similar currency and duration profiles. This is a direct consequence of IBRD's exchange rate and interest rate risk management policies (see Section 6—Financial Risk Management), combined with appropriate investment benchmarks. In addition to monitoring gross investment returns compared to their benchmarks, IBRD also monitors overall investment earnings net of funding costs (see Section 8 —Results of Operations).
The returns and average balances of the liquid asset portfolio in FY 2006 compared to FY 2005 are presented in Table 10. These returns exclude investment assets funding certain other postemployment benefits.
The higher returns in FY 2006 are due primarily to the higher average interest rate environment in FY 2006 as compared to FY 2005, as shown in Figure 11.
IBRD enters into derivative transactions to manage its investment portfolio. The main purposes of these derivative instruments are to enhance the return, and manage the overall duration, of the portfolio.
Contractual Obligations
In the normal course of business, IBRD enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Table 11 summarizes IBRD's significant contractual cash obligations, by remaining maturity, at June 30, 2006. Long-term debt includes direct medium- and long-term borrowings excluding swaps, but does not include any adjustment for unamortized premiums, discounts or effects of applying FAS 133 (additional information can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements—Note E—Borrowings). Operating lease expenditures primarily represent future cash payments for real estate-related obligations and equipment. Other long-term liabilities include accrued liabilities for staff compensation and benefits. Operating leases, contractual purchases and capital expenditures, and other long term obligations
include amounts which will be shared with IDA, IFC and MIGA in accordance with individual cost sharing agreements (additional information can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements—
Note I—Administrative Expenses, Contributions to Special Programs, and Other Income).
Excluded from Table 11 are a number of obligations to be settled in cash. These obligations are presented in IBRD's balance sheet and include undisbursed loans; short-term borrowings; payable for currency and interest rate swaps; payable for investment securities purchased, and payable for transfers approved by the Board of Governors.
5.	FUNDING RESOURCES Equity
Total shareholders' equity, as reported in IBRD's balance sheet at June 30, 2006, was $36,474 million compared to $38,588 million at June 30, 2005. The decrease from FY 2005 primarily reflects the net loss of $2,389 million on a reported basis during FY 2006 brought about primarily by net unrealized losses of $3,479 million on non-trading derivative instruments, as required by FAS 133.
IBRD's equity base plays a critical role in securing its financial objectives. By enabling IBRD to absorb risk out of its own resources, its equity base protects shareholders from a possible call on callable capital. The adequacy of IBRD's equity capital is judged on the basis of its ability to generate future net income sufficient to absorb potential risks and support normal loan growth, without reliance on additional shareholder capital.
For management purposes, IBRD closely monitors equity as defined and utilized in the equity-to-loans ratio. Table 12 presents the composition of this measure at June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The equity-to-loans ratio is a summary statistic that IBRD uses as one measure of the adequacy of its risk-bearing capacity. IBRD also uses a stress test as a measure of income-generating capacity and an input to the assessment of capital adequacy. See discussion in Section 6, Financial Risk Management— Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity.
As presented in Figure 6, IBRD's equity-to-loans ratio increased during FY 2006, on both a reported basis (excluding cumulative translation adjustments associated with the FAS 133 adjustments) and a current value basis.
The increase in this ratio to 32.96% at June 30, 2006 from 31.45% at June 30, 2005 was due to the increase in equity in FY 2006. During FY 2006, IBRD increased the General Reserve in order to improve its risk-bearing capacity.
Capital
Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members. At June 30, 2006, the authorized capital of IBRD was $190,81 lmillion, of which $189,718 million had been subscribed. Of the subscribed capital, $11,483 million had been paid-in and $178,235 million was callable. Of the paid-in capital, $9,125 million was available for lending and $2,358 million was not available for lending. The terms of payment of IBRD's capital and the restrictions on its use that are derived from the Articles and from resolutions of IBRD's Board of Governors are as follows:
Paid-in Capital
(i)	$3,220 million of IBRD's capital was initially paid in gold or U.S. dollars or was converted from the currency of the subscribing members into U.S. dollars. This amount may, under the Articles, be freely used by IBRD in its operations.
(ii)	$8,145 million of IBRD's capital was paid in the national currencies of the subscribing members. Under the Articles this amount is subject to maintenance of value obligations and may be used for funding loans only with the consent of the member whose currency is involved, or used for administrative expenses without the need for consent of the member whose currency is involved. In addition, these national currencies may be used by IBRD following a decision by the Board of Executive Directors to invest or lend in that currency, or swap the national currency into another currency for investment or lending purposes, provided it has the consent of the member whose currency is involved. In accordance with such consents, $5,208 million of this amount was being used in IBRD's lending and investment operations at June 30, 2006.
(iii)	$118 million of IBRD's capital was converted to U.S. dollars from the currency of the subscribing members by providing U.S. dollar denominated nonnegotiable, non-interest bearing demand notes, encashable in the currency of the subscribing member. This amount may, under the terms of the note, be encashed for administrative expenses or, after all subscribed capital has been called, IBRD will have the right to encash the note to meet its obligations.
Callable Capital
(iv)	$151,774 million of IBRD's capital may, under the Articles, be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it. This amount is thus not available for use by IBRD in making loans. Payment on any such call may be made, at the option of the particular member, either in gold, in U.S. dollars or in the currency required to discharge the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made.
(v)	$26,461 million of IBRD's capital is to be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it, pursuant to resolutions of IBRD's Board of Governors (though such conditions are not required by the Articles). Of this amount, 10% would be payable in gold or U.S. dollars and 90% in the national currencies of the subscribing members. While these resolutions are not legally binding on future Boards of Governors, they do record an understanding among members that this amount will not be called for use by IBRD in its lending activities or for administrative pur-poses.No call has ever been made on IBRD's callable capital. Any calls on unpaid subscriptions are required to be uniform, but the obligations of the members of IBRD to make payment on such calls are independent of each other. If the amount received on a call is insufficient to meet the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made, IBRD has the right and is bound to
make further calls until the amounts received are sufficient to meet such obligations. However, no member may be required on any such call or calls to pay more than the unpaid balance of its capital subscription.
At June 30,2006, $103,604 million (58.1%) of the uncalled capital was callable from the member countries of IBRD that are also members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). This amount exceeded IBRD's outstanding borrowings including swaps at June 30,2006. Table 13 sets out the capital subscriptions of those countries and the callable amounts.
Table 13: Capital Subscriptions of DAC Members of OECD Countries
In millions of U.S. dollars
Total Capital	Uncalled Portion
Member Country* Subscription	of Subscription
a See details regarding the capital subscriptionsof all members of IBRD at June 30, 2006 in Financial State-ments-Statementof Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power
The United States is IBRD's largest shareholder. Under the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, the Par Value Modification Act and other U.S. legislation, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury is permitted to pay up to $7,663 million of the uncalled portion of the subscription of the United States, if it were called by
IBRD, without any requirement of further congressional action. The balance of the uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription, $22,303 million, has been authorized by the U.S. Congress but not appropriated. Further action by the U.S. Congress would be required to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay any portion of this balance. The General Counsel of the U.S. Treasury has rendered an opinion that the entire uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription is an obligation backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, notwithstanding that congressional appropriations have not been obtained with respect to certain portions of the subscription. For a further discussion of capital stock, restricted currencies, maintenance of value and membership refer to the Notes to Financial Statements — Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note B-Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies, Maintenance of Value and Membership.
Borrowings Source of Funding
IBRD diversifies its sources of funding by offering its securities to institutional and retail investors around the world, both through global offerings and by way of bond issues designed to meet the needs of specific markets or types of investors. Under its Articles, IBRD may borrow only with the approval of the member in whose markets the funds are raised and the member in whose currency the borrowing is denominated, and only if each such member agrees that the proceeds may be exchanged for the currency of any other member without restriction.
New medium- and long-term funding excluding swaps by currency for FY 2006, as compared to FY
2005,	is shown in Figure 7.
Funding Operations
In FY 2006, medium- and long-term debt raised directly in financial markets by IBRD amounted to $10,233 million compared to $12,723 million in FY
2005.	Table 14 summarizes IBRD's funding operations for FY 2006 and FY2005.
Table 14: Funding Operations Indicators
Total Medium- and Long-term
Borrowings3 (USD million)	$10,233	$12,723
Average Maturity13 (years)	3.7	5.2
Number of Transactions	259	283
Number of Currencies	11	13
a. Includes one-year notes and represents net proceeds on a settlement date basis.
b.	Average maturity to first call date.
Others	^uro	Japanese Yen
$2,158	$244	$859
(17%)	(2%)	(7%)
a. Includes one-year notes and represents net proceeds on a settlement date basis.
Funding raised in any given year is used for IBRD's general operations, including loan disbursements, refinancing of maturing debt and prefunding of future lending activities. Funding opportunities in FY 2006 and FY 2005 remained relatively stable in terms of instruments, and IBRD followed a strategy of selective bond issuance, combining issues targeted to retail investors with private placements and public issues placed with large institutional investors. All proceeds from new funding are initially invested in the liquid asset portfolio until they are required for IBRD's operations. Debt is allocated on a periodic
basis to the different debt pools funding loans as necessary, in accordance with operating guidelines.
IBRD strategically repurchases, calls or prepays its debt to reduce the cost of borrowings and to reduce exposure to refunding requirements in a particular year or to meet other operational needs. In response to market conditions, during FY 2006, IBRD repurchased or called $3,918 million of its outstanding borrowings (S3,528 million during FY
2005).
Use of Derivatives
All new funding is initially swapped into floating-rate U.S. dollars, with conversion to other currencies or fixed-rate funding being carried out subsequently in accordance with loan funding requirements. Figures 8a and 8b illustrate the effect of swaps on both the interest rate structure and currency composition of the borrowings portfolio at June 30, 2006. Interest rate and currency swaps are also used for asset/liability management purposes to match the pool of liabilities as closely as possible to the interest rate and currency characteristics of liquid assets and loans. IBRD does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes in the borrowings portfolio.
A more detailed analysis of borrowings outstanding is provided in the Notes to Financial Statements— Note E-Borrowings.
6.	FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
IBRD assumes various kinds of risk in the process of providing development banking services. Its activities can give rise to four major types of risk: credit risk; market risk (interest rate and exchange rate); liquidity risk; and operational risk. The major inherent risk to IBRD is country credit risk, or loan portfolio risk.
Governance Structure
The risk management governance structure includes a Risk Management Secretariat supporting the Management Committee in its oversight function, particularly in the coordination of different aspects of risk management, and in connection with risks that cut across functional areas.
For financial risk management, there is a Finance Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. The Finance Committee makes recommendations and, where appropriate to the topic, takes decisions in the areas of financial policy, the adequacy and allocation of risk capital, and oversight of financial reporting. Three subcommittees that report to the Finance Committee are the Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee, the Credit Risk Subcommittee and the Financial Instruments Subcommittee.
The Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee develops and monitors the policies under which market and commercial credit risks faced by IBRD are measured, reported and managed. The subcommittee also monitors compliance with policies governing commercial credit exposure and currency management. Specific areas of activity include reviewing and endorsing guidelines for limiting balance sheet and market risks, the use of derivative instruments, investing activities, and monitoring matches between assets and their funding. The Credit Risk Subcommittee monitors the measurement and reporting of country credit risk and reviews the impact on the provision for losses on loans and guarantees of any changes in exposure, risk ratings of borrowing member countries, or movements between the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The Financial Instruments
Subcommittee reviews the financial, organizational and implementational issues of new products offered to IBRD borrowers.
Country credit risk, the primary risk faced by IBRD, is identified, measured and monitored by the Credit Risk Department, led by the Chief Credit Officer who reports to the Chief Financial Officer. This unit is independent from IBRD's business units. Moreover, in order to further protect the independence of the unit, individual country credit risk ratings are not shared with the Executive Directors. In addition to continuously reviewing the creditworthiness of IBRD borrowers, this department is responsible for assessing loan portfolio risk, determining the adequacy of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and monitoring borrowers that are vulnerable to crises in the near term.
Market risks, liquidity risks and counterparty credit risks in IBRD's financial operations are identified, measured and monitored by the Corporate Finance Department, which is independent from the business units responsible for managing these risks. The Corporate Finance Department works with IBRD's financial managers, who are responsible for the day-to-day management of these risks, to establish and document processes that facilitate, control and monitor risk. These processes are built on a
foundation of initial identification and measurement of risks by each of the business units. Under the direction of the Finance Committee, policies and procedures for measuring and managing such risks are formulated, approved and communicated throughout IBRD. Senior managers represented on the Committee are responsible for maintaining sound credit assessments, addressing transaction and product risk issues, providing an independent review function and monitoring the loans, investments and borrowings portfolios.
The primary responsibility for the management of operational risk in IBRD's financial operations resides with each of IBRD's managers. These individuals are responsible for identifying operational risks and establishing, maintaining and monitoring appropriate internal controls in their respective areas using an operational risk management framework.
This framework requires each business unit to document operational risks and controls, assess the likelihood and impact of operational risks and evaluate the design and operating effectiveness of existing controls using guidelines established by IBRD. An independent operational risk control unit supports this process by undertaking periodic reviews, performing quality assurance testing and reporting exceptions.
The processes and procedures by which IBRD manages its risk profile continually evolve as its activities change in response to market, credit, product, operational and other developments. The Executive Directors, particularly the Audit Committee members, periodically review trends in IBRD's risk profiles and performance, as well as any significant developments in risk management policies and controls.
Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity
The risk bearing capacity of IBRD is the adequacy of its capital to absorb credit shocks and still be able to lend for development purposes without the need for additional shareholder support. The Board of Executive Directors assesses IBRD's risk-bearing capacity based on a variety of metrics, including a framework of stress testing and simpler measures such as the equity-to-loans ratio, to assess capital adequacy.
The risk that a significant portion of its loan portfolio may go into extended arrears is the most significant risk faced by IBRD, and almost all of IBRD's equity capital is held against this risk. Credit risk is
measured in terms of both probable and unexpected losses from protracted payments arrears. Probable losses are covered by IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, and unexpected losses are covered by income-generating capacity and equity.
The framework of stress testing provides a basis for evaluating whether IBRD has sufficient financial capacity to be able to (i) absorb the income loss due to a credit shock," and (ii) generate sufficient income to support loan growth in the following years. The first requirement on the degree of shock absorption is designed to reduce the probability of having to rely on additional shareholder support (in terms of additional paid-in capital or a call on callable capital). This is intended both to protect shareholders and to support IBRD's credit standing, which reduces borrowing costs and correspondingly, lending rates for borrowers. The second requirement on loan growth reflects the view that as a development institution, IBRD needs to play a positive role in a crisis by maintaining the capacity to continue lending to assist recovery in borrowing member countries. One of the credit shock events used in the stress testing framework is an estimate of the amount of the loan portfolio that could enter nonaccrual status (payment arrears in excess of six months) in the next three years at an appropriate confidence level.
IBRD's equity supports its risk-bearing capacity for
its lending operations. IBRD strives to immunize its risk-bearing capacity from fluctuations in interest and exchange rates. Therefore, IBRD uses the equity-to-loans ratio (on a current value basis) as one tool to monitor the sensitivity of its risk-bearing capacity to movements in interest and exchange rates. One of IBRD's financial risk management objectives is to seek to protect the equity-to-loans ratio from movements arising from market risks.
The sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to interest rate movements arises primarily from the sensitivity of the "contribution of equity" (the income earned from that portion of IBRD's assets funded with equity rather than with debt).The sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to changes in market interest rates has been increasing as borrowers have chosen to borrow from IBRD primarily on floating rate terms since the introduction of LIBOR-based
a,	Income loss arises from borrowers in nonaccrual status no longer paying interest on their loans. In addition, an increase in the loan loss provision is typically warranted as a result of the nonaccrual event This increase in the provision must be recognized as an expense, which further reduces net income in the year of the shock, and through that, impacts the equity-to-loans ratio.
loans. To the extent that the duration of its equity capital is matched to that of its loan portfolio, this ratio is protected against interest rate movements. To the extent that the currency composition of its equity capital is matched with that of its loan portfolio, the equity-to-loans ratio is also protected from exchange rate movements.
As presented in Figure 6 in Section 5, Funding Resources, IBRD's equity-to-loans ratio on both the current value and reported basis has been on an upward trend.
Credit Risk Country Credit Risk
Country credit risk is the risk of loss due to a country not meeting its contractual obligations. IBRD's Credit Risk Department continuously reviews the credit risk of its borrowing member countries. These reviews are taken into account in determining IBRD's overall country programs and lending operations, used to estimate the appropriate level of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and used to assess the adequacy of IBRD's income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital. In keeping with standard practice, probable losses inherent in the portfolio due to country credit risk are covered by the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, while unexpected losses due to country credit risk are covered by income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital.
Portfolio concentration risk, which arises when a small group of borrowers account for a large share of loans outstanding, is a key concern for IBRD and is carefully managed, in part, through an exposure limit for loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees to a single borrowing country. Under the current guidelines, IBRD's exposure to a single borrowing country is restricted to the lower of an Equitable Access Limit or the Single Borrower Limit. The Equitable Access Limit is equal to 10% of IBRD's subscribed capital, reserves and unallocated surplus. The Single Borrower Limit is established by assessing its impact on the overall portfolio risk relative to risk-bearing capacity, as measured by the level of usable equity. The Single Borrower Limit is determined by the Executive Directors each year at the time they consider the adequacy of IBRD's reserves and the allocation of its net income from the preceding fiscal year. For FY 2007, the Single Borrower Limit is maintained at $14.5 billion, the same level as in FY 2006, and the Equitable Access Limit is $21.6 billion at June 30, 2006. As depicted in
Figure 9, IBRD's largest exposure (including the present value of guarantees) to a single borrowing country was $11.3 billion at June 30, 2006.
Figure 9: Top Eight Country Exposures at June 30, 2006
In billions of U.S. dollars
Since the current exposure data presented are at a point in time, evaluating these exposures relative to the limit requires consideration of the repayment profiles of existing loans, as well as disbursement profiles and projected new loans and guarantees.
Under certain circumstances, IBRD would be able to continue to lend to a borrower that was reaching the single borrower exposure limit by entering into an arrangement that would prevent its net exposure from exceeding the limit. Any such arrangement would need to be approved in advance by IBRD's Executive Directors. As of June 30, 2006 IBRD had entered into one such arrangement with China. As of this date, China had not reached the single borrower exposure limit and therefore, activation of this arrangement was not required.
Overdue and Non-performing Loans When a borrower fails to make payment on any principal, interest or other charges due to IBRD, IBRD has an option to suspend disbursements immediately on all loans. IBRD's current policy however, is to exercise this option through a graduated approach as summarized in Box 4. These policies also apply to those member countries who are eligible to borrow from both IBRD and IDA, and whose payments on IDA credits may become overdue. For borrowers with IBRD loans who become overdue in their debt service payments on IDA credits, IBRD also applies the treatment described in Box 4.
Where the borrower is the member country, no new loans to the member country, or to any other borrower in the country, will be presented to the Board of Executive Directors for approval, nor will any previously approved loan be signed, until payments for all amounts 30 days overdue or longer have been received. Where the borrower is not the member country, no new loans to that borrower will be signed or approved. In either case, the borrower will lose its eligibility for any waiver of interest charges in effect at that time.
In addition to the provisions cited above for payments overdue by 30 days, to avoid proceeding further on the notification process leading to suspension of disbursements, the country as borrower or guarantor and all borrowers in the country must pay not only all payments overdue by 30 days or more, but also all payments due regardless of the number of days since they have fallen due. Where the borrower is not the member country, no new loans to, or guaranteed by, the member country, will be signed or approved.
In addition to the suspension of approval for new loans and signing of previously approved loans, disbursements on all loans to or guaranteed by the member country are suspended until all overdue amounts have been paid. This policy applies even when the borrower is not the member country.
All loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD are placed in nonaccrual status, unless IBRD determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. Unpaid interest and other charges not yet paid on loans outstanding are deducted from the income of the current period. To the extent that these payments are received, they are included in income.
At the time of arrears clearance, a decision is made on the restoration of accrual status on a case by case basis; in certain cases that decision may be deferred until after a suitable period of payment performance has passed.
See Notes to Financial Statements — Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers for a summary of countries with loans or guarantees in nonaccrual status at June 30,2006.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees to recognize the probable losses inherent in both the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees is discussed in Section 7, Critical Accounting Policies.
IBRD's provision for losses on loans and guarantees covers probable credit losses from protracted arrears. The Credit Risk Subcommittee reviews the allowance for losses on loans and guarantees at least quarterly and, if necessary, adjustments are made to the
provision. In addition, the Audit Committee is apprised by management at least twice a year on the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
The accumulated provision for losses on both the accrual and nonaccrual loans portfolio decreased by $713 million (Table 15). This decrease comprises a release of provision for losses on loans (excluding guarantees) of $722 million and a negative translation adjustment of $9 million during FY
2006). This decrease was primarily due to the combined impact of changes in the creditworthiness of the loans portfolio, changes in the volume and distribution of loans and guarantees outstanding and the annual update of the expected default frequencies (probability of default to IBRD) and developments in the nonaccrual portfolio.
Treatment of Protracted Arrears In 1991, the Executive Directors adopted a policy to assist members with protracted arrears to IBRD to mobilize sufficient resources to clear their arrears and to support a sustainable growth-oriented adjustment program over the medium term. This policy is conditional on members agreeing to implement certain requirements including an acceptable structural adjustment program, adopting a financing plan to clear all arrears to IBRD and other multilateral creditors, and continuing to service their obligations to IBRD and other multilateral creditors on time.
It is IBRD's practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. During FY 1996 and FY 2002, exceptions were made to that practice with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro (SAM), formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996. See the Notes to Financial Statements — Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies, for additional information.
Commercial Credit Risk
Commercial credit risk is the risk of loss due to a counterparty not honoring its contractual obligations.
IBRD's commercial credit risk is concentrated in investments in debt instruments issued by sovereign governments, agencies, banks and corporate entities. The majority of these investments are in AAA and AA rated instruments.
In the normal course of its business, IBRD utilizes various derivatives and foreign exchange financial instruments to reduce funding costs through its
borrowing activities and to meet the financial needs of its borrowers, to generate income through its investment activities and to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency rates.
The effective management of credit risk is vital to the success of IBRD's funding, investment and asset/ liability management activities. The monitoring and managing of these risks is a continuous process due to changing market environments.
IBRD controls the counterparty credit risk arising from investments, derivatives and foreign exchange transactions through its credit approval process, the use of collateral agreements and risk limits, and monitoring procedures. The credit approval process involves evaluating counterparty creditworthiness, assigning credit limits and determining the risk profile of specific transactions. Credit limits are calculated and monitored on the basis of potential exposures taking into consideration current market values, estimates of potential future movements in those values and collateral agreements with counterparties. If there is a collateral agreement with the counterparty to reduce credit risk, then the amount of collateral obtained is based on the credit rating of the counterparty. Collateral held includes cash and government securities.
For foreign exchange and derivative products IBRD treats the credit risk exposure as the replacement cost. This is also referred to as replacement risk or the mark—to—market exposure amount. While contractual principal amount is the most commonly used volume measure in the derivative and foreign exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit or market risk.
Mark—to—market exposure is a measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark—to— market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes IBRD and, therefore, creates an exposure for IBRD.
When the mark-to-market is negative, IBRD owes	Market Risk
the counterparty and does not have replacement risk.	IBRD faces risks which result from market
When IBRD has more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty, and the parties have entered into a master derivatives agreement which contains legally enforceable close-out netting provisions, the "net" mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with the same counterparty. If this net mark-to-market is negative, then IBRD's exposure to the counterparty is considered to be zero. For the contractual value, notional amounts and related credit risk exposure amounts by instrument, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note G-Credit Risk.
Table 16 provides details of IBRD's estimated credit exposure on its investments (excluding externally-managed assets — $1,443 million at June 30,2006, $1,383 million at June 30,2005) and swaps (excluding those with borrowing member countries), net of collateral held, by counterparty rating category.
The decrease in the proportion of AAA-rated investments and the corresponding increase in AA-and A-rated investments reflect (i) a reduction in investments in obligations of European agencies and official entities, including the German Landesbanks,
(ii)	some continued investments in short-term deposits with German Landesbanks after their downgrade as a result of the expiration of state guarantees and (iii) an increase in investments in Japanese government securities. After the effects of netting arrangements, the credit exposure from swaps decreased from $8,167 million at June 30,2005 to $4,375 million at June 30,2006. The swap credit exposure of $4,375 million is offset by collateral of $3,239 million which results in a total net swap exposure of $1,136 million.
movements, primarily changes in interest and exchange rates. In comparison to country credit risk, IBRD's exposure to market risks is small. IBRD has an integrated assetlliability management framework to flexibly assess and hedge market risks associated with the characteristics of the products in IBRD's portfolios.
Asset/Liability Management
The objective of assetlliability management for IBRD is to ensure adequate funding for each loan product and liquid asset at the most attractive available cost, and to manage the currency composition, maturity profile and interest rate sensitivity characteristics of the portfolio of liabilities supporting each lending product and liquid asset in accordance with the particular requirements for that product or liquid asset and within prescribed risk parameters. The current value information is used in the asset/liability management process.
Use of Derivatives
As part of its assetlliability management process, IBRD employs derivatives to manage and align the characteristics of its assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments to adjust the interest rate repricing characteristics of specific balance sheet assets and liabilities, or groups of assets and liabilities with similar repricing characteristics, and to modify the currency composition of net assets and liabilities.
Table 17 details the current value information of each loan product, the liquid asset portfolio, and the debt allocated to fund these assets.
Interest Rate Risk
There are two main sources of potential interest rate risk to IBRD. The first is the interest rate sensitivity associated with the net spread between the rate IBRD earns on its assets and the cost of borrowings, which fund those assets. The second is the interest rate sensitivity of the income earned from funding a portion of IBRD assets with equity. In general, lower nominal interest rates result in lower lending rates which, in turn, reduce the nominal earnings on IBRD's equity. In addition, as the loan portfolio shifts from pool loans to LIBOR based loans, the sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to changes in market interest rates will increase.
The borrowing cost pass-through formulation incorporated in the lending rates charged on most of IBRD's existing loans has traditionally helped limit the interest rate sensitivity of the net spread earnings on its loan portfolio. Such cost pass-through loans currently account for 61% of the existing outstanding loan portfolio (65% at the end of FY 2005). All cost pass-through loans, including single currency and multicurrency pool loans as well as variable-spread loans, pose residual interest rate risk, given the lag inherent in the lending rate calculation.
Another potential risk arises because the cost passthrough currency pool products have traditionally been funded with a large share of medium- and long-
term fixed-rate debt, to provide the borrowers with a reasonably stable interest basis. Given that the cumulative impact of interest rate changes over time has resulted in a decline in the level of interest rates, the cost of these historical fixed-rate borrowings in the multicurrency pool and the single currency pools is currently considerably higher than IBRD's new borrowing costs. The amount of debt allocated to the multicurrency debt pool will exceed the balance of the multicurrency loan pool from FY 2008. The debt which funds these loans has maturities that extend beyond those of the loans. This debt overhang presents a risk of loss to IBRD because the debt carries fixed interest rates.
Over-funding of the multicurrency loan pool will reach a maximum of approximately $6.2 billion in FY 2016. Strategies for managing this risk include changing the interest rate characteristics of the overfunded portion of the debt from fmed to floating rates beyond FY 2008 through the use of forward-starting swaps. IBRD began executing these forward-starting swaps in FY 2000 and the cost to date has been approximately $708 million. The fair value of the debt overhang remaining to be hedged is approximately $2 million as of June 30,2006. The cost of the overhang will vary with interest rates and prepayments.
Interest rate risk on non-cost pass-through products, which currently account for 39% of the existing loan portfolio (35% at the end of FY 2005), is managed by using interest rate swaps to closely align the rate sensitivity characteristics of the loan portfolio with those of their underlying funding. As the portfolio of fmed-spread loans increases, the proportion of noncost pass-though products will grow.
The interest rate risk on IBRD's liquid asset portfolio, which includes the risk that the value of assets in the liquid portfolio will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates, is managed within specified duration-mismatch limits and is further limited by stop-loss limits.
Interest rate risk also arises from a variety of other factors, including differences in the timing between the contractual maturity or repricing of IBRD's assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments. On floating rate assets and liabilities, IBRD is exposed to timing mismatches between the re-set dates on its floating rate receivables and payables. To mitigate its exposure to these timing mismatches, IBRD has executed some overlay interest rate swaps.
Exchange Rate Risk
In order to minimize exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment, IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by the Articles. In addition, IBRD's policy is to minimize the exchange rate sensitivity of its equity-to-loans ratio. It carries out this policy by undertaking currency conversions periodically to align the currency composition of its equity to that of its outstanding loans. This policy is designed to minimize the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the equity-to-loans ratio, thereby preserving IBRD's ability to better absorb unexpected losses from arrears of loan repayments regardless of the market environment.
Figure 10 presents the currency composition of significant balance sheet components (net of swaps) at the end of FY 2006 and FY 2005.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of IBRD's activities and in the management of its assets and liabilities. For a discussion on how liquidity is managed, refer to Section 4 —Liquidity Management.
Operational Risk
Operational risk is the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human factors, or external events, and includes business disruption and system failure, transaction processing failures and failures in execution of legal, fiduciary and agency responsibilities. IBRD, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operational risks.
IBRD attempts to mitigate operational risk by maintaining a system of internal control that is designed to keep that risk at appropriate levels in view of the financial strength of IBRD and the characteristics of the activities and markets in which IBRD operates. Since 1996, IBRD has used a COSO -based integrated internal control framework.
During FY 2006, IBRD updated its framework for operational risk management for its finance, human resources, information technology and procurement activities. This framework was implemented in conjunction with business units and involves the following core steps:
•	Key operational risks and mitigating con— trols (including risks and controls over financial reporting) are identified and docu— mented using a combination of tools including business process maps and risk and control self assessments. Tailored risk and control categories are also applied con— sistently across business units.
■	Operational risks are quantified based on likelihood of occurrence and the resulting financial impact using probability and severity parameters. The inherent risks of potential misstatements in financial report— ing are also assessed.
■	The design and operating effectiveness of key controls over financial reporting are evaluated using self assessment workshops, independent walk through tests of pro— cesses, independent compliance testing by internal audit, quality assurance testing by management and annual internal represen— tation letters from business unit managers.
•	Action plans are developed for issues identi— fied and followed up on a periodic basis.
Key risks and control weaknesses are evalu— ated on an annual basis by an internal panel.
The panel evaluates and categorizes these to determine if they pose a threat to manage— ment's ability to make a positive assertion on the adequacy of internal controls sur— rounding IBRD's external financial reporting.
The results of the work undertaken to evalu— ate the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting are reported to the Audit Committee through an annual report.
•	On a periodic basis, operational risks and controls are assessed and reviewed to moni— tor significant changes.
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management has carried out an evaluation of internal control over external financial reporting for the purpose of determining if there were any changes made in internal controls during the fiscal year covered by this report, that had materially affected, or would be reasonably likely to materially affect IBRD's internal control over external financial reporting. As of June 30,2006 no such significant changes occurred.
Annually IBRD's management has made an assertion that, as of June 30 of each fiscal year since 1997, its system of internal control over its external financial reporting has met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting as described in COSO. Since FY 1997, IBRD's external auditors have provided an attestation report that management's assertion regarding the effectiveness of internal control over external financial reporting is fairly stated in all material respects.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Disclosure controls and procedures are those processes which are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to management, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure by IBRD. Management has undertaken an evaluation of the effectiveness of such controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, the President and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these controls and procedures were effective as of June 30,2006.
7.	CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Notes to IBRD's financial statements contain a summary of IBRD's significant accounting policies.
The following is a description of those accounting policies which involve significant management judgments that are difficult, complex or subjective and relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees reflects the probable losses inherent in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. There are several steps required to determine the appropriate level of provisions for each portfolio. First, the total loan portfolio is segregated into the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. In both portfolios, the exposure for each country (defined as loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees) is then assigned a credit risk rating. With respect to loans in the accrual portfolio, these loans are grouped according to the assigned risk rating. Each risk rating is mapped to an expected default frequency using IBRD's credit migration matrix. The provision required is calculated by multiplying the outstanding exposure, by the expected default frequency (probability of default to IBRD) and by the assumed severity of the loss given default.
The determination of a borrower's risk rating is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors, which include political risk, external debt and liquidity, fiscal policy and public debt burden, balance of payments risks, economic structure and growth prospects, monetary and exchange rate policy, financial sector risks and corporate sector debt and other vulnerabilities. IBRD periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Actual losses may differ from expected losses due to unforeseen changes in any of the factors that affect borrowers' creditworthiness.
The accumulated provision for loan losses is separately reported in the balance sheet as a deduction from IBRD's total loans. The accumulated provision for losses on guarantees is included in other liabilities. Increases or decreases in the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees are reported in the Statement of Income as provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
Additional information on IBRD's provisioning policy and the status of nonaccrual loans can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements — Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related
policies and Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Under the current value basis of reporting, IBRD carries all of its financial assets and liabilities at estimated values. Under the reported basis, IBRD carries its investments and derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, on a fair value basis. These derivatives include certain features in debt instruments that, for accounting purposes, are separately valued and accounted for as either assets or liabilities. When possible, fair value is determined by quoted market prices. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair value is based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates.
All the financial models used for input to IBRD's financial statements are subject to both internal and external verification and review by qualified personnel. These models use market sourced inputs, such as interest rates, exchange rates and volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgement. Imprecision in estimating these factors, and changes in assumptions, can impact net income and IBRD's financial position as reported in the financial statements.
IBRD believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable given its processes for obtaining external prices and parameters; ensuring that valuation models are reviewed and validated both internally and externally; and applying its approach consistently from period to period.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
IBRD participates along with IFC and MIGA in pension and postretirement benefit plans that cover substantially all of their staff members. All costs, assets and liabilities associated with the plans are allocated between IBRD, IFC and MIGA based upon their employees' respective participation in the plans. Costs allocated to IBRD are subsequently shared between IBRD and IDA based on an agreed cost sharing ratio. The underlying actuarial assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligations, fair value of plan assets and funded status associated with these plans are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management's best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. For further details, please refer to Notes to Financial Statements-Note K-Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits.
Change in Accounting Principle for Board of Governors-Approved "Transfers
During FY 2006 IBRD has re-evaluated its accounting related to Board of Governors-approved transfers and determined that, effective with the June
30,2006	year-end financial statements, all Board of Governors-approved transfers will be reported as expenses within the Statement of Income. This change to a preferable accounting principle has been applied retrospectively in accordance with FAS 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. Accordingly, all amounts in the prior periods' financial statements impacted by this change in accounting policy including data in Box 1 have been adjusted. For further details refer to Notes to Financial Statements—Note P-Change in Accounting Principle for Certain Board of Governors-Approved Transfers
8.	RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
In FY 2006, Operating Income increased to Si,740 million from $1,320 million in FY 2005, driven by an increase in loan interest income, net of funding costs, and an increase in the release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees. Net loss on a reported basis was $2,389 million in FY 2006 compared to a net income of $3,189 million in FY 2005. This loss is due to IBRD's application of FAS 133 in combination with the increase in reference market rates. For more details please refer to Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Non-trading Derivative Instruments, as required by FAS 133 discussed later in this section.
Interest Rate Environment
During FY 2006, short-term interest rates for the U.S. dollar were higher than for the comparative period in FY 2005. Figure 11 illustrates these general trends for the six-month LIBOR U.S dollar rates.
Figure 11: Six-Month LIBOR Interest Rates U.S. Dollar
6.00 -
IBRD's Operating Income is broadly comprised of a net spread on interest-earning assets, plus the contribution of equity, less provisions for losses on loans and guarantees and administrative expenses. Table 18 shows a breakdown of income, net of funding costs, on a reported basis.
FY 2006 versus FY 2005
FY 2006 Operating Income was $1,740 million, compared to $1,320 million for FY 2005. The increase in Operating Income is explained by the following factors.
A $274 million increase in loan interest income, net of funding costs as a result of higher returns on equity funded loans resulting from the rise in market interest rates.
A $222 million increase in the release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees. During FY 2006, provisioning requirements were reduced by $724 million in comparison with the reduction of $502 million during FY2005. This reflects the combined impact of changes in the creditworthiness of the loan portfolio, changes in the volume and distribution of loans and guarantees outstanding, the annual update of the expected default frequencies (probability of default to IBRD), and developments in the nonaccrual portfolio.
FY 2005 versus FY 2004
FY 2005 Operating Income was $1,320 million, compared to $1,696 million for FY 2004. The decrease is explained by the following factors.
A $270 million decrease in loan interest income, net of funding costs as a result of reduced loan spreads, primarily due to the negative impact of the re-pricing lag on pool loans.
A $163 million decrease in the release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees. During FY 2005, provisioning requirements were reduced by $502 million. This reflects the combined impact of the changes in borrowers' risk ratings, changes in the volume and distribution of loans outstanding, the annual update of the expected default frequencies, and developments in the nonaccrual portfolio. The larger release in FY 2004 reflected greater improvement in ratings in high-risk countries.
•	A $72 million increase in investment
income, net of funding costs, reflecting the improved performance of IBRD's investment portfolio during FY 2005 largely due to the higher return performance against benchmark. The performance during FY
2004	was depressed in part reflecting the poor performance of certain asset classes at the beginning of FY 2004 when the bond market suffered one of its worst months.
The borrowings which fund the investment portfolio are not marked-to-market.
Net Interest lncome FY 2006 versus FY2005
Loan interest income, net of funding costs, increased by $274 million largely due to higher returns on the equity funded component of loans resulting from the rise in market rates. In FY 2005, loan interest income net of funding costs were lower primarily due to the negative impact of the re-pricing lag on pool loans.
FY 2005 versus FY 2004
Loan interest income, net of funding costs, decreased by $270 million largely due to lower returns on the debt funded component of loans, as a result of the lower lending rates of the cost pass-through loan products. Lower average loan balances, particularly
in higher-yielding loan products, also contributed to the decline in net interest income. The margins for cost pass-through products in FY 2004 were high, in part reflecting the effect of favorable interest rate repricing lags in a falling interest rate environment.
Net Noninterest Expense
The main components of net noninterest expense are presented in Table 19.
FY 2006 versus FY 2005
Net noninterest expense increased by $37 million primarily due to a $28 million increase in pension and other postretirement benefits and a $10 million increase in other expenses.
FY 2005 versus FY 2004
Net noninterest expense increased by $40 million primarily due to a $75 million increase in staff costs and operational travel. This was offset by a $41 million increase in service fee revenues and other net
Net Unrealized (Losses) Gains on Non-trading Derivative Instruments, as required by FAS 133
IBRD marks to market all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133. To a large extent, IBRD uses interest rate and currency swaps to modify fmed U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar borrowings to variable U.S. dollar borrowings. IBRD borrows in currencies that are not directly needed for lending, to take advantage of arbitrage opportunities, and then immediately swaps the borrowings into variable-rate U.S. dollars. Currency swaps are financially equivalent to non-U.S. dollar fmed-rate assets. Thus with higher interest rates in euro, South African rands and Pounds Sterling, these currency swaps resulted in significant mark-to-market losses. Some of IBRD's currency swaps particularly in Japanese yen have coupons linked to the U.S. dollar-Japanese-yen exchange rate. With U.S. dollar interest rates rising by more than Japanese yen interest rates in FY
2006,	the U.S. dollar was at a larger discount to Japanese yen in the forward market (beyond ten years). Since IBRD receives coupons that are partly
based on U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rates, these swaps also resulted in mark-to-market losses.
Currently most of IBRD's interest rate swaps are U.S. dollar-based with IBRD being a net fixed rate receiver and variable rate payer (six-month LIBOR). Higher U.S. dollar interest rates in FY 2006, (see Figure 12) have also resulted in mark-to-market losses on the interest rate swap portfolio. Essentially, the higher interest rates at the end of FY 2006 resulted in an increase in the present value of the variable-rate coupons that IBRD pays, and a decline in the present value of the fixed-rate coupons that IBRD receives on these swaps.
The overall effect is a mark-to-market loss of $3,479 million on the Statement of Income for FY 2006. In contrast in FY 2005, primarily as a result of significant downward shifts in the applicable reference market interest rate curves, the effects of applying FAS 133 resulted in a mark-to-market gain of $2,511 million.
^.‘Tr^rsjm'^Ln^h-cocTiOLnoo * ’ yj	in	m
Economically, increases or decreases in the values of the derivatives are offset by corresponding decreases or increases in the values of the related borrowings. FAS 133 requires that all derivative instruments be marked-to-market. However, as explained earlier, IBRD's application of FAS 133 does not mark-to-market the underlying financial instruments, to which these derivatives are economically linked. For management reporting purposes, IBRD has disclosed the Current Value financial statements in Tables 2 and 3 and believes that these statements make fully evident the risk management strategy employed by IBRD.
9.	GOVERNANCE General Governance Management Changes
Mr. Vincenzo La Via assumed the position of Chief Financial Officer of IBRD on December 5, 2005.
Mr. Graeme Wheeler and Mr. Juan Jose Daboub were appointed Managing Directors of IBRD, with their appointments becoming effective on April 24, 2006 and July 1, 2006 respectively.
Ms. Ana Palacio was appointed Senior Vice President and General Counsel of IBRD, with her appointment becoming effective August 28, 2006.
Board Membership
In accordance with its Articles of Agreement, members of IBRD's Executive Directors are appointed or elected by their member governments. These Executive Directors are neither officers nor staff of IBRD. The President is the only management member of the Board of Executive Directors, serving as a non-voting member and as Chairman of the Board. The Executive Directors have established several Committees including:
Committee on Development Effectiveness Audit Committee Budget Committee Personnel Committee Ethics Committee
Committee on Governance and Administrative Matters
The Executive Directors and their Committees function in continuous session at the principal offices of IBRD, as business requires. Each Committee's terms of reference establishes its respective roles and responsibilities. As Committees do not vote on issues, their role is primarily to serve the full Board of Executive Directors in discharging its responsibilities.
Audit Committee Membership
The Audit Committee consists of eight members of the Board of Executive Directors. Membership on the Committee is determined by the Board of Executive Directors, based upon nominations by the Chairman of the Board, following informal consultation with the Executive Directors. In addition, membership of the Committee is expected to reflect the economic and geographic diversity of IBRD's member countries. Other relevant selection criteria include seniority, continuity and relevant experience. Some or all of the responsibilities of individual committee members are performed by their alternates or advisors. Generally, Committee members are appointed for a two year term; reappointment to a second term, when possible, is desirable for continuity. Audit Committee meetings are generally open to any member of the Board who may wish to attend, and non-Committee members of the Board may participate in the discussion. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee may speak in that capacity at meetings of the Board of Executive Directors, with respect to discussions held in the Audit Committee.
Key Responsibilities
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board to assist it in the oversight and assessment of IBRD's finances and accounting, including the effectiveness of financial policies, the integrity of financial statements, the system of internal controls regarding finance, accounting and ethics (including fraud and corruption), and financial and operational risks. The Audit Committee also has the responsibility for
reviewing the performance and recommending to the Board the appointment of the external auditor, as well as monitoring the independence of the external auditor and meeting with it in executive session. The Audit Committee participates in oversight of the internal audit function, including reviewing the responsibilities, staffing and the effectiveness of internal audit. The Committee also reviews the annual internal audit plan and meets with the Auditor General in executive session. In the execution of its role, the Committee discusses with management, the external auditors, and the internal auditors, financial issues and policies which have a bearing on the institution's financial position and risk-bearing capacity. The Audit Committee monitors the evolution of developments in corporate governance and the role of audit committees on an ongoing basis and revised its terms of reference in FY 2004.
Communications
The Audit Committee communicates regularly with the full Board through distribution of the following:
•	The minutes of its meetings.
■	Reports of the Audit Committee prepared by the Chairman, which document discussions held. These Reports are distributed to the Executive Directors, Alternates, World Bank Group Senior Management and Vice Presidents of IBRD.
■	“Statement(s) of the Chairman" and statements issued by other members of the Committee.
■	The Annual Report to the Board of Executive Directors, which provides an overview of the main issues addressed by the Committee over the year.
The Audit Committee's communications with the external auditor are described in the Auditor Independence section.
Executive Sessions
Members of the Committee may convene in executive session at any time, without management present. Under the Committee's terms of reference, it meets separately in executive session with the external and internal auditors.
Access to Resources and to Management
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee receives a large volume of information, which supports the preparation of the financial statements. The Audit Committee meets both formally and informally
throughout the year to discuss financial and accounting matters. Executive Directors have complete access to management. The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management the quarterly and annual financial statements. The Committee also reviews with the external auditor the financial statements prior to their publication and recommends them for approval to the Board of Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has the capacity, under exceptional circumstances, to obtain advice and assistance from outside legal, accounting or other advisors as deemed appropriate.
Code of Ethics
IBRD strives to foster and maintain a positive work environment that supports the ethical behavior of its staff. To facilitate this effort, IBRD has in place a Code of Professional Ethics-Living our Values. The Code applies to all staff (including managers, consultants, and temporary employees) worldwide.
This Code is available in nine languages on IBRD's website, www.worldbank.org. Staff relations, conflicts of interest, and operational issues, including the accuracy of books and records, are key elements of the Code.
In addition to the Code, an essential element of appropriate conduct is compliance with the obligations embodied in the Principles of Staff Employment, Staff Rules, and Administrative Rules, the violation of which may result in disciplinary actions. In accordance with the Staff Rules, senior managers must complete a confidential financial disclosure instrument with the Office of Ethics and Business Conduct.
Guidance for staff is also provided through programs, training materials, and other resources. Managers are responsible for ensuring that internal systems, policies, and procedures are consistently aligned with IBRD's ethical goals. In support of its efforts on ethics, IBRD offers a variety of methods for informing staff of these resources. Many of these efforts are headed by the following groups:
■	The Office of Ethics and Business Conduct provides leadership, management and oversight for IBRD's ethics infrastructure including the Ethics Helpline, a consolidated conflicts of interest disclosure/resolution system, financial disclosure, ongoing training to both internal and external audiences, and communication resources.
•	The Department of Institutional Integrity is charged with investigating allegations of fraud and corruption in IBRD-funded projects worldwide. The Department also investigates allegations of misconduct by IBRD staff, and trains and educates staff and clients in detecting and reporting fraud and corruption in IBRD-funded projects.
The Department reports directly to the President and is composed of professionals from a range of disciplines including financial analysts, researchers, investigators, lawyers, prosecutors, forensic accountants, and IBRD staff with operational experience.
IBRD has in place procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints received regarding accounting, internal control and auditing matters.
IBRD offers both the Ethics Helpline, as well as a Fraud and Corruption hotline run by an outside firm staffed by trained specialists. This third-party service offers numerous methods of communication in addition to a toll free hotline in countries where access to telecommunications may be limited. In addition there are other methods by which the Department of Institutional Integrity may receive allegations, including directly by email, anonymously, or through confidential submission through its website, as well as the postal service and telephone.
Auditor Independence
In FY 2003, the Board of Executive Directors adopted a set of principles applicable to the appointment of the external auditor for IBRD. Key features of those principles include:
•	Prohibition of the external auditor from the provision of all non audit-related services.
•	All audit-related services must be preapproved on a case-by-case basis by the Board of Executive Directors, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee.
•	Mandatory rebidding of the external audit contract every five years.
•	Prohibition of any firm serving as external auditors for more than two consecutive five-year terms.
•	Mandatory rotation of the senior partner after five years.
•	An evaluation of the performance of the external auditor at the mid-point of the five year term.
In FY 2004, IBRD's external auditor, Deloitte and Touche, began a new five-year term and will have served 11 years as auditor upon completion of that term, pursuant to a one-time grandfathered exemption from the above-referenced ten-year limit. Even within a five-year term the service of the external auditors is subject to recommendation by the Audit Committee for annual reappointment and approval of a resolution by the Board of Executive Directors.
As a standard practice, the external auditor is present as an observer at virtually all Audit Committee meetings and is frequently asked to present its perspective on issues. In addition, the Audit Committee meets periodically with the external auditor in private session without management present. Communication between the external auditor and the Audit Committee is ongoing, as frequently as is deemed necessary by either party. IBRD's auditors follow the communication requirements with audit committees set out under U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. In keeping with these standards, significant formal communications include:
■	Quarterly and annual financial statement reporting.
•	Annual appointment of the external auditors.
•	Presentation of the external audit plan.
■	Presentation of control recommendations and discussion of the COSO attestation and report.
•	Presentation of a statement regarding independence.
In addition to Committee meetings, individual members of the Audit Committee have independent access to the external auditor.
10.	RECONCILIATION OF PRIOR YEAR CURRENT VALUE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO REPORTED BASIS
IBRD's Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet at June 30,2005 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 20 below. Similarly, IBRD's Condensed Current Value Statement of Income for the year ended June 30,2005 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 21.
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed by a trust.
COSO: Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Currency Swaps (including Currency Forward Contracts):
Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal.
Duration: Duration provides an indication of the interest rate sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in its underlying yield.
Equity-to-Loans Ratio: This ratio is the sum of usable capital plus the special and general reserves, cumulative translation adjustment (excluding amounts associated with applying the provisions of FAS 133) and the proposed transfer from unallocated net income to general reserves divided by the sum of loans outstanding, the present value of guarantees, net of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees and deferred loan income.
Failed Trades: Failed trades are securities transactions that do not settle on the contractual settlement date.
FAS 133: FAS 133 refers collectively to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", as amended.
Forward Starting Swaps: A forward starting swap is an agreement under which the cash flow exchanges of the underlying interest rate swaps would begin to take effect from a specified future date.
Futures: Futures are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on U.S. and international regulated exchanges.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments.
Hedging: Hedging is a risk management technique of entering into offsetting commitments to eliminate or minimize the impact of adverse movements in value or cash flow of the underlying.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time.
LIBOR: London interbank offered rate.
Maintenance of Value: Agreements with members provide for the maintenance of the value, from the time of sub-
scription, of certain restricted currencies. Additional payments to (or from) IBRD are required in the event the par value of the currency is reduced (or increased) to a significant extent, in the opinion of IBRD.
Net Disbursements: Loan disbursements net of repayments and prepayments.
New Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998.
Old Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued prior to July 31, 1998.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans:
Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Return on Equity: This return is computed as net income divided by the average equity balance during the year.
Risk-bearing Capacity: The ability to absorb risks in the balance sheet while continuing normal operations without having to call on callable capital.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller's portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
Statutory Lending Limit: Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement, as applied, the total amount outstanding of loans, participations in loans, and callable guarantees may not exceed the sum of subscribed capital, reserves and surplus.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
The management of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is responsible for the prepamtion, integrity, and fair presentation of its published financial statements. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of Amcrica and, as such, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management,
The financial statements have been audited by an independent accounting firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of the Board of Executive Directors and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate. The independent auditors' report accompanies the audited financial statements.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The system of internal control contains monitoring mcchanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified. Management believes that internal controls for external financial reporting, which are subjcct to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and are revised as considered necessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal control can provide only reasonable assurance with rcspcct to financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time.
IBRD assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Ihe United States of America as of June 30, 2006. This assessment was based on the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Interna! Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon this assessment, management believes that IBRD maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles generally aceeptcd in the United States of America as of June 30, 2006. The independent accounting firm that audited the financial statements has issued an attestation report on management's assessment of IBRD’s internal control over external financial reporting.
The Board of Executive Directors of IBRD has appointed an Audit Committee responsible for monitoring the accounting practices and internal controls of IBRD. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of Executive Directors who are independent of IBRD's management. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of Executive Directors the selection of independent auditors. It meets periodically with management, the independent auditors, and the internal auditors to ensure that they are carrying out their responsibililies. The Audit Committee is responsible for performing an oversight role by reviewing and monitoring the financial, accounting and auditing procedures of IBRD in addition to reviewing IBRD’s reports. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or without the presence of management, to discuss the adequacy of internal control over external financial reporting and any other matters which they believe should be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS' REPORT
President and Board of Executive Directors International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
We have examined management's assertion, included in the accompanying Management's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Controls over External Financial Reporting, that the Internationa] Bank of Reconstruction and Development (“IBRD”) maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America as of June 30. 2006, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization.; of the Treadway Commission ("the COSO report"). Management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, testing, and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a ressonable basis for our opinion.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over external financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of (lie internal control over externai financial reporting 10 future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assertion that IBRD maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America as of June 30, 2006, is fairly slated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in the COSO report.
President and Board of Executive Directors International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (“IBRD”) as of June 30, 2006 and 2005. including the summary statement of loans and the statement of subscriptions to capital stock and voting power as of June 30, 2006, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings. and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2006. These financial statements are the responsibility of IBRD's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of IBRD as ofjune 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
As discussed in Notes A and P to the financial statements, in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, IBRD changed its method of accounting for certain Board of Governors-approved transfers. In connection with this change, IBRD early adopled Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154 and applied this change retrospectively to the 2005 and 2004 financial statements.
Balance Sheet June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005
Expressed in millions of U.S. dollars
2006
Assets
Due from Banks
Unrestricted currencies
Currencies subject to restrictions—Note B
Investments—Trading—NotesCand G
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements—Note C
Nonnegotiable, Noninterest—bearing Demand Obligations on Account of Subscribed Capital
Receivable from Currency and Interest Rate Swaps Investments—Notes C and G Member operations—Notes D and G Borrowings—Notes E and G Other Asset/Liability—Notes F and G
Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings on Account of Subscribed Capital
Other Receivables
Receivable from investment securities traded—Note C Accrued income on loans
Loans Outstanding (see Summary Statement of Loans, Notes D and G) Total loans
Less undisbursed balance Loans outstanding
Less:
Accumulated provision for loan losses Deferred loan income Net loans outstanding
Other Assets
Unamortized issuance costs of borrowings Prepaid pension cost—Note K Premises and equipment (net)
Miscellaneous
Total assets
40
282
1,287
1,569
137,942
34,938
103,004
$212,326
2005
$	505
672 1,177
26,733
711
1,836
9,735
89
75,187
878
85,889
13
1,081
1,094
138,145
33,744
104,401
3,009
482
100,910
400
1,931
719
536
3,586
$222,008
PURPOSE AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization which commenced operations in 1946. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. The activities of IBRD are complemented by those of three affiliated organizations, the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these organizations is legally and financially independent from IBRD, with separate assets and liabilities, and IBRD is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliates are disclosed in the notes that follow. IDA’s main goal is to reduce poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership by providing a combination of grants and financing on concessionary terms. IFC’s purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member's guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
NOTE A—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
IBRD's financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). Effective July 1,2005, IBRD ceased preparing financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This action was taken in order to allow IBRD to evaluate the Amendment to International Accounting Standard No. 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, The Fair Value Option, issued in June
2005,	and in particular, to examine whether refinements to its loan valuation model would permit application of the fair value option to such financial assets.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the valuation of certain financial instruments, the determination of the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, the determination of net periodic income from pension and other postretirement benefits plans, and the present value of benefit obligations.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years' information have been made to conform with the current year's presentation.
On August 7,2006, the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
Translation of Currencies .IBRD’s financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IBRD's financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. IBRD's resources are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in those various currencies. IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at minimizing exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment. IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swaps) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement. In addition, IBRD periodically undertakes currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its Equity with those of the net loans outstanding.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates on which they are recognized or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
Valuation of Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of IBRD is expressed in terms of "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944" (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating
1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IBRD have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944" in Article II, Section 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of IBRD are interpreted to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being $1.20635 for oneSDR (1974SDR).
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of the value (MOV), at the time of subscription, of restricted currencies (see Note B). Maintenance of value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value of a member's currency against the standard of value of IBRD capital based on the 1974 SDR. Members are required to make payments to IBRD if their currencies depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the Executive Directors have adopted a policy of reimbursing members whose currencies appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value.
The net MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan, invested, swapped, or loaned to the member by IBRD or through IFC, and amounts that have been reclassified from receivables for those countries that have been in arrears for two years or more, are included as a component of equity under Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings. For restricted currencies used in IBRD's lending and investing operations, these MOV amounts are shown as a component of Equity since MOV becomes effective only as such currencies are repaid to IBRD.
Transfers Approved by the Board of Governors: In accordance with IBRD's Articles of Agreement, the Board of Governors may exercise its reserved power to approve transfers to other entities for development purposes. These transfers, referred to as "Board of Governors-approved transfers", are reported as expenses on the Statement of Income in the year of approval (See Note P). The transfers may be funded from prior year's Unallocated Net Income or Surplus. If the transfer is funded from Surplus, there is a concurrent transfer from Surplus to the current year's Unallocated Net Income (Loss) within Retained Earnings in an amount equivalent to the expense recognized.
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings consists of allocated amounts (Special Reserve, General Reserve, Pension Reserve, Surplus and Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments) and Unallocated Net Income.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6 of the Articles of Agreement, which are to be held in liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by IBRD. The Special Reserve assets are included under Investments— Trading, and comprise obligations of the United States Government, its agencies, and other official entities. The allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in 1964 with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
The General Reserve consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which, in the judgment of the Executive Directors, should be retained in IBRD's operations.
The Pension Reserve consists of the difference between the cumulative actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) and other postretirement benefits plans, and the cumulative accounting income or expense for these plans, from prior fiscal years. This Pension Reserve is reduced when pension accounting expenses exceed the actual funding of these plans.
Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are retained by IBRD until a further decision is made on their disposition or the conditions of transfer for specified uses have been met.
The Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments consist of the effects associated with the application of FAS 133a from prior years. At June 30,2006, this amount includes the one-time cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 133 on July 1,2000, the reclassification and amortization of the transition adjustments for prior fiscal years, and the unrealized gains or losses on certain derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, for prior fiscal years.
Unallocated Net Income (Loss) consists of the current fiscal year's net income (loss) adjusted for Board of Governors-approved transfers, and the equivalent amount for transfers funded from Surplus.
Loans: All of IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans to IFC. The majority of IBRD's loans have repayment obligations based on specific currencies. IBRD also holds multicurrency loans which have repayment obligations in various currencies determined on the basis of a currency pooling system.
Any loan origination fees incorporated in a loan's terms are deferred and recognized over the life of the
a. For the purpose of this document, FAS 133 refers to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended.
loan as an adjustment of yield. However, incremental direct costs associated with originating loans are expensed as incurred as such amounts are considered insignificant. The unamortized balance of loan origination fees is included as a reduction of Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet, and the loan origination fee amortization is included in Interest under Income from Loans on the income statement.
It is IBRD's practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. In exceptional cases, however, such as when implementation of a financed project has been delayed, the loan amortization schedule may be modified to avoid substantial repayments prior to project completion.
In addition, during fiscal years 1996 and 2002, exceptions were made to that practice with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro (SaM), formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, respectively, in connection with their succession to membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). One component of the financial assistance packages for BiH and SaM was a plan for the clearance of arrears under all loans to the former SFRY for which they undertook responsibility. Under the arrears clearance plans, the accumulated arrears on loans to the former SFRY which were assumed by BiH and SaM were cleared through the issuance of new loans extended by IBRD. IBRD's treatment of BiH and SaM was based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for BiH in fiscal year 1996. These criteria limit eligibility for such treatment to a country: (a) that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD; (b) that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member; (c) that, because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming; and (d) for which rescheduling/refinancing would result in a significant improvement in its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken. This treatment was based on a precedent established in 1975 after Bangladesh became independent from Pakistan.
IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria.
It is the policy of IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to
any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if development credits made by IDA to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all loans made to or guaranteed by that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IBRD. On the date a member's loans are placed into nonaccrual status, unpaid interest and other charges accrued on loans outstanding to the member are deducted from the income of the current period. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included in income only to the extent that payments have been received by IBRD. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member's loans may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member's eligibility for new loans may have been restored. In such instances, a decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance.
Guarantees: IBRD generally provides guarantees of loans undertaken for, or securities issued in support of, projects located within a member country eligible for IBRD loans, as well as loans undertaken or securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD development policy lending. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IBRD to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IBRD would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed were not made by the debtor and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IBRD in accordance with the terms of the guarantee. In the event that a guarantee is called, IBRD has the contractual right to require payment from the member country that has provided the counter guarantee to IBRD on demand, or as IBRD may otherwise direct.
For guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, IBRD records
the fair value of the obligation to stand ready, and a corresponding asset in the financial statements.
Guarantee fee income received is deferred and amortized over the life of the guarantee.
IBRD records a contingent liability for the probable losses related to guarantees outstanding. This provision, as well as the unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee income, and the unamortized balance of the obligation to stand ready, are included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees: Delays in receiving loan payments result in present value losses to IBRD since it does not charge fees or additional interest on any overdue interest or loan charges. These present value losses are equal to the difference between the present value of payments of interest and charges made according to the related loan's contractual terms and the present value of its expected future cash flows. IBRD has not written off any of its loans.
Management determines the appropriate level of accumulated provisions for losses on loans and guarantees. IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees reflects the probable losses inherent in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. There are several steps required to determine the appropriate level of provisions for each portfolio. First, the total loan portfolio is segregated into the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. In both portfolios, the exposure for each country (defined as loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees) is then assigned a credit risk rating. With respect to countries with loans in the accrual portfolio, these loans are grouped according to the assigned borrower risk rating. Each risk rating is mapped to an expected default frequency using IBRD's credit migration matrix. The provision required is calculated by multiplying the outstanding exposure, by the expected default frequency (probability of default to IBRD) and by the assumed severity of the loss given default.
The determination of borrowers' ratings is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors. IBRD periodically reviews these factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or addition to income.
Statement of Cash Flows: For the purpose of IBRD'sStatement of Cash Flows, cash is defined as the amount of unrestricted currencies Due from Banks.
Investments: Investment securities are classified based on management's intention on the date of purchase, their nature, and IBRD's policies governing the level and use of such investments. At June 30,
2006	and June 30,2005, all investment securities were held in a trading portfolio. Investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD's trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. The first-in first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Unrealized gains and losses for investment securities and related financial instruments held in the trading portfolio are included in income. Derivative instruments are used in liquidity management to take advantage of profitable trading opportunities. These derivatives are carried at fair value. From time to time, IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of commitment.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and Payable for Cash Collateral
Received:Securities purchased under resale agreements, securities lent under securities lending agreements, and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IBRD receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, closes out transactions and enters into new repriced transactions. The securities transferred to IBRD under the repurchase and security lending arrangements and the securities transferred to counterparties under the resale agreements have not met the accounting criteria for treatment as a sale. Therefore, securities transferred under repurchase agreements and security lending arrangements are retained as assets on IBRD's balance sheet, and securities received under resale agreements are not recorded on IBRD's balance sheet.
Nonnegotiable, Noninterest-bearing Demand Obligations on Account of Subscribed Capital:
Payments on these instruments are due to IBRD upon demand and are held in bank accounts which bear IBRD's name. Accordingly, these instruments are carried and reported at face value as assets on the balance sheet.
Premises and Equipment: Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. IBRD computes depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the owned assets, which range between two and fifty years. For leasehold improvements, depreciation and amortization is computed over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated economic life of the improvement.
Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major improvements are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life.
Borrowings:To ensure funds are available for lending and liquidity purposes, IBRD borrows in the worldwide capital markets offering its securities to private and governmental buyers. IBRD issues shortterm and medium- and long-term debt instruments denominated in various currencies with both fixed and adjustable interest rates. Borrowings are carried on the balance sheet at their par value (face value), adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts, and include adjustments for embedded derivatives and fair value hedges that existed at June 30,2000, as required by FAS 133. Issuance costs associated with a bond offering are deferred and amortized over the period during which the related indebtedness is outstanding. Amortization of discounts and premiums is included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
IBRD uses derivatives in its borrowing and liability management activities. In the borrowing portfolio, derivatives are used to take advantage of cost saving opportunities in non-target currencies in various capital markets. These derivatives are used to modify the interest rate and/or currency characteristics of the borrowing portfolio, and are carried at fair value in accordance with FAS 133. The interest component of these derivatives is recognized as an adjustment to the borrowing cost over the life of the derivative contract and included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
Accounting for Derivatives: IBRD complies with the derivative accounting requirements of FAS 133. FAS 133 requires that derivative instruments, as defined by these standards, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
IBRD uses derivative instruments in its investments, loans and borrowings portfolios and for asset/liability management purposes. In applying FAS 133 for the purposes of financial statement reporting, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedging
relationships. Rather, all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, have been marked to fair value and all changes in fair value have been recognized in net income. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of FAS 133 qualifying hedge criteria would not make fully evident the risk management strategies that IBRD employs.
Valuation of Financial Instruments: Derivative financial instruments and investment securities are recorded in IBRD’s financial statements at fair value. Disclosures related to the fair value of these, and other financial instruments are included in Note O. Fair value is based on market quotations when possible. Financial instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates. All the financial models used for valuing IBRD’s financial instruments are subject to both internal and periodic external verification and review. These models use market sourced inputs such as interest rates, exchange rates, and volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgement, as does estimating prices when no external parameters exist.
Accounting for Grant Expenses: IBRD recognizes an expense for grants, such as Contributions to Special Programs, and Board of Governors-approved transfers, when the obligation has been incurred. In instances where the recipient organization is deemed, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, to be controlled by IBRD, only those amounts which have been expended by the recipient organization are recognized as an expense; any remainder is deferred.
Accounting and Reporting Developments: In the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30,2006, IBRD adopted a voluntary change in accounting principle for certain Board of Governors-approved transfers on the basis of preferability. At the same time, IBRD early adopted FAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections (FAS 154), and retrospectively applied this change in accounting principle (See Note P). FAS 154 requires that, in the absence of specific transitional provisions applying to a change in accounting policy (including adoption of a new standard), any such change should be applied retrospectively.
On July 1,2005, IBRD adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51
(FIN 46(R)). The adoption of FIN 46(R), together with its related final FASB Staff Positions did not have a material impact on IBRD’s financial statements.
In February 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after September 15,2006. IBRD is assessing the impact of this standard on its financial statements.
NOTE B—CAPITAL STOCK, RESTRICTED CURRENCIES, MAINTENANCE OF VALUE, AND MEMBERSHIP
Capital Stock: AtJune 30,2006, IBRD's capital comprised 1,581,724 authorized shares (1,581,724 shares—June30, 2005), of which 1,572,661 shares (1,572,661 shares—June 30,2005) had been subscribed. Each share has a par value of 0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1.20635 per 1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $11,483 million ($11,483 million—June 30,2005) has been paid in, and the remaining $178,235 million ($178,235 million—June 30,2005) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans.
Under IBRD's Articles of Agreement, in the event a member withdraws from IBRD, the withdrawing member is entitled to receive the value of its shares payable to the extent the member does not have any outstanding obligations to IBRD. IBRD's Articles of Agreement also state that the former member has continuing obligations to IBRD after withdrawal. Specifically, the former member remains fully liable for its entire capital subscription, including both the previously paid—in portion and the callable portion, so long as any part of the loans or guarantees contracted before it ceased to be a member, are outstanding.
Currencies Subject to Restrictions: A portion of capital subscriptions paid in to IBRD has been paid in the local currencies of the members. These amounts, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by IBRD in its lending and investing operations, only with the consent of the respective members, and for administrative expenses.
Maintenance of Value: As of June 30,2006, IBRD had positive $52 million (positive $46 million—June 30,2005) of net MOV amounts classified as a component of equity. Of this amount, IBRD had a net MOV payable of $177 million ($205 million—June 30, 2005) relating to restricted currencies out on loan, invested, swapped, or loaned to the member by IBRD or through IFC, which become payable by IBRD on
the same terms as other MOV obligations only after such currencies are repaid to IBRD. The remaining amount is a net MOV receivable of $125 million ($159 million—June 30, 2005), representing receivables for countries that have amounts in arrears for two years or more. IBRD still considers these MOV receivables in arrears as obligations due from the members concerned.
Subsequent Event
On July 10,2006, IBRD received a joint communication from both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro stating that the two republics had signed an agreement regarding the regulation of membership in international financial institutions and the allocation of financial assets and liabilities between the two republics. Under this agreement, the Republic of Serbia will continue the membership of SaM in IBRD, retaining SaM's present subscription and voting power, with all rights and obligations stemming from membership in IBRD. In addition, the Bank has taken note of the agreement between the two republics on their respective portions of the financial obligations formerly undertaken by SaM with IBRD.
IBRD has accepted the Republic of Serbia as the continuation of its member SaM, with all the rights and obligations arising from SaM's membership, and with no change in capital subscriptions. On July 17, 2006, the Government of the Republic of Montenegro submitted its application for membership in IBRD.
NOTE C—INVESTMENTS
As part of its overall portfolio management strategy, IBRD invests in government and agency obligations, time deposits, corporate and asset—backed securities, repurchase agreements, securities loans, resale agreements and related financial derivatives including futures, currency swaps (including currency forward contracts), interest rate swaps and options.
For government and agency obligations, IBRD may only invest in obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries with a minimum credit rating of AA—; however, if such obligations are denominated in the home currency of the issuer, no rating is required. IBRD may only invest in obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a member country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity other than the government of a member country, with a minimum credit rating of AA—. For corporate and asset—backed
NOTE G—CREDIT RISK
Country Credit Risk:This risk includes potential losses arising from protracted arrears on payments from borrowers for loans, guarantees or related derivatives. IBRD manages country credit risk through individual country exposure limits according to creditworthiness. These exposure limits are tied to performance on macroeconomic and structural policies. In addition, IBRD establishes absolute limits on the share of outstanding loans to any individual borrower. The country credit risk is further managed by financial incentives such as pricing loans using IBRD's own cost of borrowing and partial interest charge waivers conditioned on timely payment that give borrowers self-interest in IBRD's continued strong intermediation capacity. Collectibility risk is covered by the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees. IBRD also uses a simulation model to assess the adequacy of its equity including reserves in case a major borrower, or group of borrowers, stops servicing its loans for an extended period of time.
Commercial Credit Risk: For the purpose of risk management, IBRD is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. For all securities, IBRD limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit risk is controlled through
application of eligibility criteria and volume limits for transactions with individual counterparties and through the use of mark-to-market collateral arrangements for swap transactions. IBRD may require collateral in the form of cash or other approved liquid securities from individual counterparties in order to mitigate its credit exposure. As of June 30,2006, IBRD had received collateral of $3,655 million ($7,278 million—June 30, 2005) in connection with swap agreements, of which $2,163 million ($4,181 million—June 30,2005) had been transferred under security lending agreements.
As the transfer of this collateral did not meet the requirements of a sale, the collateral has not been included in the assets of IBRD.
IBRD has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable close—out netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. Credit risk with financial assets subject to a master derivatives arrangement is further reduced under these agreements to the extent that payments and receipts with the counterparty are netted at settlement. The reduction in exposure as a result of these netting provisions can vary as additional transactions are entered into under these agreements. The extent of the reduction in exposure may therefore change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
IBRD makes net income allocation decisions on the basis of reported net income, after adjustment for the effects associated with the application of FAS 133 and pension income or expense, as well as Board of Gover-nors-approved transfers.
On August 4, 2005, IBRD's Executive Directors approved the allocation of the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 to the General Reserve and the Pension Reserve.
On September 24, 2005, IBRD's Board of Governors approved the transfers out of the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30,2005, to IDA, the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund, and the amounts to be retained as Surplus. As disccussed in Note A, Board of Governors-approved transfers are reported as expenses on the Statement of Income in the year of approval (See Note P—Change in Accounting Principle for Certain Board of Governors-approved transfers for additional details).
NOTE I— ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES, CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL PROGRAMS, AND OTHER INCOME
Administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended June
30,2006	are net of the share of administrative expenses allocated to IDA of $954 million ($891 million—June
30,2005,	and $908 million—June 30,2004). The allocation of expenses between IBRD and IDA is based on an agreed cost sharing formula that reflects the administrative costs of service delivery to countries that are eligible for lending from IBRD and IDA.
Contributions to special programs represent grants for agricultural research, and other developmental activities.
Other income primarily consists of service fee revenue. IBRD recovers certain of its administrative expenses by billing third parties, including IFC, MIGA, and certain trust funds for services rendered.
NOTE J —MANAGEMENT OF EXTERNAL FUNDS
Trust Funds
IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses which include the cofinancing of IBRD lending projects, debt reduction operations, technical
assistance for borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs and research and training programs. These funds are held in trust with IBRD and/or IDA, and are held in a
separate investmen^ portfolio which is not commingled with IBRD's funds, nor are they included in the assets of IBRD.
The responsibilities of IBRD under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services. During the fiscal year ended June 30,2006, IBRD received $15 million ($17 million—June 30,
2005	and $14 million—June 30,2004) as fees for administering trust funds. These fees have been recorded as Other Income.
Investment Management Services
IBRD offers investment management services to one non—affiliated organization and one affiliated organization. Under these arrangements, IBRD is responsible for managing investment account assets on behalf of these institutions, and in return receives a quarterly fee based on the average value of the portfolios.
dition, IBRD offers asset management and technical advisory services to central banks of member countries, under the Reserves Advisory and Management Program, for capacity building and other development purposes and receives a fee for these services.
The fee income from all of these investment management activities is included in service fee revenues described in Note I.
At June 30,2006, the assets managed under these agreements had a value of $11,301 million ($9,180 million—June 30,2005). These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD.
NOTE K—PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
IBRD, IFC and MIGA participate in a defined benefit SRP, a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) and a PostEmployment Benefits Plan (PEBP) that cover substantially all of their staff members.
The SRP provides regular pension benefits and includes a cash balance plan. The RSBP provides certain health and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. The PEBP provides certain pension benefits administered outside the SRP.
IBRD uses a June 30 measurement date for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
The amounts presented below reflect IBRD's respective share of the costs, assets and liabilities of the plans.
All costs, assets and liabilities associated with these plans are allocated between IBRD, IFC, and MIGA based upon their employees' respective participation in the plans. Costs allocated to IBRD are then shared between IBRD and IDA based on an agreed cost sharing ratio. IDA, IFC and MIGA reimburse IBRD for their proportionate share of any contributions
made to these plans by IBRD. Contributions to these plans are calculated as a percentage of salary.
The following table summarizes the benefit costs associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30,2006, June 30,2005, and June 30,2004:
IDA’s share of the net periodic pension incornelcost is included as a payable to/receivable from IDA in Miscellaneous Assets and Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous liabilities on the balance sheet.
The expenses for the SRP, RSBP and PEBP are included in Administrative Expenses.
For the fiscal years ended June 30,2006, June 30,2005, and June 30,2004, expenses for these plans of $28 million, $16 million and $20 million, respectively, were allocated to IFC, and $2 million, $1 million and $1 million, respectively, were allocated to MIGA.
The following table summarizes the projected benefit obligations, fair value of plan assets, and funded status associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30,2006, June
30,2005,	and June 30,2004. Since the assets for the PEBP are not held in an irrevocable trust separate from the assets of IBRD, they do not qualify for off-balance sheet accounting and are therefore included in IBRD's investment portfolio. The assets of the PEBP are invested in fixed income instruments.
The $1,925 million prepaid SRP cost at June 30,2006 ($1,779 million—June 30,2005) is included in Prepaid Pension Cost on the balance sheet. Of this amount $827 million was attributable to IDA ($748 million—June 30,2005) and is included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet.
The $158 million prepaid RSBP cost at June 30,2006 ($152 million—June 30, 2005), is included in Prepaid Pension Cost on the balance sheet. Of this amount $57 million was attributable to IDA ($54 million— June 30,2005) and is included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet.
Assumptions
The actuarial assumptions used are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management's best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. Changes in these assumptions will impact future benefit costs and obligations.
The expected long-term rate of return for the SRP assets is a weighted average of the expected long-term (10 years or more) returns for the various asset classes, weighted by the portfolio allocation. Asset class returns are developed using a forward-looking building block approach and are not strictly based on historical returns. Equity returns are generally developed as the sum of expected inflation, expected real earnings growth and expected long-term dividend yield. Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of expected inflation, real bond yield, and risk premium/spread (as appropriate). Other asset class returns are derived from their relationship to equity and bond markets. The expected long-term rate of
return for the RSBP is computed using procedures similar to those used for the SRP. The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation is selected by reference to the year-end AAA and AA corporate bonds.
Actuarial gains and losses occur when actual results are different from expected results. Amortization of these unrecognized gains and losses will be included in income if, at the beginning of the fiscal year, they exceed 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. If required, the unrecognized gains and losses are amortized over the expected average remaining service lives of the employee group.
The following tables present the weighted-average assumptions used in determining the projected benefit obligations and the net periodic pension costs for the fiscal years ended June 30,2006, June 30,2005, and June 30,2004:
The medical cost trend rate can significantly affect the reported postretirement benefit income or costs and benefit obligations for the RSBP. The following table shows the effects of a one-percentage-point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate:
Investment Strategy
The investment policy for the SRP and the RSBP is to optimize the risk-return relationship as appropriate to the respective plan's needs and goals, using a global diversified portfolio of various asset classes. Specifically, the long-term asset allocation is based on an analysis that incorporates expected returns by asset class as well as volatilities and correlations across asset classes and the liability profile of the respective plans. This analysis, referred to as an asset-liability analysis, also provides estimates of potential future contribu-In percent
tions and future asset and liability balances. Plan assets are managed by external investment managers and monitored by IBRD's pension investment department. The pension plan assets are invested in diversified portfolios of public equity, fixed income, and alternative investments. The fixed-income and public equity asset classes are rebalanced on a monthly basis. The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation at June 30,2006 and June 30,2005 and the respective target allocation by asset category for the SRP and RSRP:
Estimated Future Benefits Payments
The following table shows the benefit payments expected to be paid in each of the next five years and subsequent five years. The expected benefit payments are based on the same assumptions used to measure the benefit obligation at June 30,2006:
In millions o f U.S. dollars
Expected Contributions
IBRD’s contribution to the SRP and RSBP varies from year to year, as determined by the Pension Finance Committee, which bases its judgement on the results of annual actuarial valuations of the assets and liabilities of the SRP and RSBP. The best estimate of the amount of contributions expected to be paid to the SRP and RSBP for IBRD and IDA during the fiscal year beginning July 1,2006 is $149 million and $67 million, respectively.
NOTE L—SEGMENT REPORTING
Based on an evaluation of IBRD's operations, management has determined that IBRD has only one reportable segment since IBRD does not manage its operations by allocating resources based on a determination of the contribution to net income from individual borrowers. In addition, given the nature of IBRD, the risk and return profiles are sufficiently similar among borrowers that IBRD does not
differentiate between the nature of the products or services provided, the preparation process, or the method for providing the services among individual countries.
For the fiscal year ended June 30,2006, loans to one country generated in excess of 10 percent of loan income; this amounted to $502 million. Loan income comprises interest, commitment fees, loan origination fees and prepayment premia, net of waivers.
The following table presents IBRD's loan outstanding balances and associated loan income, by geographic region, as of and for the fiscal years ended June 30,2006 and June 30,2005:
NOTE M—COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting equity that, under U.S. GAAP, are excluded from net income. For IBRD, comprehensive income comprises the cumulative
effects of a change in accounting principle related to the implementation of FAS 133, currency translation adjustments, and net income. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The following tables present the changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the fiscal years ended June 30,2006, June 30,2005, and June 30,2004:
NOTE N-NET UNREALIZED GAINS (LOSSES) ON NON-TRADING DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS, AS REQUIRED BY FAS 133
On July 1,2000, IBRD adopted FAS 133. This standard requires that derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. IBRD has not defined any qualifying hedging relationships under this standard.
Prior to the adoption of FAS 133, the derivative instruments in the borrowing portfolio were recorded using synthetic accounting. The derivative instruments in the investment portfolio were, and continue to be, recorded at fair value in accordance with the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.
Upon adoption of FAS 133, IBRD’s net income was increased by $219 million, and an additional $500 million was reported in other comprehensive income. The allocation between net income and other
comprehensive income was based upon the hedging relationships that existed under generally accepted accounting principles before the initial application of FAS 133.
The $500 million difference between the carrying value and the fair value of those derivatives that were hedging a cash flow exposure prior to the initial application of FAS 133, was included in Other Comprehensive Income at the time FAS 133 was implemented. This amount is being reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings.
Any gains or losses on those borrowings for which a fair value exposure was being hedged prior to adoption of FAS 133 were recorded in income at the time of implementation, and were offset by the mark-to-market adjustments on the related derivative instruments. The mark-to-market adjustments on the bonds are being amortized over the remaining lives of the related bonds.
Valuation Methods and Assumptions Due from Banks
The carrying amount of unrestricted and restricted currencies is considered a reasonable estimate of the fair value of these positions.
Investments
IBRD's investment securities and related financial instruments held in the trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. Therefore, for the investment portfolio, no additional adjustment is necessary. Fair value is based on market quotations. Instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information. (See Note
Net Loans Outstanding
All of IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD, except for those loans made to IFC. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does it believe there is a comparable market for its loans. The current value of loans outstanding incorporates management's best estimate of the probable expected cash flows of these instruments to IBRD.
The current value of loans, including associated financial derivatives, is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted using the rate at which IBRD would originate a similar loan at the reporting date. The cash flows of these instruments are based on management's best estimates taking into account market exchange rates and interest rates.
The current value of net loans outstanding also includes IBRD's assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering its history of collections from borrowers. This is reflected in the accumulated provision for loan losses.
Swaps Receivable and Swaps Payable
Certain derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, are recorded in the balance sheet at estimated fair value. The fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow method representing the estimated cost of replacing these contracts on that date. (See Note A).
Borrowings
The fair value of borrowings is predominantly based on discounted cash flow techniques using appropriate market yield curves.
Other Assets and Other Liabilities
These amounts are generally short-term in nature. Therefore, the carrying value is a reasonable estimate of fair value. The difference between the carrying
value and fair value of other assets is due to the carrying value of debt issuance costs being included in other assets while the fair value of these costs is included as part of the fair value of borrowings.
NOTE P-CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE FOR BOARD OF GOVERNORS-APPROVED TRANSFERS
In the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, IBRD changed its accounting for Board of Governors-approved transfers. This change is described below.
Background
IBRD is an international organization formed under its Articles of Agreement and not under the laws of any particular jurisdiction. Its legal form and distribution policy is therefore governed by the Articles, related Amendments and By-Laws, and Interpretations by the Board of Executive Directors. Generally accepted accounting principles, specifically related to equity transactions, such as dividends or distributions to shareholders, are primarily based on the legal requirements prescribed by corporate law applicable to the jurisdiction of incorporation of the reporting entity.
IBRD's distribution policy is contained in Article V, Section 14 (a) of the Articles of Agreement which states that "The Board of Governors shall determine annually what part of the Bank's net income, after making provision for reserves, shall be allocated to surplus and what part, if any shall be distributed." While the Executive Directors have been delegated the authority for the ordinary operations of IBRD, only the Board of Governors has the authority for declaring distributions or making transfers out of retained earnings under IBRD's Articles of Agreement. This is a reserved power which, under the Articles, may not be delegated.
Each year since 1964, IBRD's Board of Governors has considered and authorized, in lieu of distributions to its shareholders, transfers to other organizations for purposes congruent with IBRD's mission (See Note H). IBRD's previous accounting for Board of Governors-approved transfers placed emphasis on the role of the Governors acting on behalf of shareholders and was viewed as being constructively a transaction with owners. In effect, IBRD viewed these transactions as being equivalent to distributions, whereby the shareholders constructively received these funds and simultaneously agreed to contribute them to the designated recipient. IBRD effected the distributions via transfers to the designated recipients. Therefore, in prior periods certain of these transfers,
depending on their nature, were accounted for as direct reductions in equity. This accounting reflected the shareholders' view of the substance and intent of these transfers and was applied consistently by IBRD since 1964.
Description of the change in Principle
In light of the increasing frequency of these transfers and varying nature of recipients, IBRD has reevaluated its accounting related to these types of transactions and determined that, effective June 30,
2006,	all Board of Governors-approved transfers would be reported as expenses within the Statement of Income. For the reasons discussed in the following paragraph, management believes that expensing these transactions represents a change to a preferable accounting principle, although the past accounting principle was acceptable.
The new accounting treatment provides greater transparency in IBRD's financial statements, by reflecting all of these transactions in the Statement of Income as compared to the prior method of reflecting certain of such transactions as direct charges to equity. In addition, while these transactions do not meet the criteria used by IBRD to define its principal operating activities, they are consistent with IBRD's overall mission. Therefore, the inclusion of these transactions within the Statement of Income provides greater transparency regarding the full extent of IBRD's outflows in connection with its principal operating activities as well as those activities separately authorized by the Board of Governors outside of IBRD's regular operations. This change in
accounting principle also provides greater consistency with the more traditional corporate legal form and associated expense recognition policies presumed by generally accepted accounting principles.
Impact of the change in Principle
As described in Note A under Accounting and Reporting Developments, IBRD also elected to early adopt FAS 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, and therefore this change to a preferable accounting principle has been applied retrospectively. Retrospective application means applying the new accounting principle as if it had always been in effect. Accordingly, all amounts in the prior periods' financial statements impacted by this change in accounting policy have been adjusted. In particular; the change in accounting policy has resulted in an increase in expenses for amounts that were previously reported as direct reductions in equity. Accordingly, amounts reported as Board of Governors-approved transfers on the Statement of Income are higher than the amounts previously reported, and the Statement of Changes in Retained Earnings no longer presents Board of Governors-approved transfers as direct reductions in retained earnings. Also, the presentation of Board of Governors-approved transfers previously presented in the Statement of Cash Flows as distributions and, therefore, a component of cash flows from financing, are now reported as a component of cash flows from operating activities.
The effect of this change on net income previously reported in fiscal years ended June 30,2005 and June
30,2004	is summarized in the table below:
The management of the International Development Association (IDA) is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of its published special purpose financial statements. The special purpose financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’S special purpose financial statements and, as such, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management.
The special purpose financial statements have been audited by an independent accounting firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and rclaled data, including minutes of all meetings of the Board of Executive Directors and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made lo the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate. The independent auditors' report accompanies the audited special purpose financial statements.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over extcrnal financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements. The system of internal control contains monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified. Management believes that internal controls for external financial reporting, which are subject to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and are revised as considered necessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
There are inhcrcnt limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal control can provide only reasonable assurance with rcspcct lo financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time.
IDA assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2006. This assessment was based on the crilena for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon this assessment, management believes that IDA maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements, as of June 30, 2006. The independent
accounting firm that audited the special purpose financial statements has issued an attestation report on management's assessment of IDA’s internal control over external financial reporting.
The Board of Executive Directors of IDA has appointed an Audit Committee responsible for monitoring the accounting practices and internal controls of IDA. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of Executive Directors who are independent of IDA’s management. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of Executive Directors the selection of independent auditors. It meets periodically with management, the indepcndent auditors, and the internal auditors to ensure that they are carrying out their responsibilities. The Audit Committee is responsible for performing an oversight role by reviewing and monitoring the financial, accounting and auditing procedures of IDA in addition to reviewing IDA’s reports. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have full and free acccss to the Audit Committee, with or without the presence of management, to discuss the adequacy of internal control over external financial reporting and any other matters which they believe should be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
President and Board of Executive Directors International Development Association
We have examined management'sassertion, inctuded in the accompanying Management's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Controls over External Financial Reporting, that the International Development Association (“IDA’’) maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2006, based on the criteria established in "Internal Control — Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("the COSO report”). Management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, testing, and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis For our opinion.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over external financial reporting, including
the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over external financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assertion that IDA maintained effective internal control over
external financial reporting presented in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s >pecia! purpose financial statements as of June 30,2006.is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in the COSO report.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
President and Board of Executive Directors International Development Association
We have audited the accompanying special purpose statement of sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30, 2006 and 2005, including the summary statement of development credits and statement of voting power and subscriptions and contributions as of June 30, 2006 and the related special purpose statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in accumulated deficit, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30. 2006. These special purpose financial statements are the responsibility of the International Development Association's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these special purpose financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and international Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the special purpose financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the special purpose financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall special purpose financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The accompanying special purpose financial statements were prepared to reflect the sources and applications of development resources, operations, and cash flows o f the International Development Association to comply with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association, as discussed in Note A to the special purpose financial statements, and are not intended to be a presentation in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or International Financial Reporting Standards.
In our opinion, the special purpose financial statements referred 1o above present fairly, in all material respects, the sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2006 in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the special purpose financial statements.
This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Governors, management, and members of the International Development Association. However, under the International Development Association's Articles of Agreement, this report is a matter of public record and its distribution is not limited.
NOTE A—ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
Purpose and Affiliated Organizations
The International Development Association (IDA) is an international organization that was established on September 24, 1960. IDA’s main goal is reducing poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership, by extending concessionary financing in the form of grants, development credits and guarantees. IDA has three affiliated organizations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these other organizations is legally and financially independent from IDA, with separate assets and liabilities, and IDA is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliates are disclosed in the notes that follow. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. IFC's purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member's guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Due to the nature and organization of IDA, these financial statements have been prepared for the specific purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of member subscriptions and contributions and other development resources. These financial statements are not intended to be a presentation in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or with International Financial Reporting Standards. These special purpose financial statements have been prepared to comply with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA, and are prepared in accordance with the accounting policies outlined below.
The preparation of these special purpose financial statements requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the computation of estimated fair values of development credits and accumulated provision for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI).
On August 7,2006 the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications of the prior years' information have been made to conform to the current year's presentation.
Basis of Accounting
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. That is, the effects of transactions and other events are recognized when they occur (and not as cash or its equivalent is received or paid) and are recorded in the accounting records and reported in the financial statements of the periods to which they relate.
IDA follows a special basis of accounting for member subscriptions and contributions and for development credits as described under the discussion on significant accounting policies below.
Translation of Currencies
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IDA’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IDA is an international organization which conducts its operations in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) and U.S. dollars. Applications of development resources and sources of development resources are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period, except Member Subscriptions and Contributions which are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates of income and expense recognition, or at an average of the exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of development credits and development grants denominated in SDRs are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Other translation adjustments are shown in the Statement of Income.
Member Subscriptions and Contributions Recognition
Member Subscriptions and Contributions committed for each IDA replenishment are recorded based upon the full amount of Instruments of Commitment received from members upon effectiveness of the relevant replenishment. Prior to effectiveness, only a portion of the Instruments of Commitment received are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions committed. A replenishment becomes effective when IDA receives Instruments of Commitment from members for subscriptions and contributions of a specified portion of the full replenishment. Amounts not yet paid in, at the date of effectiveness, are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable and shown as a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed. These receivables become due throughout the replenishment period (generally three years) in accordance with an agreed maturity schedule. The actual payment of receivables when they become due from certain members is conditional upon the respective member's budgetary appropriation processes.
The Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable are settled through payment of cash or deposit of nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes. The notes are encashed by IDA as provided in the relevant replenishment resolution over the disbursement period of the credits committed under the replenishment.
In certain replenishments, donors have had the option of paying all of their subscription and contribution amounts in cash before they become due, and thereby receiving discounts. In addition, some replenishment arrangements have incorporated an accelerated encashment schedule. In these cases, IDA and the donor agree that IDA will invest the cash and retain the income. The related subscription and contribution are recorded at the full undiscounted amount. The discount is recorded as unamortized discount on contributions (a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed) and amortized over the projected encashment period.
Under the provisions governing replenishments, IDA must encash the notes or similar obligations of contributing members on an approximatelypro rata basis. As discussed in the previous paragraph, donors sometimes contribute resources on an advanced or an accelerated basis. IDA holds these resources until they become available for disbursement on a pro rata basis.
Transfers to IDA from IBRD are recorded under Sources of Development Resources and are receivable upon approval by IBRD’s Board of Governors.
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which make payments of subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations and (2) Part II members, which make payments of ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies, and the remaining 90 percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II members provide a portion of their subscriptions and contributions in the same manner as mentioned in (1) above. IDA’s Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA and located outside the territory of the member except by agreement between the member and IDA. The local currency portion of subscriptions of Part II members are recorded as restricted under Member Subscriptions and Contributions unless released under an agreement between the member and IDA or used for administrative expenses. The cash paid and notes deposited in nonconvertible local currencies for the subscriptions of Part II members are recorded either as currencies subject to restriction under Due from Banks, or as restricted notes included under Nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligations on account of member subscriptions and contributions.
Following adoption by the Board of Governors on April 21,2006 of a resolution authorizing additions to IDA’s resources to finance the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI), any pledges received in the form of Instruments of Commitments will be recorded and accounted for in their entirety. Therefore, the full value of all Instruments of Commitments received will be recorded as subscriptions and contributions upon effectiveness of the replenishment. In addition, these Instruments of Commitments will also be recorded as subscriptions and contributions receivable in the Statement of Sources and Application of Development Resources.
Under IDA’s Articles of Agreement, a member may withdraw from membership in IDA at any time. When a government ceases to be a member, it remains liable for all financial obligations undertaken by it to IDA, whether as a member, borrower, guarantor or
otherwise. The Articles provide that upon withdrawal, IDA and the government shall proceed to a settlement of accounts. If agreement is not reached within six months, standard arrangements are provided. Under these arrangements, IDA would pay to the government the lower of the member's total paid-in subscriptions and contributions or the member's proportionate share of IDA’s net assets. These funds would be paid as a proportionate share of all principal repayments received by IDA on loans made during the government's membership.
Valuation
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed in terms of "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960" (1960 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IDA decided, with effect from that date and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, I960" in Articlell, Section 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being equal to $1.20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and have also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors.
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market value of the SDR.
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the Fourth Replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members' currencies or SDRs and are payable in members' currencies. Beginning July 1,
1986,	subscriptions and contributions made available for disbursement in cash to IDA are translated at market exchange rates in effect on the dates they were made available. Prior to that date, subscriptions and contributions which had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market
exchange rates in effect on dates of disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period.
Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA’s Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member's currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the member's territories, so long as, and to the extent that, such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the Third Replenishment, but are not applicable to those of the Fourth and subsequent replenishments.
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987 that settlements of maintenance of value, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements. These amounts are shown as Deferred Amounts Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings.
Development Credits
All development credits are made to or guaranteed by member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for development credits which have been made to regional development institutions for the benefit of members or territories of members of IDA). In order to qualify for lending on IDA terms, a country's per capita income must be below a certain level and the country may have only limited or no creditworthiness for IBRD lending. Development credits carry a service charge of 0.75 percent and generally have 35- or 40-year final maturities and a 10-year grace period for principal payments. A new hard-term lending window was established in the IDA Fourteenth Replenishment. Eligibilityfor this window is restricted to creditworthy IBRD/IDA blend countries with per capita incomes below the IDA operational cut-off and an active IBRD lending program. Lending terms include a 35-year maturity, including 10 years of grace, and an interest charge in addition to standard IDA charges. The interest rate is set for each fiscal year and is derived from the fixed-rate equivalent of IBRD’s lending rate reduced by 200 basis points.
Commitment charges on the undisbursed balances of IDA credits are set annually by the Board of Executive Directors of IDA. Development credits are carried in the Special Purpose Financial Statements at the full face amount of the borrowers' outstanding obligations.
It is the practice of IDA to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to or guaranteed by a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such development credit are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA’s management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if loans by IBRD to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IDA. On the date a member's development credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued on development credits outstanding to the member which remained unpaid are deducted from the income from development credits of the current period. Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member's credits may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member's eligibility for new credits may have been restored. A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis.
In fulfilling its mission, IDA makes concessional loans to the poorest countries. Therefore, there is significant credit risk in the portfolio of development credits. Management continually monitors this credit risk. No provision for credit losses, other than accumulated provision for the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI, has been established.
The repayment obligations of IDA’s development credits funded from resources through the Fifth Replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars. In June
1987,	the Executive Directors decided to value those development credits at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis. Development credits funded from resources provided under the Sixth Replenishment and thereafter are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed.
Development Grants
IDA is authorized to provide a significant portion of financing beginning with the Thirteenth Replenishment as development grants. The annual net income transfers from IBRD for fiscal years 1997 through 2005 also authorized the use of such funds for IDA development grants.
Effective July 1,2005, development grants are charged to income upon approval by IDA’s Executive Directors. In previous periods, development grants were charged to income upon signing of the grant agreement by the recipient country.
Commitment charges on the undisbursed balances of IDA grants are set annually by the Board of Executive Directors of IDA.
Guarantees
IDA provides guarantees for loans issued in support of projects located within a member country that are undertaken by private entities. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IDA to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IDA would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed are not made by the borrower and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IDA in accordance with the terms of the guarantee.
In the event that a guarantee is called, IDA has the contractual right to require payment from the member country that has provided the counter guarantee to IDA, on demand, or as IDA may otherwise direct.
Guarantees fee income received is deferred and amortized over the period of benefit.
At inception of the guarantees, IDA records the fair value of the obligation to stand ready.
The unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee income and the unamortized balance of the obligation to stand ready are included in Other Resources, net on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative
The HIPC Debt Initiative was launched in 1996 as a joint effort by bilateral and multilateral creditors to
ensure that reform efforts of HIPCs would not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. As part of this process, the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund was established on November 7, 1996. It is administered by IDA and constituted by funds of donors including the IBRD, to help beneficiaries reduce their overall debt, including IDA debt.
Under the Enhanced Framework of the Initiative, which was approved by IDA’s Executive Directors on January 27,2000, implementation mechanisms include: (i) partial forgiveness of IDA debt service as it comes due, to be reimbursed to IDA by the IBRD/IDA component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund; and (ii) in the case of countries with a substantial amount of outstanding IBRD debt, partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt.
Upon approval of debt relief for a country under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative by the Executive Directors of IDA, the principal component of the estimated debt relief costs is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding development credits under the accumulated provision for HIPC Debt Initiative, and as a charge to income.
This estimate is subject to periodic revision. The accumulated provision for HIPC Debt Initiative is reduced when debt relief is provided by IDA.
Upon signature by IDA of the country specific legal notification, immediately following the decision by the Executive Directors of IDA to provide debt relief to the country (the decision point), the country becomes eligible for debt relief up to the nominal value equivalent of one third of the net present value of the principal component of the total debt relief committed to the specific country. Further, when the country reaches its completion point and the country's other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative to the satisfaction of IDA, the country becomes eligible for the full amount of debt relief provided under this initiative.
The Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI)
On March 28,2006, the Executive Directors approved IDA's participation in the MDRI. The objective of the MDRI is to provide additional support to HIPC countries.
Debt relief to be provided under the MDRI will be in addition to existing debt relief commitments by IDA and other creditors under the HIPC Debt Initiative. Additional resources for financing IDA's costs of providing debt relief under MDRI will be provided by
donors under a resolution of IDA's Board of Governors adopted on April 21,2006. Such resources will be added to IDA's resources and will be accounted for as subscriptions and contributions.
The MDRI replenishment will become effective when IDA has received written commitments from donors whose aggregate contributions amount to not less than SDR 10,434 million, of which not less than SDR 410 million are unqualified commitments for payments due in FY2007 and FY2008.
Upon approval of IDA's participation in the MDRI by IDA's Executive Directors, IDA provided in full for the expected write off of the principal component of debt relief to be delivered under the MDRI. The provision is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding developments credits and as a charge to income. Following the start of the MDRI implementation by IDA on July 1,2006, the applicable development credits will be written off and the provision reduced accordingly for the first group of post-completion point HIPC countries that have been confirmed by the Executive Directors as eligible for MDRI relief, and subsequently upon reaching completion point for the other HIPC countries.
Cash and Liquid Investments
IDA considers unrestricted cash as well as securities held in the investment portfolio, as an element of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows, since they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
IDA carries its investment securities and related financial instruments at fair value, using trade date accounting. The first-in-first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in income from Investments on the Statement of Income.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements
Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IDA receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, closes out transactions and enters into new repriced transactions.
The securities transferred to IDA under the repurchase and security lending arrangements and the securities transferred to counterparties under the resale agreements have not met the accounting criteria
for treatment as a sale. Therefore, securities transferred under repurchase agreements and security lending arrangements are retained as assets on IDA's Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources and securities received under resale agreements are not recorded on IDA's Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
NOTE B—INVESTMENTS
As part of its portfolio management strategy, IDA invests in the following financial instruments.
Asset-backed Securities: IDA may only invest in asset-backed securities with a AAA credit rating.
Currency Swaps: IDA is authorized to enter into currency swaps including currency forward contracts.
Futures: IDA generally closes out most open positions in futures contracts prior to expiration. Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures contracts.
Futures contracts generally entail daily settlement of the variation margin.
Government and Agency Obligations: Obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of member countries require a minimum credit rating of AA- if denominated in a currency other than the home currency of the issuer, otherwise no rating is required.
Obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a member country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity other than the government of a member country require a minimum credit rating of AA-.
Options: IDA invests only in exchange-traded options. The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount.
Time Deposits: IDA may only invest in time deposits issued or guaranteed by financial institutions whose senior debt securities are rated at least A-.
*	Indicates amounts less than $0.05 million, t Indicates amounts not meaningful.
For the purpose of risk management in the investment portfolio, IDA is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. IDA limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit limits have been established for each counterparty by type of instrument and maturity category.
In addition, IDA has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable closeout netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. The reduction in exposure as a result of these netting provisions can vary as additional transactions are entered into under these agreements. The extent of the reduction in exposure may therefore change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
The credit risk exposure and contract value, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30, 2006 and June 30,2005 (prior to taking into account any master derivatives agreements or collateral arrangements that have been made) are given below:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
As of June 30,2006, IDA had received $602 million ($1,153 million—June 30,2005) of securities under resale agreements. Of these instruments held by IDA, $479 million ($369 million—June 30,2005) has been transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements. None of these securities have been included in the assets of IDA.
At June 30,2006, IDA maintained a line of credit facility with an independent financial institution. This facility was created for the benefit of both IBRD and IDA. The available line of credit to each institution is $500 million, but usage from both institutions cannot exceed this amount in aggregate. The line of credit facility is being used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. At June 30,2006, IDA had not drawn down under this facility ($nil — June 30,2005).
NOTE C—MEMBER SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable: At June
30,2006,	receivables from subscriptions and contributions were $10,048 million ($824 million — June 30,2005) of which $585 million ($355 million — June 30,2005) was due and $9,463 million ($469 million—June 30,2005) was not yet due.
Subscriptions and contributions due at June 30,2006 were as follows:
In millions of U.S. dollarsequivalent Amounts initially due
Restricted notes on account of member subscriptions at June 30,2006 were $46 million ($44 million—June 30,2005).
Fourteenth Replenishment (IDA 14): Under the IDA 14 replenishment, which was approved by the Board of Governors on April 13,2005, IDA is expected to provide concessional financing of about $35 billion (SDR 24 billion), including a significant portion as grants duiring the period July 1,2005 to June 30,2008. Of this amount, new donor contributions are expected to total about $20 billion (SDR 14 billion). The Fourteenth Replenishment became effective on January24,2006 after IDA had received commitments for subscriptions and contributions of SDR 8,952 million.
Donors agreed to provide HIPC—related contributions to IDA to cover IDA’s HIPC costs during the Fourteenth Replenishment. Such contributions can be made either directly to IDA or through the World Bank component of the HIPC Trust Fund, which are then transferred to IDA. Donors will receive voting rights for these contributions.
As of June 30,2006, IDA has received HIPC—related contributions of $697 million which has been recorded in subscriptions and contributions paid in on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. Of this amount, $87 million was paid through the HIPC Trust Fund.
Subsequent Event
On July 10,2006, IDA received joint communications from both Serbia and Montenegro (SaM) stating that the two republics had signed an agreement regarding the regulation of membership in international financial institutions and the allocation of financial assets and liabilities between the two republics. Under this agreement, Serbia will continue the membership of SaM in IDA, retaining its present subscription and voting power, with all rights and obligations stemming from membership in IDA. In addition, the republics have agreed on their respective portions of the financial obligations formerly undertaken by SaM with IDA.
In response, IDA has accepted that Serbia continues SaM membership in IDA and takes on all of the rights, obligations and assets of SaM in respect of IDA, pending completion of Montenegro's membership in IDA. On July 17,2006, the Government of Montenegro submitted its application for membership in IDA.
IBRD’s Board of Governors has approved aggregate transfers to IDA totaling $8,357 million through June
30,2006	($7,957 million—June 30,2005) of which $400 million was approved and transfered in September 2005. The aggregate transfers of $8,445 million reported in the above table differs from the amount of aggregate transfers approved due to exchange rate movements on the value of transfers that were approved in SDR.
At June 30,2006, $210 million was receivable from IBRD ($740million—June30,2005) in accordance with the donor encashment schedule for IDA’s Thirteenth Replenishment.
On June 30,2005, in accordance with the administration agreement for the Trust Fund for Kosovo, $4 million in cash was transferred from the trust fund to IDA.
On September 24,2003, in accordance with the administration agreement for the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Executive Directors of IDA approved the termination of the trust fund and the transfer of its assets to IDA. These assets included the right to receive repayments of credits totaling $124 million and $11 million in cash balances.
NOTE E—DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
Commitment charges on the undisbursed balances of IDA credits are set annually by the Board of Executive Directors of IDA. For the fiscal year ended June 30,
2006	the rate for undisbursed credits was set at 0.30 percent (June30,2005 — 0.35 percent). For the fiscal year ending June 30,2007 the rate has been set at 0.20 percent.
Currency Composition
The currency composition of IDA's development credits outstanding at June 30,2006 and June 30,2005 is as follows:
In millions of U.S dollars equivalent
Overdue Amounts
At June 30,2006, there were no principal or charges on development credits in accrual status which were overdue by more than three months.
The following table provides a summary of selected financial information related to development credits in nonaccrual status for the fiscal years ended June 30,2006, June 30,2005 and June 30,2004:
During the fiscal year ended June 30,2006, all IDA development credits outstanding to Serbia and Montenegro were restored to accrual status following management's determination that a suitable period of policy and payments performance had passed subsequent to the clearance of all arrears to IBRD in January 2002. As a result, income from credits for the fiscal year ended June 30,2006, increased by $1 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these credits not been in nonaccrual status.
During the fiscal year ended June 30,2005, development credits made to, or guaranteed by, Cote d’Ivoire were placed in nonaccrual status. Income from credits for the fiscal year would have been higher by $21 million, had these credits not been in nonaccrual status.
During the fiscal year ended June 30,2005, all development credits to, or guaranteed by, Haiti were restored to accrual status, after the clearance of all overdue payments on principal and service charges to IDA. As a result, income from development credits for the fiscal year ended June 30,2005 increased by $14 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these credits not been in nonaccrual status.
Accumulated Provision for HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI
Development credits outstanding are presented in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources before any provision in connection with the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI.
The accumulated provision for the HIPC Debt Initiative is the sum of the principal component of debt relief remaining to be provided to those countries that have reached their decision points, and in certain
cases their completion points, and the estimated principal component of debt relief that is expected to be provided to other eligible countries.
On March 28,2006, the Executive Directors approved IDA's participation in the MDRI. The objective of the MDRI is to provide additional support to HIPC countries.
Debt relief to be provided under the MDRI will be in addition to existing debt relief commitments by IDA and other creditors under the HIPC Debt Initiative. Additional resources for financing IDA's costs of providing debt relief under MDRI will be provided by donors under a resolution of IDA's Board of Governors adopted on April 21,2006. Such resources will be added to IDA's resources and will be accounted for as subscriptions and contributions. The MDRI replenishment will become effective when IDA has received written commitments from donors whose aggregate contributions amount to not less than SDR 10,434 million, of which not less than SDR 410 million are unqualified commitments for payments due in FY2007 and FY2008.
Upon approval of IDA's participation in the MDRI by IDA's Executive Directors, IDA provided in full for the expected write off of the principal component of debt relief to be delivered under the MDRI. The provision is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding development credits and as a charge to income. Following the start of the MDRI implementation by IDA on July 1,2006, the applicable IDA development credits will be written off and the provision reduced accordingly for the first group of post-completion point HIPC countries that have been confirmed by the Executive Directors as eligible for MDRI relief, and subsequently upon reaching completion point for the other HIPC countries.
Under the arrangements agreed during IDA14, donors have agreed to reimburse IDA for both principal and charges forgiven under the HIPC debt initiative during the IDA14 Replenishment period (FY2006 -FY2008). These reimbursements are being recorded as Subscription and Contributions and have no effect on the Statement of Income.
Prior to the IDA14 Replenishment, service charges forgiven under the HIPC debt relief initiative were reimbursed to IDA by the HIPC Trust Fund and treated as income. However, during FY 2006, all contributions to this trust fund that did not represent
subscriptions and contributions were fully utilized. Consequently, $16 million of service charges were forgiven without reimbursement during FY 2006.
Subsequent Event
In their approval of March 28,2006, the Executive Directors had decided that debt cancellation under the MDRI will take place at the start of FY2007, subject to the effectiveness of the MDRI replenishment. On June
23,2006	the Executive Directors approved the implementation of the MDRI commencing July 1,
2006,	on the target date set by donors, even if the MDRI has not yet become effective on that date. As a result, on July 1,2006 $30,096 million of development credits outstanding to countries which have reached their completion point under the HIPC debt initiative will be written off. As of June 30,2006, the amounts to be written off on July 1,2006 are included in the provision of $45,133 million for the HIPC and MDRI initiative.
Accrued services charges at June 30,2006 on these credits were also reversed thus reducing the service charges by $61 million for FY 2006.