Chapter I - General
THE YEAR IN REVIEW
In the past fiscal year the Bank made 19 loans in 16 countries for an amount equivalent to $298.6 million. This brought the total of all Bank lending to $1,412 million, in 27 countries. Of this -amount, $29.7 million has been refunded or canceled. Disbursements during the fiscal year amounted to $184.8 million, compared with $77.6 million in the preceding 12 months. The total of Bank disbursements is now $876.5 million.
During the year, loans for agricultural development were made in Chile, Iceland, Nicaragua, Pakistan and Paraguay; for improved transportation facilities in Brazil, the Netherlands, Pakistan and Peru; for the production and distribution of electric power in Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and Southern Rhodesia; for irrigation and power in Turkey; and for power, industry and transportation in Finland. A loan was made to Yugoslavia for projects in seven important sectors of the economy. Loans were made to Belgium and to the Belgian Congo to aid in carrying out the Ten Year Development Plan for the Congo, and to Italy in support of its ten year plan for southern Italy. The loan to the Congo was the first made by the Bank to assist in the development of an overseas territory of a member country.
The Bank has continued to help its members * to draw up long-term programs of economic development. The general survey mission continues to be the Bank's chief means of giving assistance of this kind. Reports of the missions to Guatemala, Cuba, Iraq and Surinam were presented to the Governments during the year. A report on Ceylon was ready for presentation, and a report on Jamaica was in preparation. A variation of the survey mission technique was used in Nicaragua; two staff members were stationed there during most of the year, to work directly with the Government in drafting a broad development program and starting to put it into effect.
The Bank sent out a number of specialized missions to study specific development problems in member countries. And in the normal course of its work on loan proposals and projects, it gave advice on a wide range of technical, financial and administrative matters.
The Bank added to its dollar resources by selling $150 million of its own bonds in the United States. One issue, of $100 million, was sold in September 1951 and another, of $50 million, in May 1952.
Bank bonds were also issued outside the United States. The Bank's first public offering in Switzerland, in an amount of 50,000,000 Swiss francs (approximately $11.6 million), was sold in July 1951; and in February 1952 the Bank marketed its first issue of securities in Canada, in the amount of Can $15 million. The Bank further added to its resources by selling $23.4 million of securities from its portfolio, $10.4 million without its guarantee.
Several member countries made parts of their local-currency subscriptions to the Bank's capital available for lending. Among them, Canada in May 1952 released the balance (Can $41 million) of her original Canadian-dollar subscription (Can $58.5 million). This release is fully convertible and may be used without restriction for purchases in Canada and elsewhere.
Two loans during the year, one to Iceland and another to Yugoslavia, were made for disbursement entirely in European currencies. The loan of $27.2 million for the Pakistan railways included the equivalent of $12 million in French francs, released from the French subscription to the Bank's capital.
At the beginning of the year it was expected that serious delays on Bank-financed projects might be caused by shortages in the supplies of capital goods. A special unit in the Bank followed
supply developments closely, in Europe as well as in the United States and Canada, and helped the Bank's borrowers to obtain priority ratings for equipment on order. No request by the Bank for assistance in obtaining priority ratings for its borrowers was denied; and no project was halted and no abnormal delays were caused by failure to obtain necessary equipment.
In November 1951, after expressions of interest by Iran and the United Kingdom, the Bank offered to try to work out a proposal under which, as an interim measure, it might assist in restoring oil operations in south Iran. Several weeks of discussion with the Government in Iran did not produce agreement on several major points. It was mutually decided to recess the talks, with the understanding that they could be resumed if it should appear that a basis of agreement might be reached.
In March 1951 the United States International
Development Advisory Board, a representative group of private citizens appointed by the President of the United States in accordance with the Act for International Development, published a report entitled Partners in Progress. This report, prepared after consultation with the management of the Bank, proposed, among other things, that an International Finance Corporation be created as an affiliate of the Bank, to help finance private enterprise by equity investment or by loans made without governmental guarantee. During the fiscal year, a report was prepared by the staff as a basis for continuing to explore the proposal with member governments and interested business groups. In June 1952, after discussing the report, the United Nations Economic and Social Council approved a resolution requesting that explorations continue, and that the Bank inform the Council in 1953 of the results of its study and of any action it might take on the proposal.
In its five years of lending the Bank has made 68 loans amounting to the equivalent of $1,412 million, of which approximately $30 million has been canceled or refunded, leaving a total of $1,382 million. The table on the opposite page shows the purposes for which the loans were made and their geographical distribution. Altogether, some 250 individual projects have been completed or are being carried out with the help of Bank financing.
The amounts lent do not measure the magnitude or the total costs of these projects. The Bank normally finances only the foreign-exchange costs of imported equipment and services needed to complete projects; usually the larger part of the cost of any project is met by the borrower. The total cost of projects completed or going forward with the help of Bank financing amounts to more than $3 billion.
The Bank's first four loans, amounting to $497 million, were made in 1947 to France, Denmark, Luxembourg and the Netherlands to assist post-
war reconstruction during the period before the European Recovery Program was in operation. Since that time nearly all of the Bank's lending has been devoted to providing basic utilities in the less developed areas. It is the loans made after the reconstruction loans of 1947 that are discussed in the following paragraphs.
Agriculture: The Bank has engaged in a wide variety of lending to increase agricultural production. Among other things, it has helped to finance farm mechanization (in Australia, Chile, Colombia, Nicaragua and Paraguay), land clearance (in India and Pakistan), irrigation (in Chile, India, Iraq, Thailand and Turkey), flood control (in Iraq and Turkey), grain storage (in Nicaragua and Turkey) and improvements on individual farms (in Iceland). In all, the Bank's lending in direct support of agricultural development, including small amounts for forestry, totals $128 million. In addition, many of the Bank's loans for electric power and transportation have been made to countries that are predominantly agri-
THE BANK'S LENDING: 1947-52
cultural, and have been designed in part to promote agricultural production and earnings.
Transportation: The less developed countries need basic transportation facilities, to quicken internal and international trade and to provide new incentives for production. Without ready access to markets, farmers in many countries will continue to grow only what they need for their own consumption; without adequate roads and railroads to reach potential customers, industry will not flourish; and raw materials beyond the reach of transportation will lie idle. The Bank's lending for transportation amounts to $179 million. It includes the financing of highway construction (in Colombia, Ethiopia and Nicaragua), railway rehabilitation (in Australia, Brazil, India, Pakistan, Thailand and the Union of South Africa), and port development (in Peru, South Africa, Thailand and Turkey).
Electric power: In many of the Bank's member nations, agricultural and industrial demands for electric power are running ahead of supply; and the Bank has lent $391 million for the generation and distribution of electricity. Bank-financed power projects, for the most part still under construction, are situated in Australia, Belgium, Finland, Iceland, India, South Africa, Southern Rhodesia, Turkey, Yugoslavia, and in six countries of Latin America: Brazil, Chile, Colombia, El Salvador, Mexico and Uruguay. The Bank's lending in the Western Hemisphere has been predominantly for electric power, and the contribution being made to the power capacity of Latin American countries is noteworthy. In Mexico, for instance, projects financed by the Bank will by
1955 add 700,000 kilowatts of generating capacity to the 1,000,000 that existed when the Bank made its first loan for electricity there in 1949.
Industry: The Bank's lending for industry has not been comparable in amount to its financing for other purposes. The requirement of the Bank's charter that loans to private borrowers be government-guaranteed has, as a practical matter, limited the extent to which the Bank can make loans direct to industry (see p. 12). In many countries, moreover, the very lack of transportation, power and other basic facilities such as the Bank is trying to provide, means that industrialization must begin with many relatively small enterprises. It is difficult, at a distance, to assess the merits and feasibility of such enterprises; and for that reason the Bank in a number of cases has helped to organize local credit institutions and to provide funds for industry through them. The $70 million of industrial financing summarized in the accompanying table reflects portions of loans to Australia, Belgium, Finland, the Netherlands and Yugoslavia. The $12 million attributed in the table to development banks has been provided to credit institutions in Ethiopia, Mexico and Turkey; and the use made of these funds so far has been almost entirely for industrial loans.
Program Lending: Some of the Bank's lending in less developed areas has been in support of broad programs covering an entire country or region. The $80 million shown in the table reflects loans of this kind to Belgium and the Belgian Congo for the development of the Congo, and to Italy for a program embracing southern Italy and the Italian islands.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The Bank's technical assistance program is the outgrowth of its conviction that external financing, from whatever quarter, will be of most value in countries that are already making the best possible use of their own resources. The principal way in which the Bank has endeavored to help member countries to achieve this objective has
been through the general survey mission—a group" of experts specially organized to make an intensive firsthand study of a country's resources and formulate recommendations designed to serve as the basis of a long-term development program.
Beginning with the general survey mission to Colombia in 1949, the Bank has sent out eight
such groups. As is detailed later in these pages, during the fiscal year the Bank transmitted the reports of four of them, to Cuba, Guatemala, Iraq and Surinam. At the end of June, the report of the mission to Ceylon was being made ready for formal presentation to the Government and the report on Jamaica was in preparation.
In size and composition the missions have varied according to the needs of the individual country. Usually, they have included advisers on public finance and general economics, industry, power, transportation, and one or two agricul-" tural specialists provided by the Food and Agriculture Organization. On occasion, experts in public health and education, nominated by the World Health Organization and United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, have been added. Additional experts in such fields as mining and irrigation have been recruited, as needed, on an international basis. At least one or two Bank staff members have served in every case, and. the tendency is to use a larger proportion of Bank personnel. This assures that specialized knowledge accumulated by the Bank will be available to the survey group, and provides greater continuity between the work of the mission and subsequent activities of the Bank.
Whatever the size and composition of the particular group, the broad purpose has been the same—to help in working out long-range programs designed to raise the level of productivity and to increase the standard of living. The re*- suits achieved through this type of activity are difficult to evaluate. It is still too early to attempt any general appraisal; and in many cases, the most far-reaching contribution a mission can make may be the intangible effect of its work in changing the approach of the government to its development problems. Nevertheless there is encouraging evidence that the work done by the survey missions is achieving results in most of the countries to which they have gone.
In Colombia, for example, the stimulation provided, directly and indirectly, by the Bank's general survey mission has already had concrete re-
sults. After transmittal of the group's report in 1950, a non-partisan development committee of leading private citizens was appointed by the Government. Aided by Bank technicians, the Committee spent more than a year outlining a long-term program based on the mission's recommendations.
The Government is carrying forward this program. It has adopted budgetary and banking reforms, lifted restrictions on imports, relaxed exchange controls and adopted a liberal and encouraging attitude toward foreign capital. Inflation has been checked. The Government has established a National Board of Economic Planning that will serve as the focal point for the coordination of the country's whole development effort.
The Bank is continuing to provide technical assistance in Colombia to help carry on the work set in motion by the mission's report. It nominated the Economic Adviser chosen to assist the new planning board. Consultants retained jointly by the Government and the Bank are making studies of the administrative and financial aspects of a proposed reorganization of the railway system and of ground facilities for civil aviation. In June 1952 the Bank was preparing to send to Colombia the recommendations of a financial expert, also jointly retained by the Government and the Bank, for measures to promote investment in industry and to improve the market for government securities.
In the case of most of the other countries that have been visited by general survey groups, the mission reports are still too new to have had an impact similar to that of the Colombian Report. Nevertheless, beginnings are being made. In Guatemala, for instance, construction of a highway between Guatemala City and the Atlantic Coast—a project given top priority by the survey mission—has been started. A commission has been appointed to make recommendations for reorganization of the nationalized rural estates, an essential reform stressed in the recommendations presented to the Government; and several other
proposals are being followed out. In Turkey and Iraq, analysis of the most recent development budgets indicates that governmental thinking has been substantially influenced by the investment recommendations of the Bank's missions. The Government of Cuba has recently framed a comprehensive request for technical assistance, based on the report of the Bank's survey group. In June the Government enacted legislation reorganizing the National Economic Planning Commission, in accordance with the recommendations of the Bank's mission.
A variation of the survey mission technique has been employed by the Bank in Nicaragua, with excellent results. Nicaragua originally asked for a general mission. After discussion, it was mutually agreed, instead, that the Bank would provide one or two members of its staff to work directly with the Government on drawing up a development program and determining the first steps needed to carry it out.
The Bank named a member of its economic staff as special representative to Nicaragua. Assisted by a Bank engineer, he spent from July 1951 to May 1952 in Nicaragua helping to draw
up a development program. The members of the Bank's staff also helped the Government to arrange for other experts to come to Nicaragua for shorter periods to study agriculture, transportation, fiscal problems, banking and credit, and the organization of a development corporation. Although the final report of the special representative has not yet been presented, the Government already has taken action. It has brought into effective operation a National Economic Council, is establishing a development corporation, has adopted a five-year development program and a budget for its first year, and has undertaken major changes in fiscal, budgetary and tariff policies.
During the year the Bank continued to provide a variety of technical assistance in addition to the general survey missions. These included: a joint Bank-FAO mission to make recommendations for a program of agricultural development in Chile; the dispatch of specialists to advise on particular development problems such as the stimulation of capital markets and the organization of development corporations; and the recruitment of experts to serve as economic and financial advisers.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
As already noted, the report of the United States International Development Advisory Board, published in March 1951, recommended that an International Finance Corporation be created as an affiliate of the Bank. This Corporation would be authorized to make loans to private enterprise without governmental guarantee and to make equity investment in participation with private investors.
This proposal was prompted by a recognition that the ability of the Bank itself to promote private enterprise is limited. In the first place, the Articles of Agreement require that all loans to non-governmental borrowers must be guaranteed by the government, or by the central bank or its equivalent, of the country in which the project to be financed is located. This discourages private
borrowers, who fear that a governmental guarantee might lead to interference by the government in the conduct of their business. Governments, for their part, hesitate to guarantee loans to private enterprises for fear they might be charged with favoritism—no matter how useful the private project may be.
Secondly, the Bank does not engage in equity financing. The Bank has sometimes had to abandon consideration of promising projects because they required more equity capital than the entrepreneur was able to obtain. Lacking equity funds, the Bank has had no way to adapt its operations to take advantage of such opportunities.
The Bank has attempted to overcome these limitations by extending credits to private undertakings through a development bank or a consor-
tium of banks. This type of lending has been useful to some extent, and the Bank hopes to do more of it. Intermediary institutions of this kind, however, cannot entirely escape the necessity of governmental sanction; and the extent to which borrowed funds can be used for equity investment is obviously limited. Moreover, these institutions are not well placed to attract the interest and participation of foreign firms and investors in the projects they finance.
During the past year the Bank's staff studied .the proposal for creating an International Finance Corporation, and in May 1952 the management of the Bank made public a report on the matter. The report envisages that the capital of the Corporation would be subscribed by member governments and not by the Bank. The purpose of the Corporation would be to promote economic development through the stimulation of private investment, "by bringing together investment opportunities, capital (both domestic and foreign) and experienced management, and by helping to finance private productive undertakings through equity investment and loans without government guarantee." The Corporation would not accept responsibility for managing an enterprise in which it invested, and would not hold a controlling equity interest in it. No special immunity or status would attach to any enterprise solely by reason of the Corporation's participation. The Corporation would attempt to revolve its funds as rapidly as possible by selling securities in its
portfolio whenever possible at a fair price.
The Corporation is presented in the report as an experiment in stimulating international private investment. In the words of the report, "Although the extent to which the Corporation could generate such flow of capital can be determined only by experience, there are good reasons for concluding that over a period of years the Corporation would be able to give a substantial stimulus to the growth of private enterprise and thus contribute significantly to the further development of the Bank's member countries."
The President of the Bank sent a copy of this report, through the Secretary-General of the United Nations, to the Economic and Social Council as had been requested by it. In transmitting the report, he called attention to the fact that the Executive Directors of the Bank, in authorizing its transmittal, did not express any opinion on the merits of the proposal or any opinion on behalf of the governments they represent. In June the Economic and Social Council considered the report and adopted a resolution requesting the Bank to continue its study in consultation with member governments and interested business groups, and to inform the Council in 1953 of the results of its study and of any action it might take on the proposal. The Bank intends to explore this matter further with all interested groups in order to determine the desirability and feasibility of carrying this project forward.
Chapter II - The Bank's Operations
This section is a country-by-country description of the operations of the Bank in the past fiscal year. For each country in which the Bank was active, information is given on one or more of the following topics: loans made; negotiations and surveys looking to possible loans; reports of progress on Bank-financed projects; and technical assistance. Brief mentions are also made of completely disbursed loans more fully described in previous Annual Reports.
Preceding the account of operations in each
country is a list by fiscal year of all loans made to that country. Unless otherwise indicated, governments are the borrowers; loans to other borrowers are government-guaranteed. The interest rates shown include the 1% commission which, under the Bank's Articles of Agreement, is allocated to the Bank's Special Reserve. Additional details, such as maturity dates of loans, amounts disbursed and repayments of principal, are shown in a tabular summary of loans in Appendix D, beginning on page 48.
AFRICA
Belgian Congo
Fiscal   $40 million 2 5-year 41/2% Loan of Sep-19>2:  tember 13, 1951 to the Belgian Congo for development.  Made simultaneously with loan of $30 million to Belgium (see page 21).
, The loan to the Belgian Congo was the first made by the Bank to an overseas territory of a member country. The purpose of the loan, and of the $30 million loan made simultaneously to Belgium, is to help carry out the Ten Year Development Plan for the Congo. This Plan was put into effect in 1950. Public investment under the Plan is expected to reach the equivalent of $660 million; and private investment will probably equal this amount. The Bank's loans relate to Government expenditures totaling 11 billion Belgian francs (equivalent to $220 million) which are to be made in the two years July 1, 1951 to June 30, 1953. Of this total, 7.1 billion francs will be spent for transport and communications, 2.1 billion for housing and public health, and 1.8 billion for electricity, water supply, education and research.
Private investment during the 10 years is expected in mining and manufacturing, large-scale agriculture, commerce and electric power. As a
result of the expansion in both the public and private sectors of the economy, exports are expected to rise by 30% to 50% during the life of the Plan.
The large expenditures contemplated will increase the demand for imports of food and consumer goods as well as capital equipment. The Bank's $40 million loan to the Congo will help to pay for part of the imports from countries other than Belgium during the two years beginning July 1, 1951. The franc equivalent of the Bank's $30 million loan to Belgium will be made available to the Congo and used to pay for imports from Belgium.
Because of the wide variety of goods which will be imported, it was impracticable to base disbursements from the Bank's loan on purchases of specified goods. Disbursement of the loan, therefore, is geared both to the rate of investment under the general plan and to expenditures on railways, ports, waterways and roads by the Office d'Exploitation des Transports Coloniaux (Otraco), a public organization which administers the larger part of the Congo transport network. To date $6.1 million has been disbursed under the loan.
Egypt
On the basis of the report of a Bank mission which visited Egypt in the summer of 1951, the Bank informed the Government that it was willing to consider the financing of a number of development projects, subject to certain technical and financial conditions. The Bank has arranged to send an engineering consultant to Egypt in the second half of 1952 to study the capital works program of the Egyptian State Railways.
Ethiopia
Fiscal $5 million 20-year 4% Loan of Septem-1951:  ber 13, 1950 for rehabilitation of roads.
$2 million 20-year 4% Loan of September 13, 1950 for Development Bank. $1.5 million 20-year 4% Loan of February 19, 1951 for rehabilitation and development of telecommunications.
Almost all the road-making equipment required for the highway project being financed by the Bank's $5 million loan has been delivered, and work has been carried out on important sections of road that connect producing areas with Addis Ababa and the Eritrean border. The Imperial Highway Authority estimates that the three-year program for 1951-54 will result in rehabilitation of about 900 miles of road and light maintenance on an additional 1,800 miles.
Since it started operations in May 1951, the Development Bank of Ethiopia has entered into "agreements for four loans requiring about $555,000 of foreign exchange. Nearly all of this amount, to be drawn from the $2 million loan of the International Bank, will be spent to import machinery and raw cotton for a textile project. The remainder is for the purchase of agricultural machinery and equipment, and for woodworking machinery. The Development Bank has also made several loans requiring only local currency.
The telecommunications project has not yet been started. The Bank has been in consultation with the Government regarding means for putting the project into effective operation.
Southern Rhodesia
Fiscal   $28 million 25-year 43/4% Loan of Feb-1952:  ruary 27, 1952 to the Colony of Southern Rhodesia for electric power development.
In October 1951 a Bank mission went to Southern Rhodesia to investigate the possibility of financing part of its program of development. As a result it was decided that the Bank could best aid in carrying out this plan by financing equipment needed for expanding the production and distribution of electric power. A loan of $28 million, guaranteed by the United Kingdom, was made for this purpose in February 1952.
Southern Rhodesia's four-year development plan, extending to March 31, 1955, contemplates public investment equivalent to about $280 million. Private investment is expected to equal this amount. Most of the public investment is to be in basic services such as transportation, electricity, communications and water supply. Railways and electric power development will account for the largest amounts.
The Bank's $28 million loan will help finance the purchase of imported equipment and materials required for power expansion during the three years ending March 31, 1955. The expansion consists of the installation of about 230,000 kw. of new thermal generating capacity, the erection of some 2,000 miles of transmission lines, and the installation of distributing equipment. Most of the equipment to be bought abroad will come from the United Kingdom, though some will come from the Union of South Africa and a small amount from the United States.
South Africa has approved the use in the loan of £1,000,000 from her capital subscription to the Bank, for purchases Southern Rhodesia intends to make in the Union. South Africa has also agreed to consider making an additional amount available later this year.
A large part of the capital for the development of Southern Rhodesia is being provided by the London market. This investment will cause a drain on the United Kingdom's foreign-exchange reserves: much of the equipment which will be
exported to Southern Rhodesia under the program might otherwise have earned foreign exchange; and some of the materials going into the equipment must be bought with foreign exchange. The Bank's loan will be disbursed in dollars for purchases in the United Kingdom, and will help offset the drain on her foreign-exchange reserves.
Other British Territories in Africa
Throughout the year the Bank has kept in close touch with the Colonial Office regarding Bank assistance for colonial development in Africa. Bank representatives visited Kenya, Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland in November 1951. A Bank mission is to visit the Rhodesias in July 1952, and some months later a mission will visit other British territories in East and West Africa.
Union of South Africa
Fiscal   $30 million 20-year 4% Loan of Janu-1951:  ary 23, 1951 to the Electricity Supply Commission for power development program.
$20 million 15-year 3%% Loan of January 23, 1951 for expansion of transportation facilities.
About one-third of the $30 million loan to the
Electricity Supply Commission has been disbursed
in payment for turbo-generators, boilers and other equipment for two new power stations at Hex River and Vierfontein and for the stations already operating at Vaal, Congella and Witbank. In spite of delays in deliveries, the work is going well.
About one-half of the $20 million transport loan has been spent for the purchase of rolling stock and other equipment for the expansion and improvement of the system operated by the South African Railways and Harbors Administration. Owing to delays in the delivery of rolling stock from the United Kingdom and Germany and difficulties in buying rails and steel sleepers in France, progress has been slower than was expected. Difficulties have also been caused by a shortage of skilled labor. Nevertheless, the double tracking of some lines and improvements on the others, the purchase of new locomotives, and the construction of new workshops are to be completed in 1953- This will help the South African Railways and Harbors Administration to deal with the heavy increase in traffic brought about by the economic expansion during the war and the immediate postwar years.
ASIA
President's Visit to South and Southeast Asia
The President of the Bank visited Pakistan, India, Ceylon and Thailand during February and March 1952.
Use of the Waters of the Indus River System
The Governments of India and Pakistan accepted an invitation from the President of the Bank to send engineers to the Bank to study, together with Bank engineers, possible technical measures to increase the supplies of water available from the Indus system of rivers for purposes of economic development. Meetings began on May 7, 1952 and continued until June 18. Agreement was reached on field studies to be undertaken by the engineers of the two countries as a first step toward drawing up and recommending
a program of construction, with an estimate of costs. The engineers have returned to their countries to carry on their studies. They will meet again in Karachi, together with Bank engineers, in November 1952.
Ceylon
The Bank organized a general survey mission to study Ceylon's economic potentialities and make recommendations to assist the Government in drawing up a long-range development program. The mission was composed of twelve members, five of whom were from the Bank's staff. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations nominated the agricultural technician and paid part of his expenses. The public health expert was nominated by the World Health Organization.
The group arrived in Ceylon early in October 1951 and stayed about ten weeks. The mission's report will be published simultaneously in Colombo and in Washington early in September 1952.
India
Fiscal $34 million 15-year 4% Loan of August 1950: 18, 1949 for railway rehabilitation; reduced to $32.8 million on May 16, 1950 at request of borrower. $10 million 7-year 3^% Loan of September 29, 1949 for importation of agricultural machinery; reduced to $8.5 million on July 27, 1951 at request of borrower.
$18.5 million 20-year 4% Loan of April 18, 1950 for power development project.
The Bank's $34 million loan of 1949 was used primarily for the purchase of locomotives. There has been a continued improvement in the operating efficiency of the railways in the past year; this and higher fares have brought about a substantial improvement in railway finances.
The agricultural machinery loan was made to enable the Central Tractor Organization of the Government to clear large areas of land in central India of a deep-rooted weed called kans grass, and to develop methods for clearing jungle land in northern India and opening it to cultivation. Some of the organizational and managerial problems that had slowed the C.T.O.'s progress on kans grass clearance have been solved, and there has been a definite improvement in the administration of the project.
In central India, 500,000 acres have now been cleared of kans grass. In the 1951-52 season, the goal of 210,000 acres was exceeded. Better results might have been achieved if all the State Governments had made large blocks of land available to the C.T.O. to permit operations to be carried out economically, and if one type of tractor, being used under difficult conditions, had not had mechanical failures. Jungle-clearance operations in the Himalayan foothills have resulted in the reclamation and plowing of nearly 18,000 acres, and have demonstrated that the clearance of
jungle in India can be successfully carried out with mechanical equipment.
The first of the three 50,000 kw. generating units of the Bokaro thermal power plant in the Damodar Valley is expected to come into operation in November 1952 and the entire plant.by March 1953. Work on the Konar dam, where a hydroelectric power station will be built, was retarded because of changes in design and delays in the delivery of equipment. The dam should be completed by the middle of 1953.
A Bank mission visited India for seven weeks in late 1951 to gain firsthand knowledge of the planning, financing and execution of the development program set forth in the Draft Outline of India's First Five-Year Plan. On the basis of the mission's report, and of discussions by the President of the Bank during his visit in February 1952, the Bank has expressed its willingness to consider loans for selected projects.
A number of technical missions already have gone to India to make an examination of these projects. In May 1952 Bank representatives carried on discussions of possible assistance to the Industrial Finance Corporation, a private institution for providing medium and long-term credit to industry. It is expected that negotiations for a loan to the Corporation will begin soon.
In June 1952 a member of the Bank's staff went to India to make a study of plans for completion of an integrated power development scheme in the Damodar Valley. Also in June, a mission, organized by the Bank and headed by the Chairman of The First Boston Corporation of New York, arrived in India to study technical and financial problems of the iron and steel industry, and to see on what basis the Bank might be able to assist in expanding iron and steel production.
Iran
After expressions of interest by Iran and the United Kingdom, the Bank offered in November 1951 to try to work out interim arrangements for the restoration of oil operations in south Iran. After a preliminary visit to Iran by a Bank official
and a technical consultant, a mission headed by the Vice President of the Bank went in February to Teheran and London. There, conversations were held with the Governments concerned and with the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company.
It was the hope of the mission that it could work out an agreement acceptable to the two parties to the dispute. As a basis for discussion the Bank put forward a proposal which included the following points: For a limited period of about two years, and without prejudice to the legal rights of the interested parties, the Bank would operate the oil properties through a management headed by neutrals. The Bank would sell the crude oil and products for the most part to the principal purchaser, the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, at prices and on terms to be mutually agreed upon by the Company and Iran. Part of the proceeds of sale would be retained by the Bank pending final settlement. The Bank, as a neutral institution of which both parties are members, would act in the interests of both. It would have full freedom of action, during the interim period, to manage the properties without interference so as to achieve the greatest possible efficiency and produce a substantial flow of oil to the purchaser and of revenues to Iran. The Bank would undertake to limit the employment of foreign technicians to a minimum consistent with efficient operations; and the employment of British technical personnel, among others, would not be excluded. Appropriate provisions would be included to protect the Bank's resources against risks not incident to its usual operations, such as claims for damage to oil properties. The Bank would undertake to see that, if necessary, funds would be provided for the resumption of operations; this would be accomplished in such a way as to avoid affecting the Bank's credit.
This proposal, if it had been found acceptable, would have given the parties to the controversy an opportunity to work out a final settlement. It would also have permitted a resumption of the flow of oil and oil revenues without any sacrifice of legal rights on either side.
This proposal was discussed in Teheran for several weeks, and also in London. Understanding in general terms was reached on a number of questions, but on several major points there was no agreement. In the absence of real progress in reconciling views on these points, it was mutually decided to recess the talks, with the understanding that they could be resumed later if it should appear that a basis for agreement could be reached.
Iraq
Fiscal  $12.8 million 15-year 3%% Loan of 1950:  June 15, 1950 for flood control.
Work on the flood-control project began early in 1952. The project is designed to protect Baghdad and the surrounding agricultural area against periodic floods of the Tigris River, by diverting flood waters into a large uninhabited depression, northwest of Baghdad, known as the Wadi Tharthar. In October 1951 a contract was awarded to a British firm for the excavation of a 33-mile long diversion channel into the depression, and work on this first phase of the project has now begun.
The Bank's general survey mission, headed by Dr. Ivar Rooth, presented its report to the Iraqi Government in February 1952. The mission was impressed by Iraq's potentialities for economic development; and it outlined a five-year development program calling for a total expenditure equivalent to $470 million. It reported that Iraq's three principal resources—land, water and oil— can ultimately maintain a much larger population with a considerably higher standard of living. Rapidly rising revenues from oil make it possible for the Government to undertake a large-scale development program over the next few years. Seventy percent of these revenues have been assigned to the Iraqi Development Board, an autonomous agency established in 1950 for the planning and financing of development.
Economic development, in the mission's opinion, should put major emphasis on agriculture. The most urgent needs are flood control and irrigation to bring additional land under cultivation, drain-
age to improve existing crop land, and the introduction o£ better agricultural techniques.
In the industrial field the mission suggested the expansion of certain existing industries and the creation of new ones. In particular, the mission suggested the establishment of a chemical plant which would use natural gas from the Kirkuk oil field to make fertilizer and other valuable chemical products.
The mission found the transport system generally adequate for present needs; but for the future it recommended the standardization of railway gauges to be carried out in conjunction with a comprehensive replacement program, and the building of an adequate network of surfaced roads. Throughout its report the mission stressed the importance of increasing the productivity of workers by providing better education and effective measures for reducing the incidence of debilitating diseases.
In June 1952 a Bank representative visited Iraq. He discussed with the Government the recommendations of the mission's report and the action taken by the Government to carry them into effect.
Lebanon
In May 1952 a Bank representative visited Beirut and had exploratory talks with the Government on the financing of development projects. Further discussions of the type and extent of possible Bank assistance are in prospect.
Pakistan
Fiscal $27.2 million 15-year 4%% Loan of 1952: March 27, 1952 for railway rehabilitation.
$3.25 million 7-year 4]/8% Loan of June 13, 1952 for agricultural machinery.
The railway loan will help finance a program for the rehabilitation, improvement and modernization of the Government-owned railways in both East and West Pakistan. The program is to make up arrears in replacement, start substitution of diesel for steam locomotives, improve the permanent way and provide additional facilities to en-
able the railways to keep pace with the growth of the Pakistan economy.
The railways urgently need rolling stock and repair facilities to replace equipment which deteriorated from heavy use and insufficient maintenance during and after World War II. The loan will be used to finance the purchase of diesel electric locomotives, passenger cars, freight cars, workshop equipment, locomotive boilers and cross ties. This equipment will be purchased in the United States, France and Canada. The French Government has released to the Bank for this loan the equivalent of $12 million in French francs from its capital subscription to the Bank.
The agricultural loan will be used to help reclaim 660,000 acres of waste land in the Thai desert, an area in the northeastern part of West Pakistan. It will be used to finance the import of tractors and ancillary equipment to clear, plow, harrow and seed the land and to construct irrigation ditches. The Government has already constructed most of the irrigation canals planned for the area and is now building roads.
This reclamation project is planned for completion in about five years. The cleared land will be divided into 15-acre farms on which 44,000 families, mostly refugees, will be settled. Increased crop production will consist mainly of wheat and cotton.
The Bank is now discussing with the Government the financing of a paper-mill project in East Pakistan and is exchanging views with the Government on other projects which may be the basis for further financing.
In May 1952 the Government requested the Bank to help organize a Technical Research Institute in Pakistan. The Institute would do applied research designed primarily to promote industrial development, and would be sponsored jointly by the Bank and the U. N. Technical Assistance Administration. The Bank expects to send a representative to Pakistan in the second half of 1952 to explore, for itself and UNTAA, the feasibility of establishing the proposed Institute.
Syria
In June 1951 the Bank advised the Government that it was prepared to negotiate loans which had been requested for drainage and irrigation, highway improvement and the development of the Port of Latakia; and in September 1951 negotiation procedures were discussed with the Syrian Governor of the Bank.
In May 1952 a Bank representative visited Damascus. The Government informed him it was ready to open negotiations for loans for the purposes mentioned. The Government said it also wished the Bank to consider, at the same time, the financing of additional projects. The Bank is studying the Government's proposals.
Thailand
Fiscal $3 million 15-year 3%% Loan of Octo-1951:  ber 27, 1950 for railway rehabilitation.
$18 million 20-year 4% Loan of October 27, 1950 for irrigation project.
$4.4 million 15-year 3%% Loan of October 27, 1950 for port development.
Almost two-thirds of the $3 million railway loan is being spent to rehabilitate and re-equip the railway workshops at Makkasan, near Bangkok. Plans for reconstructing the workshops, together with a list of required equipment, were prepared by engineering consultants retained by the Government. A Bank engineer visited Thailand in June 1952 and approved the plans and the list of equipment required. Orders have been placed for nearly half of the equipment needed for the workshops, and for the signaling equipment that will consume most of the remainder of the loan.
The Royal Irrigation Department has now completed the design for a barrage on the Chao Phya River to regulate the flow of water in the River and its branches and in the canal system on the central plain. The design of the barrage has been approved by the United States Bureau of Reclamation, which is the Department's engineering consultant. A firm of British contractors has been employed to supervise construction. Access roads and a construction camp have already been built and clearing and foundation work has begun. Nearly all the orders for equipment have been placed, but delays in the delivery of equipment have set back construction of the dam by about a year.
The $4.4 million loan for developing the Port of Bangkok became effective at the end of August 1951. The greater part of the loan is being used to finance the foreign-exchange cost of deepening the channel through the sand bar at the mouth of the Chao Phya River, so that vessels of about 10,000 tons can enter the river and berth at the port. A dredging contract was awarded to a Dutch company; deepening of the channel may be completed by early 1953. The port development project provides also for the improvement of cargo-handling facilities at the Port of Bangkok. Orders for equipment needed for this phase of the project are now being placed.
In March 1952 the Government and the Bank agreed that the alleviation of the power shortage should be given first priority in Thailand's further development plans. A commission has been set up to plan and coordinate the activities of the Government in the development of electric power.
AUSTRALIA
Fiscal   $100 million 25-year 4*4% Loan of 1951:  August 22, 1950 for development program.
The Bank's loan to Australia was to be spent over a period of about two years. So far, about two-thirds of it has been disbursed and it is expected that the rest will be withdrawn over the
next nine months. A portion of the loan has been spent on capital goods for public projects of the Commonwealth and State authorities. A large part, however, has been spent on capital goods needed by farmers and private business concerns. Nearly all of these goods have been distributed through normal commercial channels.
Tractors and other farm machinery, such as balers, grain combines and harvesters, valued at $18 million, have been imported and retailed by commercial distributors. Industrial crawler tractors and earth-moving equipment valued at $13 million, have gone in the main to public authorities, or to private contractors working for public authorities, for use on projects in various parts of Australia. About $3 million worth of earth-moving equipment, for instance, will be used on the Big Eildon dam project for the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission of Victoria. The project: will make possible the irrigation of 360,000 additional acres in the Goulburn Valley and will increasie electric generating capacity by 120,000 kw.
Bank-financed imports of locomotives and locomotive parts will help bring into "service 11 new diesel-electric locomotives for the Commonwealth Railways, 20 for the New South Wales Railways, 17 for the Victoria Railways, and 10 for Queensland Railways. Twenty steam locomotives have also been financed for the New South Wales Railways. Some of these locomotives are already
in service. Bank-financed mining machinery, such as coal cutters, conveyors and drills for privately owned mines in New South Wales, has helped to raise coal production. About $11 million has been spent on power plants of a total capacity of 150,000 kw. which are being purchased for the State Electricity Commissions of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. In these States there is an acute shortage of electric power.
A Bank mission was in Australia in March and April 1952, and the President of the Bank visited Australia at the invitation of the Commonwealth Prime Minister for a week during this period. Discussions covered economic developments of the past two years, the part which the Bank's loan has played, and the possibility of further Bank lending. The Prime Minister and the President of the Bank had further discussions of loan possibilities when the Prime Minister visited Washington in May 1952 and again in June. At the end of the fiscal year negotiations were far advanced for a new loan of $50 million.
EUROPE
Belgium
Fiscal   $16 million  20-year 4%%  Loan of 1949:   March 1, 1949 for steel plants and electric power.
Fiscal   $30 million 25-year 4l/2%  Loan of 1952:  September 13, 1951 for development of the Belgian Congo. Made simultaneously with loan of $40 million to the Belgian Congo (see page 14).
The $30 million loan of September 1951 was the first made to a member country to assist it in promoting the development of an overseas territory. The loan will aid in carrying out the Ten Year Development Plan for the Belgian Congo (see page 14). Belgium has long been the leading supplier of manufactured goods to the Congo, and she will provide most of the capital equipment required to execute the Congo program. Additional demand for goods for the Congo stimulates economic activity in Belgium—raising employment and income, increasing imports of
raw materials and foodstuffs, and increasing the expenditure of foreign exchange. The loan was aimed at reducing the pressure on Belgium's foreign-exchange reserves during the two years ending September 30, 1953.
The loan is being disbursed to the National Bank of Belgium, which credits the equivalent in Belgian francs to the Belgian Government. This equivalent will be available to the Congo to finance expenditures under the Ten Year Plan. Disbursement of the loan is geared to the rate of investment in the Plan in general. Disbursement is also related more specifically to expenditures for transport and related installations by the Office d'Exploitation des Transports Coloniaux (Otraco).
The two steel plants and the thermal power plant financed by the $16 million loan of 1949 have been completed and are in operation. The thermal power plant, of the Union des Centrales
Electriques de Liege-Namur-Luxembourg (Lina-lux), started operating at full capacity (100,000 kw.) early in 1952.
Denmark
Fiscal  $40 million 25-year 4^4% I-oan °f 1948: August 22, 1947 for reconstruction.
The loan made in 1947 financed the import of essential goods which contributed to Denmark's recovery in the immediate postwar period. This recovery has continued, but Denmark's dollar position has remained difficult. The country continues to rely heavily on imports of raw materials from the dollar area, and reductions in these imports would cut down production. Yet Denmark has not been able to increase dollar earnings rapidly enough, partly because of restrictions on the entry of dairy products into the United States. Denmark's dollar problem will remain particularly acute because of large dollar loans which mature in the next three years.
Late in 1951 two Bank representatives visited Copenhagen for consultations with the Government on payments problems. The Bank will continue its close collaboration with the Government on this and other matters of common interest.
Finland
Fiscal  $12.5 million  15-year 4% Loan of 1950: August 1, 1949 to the Bank of Finland for development of power, wood-products industries and limestone powder production.
$2.3 million 2-year 3% Loan of October 17, 1949 for equipment for timber production; reduced at the request of the borrower to $2.1 million on September 30, 1951.
Fiscal  $20 million 18-year 4%% Loan of April 1952:  30, 1952 to the Bank of Finland for further development of power and wood-products industries and for agricultural improvement.
Of the $20 million loaned to Finland in April 1952, $9.5 million is for the wood-products industries, $9.5 million for electric power production, and $1 million for agriculture.
The wood-products industries had previously obtained $10.45 million of the Bank's $12.5
million loan of August 1949 for modernization and expansion, and also benefited from a second loan of $2.3 million made in October 1949, mainly to aid forest operations. The new loan will help these industries to buy much needed modern equipment to increase their capacity for making the more highly processed products, such as chemical pulp, newsprint, paper, paperboard and cardboard.
More electric power is needed to keep pace with, and make possible, Finland's continued industrial growth. The Bank's loan will provide equipment for four hydroelectric generating plants in northern and eastern Finland and one steam generating plant in western Finland. By 1957 these plants will have added 275,000 kw. to Finland's generating capacity, thus increasing her present capacity by nearly a third and raising it far above the prewar level. In addition, transmission lines will be erected to bring power to the principal industrial centers in the southern and western parts of the country. The Bank's loan will be used for the import of construction machinery, aluminum transmission cables, turbines, generators and switch gear.
The $1 million for agriculture will pay for imported tractors and earth-moving equipment to be used for clearing land and building forest roads. It will aid a Government program begun in 1940 for increasing agricultural and forestry output. This program has also been important in resettling farmers from Karelia.
The recent loan followed a review of economic developments and investment needs made by a Bank mission in November 1951. A smaller supplemental loan in Swedish kronor to cover the purchase of machinery in Sweden for the wood-products industries is now under consideration. The Swedish Government has been asked to release part of its subscription to the Bank's capital for this purpose.
More than four-fifths of the $12.5 million loan of August 1949 has been disbursed and the loan will probably be withdrawn in full by the end of 1952.
The $2.3 million loan of October 1949 was repaid in full in 1951. This loan financed the purchase of forestry equipment to help Finland to increase: her exports of sawn timber to Western Europe.
France
Fiscal  $250 million 30-year 414% Loan of May 1947:  9, 1947 to Credit National for reconstruction.
This loan was completely disbursed during the second half of 1947, and financed imports of a wide range of raw materials, fuels and equipment. It helped to maintain economic activity and employment, facilitated the rehabilitation of essential transport facilities, and made possible new construction in heavy industry, notably for the production of steel.
Iceland
Fiscal  £875,000 ($2,450,000) 22-year 4%% 1951: Loan of June 20, 1951 for power development.
Fiscal  £360,000 ($1,008,000) 22-year 41/2% 1952:  Loan of November 1, 1951 for agriculture.
The agricultural loan will pay for the import of cement, steel, timber, fencing materials, seed and fertilizer, which are needed by farmers for building or improving farm houses and other farm buildings and for re-seeding and fencing grasslands. The equivalent of the loan in Icelandic kronur will be set aside in a special account at the Agricultural Bank for loans to farmers.
In the last few years both Government and private agencies have become concerned at the neglect of farm lands and the fall in agricultural output. Exports of live sheep, frozen lamb, wool and other agricultural products, which once accounted for a fourth of Iceland's exports, now are only a twelfth. Iceland has become excessively dependent on the fishing industry; and this dependence is a weakness which has been emphasized in recent years by sharp fluctuations in the price of fish and in the size of catches. The program of agricultural development will help correct this
situation by broadening the country's economic base.
The loan made in 1951 is helping to finance hydroelectric projects on the Sog and Laxa Rivers. These are several months behind in construction because of delays in procurement and technical difficulties. The estimated cost of the projects has risen by about 20%, mainly as the result of internal price rises.
Approximately two-fifths of each of the above loans has already been disbursed, the Bank making use of sterling raised in the London market in May 1951 and of parts of the capital subscriptions of the United Kingdom, France, Denmark and Norway.
The Bank has discussed with the Icelandic Government ways of channeling investment to achieve better balanced economic development. An officer of the Bank visited Iceland in October 1951 to advise the Government on the organization and functions of a new investment institution to be established in general accordance with the recommendations of an earlier Bank mission.
Italy
Fiscal $10 million 25-year 41/2% Loan of 1952: October 10, 1951 to the Cassa per Opere Straordinarie di Pubblico Interesse nelT Italia Meridionale (Cassa per il Mezzo-giorno) for development of the South of Italy.
The loan is to aid in carrying out the Government's 10-year plan for the development of southern Italy, including Sicily and Sardinia. The plan covers the period between July 1, 1950 and June 30, I960. It is adrriinistered by the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno and supervised by a special committee of the Council of Ministers. Investment is planned at the rate of 100 billion lire ($160 million) a year from funds allocated by the Italian Treasury. Three-fourths of the total 10-year appropriations of 1,000 billion lire ($1.6 billion) will be used in agriculture. Of the amount for agriculture, the largest part will be spent on irrigation, drainage and clearance of land. It is estimated that the area under irrigation in southern Italy will be increased tenfold. Other projects
a wide range of goods, including industrial equipment and merchant ships.
The 1948 loans to four shipping companies for the purchase of ships in the United States have been reduced to $7.8 million by repayments. All of these loans were sold by the Bank with its guarantee in 1948 and 1949.
The $15 million loan of 1949, now reduced to $7.9 million, was made to the Finance Corporation for National Reconstruction (Herstelbank) to provide foreign exchange for manufacturing industries in the Netherlands. Of the 35 projects for which the loan was used, seven were completed by the end of 1951 and 21 more are expected to be completed by the end of 1952.
Turkey
Fiscal  $3.9 million 18-year 3%% Loan °f 1951:  July 7, 1950 for grain-storage facilities. $12.5 million 25-year 4y4% Loan of July 7, 1950 for development of ports. $9 million   15-year  3%%   Loan of October 19, 1950 to Industrial Development Bank of Turkey for development of private industry. Fiscal   $25.2 million 25-year 4%% Loan of 195,2:  June 18, 1952 for multi-purpose dam and power facilities on the Seyhan River.
The loan made in 1952 will finance the foreign-exchange costs of a dam, a power-generating plant, and power transmission lines to industrial centers. The dam will help control floods and will provide water for irrigation and electric power in the Adana Plain, a productive agricultural and industrial area in south-central Turkey. The dam is the key to the Seyhan Project, a comprehensive plan being carried out by the Turkish Government for the control and use of the waters of the Seyhan River. The economic development of the Adana Plain has been limited by ruinous seasonal floods, an inadequate and irregular supply of water for cultivation, and a serious shortage of electric power.
The power plant at the dam will have an initial capacity of 36,000 kw. Housing will be provided for an additional 18,000 kw. generator which may be installed later. The power generated will make possible the growth of existing industries (textile
plants and plants for processing vegetable oils), the establishment of new ones, and additional public use of electricity. When completed, the power-generating and transmission facilities will be turned over for operation to a private corporation. Both the Government and private capital will share in the ownership of this corporation, but the majority of the stock will be held by private interests.
The port and grain-storage projects are behind schedule. Construction of the 29 steel sheds for grain storage is now well under way and should be completed this summer. Some of the inland silos may also be completed this year. Engineering studies required for the three large port silos have not yet been completed. Technical studies on several of the port development and construction projects have been finished and construction and cargo-handling equipment is being ordered. The delay in the execution of these projects has hampered the handling of Turkey's recent large surplus of grain.
The Industrial Development Bank has steadily increased the volume of its loans. By the end of May 1952, 15 months after the start of operations, it had approved loans amounting to 22 million Turkish liras (about $7 million). Five of these projects, requiring foreign exchange equivalent to about $1.9 million, were submitted to the International Bank in accordance with the loan agrees ment and were approved. One of these loans will help build a cotton-ginning and oil-seed plant; one will help to build a transmission line; and three are for cotton textile mills.
In August 1951 the Turkish Government signed a contract with the Development Bank by which the latter will make loans to private enterprises from T. L. 54.5 million of ECA counterpart funds.
Yugoslavia
Fiscal   $2.7 million 2-year 3% Loan of October 1950:   17, 1949 for equipment for timber production.
Fiscal   $28 million equivalent 25-year 4l/2% 1952:  Loan of October 11, 1951 for power, mining, industrial and other projects.
In October 1951 the Bank lent Yugoslavia an amount in various currencies equivalent to $28 million to provide the foreign exchange needed to complete projects in the fields of electric power, coal mining, non-ferrous metals development, industry, forest products utilization, agriculture and fisheries, and transportation. In addition to the amount of the Bank's loan, substantially larger amounts of foreign exchange and local currency are being invested by Yugoslavia. The projects selected by the Bank and the Yugoslav Government for Bank assistance were those that would increase Yugoslav production and improve its balance of payments position promptiy and substantially. In several cases the imports to be financed are relatively small amounts of key equipment needed to complete projects on which considerable investments have already been made.
Because of the present and probable future pattern of its foreign trade, Yugoslavia is able to service foreign indebtedness in Western European currencies with less difficulty than in dollars. The Bank therefore obtained permission from Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom to use parts of their capital subscriptions for this loan. Purchases are being made in Germany and in the United States and Canada as well as in the Western European coun-
WESTERN
Brazil
Fiscal   $75  million  25-year 4l/2% Loan of 1949:  January 27, 1949 to Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Company, Ltd. for power and telephone development program.
Fiscal $15 million 25-year 4y4% Loan of May 1950: 26, 1950 to Companhia Hidro Eletrica
do Sao Francisco for power development
project.
Fiscal   $15  million 25-year 4y4%  Loan of 1951:  January 18, 1951 to Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Company, Ltd. for power development program. Fiscal   $25 million 25-year 4%% Loan of June 1952:   27, 1952 to the Comissao Estadual de Energia Eletrica of Rio Grande do Sul for power development program. $12.5 million 15-year 4%% Loan of June 27, 1952 for improvement of railways.
tries which authorized the use of their capital. Purchases in the United States and Canada arc being financed through conversion of Swiss francs obtained from the Bank's security sales in Switzerland, and purchases in Germany are being financed through conversion of sterling from the Bank's London bond issue. It is expected, therefore, that the loan will be repayable entirely in currencies other than dollars.
During the year the $2.7 million timber-equipment loan was completely repaid. The object of the loan was to provide additional equipment to expand production of sawn softwood and pitprops.
Mediterranean Training Center
A Training Center on Agriculture and Allied Projects was established in Ankara, Turkey, from October to December 1951, to train government officials in appraising and drawing up agricultural development projects. The Center was sponsored jointly by Turkey, the United Nations, the Food and Agriculture Organization and the Bank. It was attended by 60 participants: 40 from Turkf ¦ and 20 from 10 other Mediterranean countries and territories. Instructors included two members of the Bank's staff.
HEMISPHERE
The $25 million loan of June 27, 1952, will finance imported equipment needed for the electric power program of the State of Rio Grande do Sul. The borrower is a State-owned agency-, the Comissao Estadual de Energia Eletrica (CEEE).
Additional power is urgently needed in Rio Grande do Sul. Because of its favorable climate, fertile land and vigorous population, the State is an important agricultural and cattle-raising area. Related industries, such as food processing, shoe manufacturing and textile plants, have already been established there. The State contains Brazil's largest known deposits of coal. Prospects are good for further development of industry as well as agriculture.
Brazil
Fiscal   $75  million  25-year 4l/2% Loan of 1949:  January 27, 1949 to Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Company, Ltd. for power and telephone development program.
Fiscal   $15 million 25-year Loan of May
1950: 26, 1950 to Companhia Hidro Eletrica
do Sao Francisco for power development
project.
Fiscal   $15  million 25-year 4i^%  Loan of 1951:  January 18, 1951 to Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Company, Ltd. for power development program. Fiscal   $25 million 25-year 4%% Loan of June 1952:   27, 1952 to the Comissao Estadual de Energia Eletrica of Rio Grande do Sul for power development program. $12.5 million 15-year 4%% Loan of June 27, 1952 for improvement of railways.
The $25 million loan of June 27, 1952, will finance imported equipment needed for the electric power program of the State of Rio Grande do Sul. The borrower is a State-owned agency-, the Comissao Estadual de Energia Eletrica (CEEE).
Additional power is urgently needed in Rio Grande do Sul. Because of its favorable climate, fertile land and vigorous population, the State is an important agricultural and cattle-raising area. Related industries, such as food processing, shoe: manufacturing and textile plants, have already been established there. The State contains Brazil's largest known deposits of coal. Prospects are good for further development of industry as well as agriculture.
WESTERN HEMISPHERE
Demands for electric power for both industrial, commercial and residential purposes have been steadily increasing, and shortages have necessitated power rationing. In the north-central section of the State, over 3,000 industrial plants now have to generate their own power with relatively small and inefficient units.
The State has undertaken an electrification program to meet present needs and to provide for future requirements. The program is being carried out in two stages. The first, now almost completed, will add about 40,000 kw. to present capacity and will relieve the most critical power shortages. The second stage, which is to be completed in I960, will provide power for longer range development. It will add 185,000 kw. to the State's power system through the construction of four hydroelectric power stations, two steam turbine plants and some small diesel plants. By I960, the system is to have more than twice its present capacity.
The Bank's loan will be applied to projects in the second stage of the program which are to be completed in or before 1957. The funds required during that time will be equivalent to about $80 million. The Brazilian Government will finance works costing the equivalent of $16 million; CEEE will receive $39 million worth of cruzeiros from the proceeds of a State electrification tax and from operating revenues; and the Bank's loan will provide $25 million.
The $12.5 million loan of June 27, 1952 was made directly to the Brazilian Government. It will be used to purchase imports needed in an urgent project for rehabilitating the Central do Brasil Railroad and adding to its carrying capacity. The project is to add to rolling stock, improve maintenance, rehabilitate broad-gauge track and strengthen bridges. Most of the loan will be used to buy components of freight cars to be assembled in Brazil. The remainder will be used to buy equipment for track maintenance, stone quarrying (to provide track ballast), maintenance shops and switches.
This project is to be completed in about three years, except for track rehabilitation, which is expected to take about five. The total cost is estimated at the equivalent of approximately $76 million. Of this amount, the Brazilian Government will provide $64 million in cruzeiros and the Bank will provide $12.5 million in foreign exchange.
The Central do Brasil Railroad serves the economic center of Brazil. It links the important cities of Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Belo Horizonte; and serves Volta Redonda, Brazil's largest steel plant, and the mining State of Minas Gerais. The railroad is a large carrier of iron ores, steel, fuel and food products, as well as of passengers.
The $90 million loan made in two installments to the Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Company, Ltd., is financing most of the foreign-exchange cost of a $270 million program for expanding hydroelectric generating and transmitting facilities in the Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo areas. The loan has already enabled Brazilian Traction to increase its power capacity substantially. Two hydroelectric generating units, with a total capacity of 117,000 kw., have been installed, and a 30,000 kw. floating power plant has been added to the system. The first phase of the complex Paraiba-Pirai River diversion project, built to provide an ample water supply for the new Forgacava plant and the old Fontes plant, has been completed. The Company expects the first unit at Forgacava to be in operation early next year, thus adding 35,000 kw. to the system. The total planned capacity of this plant is 330,000 kw., of which 195,000 kw. is expected to be in operation by the end of 1953.
Already the Company's output of power has been increased by one billion kilowatt-hours per annum. About half the power sold is for the use of industrial consumers. The first installment is also helping to finance expansion of telephone facilities in the same area. The program for augmenting telephone facilities is scheduled for completion before the end of 1952.
Work is continuing on the project of the Com-panhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco for the construction of a hydroelectric power plant at Paulo Afonso Falls in northeastern Brazil. In spite of construction difficulties, this project is being carried forward in a satisfactory manner.
In November 1951 the President of the Bank visited Brazil for two weeks to learn at first hand about Brazil's development problems and plans. His trip took him to Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Porto Alegre and Belo Horizonte.
British Guiana
In June 1952 two members of the staff visited British Guiana to discuss a request that the Bank arrange a mission to study the major economic problems of the colony.
Chile
Fiscal   $13.5 million 20-year 41/2% Loan of 1948:   March   25,   1948  to   Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion (Fomento) and Empresa Nacional de Eiectricidad, S. A. (Endesa) for power development. $2.5 million 61/2-year 3%% Loan of March  25,   1948  to  Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion for importation of agricultural machinery. Fiscal   $1.3 million  10-year 4%%  Loan of 1952:   October 10,   1951  to Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion for exploration and use of water resources of the Rio Elqui Valley.
The project in the Rio Elqui Valley in north central Chile will be carried out in two stages. In the first stage, the volume of underground water, already known to be large, will be precisely determined. In the second stage, permanent pumps and electric power facilities for operating them will be installed.
Agricultural production in the river valleys in northern Chile is severely limited by irregularity in the flow and volume of surface waters available for irrigation. The present project is a pilot undertaking. If successful, it would point the way to a much larger development of irrigation and agriculture, both in the Rio Elqui Valley and in other river valleys of northern Chile. The
project is being carried out by Chile's Department of Public Works. All equipment required tor the project has been purchased and technical experts from abroad are at work.
The Endesa hydroelectric project is proceeding, satisfactorily. The Bank-financed unit at Pilmai-quen (capacity 10,800 kw.), which serves the fertile agricultural area in the south of Chile, started operations early in 1952. The 16,000 kw." unit at Los Molles, which will serve the area of La Serena, some 500 kilometers north of Santiago,, is expected to go into operation by September or October 1952. The Los Cipreses hydroelectric plant, with a generating capacity of 54,000 kw., is expected to start operating during the second half of 1953. In response to a request from Fomento and Endesa, the Bank has agreed to permit the Los Cipreses project to be enlarged to include the construction of a transmission line linking the south-central power area with that of Santiago. This will assure a steady supply of power for Santiago and for the industrial center of Conception. Because of economies effected in the original project, the foreign-exchange costs of the proposed extension can be met from the original loan.
Virtually all equipment provided under the Bank's agricultural machinery loan has been sold to farmers. Spot checks indicate that dealers are providing adequate repair facilities and spare parts; farmers are making good use of the equipment and giving it proper maintenance.
Bank representatives visited Chile in February " 1952 to examine a project for the construction of pulp and newsprint plants; and at the close of the . fiscal year, negotiations for a loan were well advanced. The Bank has also been considering requests submitted by two private coal-mining companies for assistance in financing the rehabilitation and modernization of their mines.
The joint Bank-FAO mission, which made a field study of agricultural development in Chile in collaboration with the Chilean Government ' and other technical experts, returned to Washington in September 1951.   In June, the chief of
mission returned to Chile to discuss the mission's major findings and recommendations with the Government and with FAO and Point Four specialists. The mission's final report and recommendations for a program of agricultural development will soon be formally presented to the Government.
Colombia
Fiscal   $5 million 7-year 3l/2% Loan of August 1950:   19, 1949 to Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero for importation of agricultural machinery; reduced at the request- of the borrower to $4.9 million on April 2, 1951. Fiscal   $3.53  million  20-year 4%  Loan of 1951: November 2, 1950 to Central Hidroelectrica del Rio Anchicaya, Limitada, for power development project. $2.6 million 20-year 4% Loan of December 28, 1950 to Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas, Limitada, for power development project.
$16.5 million 10-year 37/s% Loan of April 10, 1951 for highway construction and rehabilitation.
Fiscal   $2.4 million 20-year 41/2% Loan of 1952:  November 13, 1951 to Central Hidroelectrica del Rio Lebrija, Limitada, for power development project.
The most recent of three Bank loans for the development of electric power in Colombia was made to the Central Hidroelectrica del Rio Lebrija, a publicly owned company, to increase the supply of power for the city of Bucaramanga, the center of the tobacco-processing industry. The project provides for the building of a hydroelectric plant, construction of transmission lines, and the enlargement of the present distribution system. The plant initially will have an installed capacity of about 7,500 kw. but is designed for an eventual capacity of about 15,000 kw. Work is already far advanced and the project is scheduled for completion in late 1953.
Progress under the Bank's other two power loans has been satisfactory. In December 1951 the first generator installed by the Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas began to supply power for the city of Manizales.
In 1952 the highway rehabilitation project was changed, to pave 50% instead of 15% of the
mileage included in the project. The additional foreign-exchange requirements are being met by using part of the unallocated funds available from the Bank loan. Additional local-currency financing will be provided from Colombian budgetary sources.
The loan for the purchase of agricultural machinery by the Caja de Credito Agrario was fully disbursed early in 1951. All the machinery bought with the loan has been distributed for sale on credit to farmers, and most of it is actually in use. Payments made by the purchasers are accumulating in a revolving fund from which the loan eventually will be amortized. To the extent that the sales proceeds are not immediately needed for the purpose of amortization, they are used by the Caja to acquire additional machinery. Farmers' payments for this machinery, in turn, are put back in the fund. More machinery has been purchased out of the fund than was originally financed by the Bank's loan.
The Bank has under consideration a project for the construction of a Magdalena Valley Railroad which would greatly improve the communication between the Caribbean coast and the central part of Colombia. The railroad would replace river transportation on part of the Magdalena River, where traffic is subject to serious interruption in dry seasons. It would thereby provide a reliable, year-round route between the Bogota area and the Caribbean ports, and an all-rail route between Bogota and Medellin. Its completion would also provide better access for colonization of fertile areas of the Magdalena Valley. Since December 1951, consulting engineers engaged jointly by the Bank and the Government have been studying the railway system with a view to suggesting measures for administrative and financial reorganization.
These engineers are also making a study of a proposed corporation to operate ground and communications facilities for civil aviation. Their report is expected to be ready in the latter part of 1952.
The Bank has continued to provide a variety of technical assistance to aid the Government in
carrying out a long-range development program. The Economic Development Committee, established in 1950 to work out specific recommendations for a development program based on the report of the Bank's general survey mission, completed its work in September 1951. Several members of the Bank's staff assisted the Committee in its studies. In August 1951 the Vice President of the Bank visited Colombia to discuss the progress being made; and early in 1952 a member of the staff was stationed for several weeks in Bogota as a special representative of the Bank.
The Colombian Government is carrying out measures recommended by the Economic Development Committee. In April 1952 it named a National Board of Economic Planning, to advise on the coordination of development activities and to direct a newly established central planning office. An Economic Advisor nominated by the Bank has been appointed by the Board.
In November 1951 the Bank sent an expert to Colombia to suggest ways of developing the capital market. His report has been completed, and will soon be transmitted to the Colombian Government.
Costa Rica
At the request of the Government, a Bank mission visited Costa Rica in October 1951 to study the economic situation and to examine the Government's development plans. The Bank afterward informed the Government that it was willing in principle to help finance railroad, highway and airport projects, and to consider other projects when they were ready. In February 1952 the Government informed the Bank that, in view of a substantial budget surplus in 1951 and good revenue prospects for the current year, it would be able to carry forward its immediate development program without external financial assistance.
Cuba
The report of the Bank's general survey mission was presented to the Government in August 1951.
In its report the mission expressed the belief that Cuba has ample resources, both human and material, with which to increase its output, broaden its economic base, and create a better standard of living for its people. The report offers a large number of suggestions and recommendations in various fields and urges that the Cubans work out for themselves a long-term strategy for development aimed at the following objectives:
1. To make Cuba less dependent on sugar by promoting new enterprises—not by curtailing sugar production.
2. To expand existing—and create new—industries producing sugar by-products or using sugar as a raw material. This objective deserves a first priority because progress in this direction will make the sugar sector of the economy more stable.
3. To promote vigorously the export of non-sugar products in order to reduce the dependence on exports of sugar. This will help both to raise total income and employment and to stabilize the economy. Among the most promising possibilities for achieving this aim are the promotion of exports of minerals and of various crude and processed foodstuffs.
4. To produce in Cuba, for domestic consumption, a wide range of foodstuffs, raw materials and consumer goods which are now imported.
To foster development, the mission outlines action that should be taken in applied research, education, labor-management relations, and in the field of government policy and reform. It also makes recommendations on ways of increasing agricultural and industrial production, and of improving railroad transportation.
Dominican Republic
A Bank mission visited the Dominican Republic in May 1952 to explore the Government's request for technical assistance in connection with the development of hydroelectric power. As a result of the visit, the Bank has given the Government a list of engineering firms qualified to make technical and market studies, and has agreed to nominate a consultant who can advise the Government on problems of policy.
Ecuador
The Bank has received technical studies on projects for the construction of a new port for
Guayaquil and for highway development in the Province of Guayas. The Bank has informed the Government that soon after the elections, held in June 1952, it would send a representative to Ecuador for preliminary discussions with the President and the President-elect. It has also stressed the importance of the restoration by Ecuador of a satisfactory relationship with holders of its external bonds.
El Salvador
Fiscal $12,545 million 25-year 4y4% Loan of 1950:  December 14, 1949 to Comision Ejecu-
tiva Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa for
power development project.
Until early this year generally satisfactory progress had been made in the construction of the hydroelectric project on the Lempa River. In February and March, however, the contractor encountered difficulties in diverting the river from the dam site; and excavation and concrete pouring are now about two months behind schedule.
Guatemala
In July 1951 the Bank submitted to the Government the report of a general survey mission which visited Guatemala in the summer of 1950. The general program of development proposed by the group was summarized in the Sixth Annual Report.
The Government established a Citizens' Committee to study the mission report and to make recommendations for a long-term development program. A member of the Bank's staff spent several months in Guatemala assisting the Committee and advising the Government on various aspects of the program proposed in the report. The Committee endorsed nearly all of the mission's recommendations, and in December 1951 the Government announced that it would include the proposals of the Committee in its economic program. The Government already is carrying out some of the measures suggested by the Bank's mission and endorsed by the citizens' group. Construction of an urgently needed highway
between Guatemala City and the Atlantic coast has begun. A commission has been appointed to make recommendations for reorganization of the nationalized coffee estates. The Government has increased the tax on coffee exports; and technical committees have been appointed to recommend measures for the development of hydroelectric potential and of port facilities on the Atlantic coast.
Jamaica
At the request of the Governments of the United Kingdom and Jamaica, the Bank sent a general survey mission to Jamaica early in March 1952. The mission consisted of seven experts: four members of the Bank's staff, two agricultural specialists selected in cooperation with the Food and Agriculture Organization (which shared the cost of their services), and a consultant on social services who was recruited by the Bank. This mission remained in the Colony for about two months studying development requirements, and is now preparing its report.
Mexico
Fiscal $24.1 million 25-year 4y2% Loan of 1949:   January 6, 1949 to Comision Federal de
Electricidad and Nacional Financiera for
power development.
$10 million 1-year 41/2% Loan of January 6, 1949 to Comision Federal de Electricidad and Nacional Financiera for power development. (Refunded) Fiscal   $26 million 25-year 4y2% Loan of April 1950:  28, 1950 to Mexican Light and Power Company, Ltd. for power development. Fiscal  $10 million (maturity dates 1952-1957) 1951:  3V2% Line of Credit of October 18, 1950 to a Consortium of Eight Mexican Banks and Nacional Financiera for financial assistance to small enterprises. Expired on June 30, 1952, with $0,556 million of loans outstanding. Fiscal   $29.7 million 25-year 4y2% Loan of 1952:  January 11, 1952 to Comision Federal de Electricidad and Nacional Financiera for power development.
The Bank has now lent nearly $90 million for the development of electric power in Mexico. By 1955, when the projects financed by the most
recent loan to the Federal Electricity Commission and Nacional Financiera are completed, Bank-financed projects will have contributed 700,000 kw. to Mexico's generating capacity. Total capacity in 1955 will be 1,850,000 kw., or nearly double the capacity at the time of the Bank's first power loan in 1949. Because of the rapid growth of population and industry, this increase will be sufficient only to meet the most essential requirements.
The latest loan for the Federal Electricity Commission will help, finance two hydroelectric plants, four steam electric plants, and increased distribution facilities. The projects are located in widely separated parts of the country. Some of them will serve industrial areas, such as Mexico City and Monterrey, where further development is hampered by lack of power. Others will help stimulate the development of agriculture and industry in relatively undeveloped regions, such as Yucatan and Lower California.
One of the two hydroelectric plants, at Tingam-bato in the State of Mexico, will generate 150,000 kw. This will be the largest power plant in the country. The other hydroelectric plant, at El Cobano in the State of Michoacan, will generate 55,000 kw. This plant will make use of hydraulic works already constructed for irrigation. It will supply power for an area where rapid industrial development is taking place.
One of the steam electric plants (30,000 kw.) will be built in Monterrey, the second most important industrial city in Mexico, and another (10,000 kw.) at Veracruz, the chief seaport. Smaller plants will be built in Lower California and Yucatan.
In the State of Sonora new distribution facilities will permit fuller use of the generating stations constructed at Ciudad Obregon and Guaymas with the aid of the Bank's previous loan to the Commission.
The construction programs financed by the Bank's earlier power loans are now well advanced. Some of the projects are already making important contributions to the power supply. With the
aid of the $24.1 million loan of 1949, the Federal Electricity Commission is carrying out projects which will add 300,000 kw. to its generating capacity. Of this total, 155,000 kw. will be installed in the Miguel Aleman hydroelectric system, which supplies part of Mexico City's power; this addition to the system is due to be completed in 1953.
In addition to its larger installations, the Commission has built diesel-electric plants in several areas that formerly had no organized public utility supply of power. In these areas the smaller plants have made a striking contribution to productive efficiency and to the well-being of the people.
The Mexican Light and Power Company, Ltd., is also making progress on the construction program which the Bank helped to finance by its $26 million loan of 1950. This program is intended, in combination with expansion of the Commission's Miguel Aleman system, to ease the shortage of power in the Mexico City area. Mexlight distributes the power generated in the Miguel Aleman system as well as that from its own plants. The loan is helping Mexlight to add 152,000 kw. to its generating capacity and to install added facilities for transmission and distribution; these additions are expected to be finished in 1953.
In October 1950 the Bank opened a line of credit of $10 million to a consortium of eight leading commercial banks and National Financiera for the purpose of assisting industrial development. Specific loans were to be provided through the members of the consortium to finance medium-sized and small industrial projects. As of June 30, 1952, the last day on which the Bank's approval of loans under the line of credit was to be given, only six loans, totaling $595,050, had been made; and one of these had been canceled by the borrower.
The disappointing results of this experiment can be traced to several causes. First, the line of credit became effective at a time when the foreign-exchange holdings in Mexico were increasing
rapidly, and the Mexican banks did not feel the need for this credit; private capital from abroad became more readily available, and the Bank's line of credit became correspondingly less attractive. Second, the requirements of Mexican law regarding loans for private industry are both strict and complex, and have made the practical operation of the line of credit difficult. Third, potential borrowers under the line of credit were reluctant to assume any part of the foreign-exchange risk involved.
Nicaragua
Fiscal $3.5 million 10-year. 4*4% Loan of 1951: June 7, 1951 for highway construction. $1.2 million 7-year 4% Loan of June 7, 1951 to the Banco Nacional de Nicaragua for importation of agricultural machinery.
Fiscal   $550,000 10-year 4%% Loan of Octo-1952:  ber 29, 1951 for construction of grain-storage facilities.
The drying and storage plant to be financed by the loan of October 1951 will have a capacity of 6,000 tons. It will be built at Managua, the largest center of grain consumption. At present, Nicaragua loses a substantial portion of her grain through spoilage because of a complete lack of modern facilities for drying and storage. Successful operation of the plant would demonstrate the advantages that could be obtained by building similar plants in other parts of the country. Such installations would bring greater stability in the supply and price of grain and grain foods, improvement in the quality of grain marketed for local consumption, and an increase in the quantity and quality of grain available for export.
Satisfactory progress has been made under the farm machinery and highway construction loans made by the Bank in June 1951. A considerable part of the agricultural machinery has been delivered. Procurement of the highway machinery is going forward and road construction has begun.
A special representative of the Bank arrived in Nicaragua in July 1951, to help the Government's new National Economic Council prepare a development program. He was assisted by a Bank
engineer, and coordinated the work of other experts, enlisted by the Government (or by the Bank on the Government's behalf) to advise on problems in their special fields. Consultants included: a representative of the Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion of Chile, who gave advice on the organization of a development corporation in Nicaragua; a staff member of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, who made recommendations for fiscal reforms; a Food and Agriculture Organization expert, who made a survey of agricultural needs; and a member of the Bank's own staff, who made recommendations on the development of transportation and communications. In addition, the Bank gave leave of absence to a Nicaraguan member of its staff in December 1951 so that he could serve as Executive Secretary of the National Economic Council.
The Bank's special representative returned to Washington in May 1952. At the end of the fiscal year his report was being reviewed in the Bank before being submitted formally to the Government. Already, however, the Government has taken a number of steps along the lines suggested by him. It has (l) undertaken the organization of a National Development Institute to promote the growth of industry and agriculture; (2) started work on a number of projects which will be part of a five-year development program; (3) drawn up a budget which provides for a marked increase of development expenditure; and (4) undertaken major changes in its fiscal, budgetary and tariff policies. The Government is also studying other major administrative changes which will aid in carrying out the five-year development plan recommended by the Bank's representative.
Panama
The mission mentioned in the Sixth Annual Report visited Panama in September and October 1951. Its report is now being considered by the Government.
The mission concluded that it would be difficult for Panama to prepare and carry out a comprehensive development program until various fiscal
and administrative reforms had been made. It
believed, however, that if these reforms were actively begun, the Bank could consider the financing of agricultural projects without waiting for the preparation of a complete development program.
Paraguay
Fiscal   $5 million 9-year 4%% Loan of Decem-1952:  ber 7, 1951 for the importation of agricultural  machinery and  supplies and road-building equipment.
This loan will finance imports of farm machinery and supplies, road-building and maintenance equipment, and trucks. Wider distribution and use of farm machinery and supplies should enable farmers to increase the acreage under cultivation and improve yields per acre. Better roads and motorized transport will link isolated producing areas, and should not only reduce losses of perishable goods between farm and market, but should also induce farmers to raise larger crops.
The farm machinery and supplies will be sold to farmers either for cash or on credit extended by the Banco del Paraguay and by the Credito Agri-cola de Habilitacion (CAH). For farmers who cannot afford to buy machinery, machinery pools will be established by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. Provision has been made for skilled operators and effective repair and maintenance facilities for each pool.
The road-building and maintenance equipment will be used by the Ministry of Public Works and Telecommunications for the completion or construction and maintenance of trunk roads in selected farming regions. Trucks will be operated by the Banco del Paraguay for distributing farm supplies and bringing crops to market.
The Loan Agreement required that steps be taken to strengthen the financial position and organization of CAH and to improve accounting methods and procedures for controlling the distribution of the Bank-financed farm implements and supplies.  While substantial progress has been
made, these requirements have not been fully met and the loan has not become effective.
Peru
Fiscal   $2.5 million 15-year 4y2%  Loan of 1952: January 23, 1952 for improvement of the Pert of Callao.
This loan will be used to provide modern facilities for the handling of general cargo and for the unloading and storage of bulk grain. These cargoes account for about 80 to 85% of the freight moving through the port. More efficient handling of these cargoes will reduce the turnaround time of ships, eliminate losses of grain from spillage, and effect savings of foreign exchange. To assure efficient operation of the port, the Government is setting up an autonomous Port Authority under the direction of an experienced Port Administrator.
Under consideration for Bank financing are projects for highway construction and maintenance, irrigation, purchase of agricultural machinery, and the provision of agricultural credit.
During the past year Peru has been actively negotiating settlement of her dollar and sterling debts. In November 1951 the Government announced the terms of a readjustment plan for the dollar debt, negotiated with the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Inc., of New York. In April 1952 the Peruvian Congress passed a law authorizing the Government to put the settlement into effect. Negotiations have also taken place with the Council of Foreign Bondholders in London on two sterling bond issues but so far these negotiations have not led to agreement.
Surinam
At the request of the Netherlands and Surinam Governments, a general survey mission from the Bank visited Surinam in November 1951. The six-man mission included four members of the staff and two experts nominated by the Food and Agriculture Organization. A report of its findings has been transmitted to the two Governments. The report contains recommendations for the
development of agriculture, forestry, fisheries, transportation and social services, aimed at strengthening the country's economy and maintaining the standard of living of the growing population.
The mission recommends a 10-year public investment program beginning in mid-1952 of 100 million Surinam guilders, on the assumption that financing from the Netherlands would be available to the extent of 4 million Surinam guilders a year and that other external credits could be obtained. The mission outlines a supplementary program of 30 million guilders, to be undertaken to the extent that additional resources, technical as well as financial, prove to be available.
The program of public investment recommended by the mission places primary emphasis on improving agricultural production and opening up the tropical forests. The mission suggests that the program be administered by a development board to be created jointly by the Governments of the Netherlands and of Surinam.
Uruguay
Fiscal  $33  million  24-year 4y4%  Loan of 1951:  August   25,   1950  to Administration General de las Usinas Electricas y los Telefonos del Estado for power and telephone development program.
As a result of delay in making this loan effective and in concluding contracts for the principal sections of the project, the power program will probably be about a year behind schedule. Contracts have now been awarded and orders placed for the 50,000 kw. thermal generating unit at Montevideo, for the diesel engines for power plants in the interior of the country, and for equipment for the lower part of the western transmission circuit which will serve the southwestern region of Uruguay. The expansion of telephone services is proceeding according to schedule.
The report of a joint Bank-FAO mission was presented to the Government in July 1951. The report contains a series of recommendations on measures to stimulate and improve agricultural and livestock production, to reduce costs of production and to improve marketing methods. It stresses the need for expanding research, which requires, among other things, the provision of facilities to develop and test new methods for increasing productivity. In addition, the report recommends a program of increased afforestation to protect agricultural and grazing land and to increase domestic fuel and lumber supplies. In the opinion of the mission, there are also wide opportunities for improvement in the transportation, storage and marketing of agricultural products.
The report outlines suggested changes in the organization of public agencies concerned with agriculture, to assure the services needed for successful execution of the recommended production and marketing program. While the mission did not attempt to calculate precisely the amount of capital investment which would be required to carry out its recommendations, it noted that the period of agricultural prosperity then prevailing was a favorable time to undertake important adjustments and improvements.
Training Center and Seminar
A Latin American Training Center on Agriculture and Allied Plans and Projects was conducted in Santiago, Chile from October to December 1951, to train government officials in appraising and drawing up agricultural development projects. The Center was sponsored jointly by Chile, the United Nations, the Food and Agriculture Organization and the Bank. It was attended by 68 participants from 20 Latin American countries. Instructors included two members of the Bank's staff.
Chapter III - Financial Activities and Resources
EARNINGS, RESERVES, REPAYMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
Net income during the fiscal year 1951-52 amounted to $15,872,883 as compared with $15,156,947 during the previous fiscal year. In accordance with a decision of the Executive Directors and the Board of Governors this net income has been placed in a general reserve against losses on loans and guarantees. On June 30, 1952 this reserve amounted to $58,028,100.
Loan commissions for the year totaled $7,558,906 and, as required by the Articles of Agreement, they were credited to the Special Reserve for meeting the Bank's obligations. The Special Reserve amounted to $27,684,654 on June 30, 1952. Total reserves of the Bank on that date aggregated $85,712,754.
Gross income for the fiscal year, exclusive of loan commissions, was $35,188,744. Of this amount, loan income totaled $26,587,555, income from investments, $8,500,740 and other income, $100,449. Gross expenses increased from $13,045,595 in the 1950-51 fiscal year to $19,315,861 in the past fiscal year. The increase resulted almost entirely from increases in interest rates and other costs of the Bank's borrowings. More and more of the loans made by the Bank are being financed out of borrowed funds, as nearly all of the capital subscribed by members and released for lending has been committed.
All repayments of principal due during the year were received. They amounted to $4,239,011. In addition, $1,863,000 was paid by borrowers to investors to retire portions of loans which had been sold by the Bank.
Disbursements on loans during the year amounted to $184,777,004 as compared with $77,564,969 during the previous year. Cumulative disbursements to June 30, 1952 amounted to $876,504,133. Of this amount $827,364,519 was repayable in United States dollars. The equivalent of $49,139,614 was repayable in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor and Swiss francs. Of the $184.8 million disbursed during the year, $116.5 million (63%) was spent in the United States and $68.3 million in other countries.
The geographical distribution of total expenditures financed by the Bank through June 30, 1952 is as follows:
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR LENDING
This table includes only those funds which have been used by the Bank or which are expected to be used without further approval of members. In addition, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Hon-
duras, Mexico and Paraguay have released all or part of their 18% capital subscriptions for the purchase of goods in their respective territories. To date borrowers have not made any purchases in these countries, and it is unlikely that they will do so in the near future. The amounts released by them therefore have not been included in the statement of funds available for lending. Other members have expressed a willingness to consider releases from their 18% subscriptions when borrowers propose purchases in their countries.
Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States have agreed that the Bank may relend all their 18% funds which are repaid by borrowers or recovered through sales from portfolio. Canada and the United States, and to a limited extent France and the United Kingdom, have agreed that funds released by them may be converted into various currencies to cover the cost of goods purchased in other countries.
There are still large amounts of 18% currency which the Bank has not yet received permission to use but which could be of the greatest advantage in its lending operations. Releases of these funds would enable the Bank to expand its activities in countries which have a limited ability to repay dollar obligations but have adequate earnings to service external debt in other currencies.
SALES OF SECURITIES
Direct obligations of the Bank sold to investors during the year amounted to $175.3 million. This is the largest volume of the Bank's bonds issued in any single fiscal year since 1947-48, when the initial issues, totaling $250 million, were offered in the United States market. Sold during the year were two issues in the United States in a total amount of $150 million; one issue in Switzerland in the amount of Sw fr 50,000,000, the equivalent of approximately $11.6 million; and an issue in Canada amounting to Canadian $15
million. The lendable resources of the Bank were also replenished by sales of bonds from its portfolio, equivalent to about $23-4 million.
There has been an encouraging broadening of the market for the Bank's obligations, with more general acceptance of the bonds by large institutional investors in the United States and institutional and individual investors in other countries. It is estimated that of the total direct and guaranteed obligations outstanding in an amount equivalent to approximately $536.7 mil-
lion, about $130 million is held by investors outside the United States.
Conditions in the United States money market were unsettled during the year, with intermittent periods of strength and weakness complicating the task of large-scale financing. The general trend, however, was toward higher interest rates, and this increased the costs of long-term borrowing to the U. S. Treasury and to other borrowers, both public and private. The Bank, despite the further seasoning of its bonds and a widening distribution, has likewise had to pay higher interest rates on its bonds, and there has been a corresponding rise in the rates of interest on its loans.
New Issues of the Bank's Bonds
In the Sixth Annual Report it was noted that arrangements had been completed for the first public offering of the Bank's bonds in Switzerland. On July 3, 1951 a syndicate of leading Swiss banks publicly offered at par Sw fr 50,000,000 (approximately $11.6 million) of the Bank's 31/2% Twelve-Year Bonds due August 1, 1963. The issue was heavily oversubscribed. The banking syndicate was headed by The Swiss Bank Corporation, of Basle, the Credit Suisse, of Zurich, and the Union Bank of Switzerland, of Zurich.
On September 12, 1951 the Bank offered in the United States a new issue at par of $100 million 314% Thirty-Year Bonds of 1951 due October 1, 1981. The issue was offered through a Sponsoring Group of 32 leading United States commercial banks and investment banking firms managed jointly by The First National Bank of Chicago and Halsey, Stuart & Co. Inc. The distribution of the bonds was accomplished through a large selling group which included three European and two Canadian participants. United States savings banks pension and trust funds and life insurance companies were the principal purchasers. Canadian, European and Asiatic institutions also purchased an impressive amount.
On February 5, 1952 a new issue at par of Can $15 million 4% Ten-Year Canadian dollar bonds of 1952 due February 1, 1962 was offered through
a Canadian syndicate of investment dealers and chartered banks headed by the Dominion Securities Corpn. Limited, A. E. Ames & Co., Limited, and Wood, Gundy & Company Limited. The bonds were heavily oversubscribed.
On May 14, 1952 the Bank sold an issue of $50 million Twenty-Three Year Bonds of
1952, due May 15, 1975, to an underwriting group of 119 commercial banks and investment banking firms managed jointly by Morgan Stanley & Co. and The First Boston Corporation. The bonds, offered to the public at 981/2, were in strong demand. The direct, negotiated sale to underwriters was a method not previously used by the Bank in the sale of its bonds in the United States market. The initial issues offered in 1947 were sold on an agency basis through approximately 1,700 security dealers; the next issue was sold early in 1950 through competitive bidding to a group of commercial banks and investment banking firms; and for the two issues sold in 1951, the sponsorship agency method was used but with the number of participating banks and investment firms greatly reduced. The several methods have been employed to determine which was best suited for the most efficient distribution and which would best serve the interests both of the investor and the Bank. The results achieved in the last issue proved highly satisfactory.
All of the Bank's United States dollar bond issues are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and certain of them are also listed on the exchanges in Amsterdam, Antwerp, Brussels, Istanbul, Mexico City and Paris. The Sterling 31/? s of 1966/71 are listed in London and the Swiss Franc 3V2S °^ *963 are quoted on the stock exchanges of Basle, Zurich, Geneva and Berne.
Sales of Bonds from the Bank's Portfolio
Sales of the obligations of the Bank's borrowers continued to increase in the fiscal year. During the period, the Bank sold the equivalent of $23,359,192 principal amount of borrowers' obligations, of which $12,950,001 carried its unconditional guarantee and $10,409,191 were sold with-
out recourse to the Bank. Obligations of 16 borrowers were sold either with or without the Bank's guarantee. Included among the sales without the Bank's guarantee is the participation to the extent of $3.5 million by an American banking institution in the loan by the Bank to KLM Royal Dutch Airlines. Cumulative sales of the securities of borrowers from the Bank's portfolio to June 30, 1952 expressed in United States dollars were $56,376,688, consisting of $41,499,001 sold with the Bank's guarantee and $14,877,687 without.
Broadening Market for the Bank's Bonds
There is evidence of an expanding market for the Bank's bonds in the United States. During the fiscal year some large institutional investors made their first purchases of the Bank's bonds, others re-established earlier positions, and many added substantially to their holdings.
In the United States, mutual savings banks, life insurance companies, and pension and trust funds are the principal investors in the Bank's bonds. Each of these three groups holds approximately 20%, of the outstanding total. Another 20% is held by commercial banks and other investors. The remaining 20% is owned by investors outside the United States; this includes the major portion of the Bank's obligations not denominated in United States dollars, equivalent to about $50 million; and an estimated $69 million of direct obligations of the Bank payable in United States dollars. Among the non-United States purchasers are the central banking institutions of 12 member nations, which have some of the largest holdings of the Bank's obligations. In addition, approximately $11 million of the obligations of borrowers, to which the Bank has added its unconditional guarantee of principal and interest, are held outside the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND REPORTS
Appendices A through G provide a balance sheet showing the financial position of the Bank as of June 30, 1952, a comparative statement of income and expenses for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1951 and June 30, 1952, a complete state-
ment of loans up to the end of the fiscal year, an opinion of the auditor, and other schedules giving details about the assets and the capital structure of the Bank.
Chapter IV - Management and Organization
Personnel and Organization
Mr. Chauncey G. Parker, Director of Administration, returned to the Bank on April 16, 1952 on completion of duty in Germany with the United States Government. Since January 1, 1951 he had held the post of Assistant U. S. High Commissioner.
On November 1, 1951 the Staff Office was redesignated the Technical Assistance and Liaison Department and Mr. Richard H. Demuth was named Director. The new department is responsible for the Bank's technical assistance activities and for liaison with the United Nations and other specialized agencies.
During the fiscal year there have been 76 appointments to the permanent staff of the Bank and 67 terminations. As of June 30, 1952, the staff of the Bank consisted of 433 regular members from 31 countries.
Training Program
The fourth course of the Junior Professional and Administrative Training Program began in January 1952 with trainees from Australia, Austria, Chile, Egypt, France, India, South Africa and Syria. To date, citizens of 28 of the Bank's member countries have participated in this program. Selection is now being made of candidates
for the fifth annual course, which begins in January 1953.
The Public Finance Training Program has made training available to an income tax official from Iraq and to central bank officials from Thailand and Iran. This program will be continued in the coming year.
Staff Retirement Plan
Total assets of the staff retirement plan on December 31, 1951 were $1,704,000, an increase of $440,000 over the previous year. Of the 445 participants, 427 are presently employed. The average yield on the purchase price of securities held on December 31, 1951 was 3.83% Per annum, as compared with a yield of 3.61% on December 31, 1950. There were no amendments to the plan during the year.
Administrative Budget
There is attached as Appendix H the Administrative Budget of the Bank for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1953. This budget has been prepared by the President and approved by the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws. A special report on the budget is being submitted to the Board of Governors at the Annual Meeting.
Chapter V - Miscellaneous
Relations with Other International Organizations
During the year the Bank continued to maintain close relations with the International Monetary Fund, the United Nations and other international organizations. As in the past, representatives of the Bank attended meetings of the United Nations General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. In addition, the Bank was represented at meetings of other international agencies when subjects of interest to the Bank were discussed.
At the Thirteenth Session of the Economic and Social Council in Geneva, the Bank's representatives participated actively in the discussion of various proposals put forward to aid in the financing of development in the less developed countries. The President of the Bank addressed the Economic Committee of the General Assembly in Paris in December 1951 during the Committee's consideration of problems of economic development. The President also presented a report on the Bank's activities to the Fourteenth Session of the Economic and Social Council in New York, and spoke for the Bank during the Council's consideration of the report prepared by the Bank's staff on the proposal for an International Finance Corporation.
During the course of the year representatives of the Bank also attended meetings of the United Nations regional commissions and of the Consultative Committee on Economic Development in South and Southeast Asia. The Bank also kept in close touch with the Organization of American States.
The President of the Bank attended several meetings of the United Nations Administrative Committee on Coordination, and staff members attended meetings of its subsidiary committees.
The Bank was represented at numerous meet-
ings of the Technical Assistance Board of the United Nations and of the Technical Assistance Committee, which reviews the Board's activities on behalf of the Economic and Social Council. As the international technical assistance programs have expanded and more and more experts are sent out by the specialized agencies and by the United Nations Technical Assistance Administration, there have been increasing consultation and interchange of information between these experts and Bank personnel both at headquarters and in the field.
The joint Bank-FAO mission to Chile to make recommendations for agricultural development has been mentioned in another part of this Report. Agricultural and forestry experts for the Bank's general survey missions have continued to be selected in cooperation with the Food and Agriculture Organization, which has also shared the cost of their services. The World Health Organization has nominated the public health specialist when this field has been included in a mission's study.
As mentioned earlier, during the year the Bank joined with the Food and Agriculture Organization and the United Nations in sponsoring two training centers on agricultural and allied projects, one at Ankara, Turkey, for Mediterranean countries, and one at Santiago, Chile, for Latin American countries.
Membership and Subscription
Sweden (subscription $100 million) and Burma (subscription $15 million) became members of the Bank on August 31, 1951 and January 3, 1952, respectively, bringing the membership to 51. The Bank's total subscribed capital was $8,453.5 million as of June 30, 1952. The application for membership by the Hashemite Kingdom of the Jordan (subscription $3 million) was approved
by the Board of Governors on April 21, 1952, and that country has until September 30, 1952 to accept membership in the Bank. The applications by the Federal Republic of Germany (subscription $330 million) and by Japan (subscription $250 million) were approved by the Board of Governors on May 28, 1952 and those countries have until August 15, 1952 to accept membership in the Bank.
Additional Reports to Board of Governors
In addition to this Annual Report, reports are being submitted to the Board of Governors at the Seventh Annual Meeting on the following subjects:
(a) Administrative Budget.
(b) Allocation of Income by Executive Directors to Reserve.
(c) Regulations Relating to Executive Directors and Alternates.
(d) Fourth  Regular  Election  of Executive Directors.
In the absence of new developments, no report is being submitted on the Advisory Council.
Appendices
In addition to Appendices A through H containing the financial statements and reports and the administrative budget of the Bank, there are also included for the information of the Governors the following appendices:
Appendix I — Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries as of June 30, 1952.
Appendix J — Governors and Alternates as of June 30, 1952.
Appendix K — Executive Directors and Alternates and their Voting Power as of June 30, 1952.
Appendix L — Principal Officers of the Bank as of June 30, 1952.