Summary—The Bank's Year in Review
Membership and Capital Subscriptions
Three more countries joined the Bank during the fiscal year; Germany, Japan, and Jordan became members in August 1952. Membership was thus increased from 51 to 54, and total subscribed capital to the equivalent of over $9,036 million.
Lending Operations
During the year the Bank made ten loans in nine countries amounting to the equivalent of $178.6 million. This brought the total of Bank lending to date to $1,591 million in 29 countries.
Two of the year's loans were made in support of a broad range of economic projects. Agriculture, basic industries and transport benefited from a loan to Australia. In Yugoslavia, the Bank supported a group of projects expected to be of special value in improving the country's balance of payments.
Specific key industries were helped by Bank lending for iron and steel production in India, for wood-products industries in Finland and for a fertilizer plant in Iceland. Another loan made to India during the year is assisting the development program for the Damodar Valley; this program will help to provide more power for industry, and water supply and flood protection for agriculture. In Peru, agriculture will benefit from a loan for farm machinery. Transportation, essential to both agriculture and industry, will be improved by loans in Colombia, Northern Rhodesia and Brazil.
Non-dollar lending was larger in relation to the year's total than in any earlier year. The Bank's loans to Yugoslavia, Finland and Iceland were in European currencies, and service will be in these currencies and not in dollars.
Disbursements
Disbursements on new and existing loans, which were at the highest rate reached since the Bank's development lending began, amounted to the equivalent of $226.8 million. Total disbursements now stand at $1,103 million.
With an improved supply position outside the United States, currencies other than United States dollars played a larger part than hitherto in the Bank's disbursements. Of the year's total disbursements, the equivalent of $39-6 million was in these currencies and accounted for 17% of the year's total. Of total disbursements $144.1 million was spent in the United States and $82.7 million (over 36%) in other countries.
Financial Position
Resources available for lending were augmented by the sale, in October 1952, of $60 million of the Bank's bonds in the United States. No further issues were made during the year in the United States, where there was a sharp increase in the cost of borrowing.
Funds were raised outside the United States when, for the second and third time, public offerings were negotiated in Switzerland. A sum of 50 million Swiss francs (approximately $11.6 million) was raised in November 1952, and arrangements for another issue of equal size were completed in June 1953.
Funds available for new loans were also increased by the sale of the equivalent of $13.6 million of securities from the Bank's portfolio, $8.3 million with its guarantee and $5.3 million without.
The Bank's resources of non-dollar funds were increased during the year by further releases
from the capital subscriptions paid in by members in their own currencies. The equivalent of $26.6 million was released in this way. In addition, the United Kingdom agreed, subject to consultation, to make up to £60 million ($168 million) available for disbursement by the Bank for projects in Commonwealth countries of the sterling area over a six-year period.
The net income resulting from the Bank's operations during the year was $18.5 million. This sum was added to a supplemental reserve which at the end of the year amounted to $76.5 million. The special reserve rose to $37.2 million, making the Bank's total reserve from operations $113.7 million.
All debt service charges and principal repayments due to the Bank were promptly met during the year. Repayments of principal received during the year, including advance payments, amounted to $2.3 million, bringing the total to $12.7 million.
The chart facing the first page of this summary shows, in addition to the cumulative total of loan commitments and disbursements, repayments of principal, sales of borrowers' obligations, and the growth of reserves.
Advisory Services
In addition to its loan operations, the Bank has been active in helping its members to assess their economic potential and to prepare programs of development. The general survey mission remains the Bank's main way of performing services of this kind, and the reports prepared are being widely used as a basis for further action by Governments concerned. The tenth survey mission, to British Guiana, was carried out during the first part of 195 3. The report of the mission to Ceylon was presented to the Government in July 1952, and the report of the mission to Jamaica in December of that year.
Apart from its general survey missions, the Bank sent specialized missions to advise on particular problems in a number of its member countries. Methods of mobilizing domestic capital and of establishing credit institutions to stimulate development have been investigated in Cuba, Iceland, Lebanon and Nicaragua. A study of measures to encourage the further growth of the capital market in Colombia was completed and presented to the Government. The Bank continued to assist in the technical examination being conducted jointly by India and Pakistan, of measures to increase the use of water from the Indus River system. Advice has also been given to member countries on a wide range of problems directly connected with the Bank's lending operations.
Two missions sponsored by the Bank, jointly with other bodies, reported during the year. The mission to Chile, organized in conjunction with the Food and Agriculture Organization, presented its recommendations to the Government on an agricultural development program. In Mexico, a study of long-term economic trends and capital requirements was concluded by a working party composed of Bank and Mexican economists.
International Finance Corporation
Examination of the proposal to set up an International Finance Corporation was continued during the year. As proposed, the Corporation would be an affiliate of the Bank; it would make loans to private enterprise without government guarantee and would participate with private capital in equity investment. A report on this subject, made by the Bank in May 1953, stated that the member countries upon whom the proposed corporation would have to depend for the bulk of its funds had not so far shown readiness to commit their capital. The matter is being kept under review, but further action will be deferred until it appears that sufficient financial support is likely to be forthcoming.
Chapter I—Investment Programming In Underdeveloped Countries
The Bank is now beginning its eighth year of work. Since 1946, it has had opportunities to observe the process of economic development in many countries and on almost every level of effort, from village to Cabinet council. Bank officers, staff and consultants have visited nearly all the Bank's 54 member countries and many overseas dependencies as well. Their business has been carried out for a wide variety of purposes: to make broad economic assessments; to consult on major policies affecting development; to study individual projects and examine the possibility of making loans for them; to assist in dealing with problems of management, engineering and finance arising in the course of project execution; to help in the mobilization of local capital; and to gain knowledge of or consult upon many other problems of concern to the Bank and its members.
Many observations by the Bank confirm the widely held belief that the resources of most underdeveloped areas are adequate, if effectively used, to support a substantially higher level of production and income. There are many and complex reasons why these areas have not been more developed. Many cultures, for instance, have placed a low value on material advance and, indeed, some have regarded it as incompatible with more desirable objectives of society and of the individual. The character of government has not always been of a sort to create popular incentives; certain forms of social and economic organization have offered obstructions. In part, the reasons have been physical. Climate and topography have imposed limits on economic growth; distances from centers of technological innovation and capital resources, especially in the past, have been hindrances.
Capital equipment can now readily be sent to most parts of the world; technical skills can be imported. Both the tools and the knowledge needed for development are within reach. But this does not mean, as is too often assumed, that the chief requirement is to finance imports of foreign equipment and to attract foreign technicians. The availability of capital for these purposes cannot, by itself, be expected to remove some of the most important obstacles to economic growth.
To a greater or lesser extent, these obstacles to growth exist everywhere. In one country or another, they include: the lack of traditions of political responsibility; the weakness of economic initiative; low standards of education and training; and insufficient understanding that economic progress requires patience, effort and self-denial. The consequences may be lack of confidence between a government and its people and frequent changes in government policies and personnel; unsound economic and financial policies, dictated by political pressures and often leading to prolonged periods of inflation; a reluctance of important groups to accept necessary economic and social changes; waste of public funds on non-productive activities; and weak administration in government and business. These factors discourage domestic savings, and deter foreign investment.
The interdependence of each aspect of society in the development process is reflected in the fact that, in countries now described as "developed," the era of technological change and rapid economic growth was preceded and accompanied by other changes of great importance. These included the evolution of new ideas concerning man, society and the physical world, and the evolution
of new political and economic institutions that made it possible to apply capital productively and share the benefits of technology among large numbers of people. Not only the printing press and the steam engine, but the school house and the joint venture corporation have their chapters in the still unfolding story of economic development.
The institutions that can promote economic growth cover an extremely wide range. Among a great many developments in this field, the remainder of this Chapter is confined to one: the establishment, in an increasing number of underdeveloped countries, of institutions to weigh government policy and guide government investment in economic development. This is a comparatively new phenomenon. It has been selected for comment because the Bank believes that, in the underdeveloped countries in which much of its work is now centered, organizational innovations of this kind can enhance the effectiveness with which existing resources are used.
The Place of Governmental Programming Units
One of the universal findings of the Bank's missions has been that underdeveloped countries have much to gain from a better direction and balance of investment. The misdirection of financial resources has taken many forms: the investment of money in commodity speculation or idle land; the construction of factories in the absence of markets; the building of a few monumental projects at the cost of more modest but more pervasive programs; the use of public funds for purposes that private investors, given proper incentives, would have been willing to pursue; the lack of foresight that has led to the building of hospitals and universities without adequate concern for the availability of trained doctors, nurses or teachers.
The policies of government are no less important in underdeveloped countries than they are elsewhere. The level of government spending, the tax structure, tariff and monetary policies, among other things, influence the total amount
of investment, the sources from which it comes, and the purposes to which it is put. The government's own share of investment in an underdeveloped country, moreover, commonly amounts to between one-quarter and one-third of the total; it is not only important in itself, but may have a direct effect on what enterprises are possible and profitable in the private sector.
The fact that financial and technical resources are limited in underdeveloped countries makes the most effective use of these resources a pressing necessity. It lays on government a responsibility to develop its own policies and investments so that they will help to stimulate the economy as a whole to greater productivity, increased savings and investment and, as a result, higher living standards.
This does not imply a detailed blueprinting of the economy or even of the government's role in it. Still less does it imply close and coercive economic controls which are more likely to breed new controls than new production. Nor, finally, does it justify the government's diversion of its own financial and technical resources into enterprises for which private capital and management are available, since that will lessen the resources available for providing basic services and utilities that generally lie outside the scope of private initiative.
But a stringency of financial and technical resources does mean that the government should exercise its influence consciously and consistently, rather than inadvertently and sometimes at cross-purposes with itself. A useful instrument in this regard is a broad development program which looks ahead for a period of years, sets out major goals in production and investment, and provides a guide to government decisions on policy, on approximate magnitudes of public investment in different sectors of the economy, and on the choice and timing of individual projects.
The formulation and carrying out of a development program of this kind tries to satisfy five objectives: (a) to review the total of government investment, so that it will neither unduly restrict private investment nor exceed total capital re-
sources and so produce inflation or other unhealthy results; (b) to coordinate development planning within the government, so that projects in one sector will be supported by whatever complementary investment is needed elsewhere; (c) to establish priorities among development objectives and plans to insure the best and most timely use of the finance, manpower and other resources available; (d) to give encouragement by policies and specific measures to the most useful private activities; and (e) to keep fiscal and economic policies consistent with the long-run objectives of economic growth.
Functions
An increasing number of underdeveloped countries have brought some or all of these functions together in a governmental programming unit. Among the units recently established, some with Bank advice, are a National Bank for Development in Brazil, a National Ministry of Planning and an Economic and Social Board in Burma, a Planning Committee of the Cabinet in Ceylon, a National Planning Council in Colombia, a Planning Commission in India, a Development Board in Iraq, a National Economic Council in Nicaragua and a Planning Bureau in Surinam.
In the main, these units have assumed the same essential duties, as a comparison of the Indian Planning Commission and the Colombian Planning Council will suggest. At the time of its formal establishment in 1950, the Indian Commission was instructed
(a) to make an assessment of the material, capital and human resources of the country, including technical personnel, and investigate the possibility of increasing resources that are found to be deficient in relation to the nation's needs;
(b) to formulate a plan for the most effective and balanced use of the country's resources;
(c) on a determination of priorities, to define the stages in which the plan should be
carried out and propose the allocation of resources for the due completion of each stage;
(d) to appraise from time to time the progress achieved in the execution of each stage of the plan and recommend the adjustments of policy and measures that the appraisal may show to be necessary; and
(e) to make such interim recommendations as appear to be appropriate on consideration of prevailing economic conditions, current policies, measures and development programs.
In the case of Colombia, something in the nature of an approved development program existed in 1951, in the form of recommendations made by a citizens' development committee on the basis of proposals presented by a Bank general survey mission in 1950. Along the lines of the mission's proposals, a National Planning Council was created in 1951, and began work in April 1952.   Among its functions are
(a) to study variations in the structure of the national accounts, in order to obtain a continuing picture of the development of the economy;
(b) to study and coordinate investment projects, indicating the priority which these projects should have in the light of the resources and needs of the country;
(c) to study the coordination of the different programs prepared in the government, to avoid possible conflicts and inconsistencies among efforts in various fields; and
(d) to serve as a consultative body to the President of the Republic in economic and financial matters.
One other function is commonly included in the work of programming units. The effective use of resources for development embraces the subject of how external assistance is to be used. The Nicaraguan Economic Council, the Colombian Planning Council and the Planning Com-
mittee in Ceylon, for instance, serve as screens through which government requests for foreign loans or other financial assistance to development must pass. In these and other cases, this screening also applies to technical assistance from abroad.
The Bank's general survey missions have repeatedly stressed the importance of keeping the public informed as a means of spreading understanding and enlisting the wide support vital to the success of any development program. In some countries, this kind of education is the task of state ministries of information; in other countries, it is not performed at all. In Nicaragua, where there is no ministry of information, the Economic Council has established as part of its own secretariat a small office "to bring to the attention of the public the progress of economic development."
Organization
The organization of programming bodies is not uniform among the governments that have them, and the organizational recommendations of the Bank's general survey missions have differed from one country to another. There has been common agreement, however, on the standards to be met.
The programming unit must be situated on an influential level of government, and it particularly must have the right, express or implicit, to state its views on development expenditures before commitments for these expenditures are accepted. Several units meet this standard by having direct access to the prime minister or the chief executive of the government. The National Planning Council of Colombia is attached to the Office of the President, as is the National Economic Council of Nicaragua. The prime minister is the chairman of the Economic and Social Board of Burma, the Planning Committee of Ceylon, the Planning Commission of India and the Development Board of Iraq.
The programming body cannot function objectively if at the same time it is charged with executive responsibility for carrying out projects
in some particular sector of the economy. Generally speaking, governments have tried to achieve impartiality in the planning body either by making it a forum in which the differing views of responsible executives can be reconciled, or by composing it of persons who have no operating responsibilities. In the Ceylon Planning Committee and the Nicaraguan Economic Council, for instance, the programming group is composed of all the ministers concerned with economic matters, so that all may have their views represented. The Nicaraguan Council's membership includes the Minister of Economy (as chairman), the Ministers of Finance, Agriculture, and Public Works, the principal Secretary of the President, and the general managers of both the central bank and the newly created Development Institute; other ministers participate from time to time as matters arise which directly concern them. In the case of the Indian Planning Commission the members, apart from the chairman, have no other responsibilities in the Government.
In any case, the programming body needs to be supported by a secretariat competent to bring it a balanced judgment on the separate plans of the ministries and departments. It is impossible to generalize on the size and composition of this staff. The secretariat of the Colombian Planning Council is small, and is able to rely to a considerable extent on research and staff services of the central bank. The secretariat of the Indian Planning Commission is rather extensive and is divided into the following sections: resource and economic surveys; finance; industry; trade and communication; food and agriculture; resource development; employment and social services. Several programming units regularly have the advice of advisory councils composed of private persons drawn from industrial, agricultural and trade groups.
Some Points of Emphasis
A feature to be emphasized is that the basic process entrusted to these units is programming, and not planning in a detailed sense. Planning, in terms of concrete projects and specific policies,
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Supplement to the
EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT
A Summary of Developments in the Bank from
July 1 to September 4, 1953
MEMBERSHIP AND SUBSCRIPTION
The Government of Indonesia has asked the Bank to extend from September 16, 1953 to March 16, 1954 the period during which the Republic of Indonesia may accept membership.   The Executive Directors have recommended to the Board of Governors that the extension be granted, and have prepared a resolution to that effect for the Board's consideration at the Eighth Annual Meeting.
On August 26 China paid $50,000 of the balance of $2,920,000 due on her capital subscription to the Bank.   A s of September 4, no payment had been made on the $625,000 due from Czechoslovakia on her capital subscription.
MANAGEMENT
The Executive Directors have selected Eugene R. Black as President of the Bank for a further five-year term that runs -to July 1, 1959-
THE BANK'S OPERATIONS
Summary of Lending
Since the end of the fiscal year, the Bank has made seven loans, in Brazil, Iceland, Nicaragua and the Union of South Africa, for an amount equivalent to $72,852,000. Each of the loans is described below under the appropriate country heading.  In cases where a member government was not the borrower, the loans were guaranteed by the government concerned.   The interest rate quoted includes the 1% commission which, under the Bank's Articles of Agreement, is allocated to the Special Reserve.
The Bank has now made 85 loans, totaling $1,663,618,464, in 29 countries.
Austria
Bank staff members arrived in Austria during August to study the general economic situation and to discuss Austria's investment plans, particularly in the field of electric power development.
Brazil
On July 17 the Bank made a loan of $7,3 00,000 for an electric power project in the State of Minas Gerais in Brazil.   The joint borrowers were the Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais S.A., a state-owned power company, and one of its operating subsidiaries, the Companhia de Eletricidade do Alto Rio Grande.
The project includes the building of a dam at Itutinga Falls on the Rio Grande, the construction of a power station with 24,000 kilowatts of generating capacity, and the erection of transmission lines and sub-statidns.  Itutinga lies within the industrial complex of Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte and Volta Redonda, the site of the largest steel mill in Latin America.   The area contains important deposits of iron ore, manganese and tin-bearing ores.   Industry will take about 80% of the power to be generated at the new plant and the remainder will be taken by public utilities serving three small towns.
The loan is for a term of 20 years and bears interest at the rate of 5% per annum. Amortization will begin on January 15, 1957.
British Guiana
In mid-August the Bank transmitted to the Governor of British Guiana the report of the general survey mission which visited the colony in February and March 1953.
The mission recommended a program aimed at increasing national income by 20% and income per head by 6% over the next five years. The program calls for government expenditures of 66 million British West Indies dollars (U.S. $38.5 million) over the five years 1954-58, and the mission believes that most of this investment can be financed internally. About 70% of the investment is recommended for agriculture, transportation and communications, and the remainder for forestry, industrial credits, electric power, housing, surveys and various public works.
Because agriculture is the chief economic activity in British Guiana, the largest investment is recommended in this field.   The mission believes that the best way to increase and diversify production is to extend and improve small-scale farming. Recommendations are made for opening new lands for this development, as well as for programs of land settlement and tenure, for agricultural credit, and for improved processing and marketing and research and extension services.
Improvements in transport and communications come next to agriculture in importance.   The mission's recommendations in this field deal first with a greatly improved road system as the most urgent need.   Other recommendations cover rehabilitation of the railways, improvement of coastal ferry and shipping services, telecommunications, and internal air and postal services.
The mission recommends that the Government make an inventory of British Guiana's extensive forest resources and formulate a program to assist the timber industry to improve and modernize its operations.   The aim of the program would be to increase the supplies of wood for domestic needs and to intensify production for export, especially in species of wood not now well known in world trade.
The report also contains proposals for expanding existing industries and establishing new industries;   for housing and schools;   and for continued geologic, hydro-graphic, aerial and soil surveys.   The mission also makes recommendations regarding the institutions to plan and carry out the proposed program.
British West Africa
Nigeria
At the request of the Governments of Nigeria and the United Kingdom, the Bank is sending a general survey mission to Nigeria to study the economic problems of the country and to assist in the preparation of a development program.   The mission will leave for Nigeria in mid-September and expects to remain there for about two and a half months.
Ceylon
Bank staff members arrived in. Ceylon during August to study the economic situation and prospects, and to obtain additional information on the Aberdeen-Laksapana hydroelectr project submitted for Bank consideration in June.
Ecuador
A Bank mission arrived in Quito on September 1.   The group will examine Ecuador's economic and financial situation and study the Government's development plans with particular reference to transportation and agriculture.   It will also study the technical and financial feasibility of various specific projects which have been submitted to the Bank for its priority consideration.
Iceland
On September 4 the Bank made two loans in European currencies to the Iceland Bank of Development.   One, in various currencies equivalent to $ 1,350,000,was for agricultural development;   the other, of £90,000 ($ 252,000), was for the construction of a building to house radio equipment serving North Atlantic air traffic.
Iceland began a program of agricultural development in 1951.  It aims to increase farm production 50% by 1965, and should improve Iceland's foreign-exchange position considerably through import savings and export earnings.
A Bank loan equivalent to $1,008,000 in European currencies, made in 1951, helped pay for imports needed for the program during 1952.   The new loan will finance imported equipment and materials needed for the period July 1953 through 1954.   The loan will help to expand grasslands for grazing, to build farm structures to house sheep and cattle, and to build farm dwellings.
The loan is for a term of 22 years and bears interest of 5% per annum. Amortization will begin on September I, 1958.
The second loan, of £90,000, will pay for the construction of a building to house some of the radio equipment operated by the Icelandic Post and Telegraph Administration for civilian aircraft flying over the North Atlantic.   The equipment is at present sheltered in an inadequate temporary structure and a new building is needed to assure the continuance of adequate and reliable service.
Under an arrangement administered by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the cost of the service is paid from contributions by eleven countries, including Iceland, whose airlines operate over the North Atlantic.  ICAO has arranged for increased contributions from these countries to assure sufficient revenue to service the Bank's loan.   Maintenance of the radio service will help Iceland to continue earnings of foreign exchange from international aviation, and will be of benefit to the airlines of the participating countries.
The loan is for a term of 1 2 years and bears interest of 4-3/4% per annum. Amortization will begin July 15, 1954.
Lebanon
A Bank expert visited Lebanon in August and submitted to the Government proposals for the establishment of an industrial development bank and for mobilizing local funds for its capital.
Mexico
Since the end of the fiscal year, discussions have been taking place between Mexican officials and the Mexican Light and Power Company with a view to providing increased revenues and financing to enable the Company to carry on its expansion program.
Netherlands
On July 15 repayment was completed, five years before final maturity, of six loans made by the Bank in 1948 to four Netherlands shipping .companies:   Royal Rotterdam Lloyd, Nederland Line, Holland-America Line, and United. Netherlands Navigation Company. The loans totaled $12 million, were sold by the Bank with its guarantee in 1948 and 1949, and at the time of final repayment, were held by banks in the United States and elsewhere.
Nicaragua
On September 4 the Bank made two loans to Nicaragua:   $3,500,000 for highway construction and $450,000 for a new electric power unit in Managua.
Construction of roads is needed to open new lands to cultivation and to provide adequate transport between farm and market.   Nicaragua is carrying through a program for the construction of a network of main highways and feeder roads.  In 1951 the Bank made a $3.5 million loan for the construction of 162 miles of main highways, and work on this part of the program is already well advanced.   The new loan will be used for the construction of 25 miles of main and 430 miles of secondary roads.  When this program is completed the cost of truck transportation should be reduced, commerce of all kinds should be stimulated, and farm production greatly increased.
The loan is for a term of 1 0 years and bears interest of 4-3/4% per annum. Amortization will begin on March 15, 1957.
The second loan made in September was for the import of a 3,000 kilowatt diesel power unit to ease the power shortage in the area of Managua, the capital. Although another 3,000 kilowatt unit was added to generating capacity in Managua early in 1953, the power supply in this area is still seriously inadequate.
The loan is for a term of 1 0 years and bears interest at 4-3/4% per annum. Amortization will begin on March 15, 1955.
Pakistan
A Bank mission visited Pakistan in July-August 1953.   The mission reviewed Pakistan's economic and financial position, examined the Government's development program and discussed several development projects.   In July, the Bank's Director of Marketing visited Pakistan to advise the Government on the development of a market for Government bonds.
Philippines
In July the Bank's Director of Marketing paid a second visit to the Philippines to discuss the development of a market for Government bonds.
Union of South Africa
On August 28 the Bank made two loans to help finance programs being carried forward in the Union to meet needs for expanded transportation service and increased supplies of power.   One loan, of $30,000,000, was made to the Union Government to help pay for imports of equipment and goods needed to enlarge the carrying capacity and extend the services of the railways.   The other loan, also of $30,000,000, was made to the Electricity Supply Commission (ESCOM), an autonomous state corporation, to pay for part of the imports needed in a program designed to increase ESCOM's power-generating capacity by 80% during the period from 1952 through 1958.
The rapid growth of industry and mining in the postwar years has put a heavy strain on public services in the Union, and especially on the railway system and the power supply.   The tonnage carried by the railways has increased by one-third since 1947, and ESCOM's sales of electric power have grown even more.
In 1951 the Bank lent the Union Government $20 million for imports needed during two years of the railway expansion program.   The new loan will help to finance imports needed from mid-1953 to mid-1956 and will be applied principally to the purchase of locomotives, freight cars and rails.
ESCOM is engaged in a construction program which by 1958 is intended to add 1.4 million kilowatts of generating capacity to existing capacity of 1.6 million.  A Bank loan of $30 million, also made in 1951, helped to finance imports for this program over a two-year period.   The latest loan will help to finance imported equipment needed for the continuation of this program and will be applied particularly to the purchase of turbo-generators, boilers, structural materials and electrical supplies.
Both loans are for a term of 1 0 years and bear interest of 4-3/4% per annum. Amortization on the ESCOM loan will begin on September 15, 1955, and on the railroad loan on November 15, 1955.
FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES AND RESOURCES
Sales of Bonds from the Bank's Portfolio
Since the end of the fiscal year, the Bank sold the equivalent of $5,964,698 principal amount of borrowers' obligations.   Of this amount, $3,711,698 were sold with, and $2,253,000 without, the Bank's guarantee.
These sales brought the total of bonds sold from the Bank's portfolio to $75,979,352. Of this total, $53,514,844 have been sold with, and $22,464,508 without, the Bank's guarantee.  In addition two institutions in the United States agreed to participate, without guarantee, in one of the Bank's loans to the extent of $997,000 as soon as the loan becomes effective.
remains the work of other ministries and agencies. The programming unit stimulates planning and fact-gathering where they need to be done; it views plans and policies objectively, measuring them against one another and against the resources available; and it recommends whatever modifications of substance and timing are necessary to bring them together into a coherent whole.
The Bank's general survey missions have frequently stressed that it is an important task of these units to keep informed of progress, and to recommend changes that may be required by circumstance. While the goals themselves may stand, it is only realistic to anticipate that they may be advanced or deferred by events impossible to foresee. The timing and amount of investment may be influenced by unexpected difficulties in the construction of a basic project, by unexpectedly rapid development in some sectors, by changes of price levels and costs, by fluctuations in the amount of local and foreign capital available, and by many other factors. Any long-term development program therefore needs to be kept continuously under review and to be subjected to periodic modification.
It is implicit in the functions of the programming body that it provides a prod to action. In the past, some governments have made the mistake of supposing that they had fulfilled their responsibility by drawing up a program, and have left promising plans to exist only on paper. But programs are not a substitute for action; and the existence of a programming unit empowered to review and to report to those in final authority can do much to see that plans are put into effect.
It is also obvious that the establishment of a programming institution is not in itself a panacea. Little purpose can be served by this type of body unless a favorable climate is provided by appropriate fiscal and monetary policies and by other steps to expand investment resources and to steer them into the most productive courses. Nevertheless, in any community where resources are limited and the calls upon them are particularly urgent, a programming institution can help to lift development projects out of the arena of day-to-day stringencies and short-term needs. It can also bring more clearly into view, at a time when self-denial will inevitably be called for, the gains to be won by steady pursuit of basic economic improvements.
Chapter II—The Bank's Operations
This section is a country-by-country description of the operations of the Bank in the past fiscal year. For each country in which the Bank was active, information is given on one or more of the following topics: loans made; negotiations and surveys looking to possible loans; reports of progress on Bank-financed projects; and technical assistance. A note is also made of completely disbursed loans more fully described in previous Annual Reports.
Preceding the account of operations in each country is a list by fiscal year of all loans made in that country. Unless otherwise indicated, loans have been made to member governments; loans to other borrowers have the guarantee of the
member government concerned. The interest rates shown include the 1% commission which, under the Bank's Articles of Agreement, is allocated to the Bank's Special Reserve. Additional details, such as maturity dates of loans, amounts disbursed and repayments of capital, are shown in a tabular summary of loans in Appendix F, beginning on page 54.
Loans made during the fiscal year brought the total of the Bank's lending to $1,591 million ($1,560 million net of $31 million of cancellations and refundings). The table on the following page classifies this total according to the purpose and regional distribution of loans.
field studies were undertaken during the second half of that year. The engineers of the two countries, together with engineers of the Bank, met for a week in Karachi during December 1952 to exchange information obtained from these studies. They spent the following six weeks visiting irrigation works, dam sites and irrigated and unirrigated areas in India and Pakistan. In January 1953 they exchanged information in Delhi on other studies completed in the meantime. They then agreed to meet again on September 1, 1953 in Washington to begin the preparation of a comprehensive plan for the development of the Indus basin, including preliminary cost estimates and a construction schedule for the new engineering works involved.
ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
President's Visit to the Middle East and Turkey
In February and March 1953 the President of the Bank spent seven weeks visiting Egypt, Ethiopia, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey, and discussed their problems of economic development.
Indus River System
In 1952 the Governments of India and Pakistan, acting on an invitation from the President of the Bank, began to study jointly the possible technical measures to increase the supplies of water available from the Indus river system. Indian, Pakistani and Bank engineers held discussions in Washington in May and June 1952, and
ASIA
Burma
A fact-finding mission went to Burma in 1953 to review the economic and financial situa-
tion and to discuss the Government's development plans. The mission spent four weeks in the country consulting with Government officials and visiting important production areas.
Ceylon
In July 1952 the Bank transmitted to the Government the report of the general survey mission which visited Ceylon late in 1951. Ceylon's chief task, in the opinion of the mission, is to expand and diversify its economy so that productivity can keep pace with population growth. The report stated that resources in land, materials and money are sufficient, if wisely managed, to meet the needs of the growing population, to improve the standard of living, and to strengthen the economy.
The mission recommended a six-year program of developmenr, and gave priority to an increase in agricultural production. The report emphasized the need for improvement of agricultural techniques and for putting new lands under cultivation through irrigation, jungle clearance and settlement. It pointed out that the substantial investments proposed for electric power, industry and the improvement of transport should also lead to higher output from the land. It also stressed the need for surveys in many sectors—in particular, water and irrigation, electric power, land use, soils and forests—and urged that, until these studies are completed, new large-scale schemes be deferred in favor of a greater number of smaller projects.
In the field of industry, the mission recommended that the foundations for industrial growth be laid by research and education, and by fostering a variety of new industries that would not individually involve heavy investment. The report stressed the need for improvements in public health and education, with emphasis in the field of health concentrated for the present more on preventive than on curative measures.
The Government is preparing a six-year plan of development starting in 1953-54 which will take into account the recommendations of the mission. For this purpose, a Planning Committee of the Cabinet, assisted by a Planning Secretariat, has been established. The Committee, which includes the Prime Minister and other ministers directly
concerned, will coordinate the preparation and execution of all development projects.
The Government is also considering the establishment of a technical research institute as recommended by the mission. Two Bank officials visited Ceylon in November 1952 to discuss the feasibility of establishing this institute with the help of the Bank and the United Nations Technical Assistance Administration.
Discussions between the Bank and Government representatives on ways of financing a part of the Aberdeen-Laksapana hydroelectric project began in Washington in June 1953; they will be resumed in Ceylon in August 1953.
India
Fiscal $34 million 15-year 4% loan of August 1950: 18, 1949 for railway rehabilitation;
reduced at request of borrower on May 16, 1950 to $32.8 million, which had been disbursed by March 1951. $10 million 7-year oVi% loan of September 29, 1949 for importation of agricultural machinery; reduced to $8.5 million on July 27, 1951 and to $7.5 million on August 25, 1952 at request of borrower. $18.5 million 20-year 4% loan of April 18, 1950 for power development project.
Vised $31.5 million 15-year 4M<% loan of De-1953: cember 18, 1952 to the Indian Iron
and Steel Company, Limited, for expansion of iron and steel production facilities.
$19-5 million 25-year 4%% loan of January 23, 1953 for electric power development, flood control and irrigation.
The loan to the Indian Iron and Steel Company (IISCO), made in December 1952 and amounting to $31.5 million, resulted from recommendations made by a Bank mission that went to India under the leadership of the Chairman of The First Boston Corporation to examine means of increasing iron and steel production. Although the proceeds of other loans have been paid through intermediate agencies to private manufacturers, this is the Bank's first loan in the manufacturing field to be made directly to a private concern. It will be used to finance imported equip-
ment and services which IISCO needs to carry out a five-year project to increase its annual productive capacity from 350,000 tons to 700,000 tons of finished steel, and from 160,000 to 400,000 tons of iron for sale to foundries. When this project is completed, India's finished steel capacity will be about one-third higher than in 1952, and her foundry iron capacity will be doubled.
One of the Bank's engineers visited India in February and March 1953 to recommend, jointly with two experts appointed by the Government, further steps to expand iron and steel production. Expansion in this field is an essential element in the five-year plan for economic development.
The Bank's $19-5 million loan of January 1953 is for key projects in the plan for the development of the Damodar River Valley, an important agricultural and industrial area west of Calcutta. This loan will help to finance the construction of two storage dams, two hydroelectric plants, and a barrage and irrigation system. The hydroelectric plants will have a combined capacity of 100,000 kilowatts. The irrigation system will supply water to a million acres and should make it possible to increase the production of food grains by 400,000 tons a year.
The Bank had already made in 1950 a loan of $18.5 million for the development of the Damodar River Valley. This loan is helping to finance the construction of a steam power plant at Bokaro, a storage dam at Konar and a system of transmission lines. The Bokaro plant was formally opened by the Prime Minister in February 1953. The first of the three 50,000-kilowatt generating units started operation in that month, and the plant should be in full operation by September 1953. The Konar dam is nearly completed, and it is expected that the transmission system will be finished early in 1954.
The $10 million loan of September 1949 is being used to pay for heavy tractors imported to reclaim land in central India. With these tractors land is being cleared of kans grass, a deep-rooted weed which cannot be extirpated by the traditional plowing methods of the region.   In the 1952-
1953 season about 240,000 acres were reclaimed, making a total of nearly three-quarters of a million acres since the start of the project. The work is being carried out by the Government's Central Tractor Organization. In the past year the Organization has further improved its operating efficiency and has made good progress in overcoming difficulties in ensuring proper maintenance of equipment. However, the obstacle still exists that some states have not yet made available large compact blocks of land suitable fot reclamation. This has considerably raised the cost of the operation.
The Bank is studying an application for a loan to the power companies in the Tata group for the construction of a thermal-electric generating plant on Trombay Island near Bombay.
Japan
Japan became a member of the Bank in August 1952. A mission spent two months there in the later part of the year, being joined for a time by the Vice President of the Bank. The mission made a general appraisal of the Japanese economy, and collected information bearing on Japan's economic prospects and her capacity to service foreign debt. It also surveyed industrial and agricultural production and the problems of economic development, and reviewed investment requirements in various fields.
In June 1953 discussions were begun with the Government on the financing of electric power development. The Bank is studying an application for a loan to finance the foreign-exchange costs of constructing three thermal generating stations. The stations, which would have a total capacity of nearly 300,000 kilowatts, would be located at Osaka, Karita and Yokkaichi. They would be primarily for the purpose of supplying additional power to supplement hydroelectric supplies in dry weather; in other periods they would take the place of less efficient thermal units.
These plants are part of the Government's program for reducing industrial costs through the modernization of equipment.    Japan has also
asked the Bank to consider collaborating in certain hydroelectric power projects.
Malaya and Singapore
Two members of the Bank staff visited Malaya and Singapore in April 1953 to discuss the desirability, possible terms of reference and composition of a general survey mission to the area. The Bank subsequenrly agreed to organize a mission to study the economy of the area and to make recommendations to assist the two governments in planning further economic development. The mission is expected to begin its survey in January 1954.
Philippines
In December 1952 the Bank's Director of Marketing visited the Philippines for two weeks to advise the Government on the development of a market for government bonds.
Thailand
Fiscal $3 million 15-year 3 3498 loan of October 1951: 27, 1950 for railway rehabilitation.
$18 million 20-year 4% loan of October 27, 1950 for irrigation project.
$4.4 million 15-year 334"% loan of October 27, 1950 for port development.
Progress has been made on the Chainat barrage and the related system of irrigation canals and regulating structures forming part of the Chao Phya irrigation project, toward the cost of which the Bank lent $18 million in 1950. Excavation for the barrage is under way, while excavation for the navigation lock is almost completed and concrete-laying has begun. Though delays in deliveries of equipment have caused work to fall behind schedule, it is expected that the whole project will be completed as originally planned by the end of 1958. More than two-thirds of the Bank's loan has already been disbursed. Completion of the project will give an assured water supply to 2lA million acres, and should increase the production of rice in this area by approximately 800,000 tons annually.
The $4.4 million port development loan is being used mainly to meet the foreign-exchange cost of a dredging contract to assist in the deepening of a channel through the sandbar at the mouth of the Chao Phya River and thus open the port of Bangkok to regular traffic of vessels of up to 10,000 tons. The loan is also being used to finance cargo-handling equipment at the port terminal, and navigational aids in port waters. Various difficulties in the execution of the dredging program have been encountered; moreover, an exceptional typhoon in October 1952 filled up part of the channel already dredged. The Bank has advised the Government on the steps necessary for the completion of the channel before the end of 1953 or early 1954, and for its subsequent maintenance. Nearly half of the loan has been disbursed.
With the encouragement of the Bank, the Board of the Port Authority was recently reconstituted and strengthened as a first step towards increasing its administrative and operating efficiency. The Bank has been asked to find an expert to assist in reorganizing the Port Authority, and a qualified administrator to work with the Port Authority.
The $3 million railway loan is being applied to the reconstruction and re-equipment of the Makkasan railway workshops near Bangkok, and to the purchase of signalling equipment. There were considerable initial delays in determining the layout of the workshops and the types of equipment required. But all orders have now been placed for imported goods, and deliveries are being made at the site. Construction and equipping are now going forward satisfactorily, and the workshops are likely to be completed in the second half of 1954. The signalling equipment is arriving in Thailand and some has already been installed at stations. Nearly half of the loan has been disbursed.
A Bank mission spent two months in Thailand in the early part of 1953. It inspected the three Bank-financed projects and assisted the Gov-
Egypt
The Bank sent an engineering consultant to Egypt in December 1952 to make a brief review of the position of the railways and their needs. Consideration of his findings has been suspended while the Government has been revising the development programs and priorities. In January 1953 the Government gave the Bank general information on a revised scheme for the development of the Nile valley, with particular emphasis on a high dam above Aswan to provide irrigation and hydroelectric power. Detailed studies will be sent to the Bank when completed.
Ethiopia
Fiscal $5 million 20-year 4% loan of September 1951: 13, 1950 for rehabilitation of roads.
$2 million 20-year 4% loan of September
13, 1950 for Development Bank. $1.5 million 20-year A% loan of February 19, 1951 for rehabilitation and development of telecommunications.
Disbursements are almost complete on the Bank's $5 million loan used to finance the foreign-exchange cost of road-building equipmenr, materials and services. About half of the country's system of main roads has been reconstructed during the past two years. The three-year program of road reconstruction and maintenance is scheduled to be finished by February 1954; a road maintenance program will be continued thereafter.
The Bank has disbursed $0.7 million of its $2 million loan to provide foreign exchange to the Ethiopian Development Bank. Since starting operations in May 1951 the Development Bank has made agricultural and industrial loans amounting to Eth. $4.6 million (equivalent to U. S. $1.8 million). Foreign exchange from the International Bank's loan has been applied to industrial
projects, mostly for the processing of agricultural products. Agricultural loans made by the Development Bank have been mainly in Ethiopian dollars.
The Bank's $1.5 million loan for the expansion of telephone and international radio communications is not yet effective. The project has been slow in getting under way because of difficulties in organizing the Imperial Board of Telecommunications, the agency established by the Government to carry out the project. The charter of the Board was promulgated in October 1952; the Board's new General Manager assumed his post in the following month; and steps are now being taken by the Board to fulfill the remaining conditions for making the loan effective.
Iraq
Fiscal   $12.8 million 15-year 3M% loan of June 1950: 15, 1950 for flood control.
A staff member visited Iraq in February 1953 to examine the progress of the flood-control project being carried out with the help of the Bank's loan. The project is designed to protect Baghdad and the surrounding agricultural area against periodic floods of the Tigris River by constructing a barrage and canal to divert flood waters into a large uninhabited depression northwest of Baghdad known as the Wadi Tharthar. Work on the canal, begun late in 1951, is proceeding steadily. In February 1953 the contract for the construction of the barrage at Samarra was awarded to a German firm.
In March 1953 Bank representatives discussed with the Government and the Iraqi Development Board steps that are being taken to implement the recommendations of the Bank's general survey mission. Further discussions will be held in August 1953.
THE MIDDLE EAST
ernment in solving some problems which had arisen in their execution. It also discussed various development schemes suggested by the Government.  Among these were programs for highway
and further railway development, and a power project with irrigation possibilities at Yan Hee on the Ping River, in northern Thailand. These projects are now being studied by the Bank.
Jordan
In response to a joint request by the Governments of Jordan and Syria, a refinery specialist was engaged by the Bank to study the economic implications and investment requirements of the construction of an oil refinery to meet the needs either of Jordan and Syria together or of one of these countries alone. His report was presented to the Government in May 1953.
In March 1953 Bank representatives discussed with the Government various development plans.
Lebanon
Early in 1953 a Bank representative studied the desirability of establishing an industrial development bank in Lebanon, and in May 1953 his report was submitted to the Government. An expert will visit Lebanon in August 1953 to assist the Government in establishing the development bank and in mobilizing local capital.
Pakistan
Fiscal   $27.2 million 15-year 4%% loan of March 1952: 27, 1952 for railway rehabilitation.
$3.25 million 7-year 4Ys% loan of June 13, 1952 for agricultural machinery.
The Bank's $3-25 million loan is to finance imports of tractors and other machinery needed in a project for clearing, plowing, seeding and constructing watercourses on 660,000 acres of the Thai area in Punjab Province. The loan has not yet been made effective because some of the key personnel needed to carry out the project have yet to be engaged. In the meantime, most of the equipment has been ordered and some of ir has arrived at the site.
Orders have been placed for most of the equipment being financed by the Bank's $27.2 million loan of March 1952 for a program to improve and modernize the railways in East and West Pakistan. Twenty-three new diesel electric locomotives have been operating on the main line of the North Western Railway for a year or more.
Operation and mainrenance of the locomotives have been satisfactory and the introduction of diesel traction has led to considerable fuel economy and saving in foreign exchange. The loan is being disbursed partly in U. S. dollars and partly in francs released from the French subscription to the Bank's capital.
The Government is negotiating with the Bank for a loan to finance a portion of the foreign-exchange costs of constructing an integrated pulp and paper mill in East Pakistan. A Bank mission will visit Pakistan in July 1953 to review developments in Pakistan's economic and financial position and to examine the Government's development program. The Bank's Director of Marketing will also visit the country at that time to advise the Government and the business community on measures to strengthen the capital market.
Syria
During the second half of 1952, Bank representatives and Government officials held discussions in Damascus on the technical and financial aspects of projects for developing the port of Latakia and for constructing roads. These discussions will be resumed at an early date.
In response to a joint request by the Governments of Syria and Jordan, a refinery specialist was engaged by the Bank to study the economic implications and investment requirements of the construction of an oil refinery to meet the needs either of Syria and Jordan together or of one of these countries alone. His report was presented to the Government in May 1953.
The Bank also provided technical experts to study a project for a railway between Aleppo and Latakia and an irrigation and electric-power project at Youssef Pasha on the Euphrates River.
In June 1953 the Bank was asked to organize a general survey mission to study the country's economy and make recommendations for further development.
EUROPE, AFRICA AND AUSTRALASIA
Belgian Congo
Fiscal   $40 million 25-year AYi% loan of Sep-.
1952: tember 13, 1951 to the Belgian Congo
for development plan. Made simultaneously with loan of $30 million to Belgium (see page 23).
Like the $30 million loan simultaneously made to Belgium, the $40 million loan of September 1951 is supporting the Ten Year Development Plan started in the Congo in 1950. Public investment under the Plan is now expected to reach the equivalent of about $800 million, to be devoted to the expansion of public services, mainly in the field of transport. Withdrawals under the loan are not related to specific imports but are geared to the rate of public investment.
Good progress is being made with the Plan. The value of investment goods imported in 1952 accounted for nearly half the Congo's total imports and was 50% higher than in the preceding year. But the pace of public investment has not been so rapid as was originally expected. Over half of the loan has been disbursed.
British East Africa
A mission visited British East Africa toward the end of 1952 and studied the economic problems of Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika. It discussed with the Governments, with the East Africa High Commission and with the Government of the United Kingdom, various projects which might prove suitable for Bank financing. In particular, it studied a railway and harbor development program considered specially important to the further economic progress of East Africa, and for which external financing may be required at a later date.
British West Africa
Bank representatives went to Nigeria in May 1953 and examined the desirability of sending a
mission to carry out a survey of the economic problems of the country and to help in the preparation of a development program. If a formal request for a survey is received, a mission is expected to leave for Nigeria in the latter part of 1953.
A member of the staff also visited the Gold Coast to study the economic conditions and problems of the area.
Trench Overseas Departments and Territories
After preparatory discussions held in Paris, a mission visited French West Africa in May and June 1953 to study economic conditions and development problems. It examined in particular the diesel traction program of the West African railroads. A staff member also spent a few days in Algeria in June 1953 for exploratory talks with Government officials.
Northern Rhodesia
Fiscal $14 million 19-year 4%% loan of March 1953: 11, 1953 to the Territory of Northern
Rhodesia for railway development.
The Rhodesia Railways serve the needs of Northern Rhodesia, Southern Rhodesia and Bechuanaland, and the $14 million loan made in March 1953 in support of the railway expansion program will therefore benefit all three territories. Although the Bank's loan was in fact made to the Northern Rhodesian Government, the responsibility for the execution of the program is shared by Northern and Southern Rhodesia, and both Governments have undertaken to see that it is carried out. The United Kingdom, of which Northern Rhodesia is a dependency, has guaranteed the loan.
Owing to the exceptionally rapid development of the areas which they serve, the Rhodesia Railways have been heavily overburdened since
AFRICA
the war. In 1952 the tonnage carried was more than 70% greater than in 1946. The difficulties which have been encountered in handling this increase have, for example, led to the accumulation of large stockpiles of chrome ore awaiting shipment.
Measures being taken to improve the railway system include the purchase of locomotives and rolling stock, the improvement of permanent way, the enlargement of yards and sidings, and the extension of repair shops. A new line is being constructed from Bannockburn in Southern Rhodesia to the border of Portuguese East Africa, to relieve the pressure on the port of Beira in Portuguese East Africa, hitherto the chief outlet of the landlocked territories served by the Rhodesia Railways. The new line will connect with a line being built by the Portuguese Government to the port of Lourenco Marques.
The Rhodesia Railways program of expansion and improvement is expected to cost the equivalent of $79 million during the three years ending March 1955. Although most of the goods purchased with Bank finance will come from the United Kingdom, the loan will be in dollars.
Southern Rhodesia
Fiscal $28 million 25-year AVa% loan of Febru-1952: ary 27, 1952 to the Colony of South-
ern Rhodesia for power development.
The Bank's loan is helping to finance imports of equipment and materials required in a program to expand the supply of electric power. This program is part of Southern Rhodesia's general plan for economic development during the four years ending in March 1955. Power facilities are to be increased by the installation of about 230,000 kilowatts of new thermal generating capacity, the erection of some 2,000 miles of transmission lines, and the installation of additional distributing equipment.
The projects financed by the loan are progressing approximately on schedule. Most of the imports needed are being supplied from the United
Kingdom, and about one-third of the loan has been disbursed. In the meantime, Southern Rhodesia's economic development continues to be rapid, and the demands for both electric power and railway services continue to exceed the ability to meet them.
In March 1953 the Bank made a loan to Northern Rhodesia for the expansion of the railways serving both the Rhodesias. At the same' time, it entered into a subsidiary agreement with both Northern and Southern Rhodesia regarding the financing and carrying out of the railway project. This loan, like that for power development, was guaranteed by the United Kingdom.
Union of South Africa
Fiscal $30 million 20-year 4% loan of January 1951: 23,  1951 to the Electricity Supply
Commission for power development.
$20 million 15-year 314% loan of January 23, 1951 for expansion of transportation facilities. Fully disbursed by March 1953.
The Bank's two loans to South Africa, totaling $50 million, are directed toward keeping the expansion of basic facilities abreast of the country's economic growth. The sum lent includes a $30 million loan to the Electricity Supply Commission, which provides about three-quarters of the Union's power consumption. This loan is to be spent on a wide range of imported electrical equipment; approximately $25 million of it has been disbursed. The other loan put $20 million at the disposal of the Union's transport expansion program. Disbursements under this loan were completed by March 1953. Carrying out of the program has been slowed down, however, by delays in receiving equipment from Germany and the United Kingdom, and by the shortage of skilled labor.
Since these two loans were made, the speed of economic development in South Africa has been such that the power plants and transport system are still unable to meet all the demands upon
Australia
Fiscal $100 million 25-year AVa% loan of Au-1951: gust 22, 1950 for development pro-
gram.
Fiscal   $50 million 20-year 4%% loan of July 8, 1953: 1952 for development program.
In July 1952 a $50 million loan was made to give further assistance to Australia's economic development. The programs to benefit from this loan have all been chosen because they play a basic part in the country's economy, and in its balanced development. About one-third of the loan will aid agriculture, and half of it will be used for coal mining, the iron and steel industry, railways, road transport and electric power. A small part is allocated to manufacturing industries related to such basic activities as agriculture, transportation, construction and power. About $11 million of the loan has been disbursed.
The first development loan of $100 million was made in August 1950 and has now been very largely disbursed. While some of it has been spent on imported capital goods for investment
projects of the Commonwealth and State authorities, much has been used on machinery and equipment imports needed by farmers and private businesses. All of the imports for private use have been distributed through normal commercial channels.
During July and August 1952 a Bank mission visited Australia to examine the progress of some of the projects for which dollar funds were made available under the $100 million loan. Early in 1953 two of the Bank's agricultural specialists went to Australia to study farm production and the effects of Bank-financed equipment on agricultural development. This mission also studied Australia's farm production targets and the prospects for marketing farm products. It found that most of the deficiencies in materials and equipment, which had hampered the expansion of agriculture since the end of the war, had been successfully overcome. Ourput of cereals, milk and meat is expected to benefit considerably from the use of Bank-financed equipment.
Belgium
Fiscal $16 million 20-year 4}4% loan of March 1949: 1, 1949 for steel plants and electric
power.
Fiscal $30 million 25-year AVz% loan of Sep-1952: tember 13, 1951 for development of
the Belgian Congo. Made simultaneously with loan of $40 million to the Belgian Congo (see page 21).
More than half of the $30 million loan of September 1951 has now been disbursed. This loan was made to help to offset the pressure on the Belgian foreign-exchange position resulting from Belgium's contribution to the development of the Congo.   Withdrawals under the loan are
not related to specific imports but are geared to the rate of public investment achieved in the Ten Year Development Plan for the Congo.
The tin-plate mill, the blooming mill and the thermal power plant financed by the $16 million loan of 1949 are in full operation. An amount of $1.8 million originally allocated for the construction of the power plant and not needed for that purpose, is being devoted to the purchase of a continuous hot strip mill by the owners of the completed blooming mill. In June 1953 Belgium repurchased and cancelled before maturity bonds to the value of $500,000 from this loan.
EUROPE
them. The Bank therefore agreed to send a mission to South Africa late in 1952 to study the economic situation and to examine the Government's plan for additional public investment. A
second mission arrived in South Africa in June 1953 to study railway and power service expansion programs which might be suirable for financing by the Bank.
AUSTRALASIA
Denmark
Fiscal $40 million 2 5-year 4V4% loan of August 1948: 22, 1947 for reconstruction. Fully
disbursed by March 1949.
The difficult dollar position of Denmark noted in the Bank's Seventh Annual Report improved considerably during 1952. Her dollar trade deficit for the year was reduced by more than one-half. Imports from the dollar area declined; while, particularly as a result of larger expenditures by United States armed forces in Europe, export earnings increased.
Dollar-debt amortization payments, already due or about to fall due, still present Denmark with a financial problem. But the Ministry of Finance has been able to increase the sums set aside to meet these amortization payments in 1953- The improved position was reflected by Denmark's decision to pay in May 1953 $302,000 on the $40 million reconstruction loan, although this sum did not fall due until August 1953.
Finland
Fiscal $12.5 million 15-year 4% loan of August 1950: 1, 1949 to the Bank of Finland for de-
velopment of power, wood-products industries   and   limestone powder production. $2.3 million 2-year 3% loan of October 17, 1949 for equipment for timber production; reduced at request of borrower on September 30, 1951 to $2.1 million.   This loan has been completely repaid. Fiscal   $20 milllion 18-year 4%% loan of April 1952: 30, 1952 to the Bank of Finland for
development of power and wood-products industries and for agricultural improvement.
Fiscal Swedish kronor 18 million ($3,479,464) 1953: 18-year 4%% loan of November 13,
1952 to the Bank of Finland for the
wood-products industries.
Most of the Bank's lending in Finland has been for the modernization and expansion of the wood-products industries, which account for nearly one-third of the national income, consume more than half the supply of electric power and provide nearly the whole of the country's export earnings.  The sharp fall in the price of chemical wood
pulp over the fiscal year has created difficulties. To aid Finland in adapting her economy to this situation, the Bank has agreed to various changes in the projects it is financing in the wood-products industries.
Of the $20 million lent to Finland in April 1952, $9-5 million was for additional machinery for the wood-products industries, $9.5 million for imports of equipment needed to increase the supply of electric power, and $1 million for equipment to construct access roads to timber areas and to reclaim land. The wood-products industries will also benefit from the Bank loan of Swedish kronor 18 million (equivalent to about $3.5 million) made in November 1952. This loan was financed through the release by the Swedish Government of part of its paid-in subscription to the capital of the Bank. The proceeds will finance imports of equipment from Sweden. About one-third of the dollar loan and one-tenth of the kronor loan have been disbursed.
The $12.5 million loan of August 1949 has been almost entirely disbursed, about four-fifths of it for equipment to reconstruct and modernize the wood-products industries, the remainder for imports needed for electric power development and the production of limestone powder.
France
Fiscal $250 million 30-year 41/4% loan of May 1947: 9, 1947 to Credit National for recon-
struction.  Fully disbursed by January 1948.
The possibility of Bank assistance in the development of French overseas territories was discussed in Paris in the closing months of the fiscal year (see page 21).
Germany
The Federal Republic became a member of the Bank in August 1952. In the first half of 1953 a mission made two visits to the country to study present economic conditions and the possibility of Bank lending. During the second visit, the President of the Bank spent a short time in
Germany and met officials of the Government and members of the investment community.
Greece
The Minister of Coordination visited the Bank in May 1953 to discuss the present economic situation and the investment program of Greece. A mission has been invited to visit the country to make a further examination of these topics, and is expected to leave for Greece within the next few months.
Iceland
Fiscal £875,000 ($2,450,000) 22-year 4%% loan 1951: of June 20, 1951 for power develop-
ment.
Fiscal £360,000 ($1,008,000) 22-year Wi% loan 1952: of November 1, 1951 for agricultural
development.    Fully   disbursed by
March 1953-
Fiscal $854,000 equivalent in European curren-1953: cies 17-year 4%% loan of August 26,
1952 for a fertilizer plant.
The loan of August 1952, made in various European currencies equivalent to $854,000, is financing imports from Europe of building material and equipment for a nitrogen fertilizer plant. The plant will make enough fertilizer to meet domestic needs and will help Iceland in her plans to develop agriculture and lessen her dependence on fishing. About one-third of the loan has so far been disbursed.
Last disbursements under the £360,000 loan of November 1951 were made during the year. This loan was used to finance imports needed to build farm houses and other farm buildings and to re-seed and fence grasslands. An amount of Icelandic kronur equivalent to the loan has been deposited in a special account in the Agricultural Bank and is being used to assist farmers with loans toward buildings and other improvements.
About four-fifths of the £875,000 loan made in June 1951, to pay for imports from Europe for hydroelectric plants on the Sog and Laxa Rivers, has been disbursed. Supply difficulties, particularly those caused by the shortage of certain types of steel, delayed work during the construction
season of 1952. But progress has been good since the 1953 thaw allowed work to begin again, and construction should be completed by December of this year. Though the total of this loan, like the £360,000 loan of November 1951, was expressed in sterling, other European currencies were also used in both cases.
All the Bank's loans to Iceland are financing purchases in Europe. The currencies lent for this purpose by the Bank have been made available to it by releases from the paid-in capital subscription of European members, and from the proceeds of the Bank's £5 million sterling bond issue of May 1951. Funds from the United States Mutual Security Agency have been drawn upon by the Icelandic Government to furnish the dollar costs and most of the Icelandic kronur costs of the projects.
The Government has discussed with the Bank the possibility of additional loans in various currencies for several other projects. A Bank mission visited Iceland in May 1953 to study these projects and to obtain data on the country's economic situation.
The Iceland Bank of Development was established in February 1953, along the general lines recommended by a Bank representative who visited the country in 1952.
Italy
Fiscal $10 million 25-year AYz% loan of October 1952: 10, 1951 to the Cassa per Opere Stra-
ordinarie di Pubblico Interesse nelT Italia Meridionale (Cassa per il Mez-zogiorno) for development of southern Italy.
Satisfactory progress has been made with the 10-year development program for southern Italy, in support of which the Bank lent $10 million in October 1951. This program, administered by the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno, will bring a tenfold increase in the acreage under irrigation; it will also control floods, clear land, improve roads, and provide for the settlement of farmers on land redistributed by the Government. The loan is not intended to buy equipment, for this
can be obtained within Italy. But it will bear the impact on the country's foreign-exchange position of the higher tempo of activity resulting from the plan's execution which is expected to employ a quarter of a million workers. The rate of disbursement of the loan is geared to investment under the plan at a rate of $1 per 10,000 lire, and disbursements have so far amounted to $8.2 million. Execution of the first phase of the plan, involving the expenditure of 100 billion lire, has been somewhat slower than was anticipated, but is expected to be completed by September 1953.
The lira counterpart of the Bank's loan is being used to stimulate industrial developmenr in southern Italy. Agreement has been reached on seven projects to be financed from this fund. Three of these are for cement works. The others are for the production of superphosphates, fiber board, welded tubes and woolens. Most of the loan contracts have been concluded and the first disbursements have already taken place.
Two missions visited Italy during the year. Progress of the Cassa plan was surveyed, and the Bank studied the possibility of supporting the next phase of the 10-year program with a further loan.
Luxembourg
Fiscal $12 million 25-year 4*4% loan of August 1948: 28, 1947 for equipment for steel mill
and railroads; reduced at request of borrower on December 19, 1949 to $11.8 million, which was disbursed by the end of that month.
The Netherlands
Fiscal $195 million 25-year 4V4% loan of August 1948: 7, 1947 for reconstruction.  Fully dis-
bursed by June 1948.
Fiscal $12 million 10-year 3%% loans of July 1949: 15, 1948 to N.V. Stoomvaart Maat-
schappij "Nederland" (2 loans of $2 million each), N.V. Vereenigde Ned-erlandsche Scheepvaartmaatschappij (one loan of $2 million), N.V. Neder-landsch - Amerikaansche Stoomvaart-Maatschappij "Holland-Amerika Lijn" (one loan of $2 million), and N.V. Rotterdamsche Lloyd (2 loans of $2 million each), for purchase of ships. Fully disbursed by August 1948.
Fiscal $15 million 15-year 4% loan of July 26, 1950: 1949 to Maatschappij tot Financiering
van het National Herstel N.V. (Her-stelbank) for industrial re-equipment projects; reduced at request of borrower to $8.8 million on March 17, 1950 and to $7.9 million on January 9, 1952.
Fiscal $7 million 6-year 4y$% loan of March 20, 1952: 1952 to Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maat-
schappij N.V. (KLM) for purchase of aircraft.
Over half of the $7 million loan of March 1952 to KLM Royal Dutch Airlines has been disbursed; the greater part of this amount represented complete disbursement of the $3-5 million participation of The Chase National Bank of the City of New York. Although there have been delays in the delivery of the planes included in the aircraft replacement program, seven new planes were put into international service in 1952. The remaining 16 are to be delivered during 1953 and early 1954. By helping to modernize KLM's fleet, the loan should increase the foreign-exchange earnings of the Netherlands.
Only $750,000 remains undisbursed of the $15 million loan made in July 1949 to the Finance Corporation for National Reconstruction (Herstelbank). Of the 35 industrial re-equipment projects assisted by the loan, 21 had been completed by December 1952, 13 more are expected to be completed by the end of 1953, and the remaining one during 1954.
In June 1953 the four shipping companies arranged to purchase and cancel bonds to the value of $6 million from the loans of July 1948. By this purchase, together with the amortization payment due in July 1953, the whole sum of $12 million will be repaid five years before final maturity.
Turkey
Fiscal   $12.5 million 25-year 4V4% loan of July 1951: 7, 1950 for development of ports.
$3.9 million 18-year 3%% loan of July
7, 1950 for grain-storage facilities. $9 million 15-year 334% loan of October 19, 1950 to Industrial Development Bank of Turkey for development of private industry.
Fiscal $25.2 million 25-year 4%% loan of June 1952: 18, 1952 for multi-purpose dam and
power facilities on the Seyhan River.
The $25.2 million loan of June 1952 is to meet the foreign-exchange costs of the Seyhan Dam, which will help to control floods, to irrigate the fertile Adana Plain and to provide power for existing and new industrial enterprises in that area. Consulting engineers have been engaged and plans and specifications for the dam have been completed. Orders for construction equipment have been placed. The equipment is being shipped in time for use in the 1953 construction season.
The generation and distribution of power from the Seyhan plant will be put into the hands of a corporation in which private capital will have a majority holding. This corporation, named the Cukurova Utility Power Company, has been formed and private investors have acquired a majority interest by subscribing to 16 million Turkish liras of its issued capital. This operation is a new and successful step in the mobilization of private capital in Turkey.
The Industrial Development Bank, established to stimulate private industry and assisted by the $9 million loan of October 1950, has greatly expanded its activities. By the end of April 1953 it had approved loans equivalent to 83 million Turkish liras (about $30 million) out of total resources equivalent to 104.7 million Turkish liras. International Bank funds equivalent to $5.8 million provided a part of the foreign-exchange requirements of 19 loans made by the Development Bank. These loans are aiding a variety of industries, including cotton and wool processing, brick and tile production, machine service and repair facilities, and the manufacture of pharmaceuticals. In May 1953 Industrial Development Bank representatives visited the International Bank to discuss the possibility of a second loan to provide additional foreign exchange.
Under the $12.5 million port development loan of July 1950, construction contracts have been awarded for the ports of Salipazar and Hay-
darpasa. Bids for the Samsun and Iskenderun construction contracts have been received. The program is behind schedule, but work at Salipazar and Haydarpasa should be completed towards the end of 1954 and at Iskenderun and Alsancak during 1955. Samsun will take longer, and will be the last of the five port projects to be completed.
Progress has continued on the projects financed by the $3.9 million grain-storage loan of July 1950 although, like the port loan, it is behind schedule. Construction of the 29 steel sheds for grain storage has been almost completed; they should be available for storing the 1953 harvest. The nine inland silos are still under construction, but some of them should be in use this year. A construction contract has been awarded for the Iskenderun port silo, bids for the Haydarpasa port silo have been received, and it is expected that bids for the Alsancak silo will be invited soon.
Yugoslavia
Fiscal $2.7 million 2-year 3% loan of October 17, 1950: 1949 for equipment for timber pro-
duction.   Fully disbursed by December 1950, and now completely repaid. Fiscal   $28 million equivalent 25-year AVi% loan 1952: of October 11, 1951 for power, min-
ing, industrial and other projects. Fiscal   $30 million equivalent 25-year 47/s% loan 1953: of February 11, 1953 for power, min-
ing, industrial and other projects.
A loan equivalent to $30 million was signed in February 1953. Twenty-seven projects are being assisted by it in seven sectors of the economy: electric power generation and distribution; coal mining; the extraction and processing of non-ferrous metals; iron and steel production; other manufacturing industries; forestry; and transportation. Some of these projects are already close to completion, and all of them should be in operation within two or three years. They were selected for financing because they were expected to bring an early improvement in the Yugoslav balance of payments.
Similar objectives were served by the loan equivalent to $28 million made in October 1951 in support of power, mining, industrial and other
projects. This loan has now been almost entirely disbursed or committed.
A mission visited Yugoslavia in the middle of 1952 and found that progress on projects supported by the earlier loan had been satisfactory. The mission also examined projects put forward by the Government for the second loan, and studied economic developments in Yugoslavia. It noted an improvement in the availability of goods. This improvement had been furthered by grants from the United States, the United Kingdom and France, and changes in economic organization aimed at decentralization of management and the encouragement of initiative. The mission discussed measures being taken to meet the difficulties caused by the severe drought of 1952.
Both the loans are expected to be disbursed and repayable entirely in European currencies. This is an important feature of the loan operations; the pattern of Yugoslavia's external trade is such that her exports go mainly to European markets and her opportunities of earning dollars are limited. The Government is buying equipment and supplies from the United States, Canada and eleven European countries. To finance these purchases the Bank is using, in addition to Swiss francs received from the sale of Bank bonds in Switzerland and sterling received from the sale of bonds in the United Kingdom, releases from the capital subscriptions of Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
WESTERN HEMISPHERE
Bolivia
Bank representatives visited Bolivia in March 1953 to examine the economic situation and to explain to officials the operating methods of the Bank.
Brazil
Fiscal $75 million 25-year 4x/2% loan of Janu-1949: ary 27, 1949 to Brazilian Traction,
Light and Power Company, Limited, for power and telephone development. Fiscal   $15 million 25-year 414% loan of May 26, 1950: 1950 to Companhia Hidro Eletrica do
Sao Francisco for power development. Fiscal $15 million 25-year A1/a% loan of Janu-1951: ary 18, 1951 to Brazilian Traction,
Light and Power Company, Limited, for power development. Fiscal   $25 million 25-year 4%% loan of June 27, 1952: 1952 to the Comissao Estadual de
Energfa Eletrica of Rio Grande do Sul for power development. $12.5 million 15-year 4%% loan of June 27, 1952 for improvement of railways.
Fiscal   $3 million 5-year 41/4% loan of April 30, 1953: 1953 for highway improvements.
The $3 million loan of April 1953 will be used to finance imported equipment needed by the Highway Department of the State of Rio de Janeiro for the maintenance of its highway net-
work and for carrying forward its program for new highway construction and paving. The State of Rio de Janeiro, adjacent to the capital city of Brazil, is highly industrialized and also an important agricultural atea. It is the chief supplier of essential foodstuffs to Rio de Janeiro and to Niteroi, the State capital. Trucks now carry a heavy volume of freight throughout the State, and motor-bus traffic is growing as the cheapest and most convenient means of transportation.
Most of the projects financed by the $90 million of loans made to the Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Company in 1949 and 1951 have been completed. The project for the diversion of the waters of the Paraiba and Pirai Rivers to supply water for the new Forgacava power plant and the old Fontes plant was completed in March 1952. Since then, the pumping stations have been expanded by the installation of additional pump units. Progress on the construction of the Forcacava plant has been delayed because of unforeseen difficulties encountered in excavating for the underground power station. The first two units are now expected to be in operation before November 1953 and the third before the beginning of 1954, giving the plant an initial capacity of 135,000 kilowatts.
Work is continuing on the hydroelectric power project at Paulo Afonso for which the Bank made a loan of $15 million in May 1950. Because of the large volume of water and rapid flow of the river, the most difficult part of the construction work is the closure of the dam section across the main part of the river. This work has required considerably more time than was estimated. In the light of the experience gained during the last construction seasons, the engineering plans have been revised and, if no further difficulties are encountered, the dam should be completed in time for the plant to start operations by April 1954.
The Loan Agreement for the $12.5 million loan of June 1952 to pay for imports required for rehabilitation of the Central do Brasil Railroad, became effective in January 1953. A loan agreement was concluded in December 1952 between the Central do Brasil Railroad and the Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico, providing the required cruzeiro funds. The new administration of the Central do Brasil Railroad issued its invitations for tenders for the supply of rolling stock, but by the end of June 1953 no disbursement had yet been made under the Bank loan.
The Loan Agreement for the $25 million loan made to the Comissao Estadual de Energfa Eletrica in June 1952 for power development in the State of Rio Grande do Sul also became effective in January 1953. The Statutes of the Comissao have been promulgated by the Governor of the State and notable progress has been made in the organization of the Commission. Substantial headway is being made in construction and bids have been invited for the supply of most of the equipment to be financed under the loan. No disbursement had been made under the Bank loan, however, by the end of the fiscal year.
British Guiana
A general survey mission visited British Guiana in February and March 1953 to prepare recommendations to the Government for a long-
term investment program. The group consisted of eight members: three of the Bank's staff; three specialists in agriculture and forestry nominated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, which also shared their expenses; and two consultants recruited by the Bank, one a specialist on the use of water resources and the other an expert on transport and communications. The Bank expects to transmit the mission's report to the Government in August 1953.
Chile
Fiscal §13.5 million 20-year AVi% loan of March 1948: 25, 1948 to Corporacion de Fomento
de la Produccion (Fomento) and Em-presa Nacional de Electricidad, S.A. (Endesa) for power development. $2.5 million 6Vi-year 3%% loan of March 25, 1948 to Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion for agricultural machinery. Fully disbursed by December 1949-
Fiscal $1.3 million 10-year 4Ys% loan of Oc-1952: tober 10, 1951 to Corporacion de Fo-
mento de la Produccion for exploration and use of water resources of the Rfo Elqui Valley.
The Endesa hydroelectric program, for which the Bank made a loan of $13-5 million in March 1948, is proceeding satisfactorily. Two installations, one at Pilmaiquen and the other at Los Molles with capacities of 10,800 kilowatts and 16,000 kilowatts respectively, have been completed and are in operation. As a result of further studies, revisions have been made in plans for the construction of the Los Cipreses plant. The new plan provides for a 3-unit plant: two units with a combined capacity of 58,900 kilowatts to be financed by the Bank, and a third unit with a capacity of 29,450 kilowatts to be financed from other sources. The transmission system of this plant has also been revised to be better adapted to the future power requirements of the Endesa system. The plant is scheduled for completion by the end of 1953, and the transmission lines and substations during the first half of 1954.
There has been some delay on the project being carried out under the Bank's loan of $1.3 million to explore and use the underground water
resources of the Rio Elqui Valley. The first phase, involving explorations to measure the volume of underground water, will not be completed before October 1953. After that, it can be decided to what extent it will be practicable to proceed with the second phase, which consists of the installation of permanent pumps and power facilities to operate them.
The report of the joint Bank-FAO mission, which visited Chile in 1951 to prepare a long-term program of agricultural development, was transmitted to the Government in December 1952. A special committee appointed by the Government is studying the report and preparing specific recommendations for action based on it.
The report contained recommendations aimed at increasing agricultural output during the next eight years to a level approximately 40% above the 1945-49 level. First emphasis was placed on the need for the Government to adopt a consistent long-term agricultural policy designed to create incentives and maintain confidence among farmers so that they will embark upon a vigorous expansion program. Other recommendations for government action concerned the improvement of roads, railways and ports as they affect agriculture, and facilities for processing, storing and marketing agricultural products.
To provide additional land for cultivation, the mission proposed that in the next eight years Chile should bring under irrigation an additional 500,000 acres, reclaim and drain 750,000 acres, and return to production 250,000 more acres of farm land now lying fallow.
Various steps were recommended to increase production from land now under cultivation. The mission was of the opinion that better feeding and sheltering of animals, and disease control, could increase milk production by 5 5 % and meat production by 50% in eight years. Crops could be improved by increased use of farm machinery, improvement of seeds, and better pest, disease and weed control.
Negotiations on the proposed Bank loan for the construction of pulp and newsprint plants en-
countered delays arising out of differences of opinion in Chile regarding the conditions under which the Government should guarantee the loan. In April 1953, however, the Government decided to grant its guarantee. Bank representatives visited Chile shortly afterwards for renewed discussion of the proposed plants and of problems which had arisen in connection with two coal-mining projects for which Bank financing had been requested.
Colombia
Fiscal $5 million 7-year 3Vi% loan of August 19, 1950: 1949 to Caja de Credito Agrario, In-
dustrial y Minero for agricultural machinery; reduced at request of borrower on April 2, 1951 to $4.9 million, which had been disbursed by February 1951.
Fiscal $3.53 million 20-year 4% loan of Novem-1951: ber 2, 1950 to Central Hidroelectrica
del   Rio  Anchicaya,  Limitada, for
power development.
$2.6 million 20-year 4% loan of December 28, 1950 to Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas, Limitada, for power development.
$16.5 million 10-year 3%% loan of April 10,  1951  for highway construction and rehabilitation. Fiscal   $2.4 million 20 -year AYi% loan of Nb-1952: vember 13, 1951 to Central Hidro-
electrica del Rio Lebrija, Limitada, for power development.
Fiscal $25 million 25-year 4%% loan of August 1953: 26, 1952 for construction of the Mag-
dalena Valley Railroad and central
repair shops.
The Bank's $25 million loan of August 1952 was made for key parts of an extensive program being carried out to reorganize and rehabilitate the national railroads. Of the loan, $20 million is helping to finance the building of a railroad in the Magdalena Valley, and $5 million is being applied to the construction of railroad repair shops at Bogota. Work began on the new Magdalena Valley Railroad in January 1953. The line will be 235 miles long. It will connect the country's eastern and western rail systems, and will provide through rail transportation between the Pacific port of Buenaventura and important
cities of the interior. It will also supplement all-river transport through the Magdalena Valley and provide a fast and reliable river-rail route between the Caribbean ports and central Colombia. The new repair shops will provide facilities for the reconditioning and maintenance of rolling stock which now lies idle for long periods awaiting repair.
The highway project being carried out with the help of the Bank's $16.5 million loan of April 1951 has progressed satisfactorily. This project consists of the rehabilitation of 1,802 miles of trunk highways and the construction of new sections to close gaps in the existing network. By April 1953 all work, including paving, was completed on 112 miles of roads; the full base for paving was completed on 394 miles; and grading was finished on a further 158 miles. In addition, the contractors had 1,213 miles of roads under maintenance. Two permanent repair shops, one at Bogota and the other at Bucaramanga, have been completed and are being used to maintain the construction equipment.
Early in 1953 the Government asked the Bank for a supplementary loan to expand the highway project. The expansion would increase the amount of paving from 50% to 80% of the mileage included in the project, and would include a comprehensive maintenance program for national highways. A Bank mission visited Colombia in April 1953 to examine this proposal and its report was under review at the end of the fiscal year.
Progress on the three hydroelectric projects being financed with the help of Bank loans has, on the whole, been satisfactory. The Caldas project has been supplying power to the city of Manizales since 1951 and the expansion of the distribution system is expected to be completed soon. The Lebrija project, which will make more power available to the city of Bucaramanga, is progressing according to schedule, and should begin to supply power by the end of 1953. Progress has been slow on the project being built on the Anchicaya River to supply more power to the
industrial center of Cali. Completion of the project, originally scheduled for April 1954, probably will be delayed for several months.
The Bank's highway and railroad loans are an outgrowth of the recommendations made by the general survey mission which visited Colombia in 1949, and the Bank has continued to work with the Government in carrying through other recommendations of the mission. The Bank is collaborating closely with the National Planning Council established in 1951. A staff member on leave of absence from the Bank is acting as Planning Adviser to the Council and the Bank has nominated several specialists to serve the Council in various other capacities. Consulting engineers, engaged jointly by the Government and the Bank to study the civil aviation corporation recommended by the mission, completed their report early in 1953. The proposed corporation would be an autonomous government agency established to operate airports and aviation communication services. The Government is now taking steps to put into effect the recommendations of the report.
The Bank has also transmitted the report of a financial expert, jointly retained by the Government and the Bank, recommending measures to promote investment in industry and to improve the market for government securities.
Cuba
The Bank is working with the Government and the Banco Nacional de Cuba to put into effect some of the recommendations on financial measures made by the general survey mission of 1950. Bank missions visited Cuba in July and November 1952 for this purpose and to consider how the Bank might collaborate with the Cuban Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank. A consultant engaged by the Bank visited Cuba in May and June 1953 to study the organization and operations of the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank with reference to the possibility of developing a market for its securities. The International Bank is examining the technical merits of two projects which are being con-
sidered by the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank and has also been studying the general problem of how to develop a more active capital market.
Ecuador
Bank missions visited Ecuador in July 1952 and in February 1953 to examine conditions in the country and to discuss with the Government steps to be taken by Ecuador to facilitate Bank assistance in the development of its economy. The Government also discussed with the missions a number of development projects.
At the end of May 1953 the Government and the British Council of Bondholders agreed on the terms of a proposed settlement of Ecuador's external debt. The settlement is subject to ratification by the Ecuadorian Congress. The Bank plans to send a mission to Ecuador in August 1953 to examine specific projects which the Government has presented to the Bank for financing.
El Salvador
Fiscal $12,545 million 25-year AVa% loan of De-1950: cember 14, 1949 to Comision Ejecu-
tiva Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa for
power development.
Construction financed by the loan of $12.5 million is somewhat behind schedule because of difficulties encountered early in 1952 in the civil works for the hydroelectric plant on the Lempa River. The project should, however, be finished before the end of 1953, and it is probable that the plant will begin limited operations early in 1954. In the meantime a specialist found with the help of the Bank is assisting the Government in a study of wholesale power rates and in studying a rate structure for retail sales.
Late in 1952, following a preliminary examination made by an expert from the United Nations, the Government informed the Bank of its intention to make detailed engineering studies for the construction of a projected new port on the Pacific Ocean. It is expected that when technical studies are completed the project will be presented for the Bank's consideration.
The Minister of Economy visited the Bank early in 1953 to discuss the possibility of financing irrigation, roads and an industrial development corporation. Preliminary technical and economic information has been received and a Bank mission will be sent to El Salvador to examine these projects within the next few months.
Jamaica
The report of the general survey mission, which visited Jamaica in March 1952, was transmitted to the Government in December 1952. In May 1953 the Government issued a statement of policy which accepted the recommendations of the mission as a framework within which government action for economic development should be planned and carried out in the coming decade.
In its report, the mission proposed a ten-year development program to increase production and reduce unemployment, largely through the development of agriculture. Chief among its recommendations in this field were programs of soil conservation, irrigation, reclamation of swamp land, and pasture improvement; land surveys needed for proper planning of land use, and changes in the system of land taxation. The mission also recommended measures to increase industrial productivity, to develop the tourist industry and to expand mining, electric power and transportation facilities. In the field of social services, the mission stressed the improvement of technical education as a means of bringing about an increase in the country's productive capacity.
Mexico
Fiscal $24.1 million 25-year AVz% loan of Janu-1949: ary 6, 1949 to Comision Federal de
Electricidad and Nacional Financiera
for power development.
$10 million 1-year Al/i% loan of January 6, 1949 to Comision Federal de Electricidad and Nacional Financiera for power development. (Refunded)
Fiscal $26 million 25-year 4Vi% loan of April 1950: 28, 1950 to Mexican Light and Power
Company, Limited, for power development.
Fiscal $10 million (maturity dates 1952-1957) 1951: W2% line of credit of October 18,
1950 to a consortium of eight Mexican banks and Nacional Financiera for financial assistance to small enterprises. Expired on June 30, 1952 with $0,532 million of loans outstanding.
Fiscal $29-7 million 25-year AY2% loan of Janu-1952: ary 11, 1952 to Comision Federal de
Electricidad and Nacional Financiera
for power development.
Construction work on the electric-power projects which the Bank is helping to finance has progressed satisfactorily during the fiscal year, and about 100,000 kilowatts of new generating capacity have been brought into operation. This comprises 66,000 kilowatts at the Lecheria steam electric plant of the Mexican Light and Power Company (Mexlight), which serves the Mexico City area; 10,880 kilowatts at the Tepazolco hydroelectric plant of the Federal Electricity Commission, in the State of Puebla; 12,500 kilowatts at the Guaymas steam electric station in the State of Sonora; and the first of two 15,000-kilowatt units at the Monterrey steam electric station. The only important projects which will be completed somewhat later than originally scheduled are two hydroelectric projects requiring elaborate civil engineering works: Mexlight's new 45,000-kilowatt plant at Patla and a third unit of 45,000 kilowatts at the Commission's Ixtapantongo station.
The Mexican Light and Power Company has, however, experienced serious difficulty in financing the peso costs of its construction program. When the Bank made its loan of $26 million in April 1950 to finance imports required for the program, it appeared that the peso costs could be met by a 44 million peso loan from Nacional Financiera and by suspending dividends during the construction period so that all earnings could be reinvested. However, unforeseen increases in the costs of construction have led to serious pressure on the Company's liquid funds. Nacional Financiera has already made additional advances, but still further advances will be necessary if construction is not to be seriously retarded. To repay these advances and to finance the future expan-
sion needed to meet the growing demand for power in the Mexico City area, the Company must be able to increase its revenues. It has therefore applied to the Mexican Government for a rate increase.
In April 1951, at the suggestion of the Mexican Government, a working party consisting of an economist from the Nacional Financiera, one from the Banco de Mexico and two economists from the Bank's staff, began a study of the long-term trends in the Mexican economy, with special reference to Mexico's capacity to absorb additional foreign investment. The group collaborated for more than a year in the preparation of their report and presented it to the Mexican Government and the Bank in October 1952. The conclusion of their task marked the successful completion of a new form of collaboration between the Bank and a member country.
The report pointed out that Mexico's remarkable development between 1939 and 1950 was accomplished in the face of many difficulties, and was only made possible by an unusually high rate of savings resulting from credit expansion and restrictions on consumption, and by exploiting investment opportunities which offered quick and substantial returns. High returns were possible as long as existing public facilities, such as railways, roads and power stations, could be made to carry additional burdens, and as long as existing oilfields and mines continued to give rich yields.
A stage has now been reached, however, when heavy capital investment must be made in the improvement of public facilities and in the development and conservation of natural resources. Also, an increasing proportion of investment will have to be devoted to the maintenance of existing undertakings.
The report concluded that since it will be difficult to raise domestic savings above the present high level, Mexico will have to rely more on external capital than in the past, if development is to continue at its present rate. Increased external borrowing will need to be accompanied by appropriate financial policies if it is not to disturb
the balance of payments. The report also recommended a greater degree of central coordination of development to ensure that projects are chosen so as to attain the maximum return from capital investment.
Nicaragua
Fiscal   $3.5 million 10-year 4Vs% loan of June 1951: 7, 1951 for highway construction.
$1.2 million 7-year 4% loan of June 7, 1951 to the Banco Nacional de Nicaragua for agricultural machinery.
Fiscal   $550,000 10-year 4^8% loan of October 1952: 29, 1951 for grain storage facilities.
The grain drying and storage plant financed by the $550,000 loan of October 1951 was completed in February 1953, seven months after ground was broken. Although it was completed during the off-season between harvests, it has already received some quantities of corn and beans. It should operate close to capacity after the harvest in August 1953.
Satisfactory progress has been made under the $3.5 million highway construction loan of June 1951. It is expected that the first of eight road-building projects will be completed in August 1953. This is the road from Matagalpa to Jinotega, a distance of 21 miles; it cuts through a coffee-producing area and will speed up the shipment of coffee to marketing centers and open new lands to further coffee growing. Two more roads are expected to be completed during 1954. One, the most important artery in the system, is the 48-mile highway between Managua and Leon. It will for the first time make road transport possible between the capital and Leon, the country's second largest city, and should stimulate commerce in the area. The other is a 19-mile road between San Jorge and San Juan del Sur, a port on the Pacific Ocean.
The equipment acquired under the $1.2 million agricultural machinery loan of June 1951 has been distributed and is in the hands of farmers throughout the most important agricultural areas.
The report of the Bank's special mission, which spent nearly a year in Nicaragua, was pre-
sented to the Nicaraguan Government in September 1952. The report recommended a five-year development program designed to help the country move forward simultaneously in agriculture, transportation, power, industry, education and health. The report also recommended certain administrative and fiscal reforms which the mission felt were required to carry out effectively the proposed investment program.
The Government has undertaken a number of measures in line with the recommendations made in the report. It has accepted the recommended minimum five-year development program as a basis for its future economic policy. It has organized a National Economic Council to coordinate the Government's economic activities and to promote the development program; the Congress has passed legislation establishing a National Development Institute; a Budget Bureau has been organized; an income tax law has been passed; customs duties and the general tax structure are being studied and revised; a new industrial development law has been passed; and the mining laws have been revised.
At the Government's request, the Bank's special mission was extended beyond May 1952. A new special representative was appointed; he and an economist from the Bank's staff are in Managua to assist in carrying out the development program.
Another Bank mission visited Nicaragua in March 1953 to examine projects for the construction of feeder roads into areas opened up by the Bank-financed road program and for a small diesel-power plant in Managua.
Panama
A joint mission from the Bank and the United Nations Technical Assistance Administration visited Panama in August 1952 to arrange with the Government a program of technical assistance directed toward the preparation and execution of fiscal and administrative reforms recommended by an earlier Bank mission. Subsequently, a Bank consultant visited Panama and made rec-
ommendations to improve the fiscal and credit systems. At the suggestion of the Bank, experts from the Banco Nacional de Costa Rica were called upon to advise the Panamanian Government on the establishment of an Economic Development Institute. Legislation was passed creating the Institute in January 1953, and the new agency has now begun the preparation of projects as a first step toward a coordinated development program.
Other government action toward strengthening the financial position of Panama has included the adoption of measures to fund and liquidate the internal floating debt, to improve the tax structure and the tax collection system, and to establish sound budgetary practices.
These favorable developments have made it possible for the Bank to give consideration to the financing of development projects, and a Bank mission visited Panama in March 1953 to examine projects for grain-storage facilities, hydroelectric power and the importation of agricultural machinery.
Paraguay
Fiscal $5 million 9-year 4%% loan of December 1952: 1, 1951  for agricultural machinery
and supplies and road-building equipment.
Under the terms of the Loan Agreement, this loan could not become effective until the Credito Agricola de Habilitacion, one of the agencies to receive Bank-financed goods for resale to Paraguayan farmers, had strengthened its financial position and improved its accounting and administrative procedures. When a large part of these reforms had been accomplished and the remainder were in progress, the Bank agreed with the Government of Paraguay that an initial portion of the loan should be made available for withdrawal. Accordingly, in September 1952, the Bank declared the loan effective up to the amount of $1.9 million, with the balance to be made available later as the Bank and the borrower might agree.
In December 1952, by agreement between the Bank and the Government, the Bank sta-
tioned a special representative in Paraguay to assist in matters related to the loan. Arrangements are now far advanced for the handling and distribution of the Bank-financed farm equipment and supplies; for the establishment by the Ministry of Agriculture of a tractor pool at an agricultural colony near Asuncion; and for the carrying out by the Ministry of Public Works of a program of road construction and maintenance designed to link the agricultural regions of southeastern and central Paraguay with marketing and transportation centers. By August 1953 it is expected that the $1.9 million portion of the loan will have been disbursed and that most of the goods purchased with the funds will have arrived in Paraguay.
Arrangements are being made for a Bank mission to visit Paraguay late in 1953 to examine other projects presented to the Bank for consideration.
Peru
Fiscal $2.5 million 15-year 41/2% loan of Janu-1952: ary 23, 1952 for port improvements.
Fiscal   $1.3 million 7-year 41/8% loan of July 8, 1953: 1952 for agricultural machinery.
The loan of $1.3 million of July 1952 is being used to import equipment for the agricultural machinery pools of Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Produccion de Alimentos (SCIPA), an agency of the Ministry of Agriculture established in 1943 by the Governments of Peru and the United States. SCIPA's machinery pools are being used for plowing and harvesting, for land reclamation and for opening new areas to cultivation. It is estimated that the Bank-financed equipment will, in addition to other benefits, make it possible to put an extra 50,000 acres of land under cultivation. Most of the loan has been disbursed and most of the equipment has arrived in Peru and been put into use.
The Port of Callao loan of $2.5 million was made to improve the port's facilities for handling general cargo and to erect a grain elevator to unload and store bulk grain.   Virtually the whole
amount allocated to the general cargo-handling facilities has been disbursed. Bids are expected to be called shortly for the erection of the grain elevator, and construction should begin within a few months. The Port Authority, established in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement, has made good progress in reorganizing the operations of the port. As a result of improvements at the port, the 25 % surcharge, imposed by shipping companies on freight consigned to Callao, was removed in June 1953.
Two Bank missions visited Peru during the fiscal year 1953- They discussed with Government officials the general relationship between the Bank and Peru, and reviewed the economic and financial situation. The second mission which spent about two months in Peru early in 1953, also made detailed appraisals of the technical and economic merits of development projects for irrigation, road maintenance, agricultural machinery, cement production and electric power.
In January 1953 the Government made a formal offer for the settlement of Peru's dollar debt. The terms had been negotiated with the Foreign Bondholders' Protective Council, of New York, which recommended that bondholders should accept this offer. Settlement has already been accepted on more than two-thirds of the bonds. Negotiations are continuing with the Council of Foreign Bondholders in London for settlement of two sterling bond issues.
Uruguay
Fiscal $33 million 24-year 4*4% loan of August 1951: 25, 1950 to Administracion General
de las Usinas Electricas y los Telefonos del Estado (UTE) for power and telephone development program.
The project for the expansion of power and telephone facilities of Usinas Electricas y los Telefonos del Estado (UTE) was at first held back by delays in making the loan effective and in concluding contracts for the main parts of the project. During the past year, however, work has been proceeding steadily and all principal contracts have been placed. Some diesel generators have been temporarily installed in communities not yet reached by the primary transmission lines. This equipment will be moved to the communities for which it was originally intended when the transmission system is completed.
In April 1953 a mission went to Uruguay to examine several projects submitted by the Government for the Bank's consideration. These included a program to increase livestock production based upon the joint Bank-FAO report submitted to the Government in July 1951, a substantial further expansion of the electric power facilities administered by UTE, and a project for the rehabilitation of the Uruguayan railway system. The report of the mission is under study by the Bank.
Chapter III—Financial Activities and Resources
EARNINGS, RESERVES, REPAYMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
The Bank's net income in 1952-53 amounted to $18,485,411 compared with $15,872,883 during the previous fiscal year. In accordance with established practice, the net income has been placed in a supplemental reserve against losses on loans and guarantees. This reserve was thus increased to $76,513,511.
Loan commissions, representing a charge of 1% on outstanding balances of all loans, totaled $9,551,822 for the year. This sum was credited, as required by the Articles of Agreement, to the special reserve for meeting the Bank's obligations. The special reserve was thus increased to $37,236,477. Total reserves of the Bank on June 30, 1953, were $113,749,988.
The year's gross income, not including loan commissions, was $42,839,207. Of this amount, loan income was $33,449,317, income from investments $9,245,538, and miscellaneous income $144,352. Gross expenses increased from $19,315,861 in 1951-52 to $24,353,796 in the past fiscal year. This increase was due principally to increases in interest charges and other borrowing costs.
Borrowers met promptly all repayments of principal due during the year. The total thus received by the Bank amounted to $1,781,028. In addition, in April 1953 Nicaragua paid $245,000 to reduced future repayments on the agricultural machinery loan, and in May 1953 Denmark made
an advance payment of $302,000 due on August 1, 1953.
Sums paid by borrowers to retire portions of loans which had been sold by the Bank amounted during the year to $17,837,948. This figure included an advance payment of $6 million on the loans of July 1948 to four Netherlands shipping companies, and $500,000 on the loan made in March 1949 for steel and power plants in Belgium.
Disbursements on loans amounted to $226,756,982, compared with $184,777,004 during the previous year. Total disbursements through June 30, 1953, were $1,103,261,115. Of this amount $1,014,536,420 is repayable in U. S. dollars. The balance, equivalent to $88,724,695, is repayable in Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, South African pounds, Swedish kronor and Swiss francs.
The geographical distribution of loan expenditures to the end of the fiscal year is shown on the following page, with the money amounts expressed in millions of United States dollars. The changed distribution in the past year indicates the improved supply position in Europe. This has enabled European suppliers to benefit from the Bank's policy of encouraging the purchase of materials and equipment from whatever source could offer the terms most favorable to the borrower.
Funds available to the Bank for lending, less loan disbursements to June 30, 1953, are summarized below in United States dollar equivalent. The table shows only those funds which have been used by the Bank or which are available for use without further approval by members and are likely to be needed in the Bank's loan operations. Releases authorized by members during the year from their 18% capital subscriptions amounted to the equivalent of $26.6 million.
The improvement in the supply position in Western Europe, to which reference is made in the preceding section of this chapter, has increasingly directed procurement by the Bank's borrowers to European markets, and has emphasized the need for Western European currencies in the Bank's lending operations. Unless these currencies are available from 18% capital subscriptions or from the proceeds of market operations, the Bank acquires the Western European currencies by purchase against United States or Canadian dollars or Swiss francs. In such cases, however, the Bank must impose an obligation on the borrower to service the loan in dollars or Swiss francs. But there are often circumstances where it would be difficult for the borrower to accept a debt obligation in dollars or Swiss francs, while a debt obligation in other currencies would be well within its capacity to bear. The lack of resources of other currencies can, "therefore, act in restraint of the Bank's operations and, at the same time, limit opportunities for exports of Bank-financed equipment by non-dollar member countries. •
The Bank has consistently urged upon its member governments the need for liberal releases of their 18% capital subscriptions. The following table shows, in United States dollar equivalent, the extent to which Western European countries have so far agreed to rriake releases from 18% capital.
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR LENDING
The bond market in the United States was seriously affected in the past year by the return to freer money-market conditions and by the sharp rise, to levels not seen in 20 years, in yields on United States Treasury and other high-grade bonds. Despite the difficulties imposed by these conditions, further progress was made in expanding the market for the Bank's obligations in the United States, and an encouraging expansion of the market outside that country took place during the year.
New Bond Issues
The Bank sold new bond issues in principal amount equivalent to $71.6 million. Direct obligations outstanding at the end of the year were $556.4 million.
In October 1952 the syndicate of 139 banks and investment firms in the United States headed jointly by The First Boston Corporation and Morgan Stanley & Co. purchased an issue of $60 million of Bank Nineteen-Year 3V2% Bonds due October 1971, for public sale at 98 to yield 3.65%. Nearly $20 million of this issue was subscribed by investors outside the United States. The balance was widely distributed within the United States, life insurance companies, savings banks and pension and trust funds being the principal purchasers. The bonds quickly advanced to a premium and during much of the rest of the fiscal year were above the initial offering price.
In November 1952 the syndicate of leading Swiss banks, headed in turn by the Swiss Bank Corporation, Credit Suisse and the Union Bank of Switzerland, offered to the public 5 0 million Swiss
francs (approximately $11.6 million) of 3V2% Ten-Year Bank Bonds due December 1962. The offering price was 98 V2 and the yield 3.68%. In June 1953 the Bank entered into an agreement with the syndicate for an issue of the same amount of 3lA% Fifteen-Year Bonds, due July 1968, and to be offered at 99 to yield 3-59%. Dealings in these bonds, to be dated July 1, 1953, began on a "when-issued" basis before the close of the fiscal year. Both issues were oversubscribed, and the bonds sold at a premium over the issue price.
Sales from Portfolio
Sales of securities from the Bank's loan portfolio during the year amounted to $13,637,966. The funds obtained were added to the Bank's lendable resources.
With its guarantee, the Bank sold the equivalent of $8,304,145 principal amount of borrowers' obligations. These sales raised to $49,803,146 the total of guaranteed issues sold by June 30, 1953. Of that sum, $20,174,301 principal amount has already been paid as the securities matured or by repurchases by borrowers before maturity. Guaranteed obligations still outstanding at the end of the fiscal year amounted to $29,628,845.
The Bank also sold the equivalent of $5,333,821 of borrowers' obligations without guarantee. By the end of the year, the total sales without guarantee had risen to $20,211,508.
In addition, two United States firms agreed to participate, without guarantee, in one of the Bank's loans to the extent of $997,000 as soon as the loan becomes effective.
SALES OF SECURITIES
Releases of 18% capital subscriptions amounting in the aggregate to $33,395,000 have also been made by 18 other member countries, namely: Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Iceland, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Pakistan, Paraguay, Philippines, Syria, Thailand and Yugoslavia. So
far, the Bank has been unable to finance the procurement needs of any of its borrowers through the releases of these currencies, either because the currency released is inconvertible or because the use of a convertible currency is specifically restricted by the releasing country to purchases within its own borders.
Repayment of Obligations by the Bank
In August 1952 the Bank redeemed 17 million Swiss francs (approximately $3,956,000) of its Serial Bonds of 1948 due 1953/54. The Bank also paid at maturity in February and March 1953 respectively $10 million of its 2% Serial U. S. dollar Bonds of 1950 and 5 million Swiss francs (approximately $1.2 million) of its 2lA% Swiss franc Serial Bonds of 1950.
Holdings of Bank Obligations
At June 30, 1953 the total of direct and guaranteed obligations of the Bank outstanding was equivalent to approximately $586 million. Investors in the United States were estimated to hold over 70% of these obligations, distributed approximately as follows: insurance companies,
22%; mutual savings banks, 20%; pension and trust funds, 20%; commercial banks and other investors, 9%. The total of holdings in the United States was approximately $419-5 million, and the Bank's bonds were firmly established among a wide range of institutional investors.
Investors outside the United States purchased the great majority of all guaranteed obligations sold by the Bank during the fiscal year, and acquired substantial additional amounts of the Bank's own bonds. It is estimated that as a result of the growth of these holdings, not including the Swiss franc issue of July 1, the total of the Bank's obligations held outside the United States rose to the equivalent of $164.5 million, or about 28% of the whole amount. This total included obligations of about $109.1 million payable in U. S. dollars.
[41]
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND REPORTS
Appendices A through H contain a balance sheet showing the financial position of the Bank as of June 30, 1953, and a comparative statement of income and expenses for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1952, and June 30, 1953.  A complete
statement of loans up to the end of the fiscal year, the Opinion of the Independent Auditor, and other schedules giving details of the assets and the capital structure of the Bank are also included.
Chapter IV—Management and Organization
Organization
In September 1952 a partial reorganization of departmental duties was carried out primarily to provide for more systematic and continuous contact between the Bank and its member countries. The responsibilities in this field formerly discharged by the Loan and Economic Departments were assigned on a territorial basis to three new departments, each of which was given responsibility for maintaining operational relationships with a particular geographical group of the Bank's member countries. These new units are the Department of Operations—Asia and Middle East; the Department of Operations—Europe, Africa and Australasia; and the Department of Operations—Western Hemisphere.
The functions of assessing the economic, financial and technical merits of projects proposed to the Bank for financing, and of following the progress of projects financed by the Bank, were assigned to a new Department of Technical Opera-
tions. An Economic Staff was maintained to advise the management and operational departments on general economic, financial and investment problems of concern to the Bank, and to provide statistical services.
The new organizational pattern is outlined in the chart below, which also shows the names of the principal officers of the Bank.
Personnel
Mr. William F. Howell, formerly Assistant Director of Administration, was appointed Director of Administration in July 1952 in succession to Mr. Chauncey G. Parker, who resigned to become head of the United States Mutual Security Agency in Italy.
Mr. J. Burke Knapp returned to the Bank in September 1952 and was appointed Director of Operations—Western Hemisphere. He had been given leave of absence from the Bank in 1950, first to serve as economic adviser to the United States Delegation to the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and later to be the U. S. President of the Joint United States-Brazilian Economic Development Commission.
Mr. Henry W. Riley, formerly Assistant Treasurer, was appointed Treasurer in January 1953 in succession to Mr. D. Crena de Iongh, who resigned and became Executive Director for the Netherlands.
In February 1953 Mr. Francois-Didier Gregh was appointed Director of Operations— Asia and Middle East. Mr. Gregh had been Director of the Budget in the French Ministry of Finance, and immediately before joining the Bank was a Director of the Credit Lyonnais in Paris, in charge of marketing and investments.
In April 1953 Mr. Milton C. Cross was appointed Director of Technical Operations. He is on leave of absence from his position as Executive Vice President and director of the United States investment firm of Harriman Ripley & Co., Incorporated.
During the fiscal year there have been 57 appointments to the permanent staff of the Bank and 64 terminations. On June 30, 1953 there were 426 permanent staff members from 24 countries. Four of the eight members of the Bank's 1953 General Training Program were nationals of countries not represented by permanent staff members.
Training Programs
The Bank's General Training Program (formerly called the Junior Professional and Administrative Program) is designed to give young men and women from the Bank's member countries experience with general problems of economic development and with the Bank's operations. The fifth year of this program began on January 1, 1953, with the enrollment of trainees from Ceylon, China, the Dominican Republic, Iraq, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Philippines and Thailand. Citizens of 34 of the Bank's members have participated in this training and selections are now being made from candidates for the sixth annual course.
During the past year the Special Training Program has provided training in public finance for budget officials of Pakistan and Turkey, to an agricultural credit official of the Philippines, to a central bank official of Greece, and to a planning officer of Pakistan. In its three years of operation, this program has had 12 participants from nine member countries. In addition, the Bank made special training arrangements during the year for officials of the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey, for engineers of the Pakistan Government, and for two German and two Japanese ¦Government officials.
Staff Retirement Plan
The Plan began its sixth year of operation in May 1953, and approximately 45 % of the Bank's staff now has five years or more of eligible service. At the end of 1952, the total assets of the Plan were $2,178,600, an increase of approximately $475,000 over the previous year; the investment portfolio contained securities with a book value of $2,134,100 and a market value of $2,296,400.
Joint Services of the Bank and the Fund
At the Seventh Annual Meeting, the Board of Governors raised the question of operating further services jointly with the International Monetary Fund. A committee was appointed by the President of the Bank and the Managing Director of the Fund to investigate the feasibility of increasing the sphere of joint Bank-Fund services.
Administrative Budget
The Administrative Budget of the Bank for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1954 appears in this Report as Appendix I. The budget was prepared by the President and approved by the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws. In the absence of new developments, no report is being submitted to the Board of Governors on the Advisory Council, and no provision is made for the Council in the budget. A special report on the budget is being presented to the Board of Governors at the Annual Meeting.
Chapter V—Miscellaneous
Relations with Other International Organizations
During the year the Bank continued to maintain close relations with the International Monetary Fund, the United Nations and other international organizations. As in the past, representatives of the Bank attended meetings of the United Nations General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. In addition, the Bank was represented at meetings of other international agencies when subjects of interest to the Bank were discussed.
The President of the Bank presented a report on the Bank's activities to the Fifteenth Session of the Economic and Social Council in New York. In May 1953, in accordance with a resolution adopted by the Council at its Thirteenth Session, he transmitted a report on the status of the proposal for an International Finance Corporation (see below) to the Secretary General of the United Nations.
During the course of the year the President of the Bank also attended several meetings of the United Nations Administrative Committee on Coordination, and staff members attended meetings of its subsidiary committees. The Bank also kept in touch with the United Nations regional commissions and the Organization of American States, and attended some of the meetings.
The Bank was represented at numerous meetings of the United Nations Technical Assistance Board and of the Technical Assistance Committee, which reviews the Board's activities on behalf of the Economic and Social Council. Information continued to be exchanged with representatives of the specialized agencies concerned with technical assistance, and a series of meetings to assure coordination was held by the President
of the Bank and the Managing Director of the Fund with the Executive Chairman of the Technical Assistance Board and the Director-General of the United Nations Technical Assistance Administration.
The arrangements have continued under which the agricultural and forestry experts for the Bank's general survey missions have been nominated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, and the costs of their services shared by the Organization. The International Monetary Fund furnished a staff member to serve on an operational mission to Burma; and a number of other international and national organizations have made staff available for technical assistance and for operational activities.
Bank representatives attended the Central American seminar on agricultural credit, held in Guatemala City under the auspices of the Food and Agriculture Organization, the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Government of Guatemala. The Bank was also represented at the Sao Paulo seminar on land problems, sponsored by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the Government of Brazil.
International Finance Corporation
In May 1953 the President of the Bank transmitted a report to the Secretary General of the United Nations, setting forth the present status of the proposal to set up an International Finance Corporation. Establishment of this body was proposed by the United States International Development Advisory Board in 1951. It would be a corporation, affiliated with the Bank, authorized to make loans to private enterprise without governmental guarantee and to make equity investment in participation with private investors.
As requested by the United Nations Economic and Social Council, the Bank studied this proposal and in April 1952 transmitted to the Council A Report on the Proposal for an International Finance Corporation. This was discussed at the meeting of the Council immediately following and, in the later part of 1952, by the Second Committee of the United Nations General Assembly. The General Assembly approved a resolution adopted by the Council noting that the Bank was continuing its examination of the proposal and requesting a report on the results of the Bank's further exploration.
The report of May 1953 briefly reviews the main opinions expressed at the United Nations meetings, at the Bank's Seventh Annual Meeting and in informal talks by Bank officers with officials of member governments and representatives of business and finance. It points out that countries on whom the Corporation would necessarily have to depend for the greater part of its funds have not yet indicated that they are ready to commit themselves to subscribe to its capital; for this reason, there would be no object in further formalizing the project at present. The report also states that the Bank intends to continue to explore the matter with member governments, and will be prepared to present concrete proposals for their consideration if and when there is a reasonable prospect that sufficient financial participation will be forthcoming.
The International Finance Corporation proposal is on the agenda of the Sixteenth Session of
the Economic and Social Council, to be held in Geneva in July 1953.
Membership and Subscription
Japan, with a subscription of $250 million, the Federal Republic of Germany, with a subscription of $330 million, and Jordan, with a subscription of $3 million, became members of the Bank on August 13, 14 and 29, 1952, respectively. Bank membership was thus raised to 54, and its total subscribed capital to $9,036,500,000. Applications for membership from Indonesia, with a subscription of $110 million, and Haiti, with a subscription of $2 million, were approved by the Board of Governors at the Seventh Annual Meeting. These countries have until September 16, 1953 to accept membership.
Appendices
As well as appendices A through I containing the financial statements and the administrative budget of the Bank, there are also included the following:
Appendix J—Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries as of June 30, 1953.
Appendix K—Governors and Alternates as of June 30, 1953.
Appendix L—Executive Directors and Alternates and their Voting Power as of June 30, 1953.
Appendix M—Principal Officers of the Bank as of June 30, 1953.