The bank has now completed its fifteenth year of operations. In the year, the activities of the Bank were part of a broadening stream of financial and technical assistance to the less developed countries. The Bank itself was joined by a new affiliate: the International Development Association, designed to aid economic growth with credits bearing less heavily on the balance of payments of underdeveloped countries than conventional loans. Further progress was made with other international initiatives to increase the flow of development funds and to coordinate efforts to assist economic development. The Inter-American Development Bank began its operations; and the first pre-investment survey financed by the United Nations Special Fund was completed, with the World Bank acting as Executing Agent. The 10 governments in the Development Assistance Group continued their consultations, and several of them took steps to establish institutional arrangements or funds that would facilitate their extension of aid to the less developed countries. The Bank itself took a leading part in the consideration by particular groups of governments of specific problems: external finance for the Indus River Settlement Plan and for the Five-Year Plans of India and Pakistan. Throughout, the Bank continued to cooperate with the capital markets and with private institutional investors in raising capital for economic development.
Together, the Bank and the International Development Association (IDA) committed a total of $711 million in loans and credits. The Bank lent $610 million despite the increase in other sources of public finance for development, and despite the postponement, for purely procedural reasons outside the control of the Bank, of a number of pending loans beyond the end of the fiscal year. This increased the total of its commitments, net of cancellations and refundings, to $5,669 million, of which almost half has been com-
mitted during the past four years. During the second half of the fiscal year, there was a marked increase in the number of project appraisals completed by the staff.
IDA came into existence on September 24, 1960. It has since carried out its first transactions, providing the equivalent of $101 million in the form of 50-year, interest-free development credits to four countries. IDA has a separate legal existence and its own funds, but is administered by the same officers and staff as the Bank; its first Annual Report is being published separately from this Report of the Bank. IDA has had a considerable impact on the work of the staff, involving the investigation of a wider variety of projects than are financed by the Bank and the dispatch of missions to countries where the Bank, with its more exacting financial terms, was not able to lend. These investigations and missions are implementing the policy that IDA projects shall be as thoroughly prepared as those financed by the Bank, to ensure the maximum economic benefit in the countries which borrow from the new Association.
The indus basin settlement passed from negotiation to action during the year. It was embodied in the Indus Waters Treaty, 1960, signed in Karachi on September 19, 1960, by Shri Jawaharlal Nehru, Prime Minister of India, Field Marshal Mohammad Ayub Khan, President of Pakistan, and Sir William Iliff, Vice President, on behalf of the Bank. Signature of the Treaty marked the end of a critical and long-standing dispute between India and Pakistan, and opened the way to the use and development of water resources on which depends the livelihood of some 50 million people in the two countries.
Simultaneously with the signing of the Indus Waters Treaty, an international financial agreement was
executed in Karachi by representatives of the Governments of Australia, Canada, Germany, New Zealand, Pakistan, the United Kingdom and the United States, and of the Bank. This agreement created an Indus Basin Development Fund to finance the construction of irrigation and other works in Pakistan consequent on the Treaty settlement. The Fund will be administered by the Bank and will be financed with the equivalent of about $641 million to be provided by the participating governments, with a payment of approximately $174 million to be made by India under the Treaty, and with $80 million out of the proceeds of a Bank loan to Pakistan.
A general outline of the Settlement was given in last year's Annual Report. Work has now begun on the ten-year task of constructing the works included in the Settlement Plan. Preliminary construction is already under way on several works and tenders are now being invited on major projects. The storage reservoirs and link canals in the Plan include several which are the biggest of their kind ever to be undertaken anywhere in the world. International groupings of contractors have been formed, enabling them to pool their resources and submit tenders for these projects.
Both india and Pakistan have now embarked on new development plans on a large scale, requiring a large amount of external assistance. The Indian Third Five-Year Plan began in April 1961 and the total investment involved, public and private, is the equivalent of more than $20,000 million. About three-quarters of this will be met from India's own resources; foreign exchange assistance is needed in the form of investments, loans and grants totaling over $6,000 million. The Pakistan Second Five-Year Plan began in July 1960. Present estimates indicate that it will involve a total investment equivalent to over $4,000 million by 1965, with external financing required in one form or another to the extent of almost one-half of that total.
To help in meeting this situation, the Bank and some of the principal capital exporting countries are making use of a method which was first used in the later years of the Indian Second Five-Year Plan. In 1958, when
India was experiencing balance of payments difficulties, the Bank called a meeting of a Consortium of member countries interested in the financing of India's economic development; as a result of this and further meetings in 1959 and 1960, additional large-scale assistance was provided to India. In the months before the Third Five-Year Plan came into operation, it was analyzed in detail by the Bank and this analysis was submitted to the Consortium countries.
At a meeting late in May the members of the Consortium gave particular consideration to India's needs in the first two years of the Plan and undertook to provide aid to India totaling over $2,000 million. The accompanying table shows the commitments made,
Program of Aid to India's Third Five-Year Plan
subject as appropriate to legislative action or other necessary authorization.
This program of aid should enable India to launch her Third Five-Year Plan of economic development with confidence in the achievement of its objectives. Another meeting will be held later in 1961 to consider additional aid for the second year of the Plan.
A similar Consortium was set up to consider the needs of Pakistan and first met in October 1960. In this case also the Bank made an exhaustive examination of the Pakistan Second Five-Year Plan and a second meeting of the Pakistan Consortium took place early in June 1961. This meeting resulted in substantial
additional help for Pakistan, sufficient assistance being recommended by members of the Consortium to sustain the momentum of development and to enable Pakistan to pay for essential imports in 1961 /62, the second year of the Plan. A meeting will be held later this year to consider the extent and nature of assistance from the Consortium for the second and third year of the Plan period.
The amounts that would be provided by participants in the Consortium, subject as appropriate to legislative or other necessary authorization, are shown in the accompanying table. The first column represents the
recommendations made during the meeting for additional commitments, and the second column represents commitments made since the beginning of the Second Plan.
Another milestone was reached in 1960/61; the total of sales of Bank loans passed the $1,000 million mark.
The Articles of Agreement of the Bank, drawn up at the Bretton Woods Conference in 1944, emphasized that one of the Bank's tasks was to promote international investment. To some extent this objective is attained by the marketing process whereby the Bank borrows from private investors a large proportion of the funds it needs to finance economic growth in its less developed member countries. The participation of other investors is even more direct when they buy
parts of Bank loans already outstanding or purchase participations in new loans.
Not all sales of portions of Bank loans are, of course, to private investors. Government accounts of one kind or another are also buyers, and in some cases purchases are made by public institutions in the borrowing country. For the most part, however, sales are to private institutions and indicate a wholesome restoration of investor confidence in overseas lending.
The first sales of loans, in 1948 and 1949, were of early maturities, and were made to commercial and savings banks and an insurance company. They were made with the Bank's guarantee and represented a modest replenishment of its lending funds. By the middle of 1951, however, almost $5 million of maturities had been sold without guarantee, and from then on these sales increased rapidly. By the end of fiscal 1955/56, total sales of loans had reached almost $280 million, of which over $200 million were without recourse to the Bank. The decision was then taken that the Bank would not normally offer its guarantee in any further sales of parts of its loans to other investors. By J that time interest in foreign securities had revived in some financial centers and, with the improvement of the economic situation of many of the Bank's borrowers, institutional investors were prepared in many cases to rely on the credit of the borrowing governments and on the procedures followed by the Bank in making its loans. Since the decision of 1956, the Bank has sold over $730 million worth of loan maturities without guarantee. By far the greater part of sales of loans have been made outside the United States, and particularly to investors in Europe.
Obligations of European borrowers account for the largest sales: of a total of $1,425 million loans made by the Bank in Europe, first for reconstruction and later for development, maturities aggregating $423 million, or almost one-third, have been sold by the Bank. But sales of loan maturities are by no means confined to those of European debtor countries; they
have been widely spread. Almost $600 million of Bank \
i
loans to other countries have been sold. In all, nearly j
i
one-fifth of the Bank's loans have been sold to other j investors. I
These rails will soon provide transportation for a new industry in Mauritania: Iron mining in the interior is being developed with the aid of a $66 million loan.
Moreover, in recent years investors have been willing to buy longer maturities of Bank loans than previously. In several loans, strips of maturities have been sold, from the first maturity to the last — in some cases 20 or more years ahead. Sales of maturities have been so large, especially in the past two years, that only the longer maturities of the obligations of certain borrowers remain in the Bank's portfolio. In general, commercial banks prefer to buy the shorter maturities, but insurance companies are showing increasing interest in investing in the Bank's loans and their requirements are for obligations which will yield a fixed return over a longer period. It is to be expected, therefore, that the Bank will continue to be able to replenish its lending resources by selling large amounts from its portfolio.
The membership of the bank comprised 68 countries at the end of the fiscal year, the same number as the year before. The composition of the membership was, however, changed by the withdrawal of Cuba and the Dominican Republic at the end of 1960, and by the adherence of Portugal and Nigeria in the early months of 1961. Portugal's capital subscription is $80 million, and Nigeria's $66.7 million. At the end of June 1961,
the Bank's subscribed capital totaled $20,093 million.
Nine applications for membership were pending, including those of Cyprus, Laos and Nepal which had earlier been approved by the Board of Governors. The six other applications were from the Congo (Leopold-ville), Liberia, New Zealand, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Togo.
There was a further increase in the regular staff of the Bank during the year, partly reflecting continued growth in the work of the Bank and partly the coming into operation of the International Development Association (IDA). By June 1961, the regular staff of the Bank stood at 731 compared to 650 twelve months before. The number of nationalities represented was 53.
There were several changes during the year in the principal officers of the Bank. Mr. Leonard B. Rist, Director of the Economic Staff of the Bank since 1946, was appointed the Bank's Special Representative for Africa. Mr. John C. de Wilde is acting as Director of the Economic Staff. Mr. Martin M. Rosen left his post as Director of the Department of Operations for the Far East to become Executive Vice President of the International Finance Corporation, and his place as Director was taken by Mr. I. P. M. Cargill, who had been Assistant Director of the Department.
THE YEAR'S LENDING
New lending during the fiscal year totaled $609,890,000. There were 27 loans, bringing the total number of the Bank's loans to 292 in 57 member countries and territories. This last figure illustrates the world-wide scope of the Bank's operations; it includes four countries which received their first loans from the Bank during the year — Argentina, British Guiana, Israel, and Uganda.
More than two-thirds of the Bank's lending is for basic investment in transportation and electric power,
and in the past few years loans for transportation have been slowly drawing ahead. This trend was markedly in evidence this year, with transportation loans accounting for $311 million. Railway improvements made up the bulk of this total, including two large loans — $70 million to India and $80 million to Japan for the improvement and expansion of their rail services. Other railway borrowers were Burma, Colombia and Thailand. Loans to assist road development and maintenance in Argentina, Chile, Mexico,
The new loans of the year brought the cumulative total of Bank loans, net of cancellations and refund-ings, to $5,669 million, of which $4,320 million had been disbursed at June 30, 1961. Of the latter amount $1,452 million had been repaid to the Bank or sold to other investors. The effective loans held by the Bank at June 30 stood at $3,996 million.
Net earnings (exclusive of receipts from the 1% annual commission payable on all Bank loans) were $63 million, an increase of $3.7 million over the previous highest figure which was reached in 1959/60.
Panama and Peru totaled $92 million, and a loan of $27.5 million helped to finance the construction of a new Mediterranean port for Israel.
Electric power loans of the year totaled $125 million and were widely spread throughout the world. In all, eight loans were made for this purpose, one in Africa (Uganda), two in Asia (Ceylon and Japan), three in Latin America (Colombia, Costa Rica and El Salvador) and two in Europe (Norway and Yugoslavia). It is estimated that these loans will help to add more than a million kilowatts of capacity in the countries concerned.
Loans for agriculture amounted to $126 million. This total was mainly accounted for by the loan of $90 million made to Pakistan as the Bank's contribution to the financing of the large irrigation works required to implement the settlement reached in the Indus Waters Treaty, 1960. The other loans for agriculture assisted agricultural credit in British Guiana and irrigation projects in Mexico and the Sudan.
Industrial lending totaled $48 million, made up of loans for steel in Japan and for industrial development banks in India and Pakistan. Both the development bank loans provide additional foreign exchange assistance to institutions which had previously received Bank funds.
Sales of Bank loans, all made without the Bank's guarantee, reached $202 million. The total was made up of $25 million of participations, whereby other investors assumed parts of Bank loans at the time the loans were signed, and of $177 million of sales from the Bank's loan portfolio. Disbursements on loans reached a total of $398 million. As a result of these and other factors, the Bank's need for new finance was small and the amount of the outstanding funded debt rose by only $155 million. This was the smallest increase in the past six years.
FINANCIAL OPERATIONS
RESERVES, INCOME, REPAYMENTS AND INTEREST RATE
At June 30, 1961, the Bank's total reserves stood at $602 million, an increase of $95 million over the year. The reserves consist of two parts. One, the Supplemental Reserve accumulated from net earnings and net gains from exchange revaluations, stood at $408 million at the end of the fiscal year, compared with $341 million a year earlier. This increase consists of the $63 million of net earnings and $3.3 million representing net profit resulting from revaluation of the Bank's holdings of the currencies of various member countries, credited directly to the Supplemental Reserve. The other, the Special Reserve to which are credited receipts from the 1% annual loan commission, increased by $29 million to a total of $194 million.
Gross income for the year, excluding loan commissions, was $167 million, an increase of $16 million over the previous year. Interest and issue costs rose to $88 million from $77 million. Administrative costs also increased, to $12 million from $10 million in 1959/60. Over $1 million of these costs were for special services to member countries, including general survey missions, costs of mediation, training programs and other advisory services.
Repayments to the Bank amounted to $101 million and repayments to other investors holding maturities of Bank loans were $90 million; the total of $191 million compared with $158 million a year before.
As a result of a reduction in the cost of the Bank's own borrowing, it was possible at the beginning of the fiscal year to reduce the interest rate on Bank loans, including the 1% annual commission, from 6% to 5%%, and this rate prevailed throughout the year.
loans over the construction period, to meet the import costs of capital equipment and other foreign exchange requirements as they are incurred. In the past, the average disbursement period has been two or three years, but the average is now about five years. It is clear that in time the rate of disbursements will rise to match the rate of earlier loan commitments.
The following table shows the distribution by countries of the orders placed by Bank borrowers using Bank loan funds. The normal procedure is for borrowers to place their orders on the basis of international competition, and the table illustrates the wide distribution which results.
DISBURSEMENTS
The year's disbursements were $398 million, compared with $544 million disbursed in 1959/60 and $583 million the year before. The lower rate reflects the fact that many of the projects for which Bank financing has been sought have been larger projects that take longer to complete. The Bank's practice is to disburse
A summary of the currencies repayable to the Bank as of June 30, 1961, is given in Appendix E.
THE YEAR'S BORROWING
All borrowings during the year took place outside the United States, with Germany continuing for the third consecutive year to be the largest single supplier of borrowed funds for the Bank. Most of the borrowing
In underdeveloped countries, where most of the people are farmers, the Bank has lent almost $500 million for agricultural projects. In Kenya, for example, it is aiding a program to change native agriculture from a shifting tribal basis to settled cultivation. Left, a demonstration in modern methods of animal husbandry.
Directly and indirectly, the Bank has supported the development of many private industries. Right, cement sacks are loaded on a customer's truck at the Pacasmayo Cement Plant in Peru. Below, women tend spinning machines in an Ethiopian cotton factory, financed with one of the Bank's earliest industrial loans.
transactions were for the purpose of lengthening the term of the outstanding debt: refunding operations amounted to $466 million. New borrowings totaling $321 million were arranged, of which less than $139 million had been drawn down and added to the outstanding debt at the end of the year. The net result of these and other developments affecting the funded debt was to increase the total of the Bank's outstanding obligations by $155 million (see accompanying table). At June 30, 1961, the funded debt amounted to $2,228 million, of which about 53% was held outside the United States by investors in more than 40 countries.
In July 1960 the Bank borrowed $30 million in U.S. dollars from the Deutsche Bundesbank, the Central Bank of Germany, to replace a maturing issue. In August 1960 the Bank arranged to borrow from the Bundesbank the equivalent of $245 million, half in U.S. dollars and half in Deutsche marks, the second largest borrowing in the Bank's history, and, with final maturities of 12 years, much the longest loan yet arranged with the Bundesbank. Later in the year the Bank replaced $353 million of its medium-term obligations held by the Bundesbank with two new tranches of serial Notes of longer maturities. Interest rates for the year's borrowings from the Bundesbank varied from 4Vi% for the longest to 3%% for one of the medium-term Note issues.
In October 1960, a two-year, $100 million issue of U.S. dollar bonds was sold entirely outside the United States, replacing a maturing issue of $75 million sold in 1958. This issue was placed with 47 institutions in 29 countries, and carried interest at 3Vi%.
Two public offerings of Swiss franc bonds of the Bank were made in the Swiss investment markets in September 1960 and in March 1961. Together they amounted to Sw F 160 million, the equivalent of about $37 million; both carried interest of 4%. The
Bank also re-borrowed, for a further six years, an installment of Sw F 33,333,333 (about $7.8 million) of a 1957 borrowing from the Swiss Government which became due on January 1, 1961.
The last bond issue of the year, in May 1961, saw the Bank's return to the Netherlands market for the first time since 1955, with the public offering of f50 million (about $14 million) of 20-year guilder bonds at 4%%.
Further details of Bank borrowing during the year will be found in Annex II, on page 31.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The past year saw the highest level of activity yet reached by the Bank in providing assistance to its member countries through general economic surveys, which examine the development potential of the country concerned and recommend the main directions which planning and investment should take. The report of the general survey of Libya was published in October, the Tanganyika mission report in March and the Venezuela mission report in May. The general survey of Uganda, which began in September, has reached the stage of a draft report and publication is expected by early 1962. A large general economic survey mission was sent to Spain, and recruitment began for a general economic survey mission which the Bank has agreed to send to Kenya in September 1961.
Development advisory missions were sent to Kuwait, the Philippines and Chile. The mission to study agricultural problems in Ireland completed its field work during the year and its report will soon be ready for transmittal to the Government. The work of the Food and Agriculture Inquiry Commission in Pakistan, which the Bank and FAO assisted in staffing, was completed during the year.
The Bank continued to provide advisory assistance in other forms to the extent that its personnel resources permitted. Staff members remained as resident representatives in Thailand, Pakistan, Ethiopia and India. At the request of the Government of Nigeria, the Bank gave leave of absence to one of its senior staff members to serve as adviser to the government for a two-year period beginning in November 1960. The staff member serving as adviser to the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited remained in Karachi. A staff specialist was sent to Peru to advise on land settlement and allied questions arising from the completion of irrigation works which had been assisted by a Bank loan made in 1955. A staff member was assigned to serve as a member of the Transportation Planning Group,
organized by the Bank as Executing Agent for the UN Special Fund to prepare a long range transportation program in Argentina. An important development in technical assistance during the year was the Bank's agreement to finance from its own funds part of the foreign exchange costs of comprehensive transportation studies in Colombia and Peru. These studies are being undertaken by consulting engineering firms working closely with government officials under terms of reference drafted with the Bank's help.
Where staff members have not been available, the Bank has offered its assistance in recruiting outside experts for employment directly by member governments. In response to requests of this kind, the Bank recommended an economic adviser to the Government of Malaya, and an industrial economist for the staff of the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation.
Close cooperation has continued with the UN Special Fund. The final report of the survey of electric power needs and potential of Argentina, the first Special Fund project for which the Bank served as Executing Agency, was submitted to the Government and to the Special Fund early in the fiscal year. In addition to the other Special Fund projects in Argentina, British Guiana, Nigeria, Surinam and Thailand for which the Bank had previously agreed to serve as Executing Agency, it has now agreed to serve in the same capacity for a study of power and irrigation potentialities in Guatemala and a survey of natural resources, power and highways in central Peru.
The Bank has continued to assist member countries in the establishment or reorganization of industrial development banks. At the request of the governments concerned and of private sponsors, Bank missions have visited Colombia and Chile to advise on the possibility of setting up private industrial financing institutions for these countries. A reorganization of the Banco Industrial del Peru is progressing,
based on recommendations made by the Bank. The Bank has also provided training at headquarters for key staff members of several development banks and has continued to give advice to many countries on development banking problems.
The sixth course of the Bank's economic development staff college, the Economic Development Institute, was held from October 1960 until April 1961. The final two weeks of the course were spent in Southern Italy and Sardinia, studying aspects of the development program for Southern Italy. The staff and participants of the Institute were guests of the Italian Government and Cassa per il Mezzogiorno. Participants in this year's course numbered 24, of whom eight were from Asia, four from the Middle East, four from Africa, four from the Caribbean area, three from Europe and one from the staff of the Bank. A total of 118 participants from member countries or territories, and five from the Bank, have attended the regular courses of the Institute since it began in January 1956.
At the suggestion of FAO, the Institute arranged to hold a special five-week course in June and July for agricultural economists, mostly from FAO, designed to give them an opportunity to review some of the broader problems of development programming, project appraisal, and the establishment of priorities in public investment programs.
During the year the Economic Development Institute brought to fruition a library program which had been under study for some time. The financing of this project is being shared by the Rockefeller Foundation; it is designed to meet the need expressed by Fellows of the Institute when they returned to home posts to have available the kind of reading and reference material to which they were introduced during their stay at the Institute. The libraries, which are offered
to governments, central banks and other public institutions, consist of approximately 400 books, articles and papers, in English, on development problems. Eighty-five of these libraries had been offered and accepted by the end of June 1961; distribution will begin as soon as the materials have been assembled. Each recipient is asked to give a general undertaking to provide space for the library, to take care of it and to make it available to those who can benefit from it. No financial contribution is required, but preference has been given to the agencies or ministries in which Fellows are employed. The Institute is engaged in planning similar libraries in French and Spanish. A substantial amount of translation of general and technical works will be required.
The training program for junior officials from the Bank's member countries was continued, ten trainees from as many countries taking part in 1961. One hundred and eleven trainees, from 58 countries, have now participated in the General Training Program. In addition eight senior officials of member countries received individual training, under the Bank's Public Finance and Special Training Program. Since the Bank started these Programs, 63 senior officials from 32 countries have received specialized training.
For a number of years the Bank and the United Nations exchanged information and coordinated their technical assistance and other developmental activities through an informal liaison committee. By a provision of the relationship agreement entered into between the International Development Association and the United Nations early in 1961, this committee was given formal status. It consists of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Managing Director of the UN Special Fund, the Executive Director of the UN Technical Assistance Board and the President of the Bank and IDA, or their designated representatives.
anneX   I ^S ^nformatlon 'n l^'s sect'0/t describes loans and other Bank activities during the year.
Loans to borrowers other than member governments carry the guarantee of the governments concerned. Interest rates shown include the 1% commission which is allocated to the Bank's Special Reserve. The participations of financial institutions in loans of the year were all without the Bank's guarantee.
AFRICA
SUDAN
agricultural loan $19.5 million 25-year 5%% loan of June 14, 1961 borrower • Republic of the Sudan
The Roseires Dam project on the Blue Nile provided the occasion for the first joint Bank-IDA operation, the Bank's loan being supplemented by an IDA development credit of $13 million. The Federal Republic of Germany also took an important share in this operation by providing, through Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, a long-term loan equivalent to $18.4 million. A total of $50.9 million is thus being made available to the Sudan to help finance this important extension of irrigation, the first part of a large project designed to increase and diversify agricultural production.
The Roseires Dam will be constructed across the Blue Nile about 66 miles downstream from the Ethiopian border and the water stored by the dam will more than double available irrigation water in the Sudan during times of seasonal shortage. Nearly 900,000 acres will be newly brought under irrigation and yields will be greatly increased from land now under irrigation but with inadequate water supplies. The dam will be about ten miles long, with a concrete central section 196 feet high and more than two-thirds of a mile long. Because of work interruptions in flood seasons, construction is expected to take seven years.
UGANDA
power loan $8.4 million 20-year 5y4% loan of March 29,1961 borrower • Uganda
The main power station of the Uganda Electricity Board is a 120,000-kilowatt hydroelectric plant at Owen Falls on the Nile, a few miles downstream from
Lake Victoria. Demand for the power produced at Owen Falls failed to develop as fast as originally expected. The Board is now carrying out a five-year development program to extend its service area and widen the power market.
Under the program, which this loan is helping to finance, the main transmission network will be widely extended, and will bring electricity to outlying townships, tea estates, factories and cotton ginneries for the first time. Additional power will be supplied to the Kilembe copper mines. The program also provides for the construction of small generating units in areas distant from the main transmission system. participations • Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago; The Northern Trust Company, Chicago; The First National Bank of Atlanta; The National Shawmut Bank of Boston; United California Bank, Los Angeles; Central National Bank of Cleveland; Chemical Bank New York Trust Company; Banque Lambert, S.C.S., Brussels; The Toronto-Dominion Bank, New York Agency; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; Hope & Co., Amsterdam; Nederlandsche Credietbank, N.V., Amsterdam; Ban-kierskantoor Staal & Co., N.V., The Hague; and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company participated in the loan for a total equivalent to $8,315,000.
other activities
The General Survey Mission organized by the Bank at the request of the Governments of Uganda and the United Kingdom completed its field studies by the end of December 1960, and returned to Washington to draft its report. The report, which will include recommendations on development policies and on a public investment program, will be discussed with the two Governments during the summer of 1961.
ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
BURMA
railway loan $14 million 16-year 5%% loan of January 16, 1961 borrower • Union of Burma Railway Board
The Burma Railways extend nearly 1,900 route miles throughout Burma, providing service for the richest agricultural regions, the main towns, and also suburban services for Rangoon and Mandalay. A 1956 Bank loan of $5.35 million assisted in repairing the heavy damage suffered by the Railways during World War II and the insurgency period which followed.
The new loan will finance the foreign exchange costs of a four-year program to increase motive power, shorten the turn-around time of freight cars, and increase passenger capacity. Equipment to be purchased abroad will include diesel electric locomotives, diesel railcar and railbus sets to accommodate suburban traffic, mechanical signaling and workshop equipment, and underframes for coaches and freight cars for which bodies are to be built in Burma. In addition, some sections of track are to be re-laid with heavier rail, and bridges are to be strengthened to accommodate heavier and faster trains. participations • The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, New York Agency; The Chartered Bank, New York Agency; The Bank of Tokyo, Ltd., New York Agency; Manufacturers Trust Company, New York; The Bank of Tokyo Trust Company, New York; The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D.C.; and The First National City Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $1,450,000.
CEYLON
power loan $15 million 25-year 5^4% loan signed June 6, 1961
borrower • Ceylon Demand for electric power in southwestern Ceylon,
which includes Colombo and contains more than half of the country's population, has been growing at an average annual rate of 11.5% during the past five years, and the rate of increase is expected to reach 15%. This is the third loan the Bank has made to assist Ceylon in meeting this rise in demand; the loan will finance new generating units doubling the present capacity of the government-owned electricity system. A new 25,000-kilowatt generator will be added to the thermoelectric station near Colombo and a new 50,000-kilowatt hydroelectric plant will be built at Norton Bridge on the Kehelgamu River. Part of the loan will be used to extend the transmission network to supply power to important communities to the north and south of Colombo. The entire project is to be completed in 1964.
participations • The Chartered Bank, New York Agency; The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, New York Agency; Mercantile Bank, Limited, London; Manufacturers Trust Company, New York; Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco; and Irving Trust Company, New York participated in the loan for a total equivalent to $1,099,000.
OTHER ACTIVITIES
In November 1960 the Government of Ceylon requested the Bank to study alternative river basin development schemes in the island, and recommend on priorities.
A Bank mission went to Ceylon on January 30, 1961, and spent five weeks conducting this study, which included all aspects of development, including power, irrigation and flood control. The mission visited the various river basins and power projects in Ceylon and reviewed a number of reports on multipurpose projects being considered by the Government. A report containing the mission's findings was sent to the Government in May 1961.
Improved transportation is one
of the first steps toward economic development. The Bank has lent a total of $1,800 million for roads, railways, ports and other means of transport to many of its members.
Right, workmen are cutting into the side of a mountain to widen a road in Iran. Almost 2,000 miles of roads are being built or rebuilt in Iran with the aid of a $72 million Bank loan made in 1959.
Railroad workers board a river boat; in the distance, Colombia's new Atlantic Railroad crosses the Magdalena River on a recently completed bridge. Built and equipped with the help of $46 million in Bank loans, the railroad is an important segment of the national rail network of Colombia.
INDIA
railway loan $70 million 20-year $y4% loan of July 29, 1960 borrower • India
This loan was the eighth made by the Bank for the improvement and expansion of the Indian railways; the $329 million lent by the Bank for this purpose is the largest amount it has lent anywhere for a single project. The loan provided most of the foreign exchange required for the final year of the railway program which accounted for about a quarter of all public expenditures in India's Second Five-Year Plan, ended March 1961.
The Indian railway system, comprising some 35,000 route miles, is one of the largest in the world, handling the bulk of long-distance freight and passenger traffic and playing a vital role in the economic development of the country. The five-year program aimed at increasing freight capacity from 114 million to 162 million tons a year, and passenger capacity by about 15%. The most important items of the program were the acquisition of about 2,100 locomotives, 8,900 passenger cars and 106,000 freight cars; the doubling of 1,300 miles of main line track; the replacement of 8,000 miles of track; the construction of 800 miles of new lines; the electrification of 845 miles of main line in regions of high density traffic; the construction of bridges; and improvement in yards and signaling facilities. participations • The Chartered Bank, New York Agency; The First National City Bank of New York; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank; Irving Trust Company; Chemical Bank New York Trust Company; and The Philadelphia National Bank participated in the loan for a total of $2,050,000.
industrial loan $20 million 10-year loan of October 28, 1960 borrower • Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited (icici)
This loan will provide foreign exchange resources for the next two years for ICICI, a privately owned development bank founded in 1955 with advice and assistance from the Bank to promote the growth of
private industry in India. ICICI is owned by private investors of India, the United Kingdom and the United States, and makes long and medium term loans and equity investments. It has also provided industry with guidance on financial and managerial policy. About 60% of ICICI's loans have been in foreign exchange provided by two previous World Bank loans, each of $10 million, made in 1955 and 1959.
Where the nature of projects makes this appropriate, the term of the relevant portions of this loan may be extended to 14 years by agreement between the Bank and ICICI. Interest will be applied to each portion of the loan, at the rate then current for Bank loans, at the time the funds are committed for individual projects.
ida credit
On June 21, 1961, the Bank's affiliate, the International Development Association, extended a credit of $60 million to the Government of India for highway development. Details of this transaction are given in the Annual Report of IDA.
ISRAEL
port loan
$27.5 million 25-year 5%% loan of September 9, 1960 borrower • Israel
This was the Bank's first loan to Israel, and will help to build and equip a new sheltered deep-water port at Ashdod, on the Mediterranean. Construction at Ashdod will include about two miles of breakwaters, berths accommodating five ships, and port buildings; road and rail transport facilities and modern cargo-handling equipment will be provided. The total cost is estimated at the equivalent of $54.7 million. When construction is completed in 1965 Ashdod will have an initial capacity of 900,000 tons of general cargo a year. The port is to be administered by a new Port Authority established as an autonomous public enterprise responsible for the construction, operation and development of Israel's port facilities.
Most of Israel's seaborne traffic now passes through the Mediterranean ports of Haifa, Tel Aviv and Jaffa.
Haifa is the only deep-water port of the three, handling all passenger traffic and 85% of all freight, which totaled 3,000,000 tons in 1959. Pressure on the ports is growing, and the movement of dry cargo is expected to increase to an annual total of about 4.7 million tons by 1965. The new port at Ashdod will relieve congestion at Haifa, and will enable Israel to close down the existing lighterage ports at Tel Aviv and Jaffa.
JAPAN
steel loans $6 million 15-year 5Y4% loan of December 20,1960 borrower • The Japan Development Bank
The Japan Development Bank is re-lending the proceeds of this loan to the Kawasaki Steel Corporation.
The Bank loan was linked with a private placement by The First Boston Corporation of $4 million of 10-year llh% Kawasaki Notes, marking Kawasaki's first entry into the U.S. capital market. The funds are needed to meet the cost of installing a new plate mill, with an annual capacity of 600,000 tons, and auxiliary facilities at Kawasaki's works at Chiba, near Tokyo. The project forms part of the program by which the Japanese steel industry is expanding and modernizing its facilities to deal with steadily rising domestic demand for steel and steel products.
The Bank had made two previous loans totaling $28 million for the construction of new facilities now in operation at Chiba. The first, in 1956, helped to finance a semi-continuous hot strip mill and a cold strip mill; the second, in 1958, was for a blast furnace. participation • National Bank of Commerce of Seattle participated in the loan for a total of $167,000.
$7 million 15-year 5y4% loan of December 20, 1960 borrower • The Japan Development Bank
This loan formed part of a similar operation to that described above, the company in this case being Sumitomo Metal Industries Limited. The total raised was $12.8 million, which will be used to meet part of the cost of a hot strip and plate mill, a welded pipe mill and other facilities at Sumitomo's steel works at Wakayama in central Honshu.
As in the case of Kawasaki, the Bank's participation in the financing operation helped Sumitomo to enter the United States capital market for the first time: Kidder, Peabody and Company, Incorporated, placed $5.8 million of the Japanese company's 14-year 7%% Notes privately with institutional investors. The Bank loan was the second it has made for the construction of Sumitomo's new integrated steel plant at Wakayama. The first loan, of $33 million, made in 1958, helped to finance erection of a blast furnace and blooming mill.
power loan $12 million 20-year 5%% loan of March 16,1961 borrower • The Japan Development Bank
The Japan Development Bank is re-lending the proceeds of this loan to the Kyushu Electric Power Co., Inc., a private company supplying power to the entire island of Kyushu and also to small neighboring islands. This area produces more than half of Japan's coal and over a third of its steel, and industrial consumers buy a large proportion of the Kyushu company's total sales of electric energy. To meet rapidly rising demand the company is carrying through a program to add 1,007,000 kilowatts to its installed capacity by March 1966.
The Bank's loan will help to finance the new Shin-kokura thermoelectric plant to be built on reclaimed land at Kokura, on the coast of northern Kyushu. The plant will have an initial installed capacity of 156,000 kilowatts, and will use local low-grade coal. The plant is designed for future expansion to an ultimate capacity of 532,000 kilowatts.
railway loan $80 million 20-year 5y4% loan of May 2,1961
borrower • Japanese National Railways
This loan will assist in financing the new $548 million Tokaido Line, a 311-mile express railway serving the cities of Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Kyoto and Osaka, and providing the fastest train service in the world. The first 22 miles of track are scheduled for completion in April 1962, and the entire line should be opened for service by the spring
of 1964. The line will serve a congested area which includes 40% of the population of Japan, 70% of its industry, 25% of its agriculture, and all of its cities with a population of over one million.
The new railway, an electrified system with standard gauge double track, will run parallel to the present narrow gauge railway, which is greatly overloaded; the new line will be used only for passenger and freight express service at speeds up to 125 miles per hour.
MALAYA
The Malayan Government having determined aims and policies, an economic mission from the Bank drafted and submitted to the Government a recommended framework for a Five-Year Plan, outlining priorities and investment requirements in all sectors of the economy. Two members of the staff stayed in Malaya from September to December to help the Government work out a more detailed plan on the basis of this report. The resulting Five-Year Plan was adopted by the Government in December 1960 and approved by Parliament in January/February 1961. In April an operational mission from the Bank commenced discussions regarding the financing of a number of projects included in the Plan.
PAKISTAN
agricultural loan S90 million 30-year loan of September 19,1960 borrower • Pakistan
This loan is the Bank's contribution to the Indus Basin Development Fund, which is being administered by the Bank and will finance irrigation and electric power projects embodied in the Indus Waters Treaty, 1960. In addition to the Bank loan, the Governments of Australia, Canada, Germany, India, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States are contributing a total of over $800,000,000 equivalent in grants and loans to the Development Fund.
The Treaty settlement involves the construction of works to store and transfer water from the three Western Rivers of the Indus system to meet the irriga-
tion uses in Pakistan hitherto met by the three Eastern Rivers, thus releasing the latter for irrigation development in India. A program of 2,500 new tube wells and extensive drainage works will contribute to a solution of the serious problems caused in Pakistan by waterlogging and salinity resulting from irrigation. The program will require at least ten years to complete and is the largest of its kind ever to be undertaken anywhere. The total cost will be approximately the equivalent of $1,070,000,000, of which about $870,000,000 will be spent on works in Pakistan.
Of the $90 million lent by the Bank, $80 million will be paid into the Development Fund and $10 million will meet interest and other loan charges during the first eight years of construction. The Bank will charge interest on portions of the loan at the rate prevailing when they are made available for disbursement to the Development Fund.
industrial loan $15 million loan of June 27, 1961 borrower . Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited (picic)
As with two earlier Bank loans to PICIC, these funds will be used to meet foreign exchange requirements of industrial enterprises financed by the Corporation. Organized with the help of the Bank to promote private industry, PICIC was established by private investors of Pakistan, the United Kingdom, the United States and Japan; recently a German financial institution also acquired shares of the Corporation. In its first three years of operations, PICIC has sanctioned 176 loans aggregating the equivalent of almost $40 million, most of them in foreign exchange. The industries assisted include textiles, jute, engineering, food processing, chemicals and a wide range of other manufactures. It is estimated that in the next two years PICIC will require an additional $30 million in foreign exchange, of which half will be provided by this loan.
The loan has no fixed repayment schedule and no fixed interest charge. The term of each part of the loan will be negotiated at the time it is committed for a project, and interest will be applied at the Bank's rate current when the commitment is made.
THE PHILIPPINES
At the request of the Government, the Bank organized a mission to study the economy of the Philippines and suggest the framework of a long-term development program. The six-man mission arrived in the Philippines in June to make its field studies. These should be completed by early September when the mission will return to Washington to prepare its report.
THAILAND
RAILWAY LOAN $22 million 20-year 5%% loan of April 28,1961 borrower • State Railway of Thailand
The 2,175-mile railway system of Thailand radiates from Bangkok, providing the principal means of transportation between the various regions of the country. Freight traffic on the system has grown by 80% over the past decade, and passenger traffic, an important source of revenue, has also risen. A six-year modernization program is now proceeding, to increase line
capacity, improve operating efficiency and reduce operating costs. About 65 main line and shunting diesel locomotives and about 1,650 new freight cars will be bought, and improvements will be made to track, station yards, signaling and telecommunications equipment, and repair shops. The Bank's loan will cover about 40% of the cost of the program. participations • The Mitsui Bank, Limited, New York Agency; The Chartered Bank, New York Agency; The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, New York Agency; Mercantile Bank, Limited, London; Crocker-Anglo National Bank, San Francisco; The Bank of Tokyo, Ltd., New York Agency; The Bank of Tokyo Trust Company, New York; Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco; Irving Trust Company, New York; The First National City Bank of New York; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; Banque de ITndochine, Paris; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $1,954,000.
EUROPE
NORWAY
power loan $25 million 25-year 5%% loan of December 2, 1960
borrower • Norway
This loan will help to finance the second and third stages of the Tokke scheme, the country's largest hydroelectric project. A previous Bank loan for the project, made in 1956, provided $25 million toward the construction of a 400,000-kilowatt plant and transmission facilities due to come into operation in June 1961. The present loan will help to finance two more plants with a total capacity of 410,000 kilowatts, to be constructed about 100 miles west of Oslo, where a number of lakes are being linked and regulated to make use of the waters of the Tokke and Vinje river systems. It will also help to pay for 200 miles of transmission lines which will form part of Norway's new national power grid.
participations • Chemical Bank New York Trust Company; The Chase Manhattan Bank; The First National City Bank of New York; Bankers Trust Company; Central National Bank of Cleveland; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.; Manufacturers Trust Company; Grace National Bank of New York; J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation; First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company; Nederlandsche Credietbank, Amsterdam; Netherlands Trading Society, Amsterdam; and Bankierskantoor Staal & Co., The Hague participated in the loan for a total equivalent to about $4,988,000.
SPAIN
In March 1961 the Bank sent to Spain a mission consisting of 17 members, to undertake field studies preparatory to making recommendations on development
Bank-financed power projects have been built in almost every climate. Here a hydroelectric plant rises above the snow 20 miles from the Arctic Circle in Finland. This is one of five plants for which the Bank lent $15 million in 1956.
Italy's first nuclear power plant, right, is being built with the aid of a $40 million Bank loan. Located on the Garigliano'River between Naples and Rome, the plant will have a capacity of 150,000 kilowatts. Design and construction was undertaken after a comprehensive study of the comparative costs of producing power in southern Italy by conventional and by nuclear means.
to the Government of Spain. The mission returned to Washington in June to prepare its report which will include data and recommendations to assist the Spanish administration in the preparation of a long-term development program.
At the request of the Spanish Government, the Bank recommended a senior highway adviser and a senior railway adviser to assist the Government in formulating an effective and coordinated transport system.
YUGOSLAVIA
POWER LOAN $30 million 25-year $y4% loan of February 23,1961
borrower • Yugoslav Investment Bank
Yugoslavia is planning to double its present generating capacity of 1,950,000 kilowatts by 1965, and to add nearly 1,100 miles of transmission lines to strengthen and extend the present country-wide grid.
The Bank loan will aid the construction of a 216,000-kilowatt hydroelectric plant in the Velebit Mountains near Senj on the Adriatic Coast, and also the installation of 790 miles of high-voltage transmission lines to form a network extending through five of the country's six component Republics. The power station will utilize the waters of the Gacka and Lika Rivers, involving the construction of a concrete arch dam on the Lika River, three diversion dams, 20 miles of tunnels, and an underground powerhouse equipped with three 72,000-kilowatt generating units. The Yugoslav Investment Bank will re-lend the Bank funds to the enterprises responsible for the projects. participations • Irving Trust Company, New York; The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York; The Philadelphia National Bank; The First National City Bank of New York; M. Samuel & Co., Limited, London; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total equivalent to §711,000.
WESTERN HEMISPHERE
ARGENTINA
highway loan $48.5 million 16-year 5y4% loan of June 30, 1961 borrower • Argentina
This was the Bank's first loan to Argentina, and will assist in carrying out a large and urgent highway program. The works to be undertaken include improvements to about 1,600 miles of the country's most important highways and will overcome some of the most critical deficiencies in the system. The loan will also meet the import costs of equipment required for the maintenance of roads throughout the country.
In recent years there has been a sharp rise in the demand for transport in Argentina, which neither the railroads nor the existing road transport facilities have been adequate to handle. This increase in demand arises both from the country's extensive agricultural production and from the tendency of industry to disperse
from the Buenos Aires area into different parts of the country. While the future shape of Argentina's transport system is under comprehensive examination as a UN Special Fund project, the present volume of traffic on the roads and the need for improvements justify immediate action.
participations • National Bank of Washington, Washington, D.C.; Agency of The Royal Bank of Canada, New York; The Philadelphia National Bank, The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $625,000.
other activities
In 1960 the UN Special Fund joined with the Government in an agreement to share the cost of a study of the transportation needs of Argentina, including preparation of proposals and plans to meet those needs. The Bank, as the Executing Agency for the
•25-
Special Fund, organized a team for the study, composed of 15 experts from three international consulting firms and five other experts. The survey team is under the direction of a Technical Director appointed by the Bank.
The first members of the team arrived in Argentina in September 1960. By the end of June 1961 an interim report had been prepared. The final report should be ready by the end of 1961.
BRITISH GUIANA
AGRICULTURAL LOAN S1.25 million 8-year 5y4% loan of June 23,1961 borrower • British Guiana
These funds will be used by the British Guiana Credit Corporation (BGCC), which was established in 1954 with capital consisting of advances from the British Guiana Government, and is the only institution providing development credit for agriculture and industry. By December 1960 BGCC had made nearly 16,000 loans totaling the equivalent of $11.7 million, mainly for rural and urban housing, land improvement, farm mechanization, the processing of agricultural and forestry products, and for other light industries. The Bank loan will provide foreign exchange for credits to be made in the next two years for imported breeding stock, machinery for mechanized farming, equipment for preparing new land for cultivation and for dairy and poultry farming, rice mills and saw mills, and marine and river fisheries.
participations • The Northern Trust Company, Chicago, and the Agency of The Royal Bank of Canada, New York, participated in the loan for a total equivalent to $1,000,000.
CHILE
HIGHWAY LOAN $6 million 9-year 5%% loan of June 28,1961 borrower • Chile
This loan will provide funds for the import of equipment needed for road maintenance operations throughout Chile. The loan coincided with the signing
of a $19 million development credit to Chile by the International Development Association for road improvement in the Southern Zone.
Highway maintenance in Chile has been hampered by lack of sufficient funds, involving the use of old equipment and inadequate buildings and repair facilities. Improved maintenance operations are needed not only to conserve the existing network but especially to protect the heavy investment now being made in new construction and road improvements. The maintenance and repair equipment to be financed by the loan is a prerequisite to the execution of a comprehensive road maintenance program. participations • Bank of America N.T. & S.A., The Marine Midland Trust Company of New York and The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company participated in the loan for a total of $250,000.
OTHER ACTIVITIES
At the request of the Government of Chile, the Bank organized a nine-man mission to review Chile's ten-year development program. The mission arrived in Chile early in June 1961 to undertake its field studies. The review should help the Government to determine the requirements for outside assistance in financing economic development, as well as to prepare its annual capital budgets.
COLOMBIA
RAILWAY LOAN S5.4 million 15-year 5%% loan of September 20,1960 borrower • Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Colombia This loan is to assist in equipping Colombia's new Atlantic Railroad, which will be open to through traffic in mid-1961. The new Railroad, whose construction was assisted by two previous Bank loans totaling $40.9 million, will provide for the first time a rapid and reliable transport service between Atlantic Ocean ports, central Colombia and the Pacific, and is opening up large areas of the Magdalena valley to settlement and cultivation. The project, which involved the construction of a new railroad 425 miles long and the rehabilitation of a further 60 miles of track, will bring to an end central Colombia's dependence on river
•26-
A S73 million Bank loan to Brazil is helping to build Latin America's largest hydroelectric project. Below, the entrance to a diversion tunnel at Furnas Rapids.
transport through the Magdalena valley. The new loan will finance the purchase of 16 diesel locomotives, about 300 freight cars in "knocked down" condition to be assembled in Colombia, shop equipment, and parts to repair passenger coaches and freight cars. participations • Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago; Brown Brothers Harriman and Co.; Chemical Bank New York Trust Company; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $512,000.
power loan $22 million 25-year SV4% loan of May 12,1961 borrower • Empresas Publicas de Medellin
This loan will cover the foreign exchange costs of the second stage of the Guadalupe hydroelectric project to increase electricity supplies for the metropolitan area of Medellin in central Colombia. Industry in the area has expanded with great rapidity in the past 20 years; power demand has risen at an average rate of 11% annually, and restrictions on its use have been necessary for many years.
Empresas borrowed $12 million from the Bank in May 1959 to finance the first stage of the project, which includes two hydroelectric plants with an initial capacity of respectively 18,000 kilowatts and 80,000 kilowatts, and is to be completed by early 1963. The second stage will add 18,000 kilowatts to the first power station (Troneras) and three more 40,000-kilowatt units to the second station (Guadalupe III). It will also include a new dam on the Tenche River and facilities to accommodate the increased generating capacity.
participations • Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago; The First National City Bank of New York; The Marine Midland Trust Company of New York; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $300,000.
other activities The Bank has joined with the Government of Colombia in sponsoring a survey of Colombian transportation facilities and needs, as the basis for a coordinated transportation investment program. The survey is
being undertaken by an engineering firm which will send 13 experts to Colombia. A three-man Steering Committee, consisting of two representatives of Colombia and a representative of the Bank, has responsibility for the general guidance and supervision of the consultants' work and otherwise providing assistance in carrying out the survey. The Bank will pay a portion of the foreign exchange costs of the survey as technical assistance. It is expected that the survey will be completed by the end of 1961.
COSTA RICA
power loan $8.8 million 25-year 5%% loan of February 3, 1961 borrower . Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad
(ICE)
ICE is an autonomous government corporation which owns and operates over half of Costa Rica's present generating capacity, as well as the central transmission network which is being developed to cover the Central Zone, the most densely populated area of the country.
The program being undertaken with the help of the loan involves a new hydroelectric power plant on the Rio Macho, with an initial installed capacity of 30,000 kilowatts and provision for additional units to bring the ultimate capacity of the plant to 90,000 kilowatts. About 48 miles of new transmission lines will enlarge the central network to connect with the Rio Macho plant and also with a small network on the Pacific Coast. Other parts of the program include adding 9,000 kilowatts of new capacity to diesel-electric plants at Colima and Limon.
participations • Bank of America, The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $170,000.
EL SALVADOR
power loan $3.84 million 25-year 5y4% loan of July 29, 1960 borrower • Comision Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa
The recent rapid industrial progress of El Salvador has been based on the development of the electric power potential of the River Lempa. The first power plant on the river came into operation in 1954, with an initial capacity of 30,000 kilowatts; since then this capacity has been doubled. These developments were assisted by two previous Bank loans totaling $15,545,000.
The new loan is for the construction of a second power plant on the Lempa river system, about 100 miles upstream of the first, and of a 20-mile transmission line to connect the new plant with the Comi-sion's existing system. The new station will have one turbo-generator with a capacity of 15,000 kilowatts. The project is scheduled for completion by early 1963. participations • Bankers Trust Company; Grace National Bank of New York; and Manufacturers Trust Company participated in the loan for a total of $87,000.
HONDURAS
On May 12, 1961, the Bank's affiliate, the International Development Association, extended a development credit of $9,000,000 to the Government of Honduras for highway development and maintenance. Details of this transaction are given in the Annual Report of IDA.
MEXICO
highway loan $25 million 19-year 51/4% loan of October 18, 1960 borrower • Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Over the period 1960-64, the Mexican Government aims to construct or reconstruct about 8,700 miles of highways; the Bank loan will finance the foreign exchange cost of building or improving 13 of the most important roads, with a total length of approximately 2,000 miles.
Nacional Financiera is the agency through which the Mexican Government borrows abroad; the road program will be carried out under the supervision of the Federal Highway Administration of the Ministry
of Public Works. Of the 13 roads, all in central and southern Mexico, six will provide shorter and faster lines of communication between important cities and areas of the country; two will be reconstructed to carry greater volumes of traffic; and five will provide access to populated areas now largely isolated from the rest of the country or will open up underdeveloped regions.
participations • The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $150,000.
agricultural loan $15 million 20-year 5%% loan of January 16, 1961 borrower • Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Production from irrigated land in Mexico now represents more than a third of the total value of agricultural production and accounts for nearly a third of total commodity exports. Most of the expansion of irrigated land has been the result of public investment, mainly in large scale projects which now encompass more than 6.7 million acres.
The Government is now carrying out a three-stage program to complete and rehabilitate 22 large irrigation districts where inadequate drainage systems have led to rising water tables and increased salinity. The Bank loan will assist in carrying out this work on 1,430,000 acres of land in four of these irrigation districts — Culiacan, Fuerte, Mayo and Yaqui — located on the Gulf of California. The most important work will be the digging of new canals and drains, the enlargement of old ones, and the installation of about 9,000 control structures. The Bank loan will also finance the purchase of equipment to secure efficient operation and maintenance.
participations • Crocker-Anglo National Bank, San Francisco; The Northern Trust Company, Chicago; Chemical Bank New York Trust Company; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; The First National City Bank of New York; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $821,000.
PANAMA
highway loan $7.2 million 15-year 5%% loan of August 19, 1960 borrower • Panama
The Panamanian road system was first assisted by the Bank in 1955 by a loan of $5.9 million for the reconstruction and maintenance of the surfaced roads in Panama. The necessity for this earlier program is already borne out by the impressive growth of vehicle traffic in the past five years.
The new loan will help to finance construction of ten new feeder roads in potentially rich agricultural areas, of a total length of 187 miles; eight existing roads (total 86 miles) will be paved, linking the new roads with main highways. The roads will open large new areas to settlement and agriculture, will encourage increased production in areas already under cultivation, and will reduce the costs of moving agricultural produce to market.
participations • The Chase Manhattan Bank; Bankers Trust Company; The First National City Bank of New York; and Central National Bank of Cleveland participated in the loan for a total of $457,000.
PERU
highway loan $5.5 million 15-year 5%% loan of December 19, 1960 borrower • Peru
This loan will cover the foreign exchange costs of reconstructing a 105-mile section of Peru's Central Trans-Andean Highway, beginning at the Aguaytia River, east of the Andes, and ending at Pucallpa on the Ucayali River, a tributary of the Amazon. It will also finance preliminary studies for the improvement of the adjoining 324-mile central section of the Highway.
The 522-mile Central Highway climbs from the Pacific coast over the high Andes, and descends into the eastern region of the country, a vast potentially productive area bordering on the Amazon River. Although the Aguaytia-Pucallpa section of the Highway is only a dirt road, impassable for the six-months rainy season, Pucallpa has grown to be the most important sawmill center in Peru since the road was opened in 1944. Bananas and other tropical fruit, rubber and cacao are being produced in the region, and cattle breeding has been successful. The new all-weather road will provide cheaper, quicker and safer transport to the coastal areas of Peru, and will accelerate the development of the country. It is expected that construction will be completed by the end of 1964.
participation • Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $50,000.
other activities
Early in 1961, the Bank joined with the Government in sponsoring a survey of Peru's highway facilities and needs, to assist in the formulation of a highway investment program. The survey is being undertaken by an international engineering firm, and will also cover Peru's needs for an effective organization for regulating inland transport. The Bank will share the foreign exchange costs as technical assistance.
VENEZUELA
The report of the General Survey Mission to Venezuela was published in May 1961. In recent months, discussions have taken place between the Bank and the Government on a lending program to assist in the implementation of the development program prepared by the Government.
The information in this Annex describes the borrowing activities of the Bank during the year.
GERMANY The first borrowing transaction of the fiscal year was on July 11, 1960, when the Bank borrowed $30 million in U.S. dollars from the Deutsche Bundesbank, the Central Bank of Germany, for three years at 4% to replace a Note of the same amount maturing on the same day.
The next transaction, the largest borrowing of the year, was also with the Bundesbank. The equivalent of about $245 million (at the present rate of exchange) was involved, half in U.S. dollars and half in Deutsche marks at interest of 4Vi% per annum. The final maturity of this borrowing was 12 years, compared to the maximum of three years which had prevailed in previous transactions between the Bank and the Bundesbank. A feature of the transaction was that the Bank has until November 1961 in which to draw down the funds. By the end of the fiscal year a total equivalent to $62.5 million in Deutsche marks had been drawn, leaving an undrawn credit of $182.5 million.
The year also saw other large-scale arrangements with the Deutsche Bundesbank which lengthened the maturities of its holdings of medium-term World Bank Notes. These transactions involved a series of Notes, some in dollars and some in Deutsche marks, of a total value of $353 million, with maturities all falling due between 1961 and 1963. As a result of the refundings, the earliest maturity on any of these funds became August 1, 1964, and the latest maturity August 1, 1967.
The transactions were carried out in two parts, both of which took place in January 1961. The first transaction replaced Notes aggregating the equivalent of $196 million, and falling due in 12 months or less, with new 3%% Notes, with maturities between 1964 and 1965. The second transaction refunded a further $157 million equivalent of Notes which were due to mature between June 1962 and November 1963. These Notes were replaced by new Notes of five maturities
falling due between August 1, 1965, and August 1, 1967, carrying the same rates of interest until the original maturity dates are reached and 3%% thereafter.
NETHERLANDS
The last bond issue of the year marked the Bank's return to the Netherlands market for the first time in six years. On May 29 the Bank offered at par for public subscription Bank guilder bonds totaling f.50 million (about $14 million) with a term of 20 years and an interest rate of 4Vi %• The guilder issue is non-callable for 11 years. Beginning in 1972, the issue will be retired at par in ten equal installments of f.5 million each. As with the two previous public offers in Holland, The Netherlands Trading Society (Neder-landsche Handel-Maatschappij, N.V.) headed the underwriting syndicate of Dutch bankers.
SWITZERLAND
There were two fresh approaches to the Swiss investment market during the year, both in the form of public offerings of Swiss franc bonds of the Bank. As with previous Bank offerings in Switzerland, the Swiss Bank Corporation, the Swiss Credit Bank and the Union Bank of Switzerland headed the underwriting group for both issues, which are listed on the stock exchanges of Zurich, Basle, Berne, Geneva and Lausanne.
The first offering was made on September 23, 1960, and consisted of Sw F 60 million (approximately $14 million) of 4% 15-year Bonds at par. The Bonds have no sinking fund and are non-callable for ten years. Thereafter the Bank may redeem at par all or part of the issue.
The second offering was sold on March 25, 1961, and consisted of a public issue at par of Sw F 100 million (about $23 million) of 18-year 4% Bonds. In
annex II
this case, a sinking fund will begin to operate after ten years, and will retire the issue by maturity. The Bank may also redeem all or part of the issue on or after April 15, 1971.
In addition to the new issues in Switzerland, an installment of Sw F 33,333,333 (about $7.8 million) of a 1957 Bank borrowing from the Swiss Government became due on January 1, 1961. This amount was re-borrowed, to mature on January 1, 1967.
INTERNATIONAL
On September 23, 1960, the Bank announced another transaction whereby an issue of $75 million of U.S.
dollar bonds, sold in 1958 entirely outside the United States, was redeemed at maturity and replaced with a $100 million issue of U.S. dollar bonds, also with a life of two years. The new bonds were sold by private placement with investors outside the United States. Such keen interest was shown in the issue that the $25 million of bonds added to provide for new purchasers were insufficient to prevent the issue from being heavily oversubscribed. The bonds were placed with 47 institutional investors in 29 countries and purchasers included central banks, government special accounts, private commercial banks, insurance companies and corporations. The bonds are known as the Two-Year Bonds of 1960, and carry interest of 3^2%, payable semi-annually.
appendices
APPENDIX G
Notes to Financial Statements
JUNE 30, 1 96 1
Note A
Amounts in currencies other than United States dollars have been translated into United States dollars:
(i) In the cases of 52 members, at the par values as specified in the "Schedule of Par Values", published by the International Monetary Fund;
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 16 members (Afghanistan, Argentina, Bolivia, Canada, Chile, China, Indonesia, Korea, Malaya, Nigeria, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Thailand, Tunisia and Viet-Nam), at the rates used by such members in making payments of capital subscriptions to the Bank; and
(iii) In the case of Swiss francs, Cuban pesos, Dominican pesos and Laotian kips, non-member currencies, at the rate of 4.2975 francs, 1.00 Cuban peso, 1.00 Dominican peso and 80 kips to 1 United States dollar.
No representation is made that any of such currencies is convertible into any other of such currencies at any rate or rates. See also Note B.
Note B
These currencies of the several members, and the notes issued by them in substitution for any part of such currencies as permitted under the provisions of Article V, Section 12, are derived from the portion of the subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank which is payable in the currencies of the respective members (such portion being hereinafter called restricted currency). Such restricted currencies may be loaned by the Bank, and funds received by the Bank on account of principal of loans made by the Bank out of such restricted currencies may be exchanged for other currencies or reloaned, only with the approval in each case of the member whose restricted currency is involved; provided, however, that, if necessary, after the Bank's subscribed capital is entirely called, such restricted currencies may, without restriction by the members whose currencies are offered, be used or exchanged for the currencies required to meet contractual payments of interest, other charges or amortization on the Bank's own borrowings or to meet the Bank's liabilities with respect to contractual payments on loans guaranteed by it.
Under Article II, Section 9, each member is required, if the par value of its currency is reduced or if the foreign exchange value of its currency depreciates to a significant extent in its territories, to maintain the value of the Bank's holdings of its restricted currency, including the principal amount of any notes substituted therefor, and the Bank is required, if the par value of a member's currency is increased, to return to the member the increase in the value of such restricted currency held by the Bank. To the extent such restricted currencies are out on loan, the Bank and the members are obligated to make such payments only when such restricted currencies are recovered by the Bank.
The equivalent of $1,790,540 is due from 4 members in order to maintain the value of their restricted currencies as required under Article II, Section 9.
Some members have converted part or all of the Bank's holdings of their restricted currency into United States dollars to be used and reused as United States dollars in the Bank's operations, subject to the right of the Bank or the member to reverse the transactions at any time, with immediate effect as to dollars then held by the Bank, and, as to dollars loaned, upon repayment of the loans. Such dollars while held by the Bank or on loan are not subject to the provisions of Article II, Section 9. Such dollars held by the Bank or repayable on loans are shown in these financial statements under "United States dollars" and, where relevant, as "unrestricted".
Note C
The principal disbursed and outstanding on loans and the accruals for interest, commitment charge, service charge and loan commission are receivable in United States dollars except the following amounts for which the dollar equivalent is shown:
The dollar equivalent shown as principal outstanding includes amounts which in accordance with Article II, Section 9, will be payable by members to maintain the value of their currencies, and will be payable by the Bank to members to equal the increase in the value of their currencies, when such currencies are recovered by the Bank.
Note D
The amount of commissions received by the Bank on loans made or guaranteed by it is required under Article IV, Section 6, to be set aside as a special reserve to be kept available for meeting obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. On all loans granted to date the effective rate of commission is 1 % per annum.
Note E
Cuba and the Dominican Republic have withdrawn from membership in the Bank. The value of their shares is as follows:
Note F
Pursuant to action of the Board of Governors and Executive Directors the net income of the Bank has been allocated to a Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guarantees Made by the Bank; and the future net income of the Bank will, until further action by the Executive Directors or the Board of Governors, be allocated to this reserve. During the fiscal year this reserve has been credited with the undermentioned amounts representing net gains to the Bank as a result of the revaluation on the books of the Bank of the balances of amounts in those currencies held at the respective dates of revaluation and acquired from net earnings in the currencies indicated:
calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement; as to $2,005,760,000 by a resolution of the Board of Governors.
Note I
The Bank has sold under its guarantee $69,003,844 of loans of which amount $57,093,844 has been retired. The following table sets forth the maturities of the guaranteed obligations outstanding:
General
The Board of Governors has approved the applications for membership from the following countries:
Note G
In terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
Note H
Subject to call by the Bank only when required to meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. As to $16,074,480,000 the restriction on
Laos paid the amounts due on account of its subscription prior to June 30, 1961 and on July 5 completed the other action necessary and thus became a member on that date.
•43-