r J "'he past year has been one of steady progress jL in improving and expanding international assistance to economic development. The amount of new financial commitments from public sources edged upward as compared with the preceding year, and was extended partly on terms more favorable to the receiving countries. International consultation was further developed, in the Development Assistance Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, for example, and under the auspices of the World Bank itself. New arrangements were made for financial and technical help, notable among them the special drawing facility created by the International Monetary Fund to assist member countries which experience temporary declines of income from exports—especially of primary products—due to circumstances largely beyond their control.
At the same time, however, many of the developing countries continue to face severe difficulties. Some are hard-pressed to service their external debt, many are seriously handicapped by the uncertainty of prospects for their export trade, and the rapid growth of population weighs heavily on the resources of much of the underdeveloped world.
The activities of the World Bank group- -the Bank and its two affiliates, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the International Development Association (IDA)—continued to expand. The number of loans under
preparation in the Bank increased, and although it happened that the total of funds lent declined from the previous year, there was no corresponding decline in the number of loans actually made. Credits extended by the International Development Association rose, and consultations among the representatives of member governments made encouraging progress toward replenishment of the financial resources of IDA. IFC had an eventful year. It engaged in its first combined operations with the Bank, to assist industrial development finance companies; it completed its first underwriting and standby commitments; and it enlisted more participation by other investors in the projects it supports than in any previous year.
in the  fiscal  year ended june  30,   1963, the
World Bank group committed a total equivalent to $727 million in new loans, credits and investments for economic development. This compared with a total of SI,037 million in the previous fiscal year. The 1962/63 total was made up of $449 million of loans from the Bank, $260 million of credits from IDA, and $18 million of commitments by the International Finance Corporation. Disbursements by the Bank group reached $692 million in 1962/63, of which $620 million came from the Bank, $56 million from IDA, and $16 million from IFC—a record figure in each case.
A decrease in new Bank loans—to $449 million from the previous year's peak of $882 million —more than accounted for the difference in commitments by the group between the two fiscal years. There is no evidence, however, that this decrease signals any long-term trend. Large fluctuations between years can be caused by accidents of the calendar, whereby large loans just before or after the end of June materially affect the total for a fiscal year. The number of loan agreements signed by the Bank in the year was approximately the same as in the five previous years, and there is no sign that loan applications from member countries are decreasing.
It is not possible to forecast with any precision the rate of Bank lending. On the one hand, some factors are operating to level off the rate or even to diminish it. One such factor is that a number of the Bank's borrowing countries are nearing the limit of the amounts they can afford to borrow on the Bank's terms of interest and repayment, although their ability to absorb external finance remains high. It was to meet the needs of these countries that IDA, whose credits impose lesser service burdens, was established— and the annual lending rate of IDA is showing a steady increase. Another factor is that other countries, formerly Bank borrowers, have become economically strong enough to be able to satisfy their needs for external finance by borrowing in the world's private money markets.
On the other hand, many member countries can be expected to make more active use of the Bank, some of them on a large scale. They arc still fully able to service additional Bank loans, and their capacity to absorb outside capital is growing as they gain more experience in economic planning and development. 'There also arc member countries whose growing political stability should eventually make them an active theater for Bank investments. In these cases, the scope for Bank lending should expand. What may result from these varying tendencies among the Bank's membership cannot be forscen. But there is no reason to doubt that the Bank will continue to play a leading role in financing economic development.
on January 1, 1963, Mr. George D. Woods became President of the Bank. This was the first change in this office since July 1949, the retiring President, Mr. Eugene R. Black, having served for all but the first three years of the Bank's existence.
The achievements of the Bank under Mr. Black's leadership as President are well known throughout the world. During his tenure of office, the Bank grew from its formative stage into a comprehensive development institution that is the world's largest multilateral source of development finance and one of the most important suppliers of technical assistance for economic development. Bank loans grew tenfold, from
$650 million in mid-1949 to $6,700 million. IFC and IDA, the affiliated organizations established during Mr. Black's presidency, together added investments and credits of about $500 million to the Bank's total.
Mr. Black played a key role in pursuing the Bank's purpose of enlisting private capital in the task of financing the growth of the less developed countries. The Bank's credit in the money markets of the world was established on a firm footing, and its borrowings, which stood at $250 million in 1949, increased to more than $2,500 million. The interest of other investors was enlisted in the Bank's loans: by the end of 1962, investors had bought maturities of these loans to the extent of more than $1,400 million. Mr. Black also succeeded in assembling in the Bank and its affiliates a staff remarkable for breadth of experience and diversity of skills.
The Bank will always owe to Mr. Black a great debt of gratitude for the vital contribution he made to its affairs in more than thirteen years of devoted service as its President.
many of the most important factors affecting
economic progress, such as social attitudes, population growth and forms of government, lie beyond the reach of financial institutions. But many others have concerned the Bank, even though not all of them are closely related to its own lending, and an increasing part of the Bank's work today is in technical assistance de-
signed to overcome both financial and non-financial obstacles to a rise of living standards in its member countries.
During the year, the Bank has continued to pursue its long-standing interest in ways of encouraging international private investment. In its efforts to increase the flow of private capital into the less developed countries, the Bank has always been aware of the overwhelming importance of investor confidence. One of its earliest policies, and one which had useful results, was actively to encourage governments to settle defaulted debts owed to private investors; and on a number of occasions the Bank has helped to settle financial disputes between investors and governments.
On May 5th, the Executive Directors, the officers and the staffs of the Bank and its affiliates expressed to the International Monetary Fund their profound and sincere sorrow over the death of Per Jacobsson, the Managing Director of the Fund. Their message read, "Per Jacobsson's contribution to the solution of the world's financial and economic problems was unicjue and he will long be remembered in the large number of member countries lo which he gave assistance. In these sister organizations where we had come to know him and to respect his outstanding abilities, we feel that we have lost not only a leader but a close friend."
The Bank continues to believe that the international flow of private capital would be greatly cased if investors could be persuaded to overcome their present fears that investment abroad may be exposed to abnormal risks. It has been suggested in some quarters that one solution to the problem would be the adoption by governments of a code for the equitable treatment of foreign investment, this code to be enforced by an international tribunal. Another suggestion has been that some form of multilateral scheme be established to provide insurance coverage for international investment; a study of this subject by the Bank staff was published in 1962.
The Bank has had a third approach under study for some time. It is a proposal to establish facilities, linked in some way to the Bank itself, which would be available to foreign investors and host governments wishing to bring investment disputes to conciliation or arbitration. It is an essential feature of the proposal that resort to these facilities would be entirely voluntary. They would be brought into use only when both the government concerned and the foreign investor had consented. But once this consent had been given, the parties would be bound to carry out their undertaking and, in the case of arbitration, to abide by the award. The proposal for the establishment of conciliation and arbitration services is being kept under study by the Executive Directors. While there are still a number of difficult questions to be solved, the. Bank believes
that this approach holds great promise as a means to improve the climate for international investment and to increase the willingness of private investors to export capital.
in recent years, capital-exporting countries
have explored various methods of coordinating their financial assistance to less developed countries in order to insure its most effective use. Two early efforts of this kind were the Consortium for Aid to India, which the Bank convened in a situation of emergency in 1958, and the Consortium for Aid to Pakistan, which the Bank first assembled in 1960. These groups have continued periodic meetings to examine and comment on the development plans of the two countries, and during the past year considered further assistance. For the third year of the current Indian Five-Year Plan, the countries and institutions represented pledged the equivalent of $1,052 million, subject as appropriate to legislative or other necessary authorization, of which the Bank and IDA share is $245 million. For the fourth year of the current Pakistan Five-Year Plan, again subject to legislative or other necessary authorization, the amount pledged was $425 million, of which the Bank and IDA share is $80 million.
The international coordination of financial assistance to a developing country cannot be effective unless the country has a well-formulated and sufficiently detailed development program.
Helping its member countries to formulate these programs has long been one of the most important technical assistance activities of the Bank. The Bank has organized more than 20 expert missions to make comprehensive economic surveys and to recommend the main outlines of development programs; it has sent other missions to make detailed comments on programs being drafted in member countries; and, through its Development Advisory Service, it is making senior experts available to assist in development programing.
Once an adequate program exists, it becomes possible to take a realistic measure of the external aid required, and to relate that aid to the economic priorities embraced by the program. In these circumstances, the Bank has expressed its willingness to participate in efforts to coordinate such external aid as may be available; and it has cooperated with the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD in this respect. One form such efforts may take is a. consultative group of governments interested in assistance to a particular developing country; several of these have been organized, some of them under the leadership of the Bank.
Meetings of this nature were initiated by the Bank during the year for Colombia, Nigeria and Tunisia. The first meeting of a consultative group of countries interested in assistance to Colombia took place in January 1963. The group considered a list of priority projects in the Colombian
Through the night, work continues on the foundations of Ghana's Volta Dam. The Bank has lent $47 million for the Volta project, which will generate electric power for the industries, mines and towns of southern Ghana.
Development Plan which were in a sufficiently advanced stage of preparation to be ready for financing within the ensuing two years. In the case of Nigeria, a consultative group of interested countries held meetings to exchange information on present and prospective assistance to Nigeria, and began to consider the possibility of helping to finance the Kainji Dam project on the Niger River. Participating countries in several meetings on financial assistance to Tunisia heard descriptions of the development plan from Tunisian officials, and also considered a Bank analysis of the plan.
one   of   the   most  critical  elements  in the
economic progress of the underdeveloped countries continues to be the skill brought not only to development programing but to the management of economic affairs in general. The Bank's chief instrument for fostering this skill is the Economic Development Institute, founded in 1956 as a kind of staff college for senior government officials concerned with economic matters. In the past year, the Institute greatly expanded its work, providing courses in more subjects, to more students, and in more languages, than ever before. An example is the course on project evaluation inaugurated during the year. This course, given in English, was introduced to help increase the capacity of member countries to appraise and prepare development projects so as
to be able to make efficient use of domestic financial resources and development assistance from abroad.
Apart from the regular six-month course conducted by the Institute—the eighth such course —two other courses were started during the fiscal year. The first was a somewhat abbreviated version of the regular course; it was given in the summer of 1962 and was conducted entirely in French, the participants being senior officials concerned with economic development in French-speaking countries, mostly in Africa. By the end of the year a second course in the French language was in progress. It will be followed this fall by a second course in project evaluation, conducted this time in Spanish. In all, 204 senior officials from 64 countries have participated in the various courses of the Institute.
The Institute took steps during the year to broaden its distribution of libraries on economic development to selected institutions in the developing countries. Distribution was begun of libraries in the French language, similar to those in English distributed the year before. Work has now started on assembling libraries in Spanish, also containing some works in Portuguese; in this case the Inter-American Development Bank is making a financial contribution, and the work of producing the libraries is being carried out for the Institute by the Centro de Estudios Mone-tarios Latinoamericanos, of Mexico City. By
making libraries available to ministries and agencies concerned with economic affairs in some 95 countries or territories, the Bank and the co-sponsors believe they can make a real contribution to broader understanding of the complex problems of development and economic planning, both at the national and the project level.
the bank is convinced that the economic progress of the less developed countries will depend largely upon their success in enlarging the skills and widening the outlook of their peoples, which in turn will depend upon providing effective and adequate systems of education.
The Bank took two initiatives in the educational field during the year. One was to sponsor, jointly with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, a new International Institute for Educational Planning to undertake research and training. The Institute is situated in Paris, and also receives support from the French Government and the Ford Foundation. The other was to organize an expert study to recommend improvements in the standards and procedures for the design and construction of schools in Tunisia.
A later section of this Report describes various other technical assistance activities carried out by the Bank during the year, including project studies, economic surveys, special missions to
assist member countries, and work undertaken for the UN Special Fund. The Bank's work in these fields is likely to continue to grow.
the membership of the bank rose rapidly during the year, increasing by the following 10 countries to a total of 85:
As a result of these additions, the subscribed capital of the Bank at June 30, 1963, was $20,729,800,000. Soon after the end of the fiscal year, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville) and Dahomey became members of the Bank.
apart from the change of presidents, other changes took place in the staff of the Bank during the year. Sir William Iliff retired in October 1962 after 15 years of service. He had been a Vice President of the Bank since 1956, had been one of the principal architects of the Bank's organization and policies, and had played a leading role in a number of international negotiations of exceptional importance. He will continue to be associated with the Bank as Adviser. Mr. Geoffrey M. Wilson became a Vice President in September, after having held the position of Director of Operations for South Asia and the Middle East. He was succeeded in that post by Mr. Escott Reid, who had been a senior member of the Canadian diplomatic service. Mr. Leonard B. Rist, formerly Special Representative for Africa, was appointed Special Adviser in January 1963. At the end of March, Mr. Gail Hathaway retired from his post as Engineering Consultant, and his place was taken by General Herbert D. Vogel. Following a distinguished career in the United States Army Corps of Engineers, General Vogel was Chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority from 1954 until 1962. In April, Mr. Michael Hoffman resigned from his posts as Associate Director of the Development Services Department and Director of the Development Advisory Service to enter private business. Direction of the Advisory Service reverted to Mr. Richard H. Demuth, Director of the Development Services Department; and Mr. David L.
Gordon of the staff became Assistant Director of that Department. In May, Mr. Howard C.Johnson joined the staff as Manager of Portfolio Sales and Participations in the Marketing Department, situated in New York.
The Bank's regular staff increased by nearly 100 persons during the year to a total of 884. The number of nationalities represented was 55.
During the fiscal year, the Bank inaugurated a new Junior Professional Recruitment and Training Program. This will bring into the staff each year a small number of young university graduates of outstanding ability. The first group, 11 in number, has been selected and will begin a two-year training and probationary period in September 1963. Their ages range from 24 to 31, and they are nationals of 10 countries: seven from Western and Southern Europe, two from South and Southeast Asia, one from Latin America, and one from the United States. Over the long run, the Bank hopes by this means to fill much of its need for professionally qualified staff.
THE YEAR'S LENDING
There were 28 new Bank loans during the year, totaling $448.65 million; this compared with $882.3 million in 29 loans during the previous fiscal year. The loans of the year raised the total number made by the Bank to 349 and the total lent to $6,983 million, net of cancellations and refundings.
Four new countries or territories figured among the borrowers—Cyprus, Morocco, Singapore and Swaziland—and raised the total number of borrowing countries or territories to 64. Asia and the Middle East received the largest amount of new loans, with a total of $179 million. The Western Hemisphere borrowed $126 million, Europe $111 million and Africa $33 million.
Transportation loans were the largest category, at $190 million. There were four railroad loans, totaling $66 million, in Colombia, Pakistan and Peru. Highway lending accounted for $110 million in four loans to Israel, Thailand, Uruguay and Yugoslavia. The remaining transportation loan was of $13.5 million to Nigeria for improvement of the Port of Lagos.
Ten loans were made for electric power during the year, totaling $124 million, for projects in
Colombia, Cyprus, El Salvador, Finland, Panama, the Philippines, Singapore, Swaziland, Thailand and Yugoslavia.
Lending for industry totaled $110 million in five loans to Colombia, India, Morocco, Pakistan and the Philippines. The first of these was of $30 million to assist a steel mill in Colombia. The four remaining loans were made to industrial development financing companies, three in combination with investments of the International Finance Corporation.
There were four loans, totaling $24 million, for agriculture, made to assist irrigation projects in Mexico, Nicaragua and Thailand.
Electric power for the seaport of Aalborg in Denmark is provided by this modern thermal plant. It and four other stations were expanded with help from a Bank loan of $20 million.
FINANCIAL OPERATIONS
The new loans of the year brought the cumulative total of Bank loans, net of cancellations and refundings, to $6,983 million, of which $5,425 million had been disbursed by June 30, 1963. Of the $6,983 million, $2,261 million had been repaid to the Bank or sold to other investors. The total of loans (effective and noneffective) held by the Bank, net of exchange adjustments, on June 30 stood at $4,712 million, $47 million more than the year before.
Net earnings (exclusive of receipts from the 1 % annual commission payable on all Bank loans) were $83 million, an increase of $13 million over the previous year and the highest earnings figure yet reached. Sales of Bank loans, all made without the Bank's guarantee, amounted to $273 million, compared with the peak of $319 million last year. The total was made up of $12 million of participations, where other investors took up parts of Bank loans at the time they were signed, and of $261 million of sales from the Bank's loan portfolio. Loan disbursements were $620 million, the highest yet recorded. The Bank's outstanding funded debt fell by $2 million during the year to $2,519 million, reflecting
the fact that issues maturing or redeemed exceeded new borrowing for the first time since 1955/56.
reserves,  income,  repayments  and interest
rate At June 30, 1963, the Bank's total reserves, comprising the Supplemental Reserve and the Special Reserve, stood at $813 million, an increase of $114 million during the year. The Supplemental Reserve, accumulated from net earnings, increased by $83 million to $558 million. The Special Reserve increased by $31 million to $255 million; this Reserve is composed of receipts from the 1 % loan commission, and can be used only to meet liabilities of the Bank in case of default.
Gross income for the year, excluding receipts from the 1 % loan commission, was $204 million, an increase of $16 million over the previous year. Bond and Note interest and issue costs rose to $104 million from $99 million. Administrative costs for regular Bank operations also rose, to $13.6 million from $10.8 million in 1961/62. In addition, the cost of services to member countries—including general survey missions, project and sector studies, training programs and other advisory and technical services—increased from $1.9 million to $2.8 million.
Repayments to the Bank amounted to $113 million, and repayments by borrowers to other
investors holding maturities of Bank loans were $131 million; the total of $244 million compared with $226 million the year before.
The rate of interest on new Bank loans, including the 1% annual commission, continued from the previous year at 5%% until September 1962. Changes in marketing conditions for the Bank's borrowing operations then made possible a reduction to 5f>2%, which prevailed for the remainder of the fiscal year.
disbursements and sales of loans The year's record disbursements of $620 million compared with $485 million the year before. Since the Bank's new loan commitments averaged about $700 million a year for the five years from 1957/58 to 1961/62, this rise in disbursements had been expected, and further increases are expected in the years to come.
The accompanying table shows the distribution by countries of the orders placed by Bank borrowers using Bank loan funds. The normal procedure is for borrowers to place their orders on the basis of international competition, and the table illustrates the wide distribution which results.
The market for maturities of Bank loans continued to be active; sales during the year totaled $273 million, and the cumulative figure of sales of loans now exceeds $1,600 million. One factor
in the high total for the fiscal year was the purchase by Banque de France of $61 million of the outstanding balance of the 30-year Bank loan of $250 million made to Credit National of France in 1947 for postwar reconstruction. This
was the Bank's first loan and, as a result of this purchase, the outstanding balance held by the Bank was reduced to less than $60 million. Soon after the close of the fiscal year, the balance was purchased by Banque de France.
the year's borrowing The Bank's borrowings during the fiscal year amounted to $124 million, but maturing issues and redemptions totaled $126 million, reducing the outstanding funded debt by $2 million. The Bank was in a liquid position and had no need to raise new money in the world's capital markets. This situation is due in large part to the continued high level of sales of parts of the Bank's loans to other investors, which have replenished the Bank's funds to the extent of over $1,000 million in the past four years. Other contributing factors have been the high level of net earnings, which arc available for lending, and the fact that disbursements in the past three years were lower than was expected.
As the accompanying table shows, three new issues of the Bank's Bonds were effected during the fiscal year, for a total of $121 million. The first borrowing was in the Netherlands and was noted in last year's Annual Report as having been announced before the beginning of the fiscal year, but with effect after June 30, 1962. The issue was of f.40,000,000 (approximately $11 million) of 4>2% 20-year guilder Bonds sold at 99J/2. Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij,
N.V. (the Netherlands Trading Society) headed the underwriting group.
The next transaction was the sale, entirely outside the United States, of a f 100 million issue of U.S. dollar Bonds. This sale was announced on September 14, 1962, and represented the refunding of the Two-Year Bonds of 1960. Demand for these Two-Year Bonds, particularly by central banks and government accounts in the Bank's member countries, is constant, and the new Bonds were placed with 53 institutional investors in 25 countries. The issue is known as the Two-Year Bonds of 1962 and bears interest of 3M%-
The only other borrowing of the year was the Bank's first in the Austrian market. It took place in November 1962, and amounted to $10 million, in United States dollars. It consisted of (1) a placement of $5 million of 4% five-year Notes, due November 15, 1967, with the Oesterreich-ischc Nationalbank (Austrian National Bank) and (2) a public offering of $5 million 4J^% 15-year Bonds.
The offering was made through a syndicate of 12 Austrian banks headed by Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft. It was the first non-schilling issue to be publicly offered in the Austrian market since 1930, and was sold at 102% to yield about 4.33% to final maturity.
The following table summarizes these transactions, and shows redemptions, sinking fund purchases and other repayments of past borrowing.
Negotiating a difficult bend in the road, heavy equipment is brought up to the site of Malaya's Cameron Highlands hydroelectric scheme. Financed by the Bank, the project ivas inaugurated this year.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
During the year the Bank continued to expand its assistance to member countries in preparing development projects and programs up to the point where they are ready for financing. Seven new project or sector studies were undertaken, of widely varied character. In Ecuador the Bank is meeting the foreign exchange costs of a survey of all types of transport, and of a study to lay the basis for a national electrification program. In India, consultants are studying ways to solve the coal transport problem, both for the short and the long term. In Iran a team of experts is to advise on the establishment and operation of an Electricity Authority. In Nigeria a study is being made by consultants of highway needs in the northern part of the country. In the Republic of China, consultants are helping the Government to prepare an investment program for improvement of the transport facilities of Taiwan. In Tunisia consultants will make a study of school designs and construction methods, and design three prototype schools, to assist the Government in obtaining the best value for its investment in this sector. The direct cost to the Bank of these studies will exceed $2,750,000; the full cost, of course, rises considerably if overheads in staff time and other services are taken into account.
The local costs in each case will be met by the Government concerned.
The Bank also acted as Executing Agency for a number of pre-investment studies being financed by the UN Special Fund. Work continued on several studies, some of which were mentioned in last year's Report: of port silta-tion at Georgetown, British Guiana, and Bangkok in Thailand; of power and irrigation projects in Guatemala; of mineral resources in Surinam; of telecommunications needs in Central America; of coal resources in the Cauca Valley of Colombia; and of power requirements in the Sudan. The Bank has also agreed to serve as Executing Agency for four additional projects, for the study of the technical and economic feasibility of a railway to transport iron ore from the Mekambo mines in Gabon, and the development of other resources in the area likely to be traversed by the railway; of the hydroelectric power resources of South Central Brazil; of port and railway facilities in central Costa Rica; and of a road program for Paraguay.
The deployment of the members of the Development Advisory Service continued. The Service, established in November 1961, consists of experts of broad qualifications and experience who can be posted to member countries as advisers on planning and other major problems of development policy, for periods of two or three years. Requests for such advisory services had become too heavy to be met entirely from the
Bank's regular staff. The Service now numbers about 20 persons, most of them with many years' experience in posts of high responsibility. Some are acting as advisers in Chile, Colombia, Ghana, Guatemala, Honduras, Libya, Nigeria, Pakistan and Thailand; others are working at Bank headquarters. The additional flexibility afforded by the DAS pool has facilitated the assignment of regular Bank staff members as advisers or resident representatives in Chile, Colombia, Guatemala, India, Kuwait, Malaya, Panama, Pakistan, Peru and Thailand.
Two reports of general economic survey missions were issued during the year. The report of the mission headed by Sir Hugh Ellis Rees, formerly Chairman of the Council of OEEC, on "The Economic Development of Spain" was published in English by The Johns Hopkins Press in January 1963; it had been published in Spanish some six weeks earlier by the Spanish Government, which showed keen interest in the views of the mission and carried out some of its recommendations even before the Report was published. About 25,000 copies were sold in Spain, an unprecedented number for an economic report of this type. The other report was on Kenya, and was the work of a survey mission headed by Gen. Edmond H. Leavey, former Chairman of the Board of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation of the U. S. The report was published in Kenya, as well as in the United States and the United
Kingdom, and was widely read in Kenya and neighboring countries.
Other books published for the Bank during the year by The Johns Hopkins Press, of Baltimore, and by the Oxford University Press, were monographs by Albert Waterston of the Economic Development Institute on "Planning in Morocco" and "Planning in Yugoslavia." A third monograph, concerning planning in Pakistan, will be published in the fall of 1963. 'These country studies form part of a larger research project designed to result in a book on the organization and implementation of development planning.
One new survey mission, to investigate the economic development potential of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, began work during the year. It was organized at the request of the Australian Government, which is responsible for the administration of the Territory. The mission left for Australia and the Territory at the beginning of June.
Another important mission was organized, at the request of the Governments concerned, to study the economic implications of the association of the Federation of Malaya, the State of Singapore and the British Borneo territories in a new Federation of Malaysia. The mission was headed by Governor Jacques Rueff, Inspector General of Finance for the French Government and one of Europe's leading economists and jurists. It transmitted its formal report to the
Governments on July 8, the day before the signing in London of the international agreement forming the Federation of Malaysia.
Missions headed by senior Bank economists were sent at the request of the Governments concerned to review the development programs of Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Nigeria, Sudan, Tunisia and the United Arab Republic. A three-man mission made up of a member of the Development Advisory Service and officials of the Bank of England and the Netherlands Bank went to Chile to direct a study of measures to make the Chilean capital market more effective in mobilizing domestic savings for economic development. During the second half of 1962 the Bank sent several advisers to the Philippines for short periods to assist the Government in launching the Five-Year Socio-Economic Program. The Bank advisers helped to set up the machinery for program implementation, to select high-priority projects and assist in the formulation of the public investment program for the year 1 963/64.
As the year's activities show, Bank economists are each year becoming more deeply engaged in assisting individual member countries with the preparation or refinement of development programs. Another type of work carried out by the Economic Staff is related to problems of wider interest. Here, studies originally undertaken for the Bank's own internal purposes have become useful outside the Bank. For example, the Staff makes and on occasion has circulated reviews of
the current situation and future prospects of the principal primary products moving in international trade. Price trends in these commodities interest the Bank because they affect the capacity of its members as borrowers and guarantors; and they are of vital significance to many of the Bank's member countries, since fractional price changes can affect the trade earnings of these countries by several times the amount of the financial assistance they may be receiving from abroad. It was a natural development from these commodity reviews that led the Bank during the fiscal year to embark upon a comprehensive study of the market for extra-long staple cotton. This study, undertaken at the request of the International Cotton Advisory Committee, should be completed in the spring of 1964. Another field of work currently being studied by Bank economists concerns the special problems of African agriculture, which will be of increasing importance in future years.
annex The information in this section describes loans and other Bank activities during the year. Loans to borrowers other than member governments carry the guarantee of the governments concerned. Interest rates shown include the 1% commission which is allocated to the Bank's Special Reserve. The participations of financial institutions in loans of the year were all without the Bank's guarantee.
This Annex also records Development Credits made to member countries during the year by the Bank's affiliate, the International Development Association (IDA). Fuller descriptions of those Credits are given in the Annual Report of IDA, which is published simultaneously with the Report of the Bank.
AFRICA
ethiopia/ida credit
The International Development Association extended the following credit to Ethiopia: Highway Improvement
February 27, 1963 .... $13,500,000
gabon
The Bank has agreed to act as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund study of the feasibility of a railway to transport iron ore from large deposits in the interior of Gabon to the coast. This study is the subject of a UN Special Fund grant of $2,092,000.
kenya
The report of the General Economic Survey Mission to Kenya was published in May 1963.
morocco/lNDUSTRIAL LOAN $15 million loan of December 21, 1962 borrower • Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique (BNDE)
This loan, to promote the growth of private industry, was made as part of a joint operation with the IFC, comprising the first Bank loan and the first IF"C investment in Morocco. BNDE was established in 1959, and by June 1962 had made 23 direct loans aggregating the equivalent of $13 million for a variety of enterprises in Morocco. Although the Government was initially the main
shareholder of BNDE, it has pursued a policy of selling its shares to other investors, and BNDE's stockholders now include important financial institutions in Belgium, France, Germany, Italy and the United States. The Government is now in a minority position. IFC subscribed the equivalent of $1.5 million of new shares, and the Government and IFC have agreed to make equal amounts of their shareholdings, to the extent of 12% of all stock outstanding, available for sale to the Moroccan public.
The Bank loan will be used as a line of credit, expected to be used up by the end of 1964, and will be committed in parts for individual projects to be agreed upon by the Bank and BNDE. Repayment of each part so committed will be over a maximum period of 15 years. Interest will be applied to each part of the loan at the Bank's then current rate.
nigeria/port loan
$13.5 million 20-year 5~>A% loan of December 10, 1962 borrower • The Nigerian Ports Authority
This loan will help to extend and improve the port of Lagos, through which passes about four million tons of cargo a year, about half of Nigeria's foreign trade.
The Nigerian Ports Authority, a public corporation established in 1955, has made vigorous and successful efforts to modernize port operations through the construction of new facilities
and the use of modern cargo-handling procedures. Traffic has increased beyond the capacity of the ports, however, particularly at Lagos, which serves the Federal Territory and most of the external trade of the Northern and Western regions.
The port of Lagos consists of Customs Quay, used principally for cargo consigned to the island of Lagos, and Apapa Quay on the mainland. Although berthing space at Apapa has doubled in the past seven years, the number of ships berthed there has increased nearly fourfold, with consequent delays to shipping. The Bank funds will be used for the most urgent needs of the Apapa project, which should be completed by 1966.
participations • Bank of America, San Francisco; Bankers Trust Company, New York; and The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, participated in the loan for a total of $660,000.
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank is bearing half the costs of a study looking toward the improvement and expansion of the road network in northern Nigeria. Inadequate transport is an obstacle to the economic development of the Northern region, and especially to the realization of its potential in agriculture and fisheries.
sudan
The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund survey of the electric power
requirements of the Sudan and the preparation of a long-term program for power development.
swaziland/power loan
$4.2 million 20-year 5loan of May 16, 1963
borrower • Swaziland
Swaziland, a British dependency in southern Africa, has an area of some 6,700 square miles and a population of 270,000. Traditionally, farming and stock raising have been the main activity, but mining is growing in importance and new commercial and industrial undertakings are being set up. These include two large undertakings, one for the development of Swaziland's rich iron ore resources and the other a recently established wood pulp industry, both requiring large additional supplies of electric power. To meet these and other needs, the Bank loan will assist the construction of the 10,000-kilowatt Edwaleni hydroelectric plant and a 1,000-kilo-watt thermal plant, together with associated transmission and distribution facilities. These will be the first power installations to be built by the Swaziland Electricity Board, which was established last year to develop an electric power system. The loan is guaranteed by the United Kingdom.
participations • The Standard Bank Limited, New York, and Barclays Bank D.C.O., New York, participated in the loan for a total of $385,000.
tunisia/lDA CREDIT
The International Development Association extended the following credit to Tunisia: School Construction
September 17, 1962     ...   $ 5,000,000
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank is contributing to the financing of a study of standards and procedures for design and construction of secondary schools in Tunisia, with the aim of improving the long-term school-building program and lowering costs.
The Apapa Wharves, as seen across the roadstead of the Port of Lagos, handle a large part of Nigeria's imports and exports. A Bank loan of $13 million is financing extension of the Wharves.
ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
china
The Bank has agreed to finance the foreign exchange costs of a study to assist the Government to formulate an investment program for developing transport facilities in Taiwan.
india/indtjstrial development bank
$30 million 15-year loan of June 5, 1963 borrower • The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited (ICICI)
Bank lending to ICICI has now provided $90 million in foreign exchange for industrial development projects in India. Since ICICI was organized in 1955, with the advice and assistance of the Bank, it has approved financial assistance for 200 industrial projects involving 183 firms for a total amount equivalent to $127 million. Nearly half of this total was made up of loans in foreign exchange. Among the industries assisted by ICICI have been iron and steel, chemical, electrical, mechanical, paper and pulp, shipping, food processing, textile, metal products, glass, cement and other building materials. In all, it is estimated that the operations of ICICI have resulted in mobilizing a total capital investment in India, domestic and foreign, equivalent to some $650 million, or five times that of its own investments, and in an increase of some 60,000 jobs.
ICICI's operations are expected to continue at the high level of the past few years. The Bank
loan, together with the balances still available from previous loans, should meet foreign exchange requirements until the early part of 1965. ICICI is also making arrangements to obtain an additional Rs. 100 million of rupee funds.
Interest charged on each part of the new loan will be at the Bank's current rate when that part is committed for one of ICICI's projects. At that time, the Bank and ICICI will agree on an amortization schedule for repayment of that part of the loan. These amortization schedules will provide for semiannual repayments and for final repayment of the entire $30 million loan not later than December 1, 1978.
ida credits
The International Development Association extended the following credits to India: Purna River Valley Irrigation
OTHER ACTIVITIES • The Bank is financing the foreign exchange cost of a study aimed at improving the transport of coal in India. The consultants being employed will first make an interim report suggesting ways to provide quick relief for the present shortage of coal transport. Thereafter, the consultants will recommend long-term measures to put coal transport on a sound footing. Their report is to be available in 1964.
iran
The Bank has agreed to help to pay the foreign exchange costs of engaging a team of experts to advise and assist in the establishment and initial operation of an Electricity Authority in Iran. This Authority will be responsible for the regulation and the future planning and development of the power industry in Iran.
israel/highway loan
$22 million 17-year 5^% loan of October 17, 1962 borrower • Israel
The highway development program of Israel, which is being assisted by this loan, calls for the building or reconstruction to higher standards of about 500 miles of interurban highways by 1966. About 155 miles of subsidiary roads which link agricultural and other settlements to the main highway network will also be improved.
The program is estimated to cost a total of $46 million equivalent, and also includes the procure-
ment of equipment for maintenance, accounting machines, installations and equipment for road traffic patrols and for the collection of traffic information. Provision is made to employ consultants for the design and supervision of the road program and for the preliminary design of additional roads. Consultants will also undertake an urgently needed study of inland surface transportation to insure that the development of roads and railways takes place in the most economic manner. The Bank loan will cover the foreign exchange requirements of the program.
korea/ida credit
The International Development Association extended the following credit to Korea: Railway Improvement
August 17, 1962     .... $14,000,000
malaya,   singapore and
the british borneo territories
At the request of the Governments concerned, the Bank sent a mission of experts to the above areas to study the economic implications of their association in a new Federation of Malaysia.
Pakistan/industrial loan
$20 million loan of February 13, 1963
borrower • Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited (PICIC)
This was the Bank's fourth loan to PICIC: in all, $49.2 million in foreign exchange has been
provided in this way to promote the growth of private industry in Pakistan. PICIC was established in 1957 with the advice of the Bank and its shares are held by private investors of Pakistan, Canada, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. In addition IFC has this year become an investor in PICIC by participating to the extent of Rs. 2 million in a Rs. 10 million increase of share capital. PICIC is now the main institution in Pakistan providing medium and long-term finance for industry. By the end of 1962 it had approved 318 loans amounting to the equivalent of Pakistan Rs. 401 million ($84.2 million) to the textile, jute, food processing and engineering industries, and to plants producing chemicals, pharmaceuticals, cement, ceramics, glass and paper products. PICIC also holds about Rs. 14 million worth of shares in industrial companies, has underwritten new share offerings aggregating Rs. 15 million, and has helped to find $10 million equivalent of foreign investment for Pakistan enterprises. Most of PICIC's loans have been made in foreign exchange, and this new loan, together with other foreign exchange credits yet to be drawn down, should meet PICIC's requirements for at least another year.
Each part of the Bank loan committed by PICIC for a particular project will be repaid according to a schedule determined at the time, with interest applied at the Bank's rate then prevailing.
The towering Dez Dam, financed by a Bank loan of $42 million. Water it impounds will restore fertility to lands tilled many centuries ago, and generate electric power for Iranian industry.
railroad loans
$18.25 million 20-year 5}^% loan of September 14, 1962, for the Western Railway
$4.75 million 20-year 5^% loan of September 14, 1962, for the Eastern Railway borrower • Pakistan
Both these loans were made to meet part of the foreign exchange costs of railway improvement and expansion in the third and fourth years of Pakistan's Second Five-Year Plan, 196065. East and West Pakistan are more than 1,000 miles apart and each has its own separate railway system, operated by the two Provincial governments. Accordingly, the Pakistan Government is re-lending the Bank loan funds to the two Provincial Governments.
The Western Railway consists of 5,326 route miles, and the Eastern Railway of 1,715 route miles. Freight traffic on the Western Railway has increased by about 50% since 1955, and on the Eastern Railway by about 100%,. The increases in passenger traffic during the period were 30% and 37% respectively.
The upward trend is expected to continue, and the Second Five-Year Plan provides railway investments equivalent to $300 million, two-thirds on the Western Railway, and the balance on the Eastern Railway. During the third and fourth years of the Plan, the Railways intend to carry out programs costing the equivalent of $141 million, of which $81 million will be re-
required in foreign exchange. Of the latter, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States are providing nearly $60 million equivalent, and the balance will be met by the two Bank loans. The funds will help to pay for passenger coaches, freight cars, material for freight cars, railway ties, plant and machinery for workshops, and components for signaling equipment. participations • Bank of America, San Francisco; Irving Trust Company, New York; Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company; Bankers Trust Company, New York; The First National Bank of Boston ; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; Wells Fargo Bank American Trust Company, San Francisco; Chemical Bank New York Trust Company; First National City Bank, New York; and J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation, New York, participated in the loans for a total of $1,285,000, of which$1,020,000is for the Western,and $265,000 for the Eastern Railway.
ida credits
The International Development Association extended the following credits to Pakistan:
Industrial Estates
November 2, 1962 ....    $ 6,500,000
Brahmaputra Flood Control
June 26, 1963 .....$ 5,000,000
$11,500,000
papua and new guinea
At the request of the Australian Government, the Bank organized a general economic survey mission to make a survey of the economic development potential of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. The mission left for Australia and the Territory in June 1963.
philippines/power loan
$3.7 million 18-year 5}^% loan of November 7, 1962 borrower • The National Power Corporation of the Philippines
The National Power Corporation is an autonomous public corporation which sells power to industry and to private power distributors throughout the Philippines. This loan will assist the installation of a second 50,000-kilowatt unit and other works at the Corporation's Maria Cristina Falls power plant, which serves the northern region of Mindanao. The plant has a large industrial market; five enterprises use nearly 80% of its present 50,000-kilowatt capacity. By 1966 considerable industrial expansion is expected, including a copper-zinc reduction and fabricating plant. An integrated steel mill is also expected to come into operation and will require still more power capacity in the area. The total estimated cost of the present expansion is equivalent to $7.1 million, of which the Bank loan will cover foreign exchange requirements. participations • Bank of America, San Fran-
cisco; and The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, participated in the loan for a total of $390,000.
industrial loan
$15 million loan of February 15, 1963
borrower • Private Development Corporation
of the Philippines (PDCP)
PDCP was established early in 1963, with the advice and assistance of the Bank and its affiliate, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), to assist the expansion of private industry in the Philippines. PDCP is privately owned and managed, and will make long and medium-term loans to industrial and other enterprises; invest in the shares of private enterprises; underwrite new issues of securities; guarantee loans from other investment sources; and provide managerial and technical advice and assistance. Its initial resources total the equivalent of 111 million pesos (US $28 million), made up of share capital of 25 million pesos, a loan of 27.5 million pesos from the U.S. Agency for International Development and a $15 million loan from the World Bank. Of the initial share capital, 70% is owned by Filipino investors and the IFC, and the balance is held by foreign investors. IFC gave a standby commitment for part of the shares offered to Filipino investors.
To maintain adequate economic growth in the Philippines in the face of a rapidly expanding
population requires a substantial increase in investment to diversify production and increase productivity. PDCP was established to fill the serious gap between demand and supply of long-term capital for industry, and is expected to play a key role in the country's development.
The Bank loan has a maximum term of 15 years. Each part committed for a particular project to be financed by PDCP will be repaid according to a schedule to be determined at the time of the commitment. Interest will be applied to each part of the loan at the Bank's then current rate.
singapore/power loan
$15 million 20-year 5}/£% loan of May 16, 1963
borrower • State of Singapore
Singapore remains the main trading center of Southeast Asia, but the future improvement or even maintenance of the high per capita income of its population depends on diversifying the economy and expanding local industries. The Government has initiated a program to promote the growth of industry on the island, which already possesses an oil refinery, a cement plant, a steel rolling mill and ship-breaking yard for the recovery of scrap. Industrial estates have been established and have attracted a large variety of small manufacturers.
The present 175,000 kilowatts installed capacity of Singapore's public electric utilities is
already Inadequate to meet growing power demand, which is expected to increase at an average annual rate of more than 10% for the next five years. This first Bank loan to Singapore will assist in financing the construction of a new 120,000-kilowatt thermoelectric power station. Power from the plant will be fed into a transmission and distribution network which covers most of Singapore Island.
Thailand/irrigation loans
$5.6 million 15-year loan of December 21,
1962, for irrigation in the Chao Phya area in central Thailand
$3.4 million 20-year 53^% loan of December 21, 1962, for irrigation in the Petchburi area in southwest Thailand borrower • Thailand
Most of Thailand's working population is engaged in agriculture, fisheries or forestry, agricultural output accounting for over 90% of the country's exports. Rice, the staple food of the population and the chief source of foreign exchange earnings, is grown on three-fifths of the total cultivated area. Greater production largely depends on the improvement and extension of the irrigation systems.
The Chao Phya project is the second financed by the Bank in the Central Plain. The first project, assisted by a loan of $18 million in 1950, provided the barrage and main canals. The new
project includes the construction of 12,000 miles of ditches and dykes to bring a controlled supply of water to the farms; the dredging of existing navigation canals; the construction of about 165 miles of feeder roads; and extension services.
The Petchburi project provides for the irrigation, drainage and flood control of 131,000 acres. The key feature in the project is a storage reservoir to improve the availability of water throughout the year. A dam will be built at Kang Krachan on the Petchburi River to create a reservoir with an effective storage capacity of 595 million cubic meters. Other works include an enlargement of the existing canal system; the construction of ditches to deliver water to the farms; and about 80 miles of farm-to-market roads. Extension services will also be provided. participations • First loan—Bank of America, San Francisco; Grace National Bank of New York; First National City Bank, New York; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; Crocker-Anglo National Bank, San Francisco; The Bank of Tokyo, Ltd., New York Agency; The Bank of Tokyo Trust Company, New York; and The Mitsui Bank, Limited, New York Agency, participated in the loan for a total of $645,000.
Second loan—Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; First National City Bank, New York; and 'The Mitsui Bank, Limited, New York Agency, participated in the loan for a total of $110,000.
power loan
$6.6 million 20-year 5{A% loan of March 7, 1963 borrower • Yanhee Electricity Authority
The loan will assist in financing a second high voltage circuit between the Yanhee hydroelectric plant in northwest Thailand and the capital city of Bangkok, 280 miles to the south. In addition, 446 miles of transmission lines will be installed to serve 12 towns in the central part of the country. The new facilities will further extend the power network being built as part of the Yanhee project, the largest hydroelectric plant in Southeast Asia. Construction of the first stage, which includes a 140,000-kilowatt power plant and transmission lines to Bangkok and ten towns en route, was begun in 1958 with the assistance of a $66 million Bank loan. When Yanhee comes into operation in 1964 and the transmission facilities have been installed, the power system operated by the Yanhee Electricity Authority will have total generating capacity of 320,000 kilowatts, which can be expanded as required, up to a total of 640,000 kilowatts, by the installation of more generators at Yanhee.
participations • Bank of America, San Francisco ; Irving Trust Company, New York; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company; The Bank of Tokyo Trust Company, New York; The Mitsui Bank, Limited, New York Agency; Crocker-Anglo National Bank, San Francisco; First
National City Bank, New York; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $740,000.
highway loan
$35 million 20-year 5K% loan of June 11, 1963 borrower • Thailand
Thailand's impressive economic gains of the past decade, characterized by a more varied agricultural pattern and increased manufacturing, have put an additional burden on the country's railways, roads, inland waterways and coastal shipping. There is particular need for better roads, and the Government is now embarking on its first comprehensive highway development program, which provides for the improvement of about 2,500 miles of existing highways and the construction of 950 miles of new roads.
This loan will assist in financing the improvement or new construction of sections of three high priority national highways of a total length of 394 miles, and feasibility studies of five additional sections, totaling about 650 miles, in various parts of Thailand. The project is being carried out by the Department of Highways, and will include the services of consulting engineers to assist the Department in the design and construction work, prepare the feasibility studies, and advise on the reorganization of operational and maintenance procedures. Also
included in the project is the purchase of maintenance and other equipment, and a training program abroad for Thai highway personnel. participations • The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York; Bank of America, San Francisco; First National City Bank, New York; Irving Trust Company, New York; The Bank of Tokyo Trust Company, New York; and The Mitsui Bank, Limited, New York Agency, participated in the loan for a total of dollars $895,000.
One of the many new diesel locomotives now hauling freight and passengers on the railways of Pakistan. The Rank has lent over $93 million to modernize the railways of both East and West Pakistan.
EUROPE
cyprus/power loan
$21 million 20-year 53^% loan of April 17, 1963 borrower • Electricity Authority of Cyprus
This first Bank loan in Cyprus will help to finance the construction of a new 60,000-kilo-watt thermal power station at Moni on the southern coast, 95 miles of new transmission lines and over 1,100 miles of distribution lines.
Cyprus is a semi-arid island of 3,570 square miles with a population of about 565,000. Although great progress has been made in the past ten years in bringing power supplies to the population, only half of the 600 towns and villages are served by the present network. This project being undertaken with Bank assistance will enable the Electricity Authority to meet the pent-up demand for power and bring service to 200 additional towns and villages, which have never before had electricity. In this way, the Government hopes to encourage the rural population to remain on the farms and thereby to stimulate the expansion of agriculture, the mainstay of the Cypriot economy. participations • The Chartered Bank, New York; The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York; Irving Trust Company, New York; Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York; Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and Barclays Bank, D.C.O., New York, participated in the loan for a total of $1,185,000.
finland/power loan
$25 million 20-year 5%% loan of August 15, 1962 borrower • Mortgage Bank of Finland Oy
The woodworking industries of Finland, whose sales abroad account for nearly 80% of the country's total exports, require ample supplies of electric power and consume about half of the total generated.
This was the fifth Bank loan for power in Finland and is to assist the expansion of thermoelectric capacity. Part of the funds will be re-lent by the Mortgage Bank of Finland Oy to Imatran Voima Oy, the largest electric utility company in Finland, to help to add a second 133,000-kilowatt generating unit at the Naantali plant near Turku, to construct 142 miles of new transmission lines and to expand substation capacity. The loan will also assist the Power Administration of the City of Helsinki to add a 90,000-kilowatt unit to its Hanasaari 75,000-kilowatt power plant and to expand its distribution system. The third undertaking to receive Bank funds will be an 80,000-kilowatt plant to be built in the town of Kotka by Kotkan Hoyryvoima Oy, a new company set up by large industrial power consumers and the Kotka municipality. participations • Bank of America, San Francisco; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; Irving Trust Company, New York; The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York; Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago; The First National Bank of
Chicago; Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, Rome; Maryland National Bank, Baltimore; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; Chemical Bank New York Trust Company; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total equivalent to $2,304,796.
spain
The report of the General Economic Survey Mission to Spain was published in January 1963.
turkey/ida credits
The International Development Association extended the following credits to Turkey: Industrial Development Bank
November 23, 1962. . . . $ 5,000,000 Cukurova Power Project
February 1, 196.3 . . . . 1,700,000 Seyhan Irrigation Project
May 31, 1963 ..... 20,000,000
$26,700,000
yugoslavia/power loan
$30 million 25-year 5%% loan of July 11, 1962 borrower • Yugoslav Investment Bank
This loan will help to finance construction of a 240,000-kilowatt hydroelectric plant in central Yugoslavia, and the extension of the country-
wide electric power network by the installation of 362 miles of transmission lines and associated substations. The Yugoslav Investment Bank, a Federal Government institution which channels investment funds for development, will re-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan to the enterprises responsible for building and operating the power plant and the transmission system.
The new hydroelectric installation is the Bajina Basta project on the Drina River, and is part of a program to install 1,751,000 kilowatts of new generating capacity, increasing Yugoslavia's total capacity to 4,161,000 kilowatts by 1965. The program also includes the construction of about 1,100 miles of transmission lines, together with associated transformer and switching stations. In addition, the capacity of interconnection with Austrian and Italian networks is being expanded, and equipment installed to permit the Yugoslav system to operate in parallel with the integrated power system of Western Europe.
The power station should be completed in four years. Construction of the transmission lines should be finished in 1965.
highway loan
$35 million 20-year 5]/2% loan of June 21, 1963 borrower • Yugoslav Investment Bank
This loan will assist completion of the construction to modern standards of the two most important highways in Yugoslavia. One is the
Central Highway, the main stem of the Yugoslav highway network, extending 720 miles from the Austrian to the Greek border and serving the main centers of population, agriculture and industry. The second is the Adriatic Highway which runs 465 miles along Yugoslavia's Dalmatian coast.
Road traffic in Yugoslavia has been growing rapidly since 1955, and the Government, as part of its increased investment in roads, has given high priority to the two principal highways as a means of opening the country to western European road traffic, reducing transport and road maintenance costs, and stimulating tourism, an important source of foreign exchange earnings. The Bank loan will assist in completing two important sections of the Central Highway: one of 13 miles, from Ljubelj to Naklo in the Alps, will connect the Austrian and Yugoslav road systems by a tunnel at the border, and the other will extend 95 miles from Belgrade to Paracin.
On the Adriatic Highway, the Bank loan will assist in financing new sections totaling 262 miles. In addition to encouraging tourism, the new Flighway will stimulate economic development by providing rapid road transport to ports and consuming centers for the new crops of fruit and vegetables which arc to result from irrigation in the coastal zone.
participation • Irving Trust Company, New York, is participating in the loan for $200,000.
WESTERN HEMISPHERE
brazil
The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund survey of the hydroelectric resources and power market of the southcentral region of Brazil. This study will also develop a 15-year construction program for power generation and transmission in the region, and supplants a similar survey limited to one part of the area, the State of Minas Gerais, which was noted in last year's Report.
central america and panama
The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund study of the possibilities of (a) the establishment of a telecommunications network for the whole region and (b) the modernization and expansion of telecommunications systems in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama.
chile
A mission consisting of a member of the \ Development Advisory Service and officials of
the Bank of England and the Nederlandsche Bank (Bank of the Netherlands) went to Chile in \ August 1962 to direct a study of measures to
make the Chilean capital market a more efficient instrument in mobilizing domestic savings for economic development.
A technical representative of the Bank took up his duties in Chile in February 1963. He is
advising the Chilean authorities on the execution of the highway construction and maintenance projects which are being assisted by a Bank loan and IDA credit totaling $25 million, which were made available to Chile in 1961.
colombia/power loan
$8.8 million 20-year 5%% loan of June 3, 1963 borrower • Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Cauca (Cauca Valley Corporation) and Central Hidroelectrica del Rio Anchicaya Limitada (CHIDRAL)
This was the fifth loan to be made by the Bank for electric power in the fast developing Cauca Valley of Colombia, bringing the total lent there to over $44 million. Power demand in the area is growing as rapidly as anywhere in the world and requires a doubling of generating capacity every five years. The new loan will finance the installation of two additional generators at the new Calima hydroelectric plant in the mountains west of the Valley, thereby adding 60,000 kilowatts of new capacity. The loan funds will also be used to extend the transmission system to Buenaventura, Colombia's main port on the Pacific Ocean; to expand the distribution system in Cali, the principal city of the Valley; and to purchase new machinery for the coal mines in the Valley which supply the thermoelectric generating plant near Cali. All these improvements will assist the Cauca Valley Corporation in its
In the level cotton fields of the Yaqui irrigation district of Mexico, a field worker siphons water to feed the growing crop. A Bank loan of $15 million is helping to rehabilitate and improve this and three other irrigation districts in northwest Mexico.
task of promoting the development of the entire region by providing more power for new industries and for irrigation and drainage to assist agriculture.
participations • The Bank of California National Association, San Francisco; Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco; The Royal Bank of Canada, New York Agency; and The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, participated in the loan for a total of $400,000.
railway loan
$30 million 20-year 5M% loan of June 21, 1963 borrower • Colombian National Railways (CNR)
This loan marked a further step in Bank assistance to the railway system of Colombia. The first was taken in 1952 when a Bank loan of $25 million enabled work to begin on the new Atlantic Railroad from central Colombia to the Caribbean. At that time, all freight and passengers traveling the 500 miles between the Atlantic and central Colombia had to make a journey lasting a number of days by boat and barge on the Magdalena River.
The new Atlantic Railroad was opened for traffic in 1961 after nine years of very difficult construction operations, the cost of which was assisted by a second Bank loan of $15.9 million. The new Railroad has reduced the journey from
the principal cities of Colombia to the Caribbean to less than 24 hours; it interconnects at various points along its length with the older regional railroads, thus providing the main stem of an integrated national railroad system; it has also led to the settlement and cultivation of large new areas of previously inaccessible land. In 1960 the Bank made a third loan, of $5.4 million, to provide an essential minimum of new equipment for the Atlantic Railroad.
The new loan will enable CNR to meet its two most pressing needs. The first is to buy 37 diesel locomotives and 1,150 new freight cars, with other components and spare parts, to meet the immediate demand for its services. The second is to begin the rehabilitation of the regional railroads, now part of the CNR system. Bank loan funds will make possible the renewal of about 130 miles of track in the next two years. Provision is also being made for the training abroad of selected railroad personnel and the services of consultants to assist CNR in setting up diesel workshops. These improvements are scheduled for the first two years of a ten-year railway improvement program drawn up with the help of experts sent to Colombia by the Bank. participations • The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; Grace National Bank of New York; First National City Bank, New York; The Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company; First Western Bank and Trust Company, Los Angeles; Bank of America, San
Francisco; Southern Arizona Bank and Trust Company, Tucson; Crocker-Anglo National Bank, San Francisco; The Royal Bank of Canada, New York Agency; The First Wisconsin National Bank of Milwaukee; and The Philadelphia National Bank participated in the loan for a total of $790,000.
industrial loan
$30 million 15-year 5j^% loan of June 28, 1963 borrower • Acerias Paz del Rio, S.A.
The Paz del Rio steel mill, the only integrated steel plant in Colombia, started operations in 1955 and in 1962 produced 126,000 tons of finished items, including heavy structural, rails, merchant products and wire. This loan, by helping to finance several new facilities, will enable the Company to raise output to 220,000 tons by 1968, to vary its production, to improve quality and to reduce unit costs. From the point of view of Colombia, these additions when fully effective will make possible import savings of about $10 million a year by meeting from local production about 55% of Colombia's steel needs.
Acerias Paz del Rio, organized in 1947 as a quasi-governmental concern is now a private corporation with 80% of its capital owned by private shareholders. Arrangements have been made whereby the balance of shares, now held by the Central Bank, will be transferred to the private sector over the next few years.
1'he Company has retained the services of consulting engineers to supervise the procurement and installation of most of the new facilities, which include a blooming and slabbing mill, a 48-inch steckel mill, a sinter plant, ingot soaking pits, an oxygen plant with auxiliary facilities, and heavy mobile and other equipment for mill operations.
participations • Bank of America, San Francisco; Bank of Montreal, New York Agency; Grace National Bank of New York; and J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation, New York, participated in the loan for a total of $325,000.
other activities • The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund study of the possibilities of increased exploitation of the coal deposits of the Cauca Valley. The study, which is being carried out by consultants, should be completed by the end of 1963.
A resident Bank mission has been established in Colombia to advise the Government on the development program and to help in the coordination of external financial assistance. The mission is headed by a member of the Development Advisory Service. Another member of the same Service has been posted to Cali to act as an industrial consultant to the Autonomous Regional Corporation of Cauca, which is responsible for promotion of the development of the Upper Cauca Valley.
COSTA RICA
The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a UN Special Fund study of port and railway facilities in the central part of the country.
ECUADOR
The Bank has agreed to finance the foreign exchange costs of engaging consultants to assist the Institute of Electrification in laying the basis for the preparation of a national electrification plan for Ecuador. Working with the Institute's staff, the consultants will review the Charter of the Institute and recommend any revisions needed for its effective operation; will prepare a program for gathering the data, needed for a survey of hydroelectric resources; will establish priorities for feasibility studies for power projects and the extension of transmission lines; and will assist the Institute in selecting and training new personnel, both local and foreign.
The Bank is also financing the foreign exchange costs of a study which will help the Government of Ecuador to formulate a long-range program of investment for the improvement of transportation throughout the country. The consultants will recommend an 11-year program of investment in trunk and feeder roads, ports, inland waterways, coastal shipping and air transportation; prepare a preliminary feasibility report on the Government's proposal to construct additional pipeline facilities from the
coast to the Sierra; review the operations and financial status of the railways; and will make recommendations concerning its future operations. They will also review the desirability of a bridge over the Guayas River near Guayaquil, and will appraise the existing studies of this project.
EL SALVADOR/POWER LOAN
$6 million 20-year 5l/2% loan of June 19, 1963 borrower • Comision Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa (CEL)
Bank lending to El Salvador began in 1949 with a loan of $12.5 million to help to finance the "5th of November" power plant at Guayabo on the Lempa. River. This 30,000-kilowatt hydroelectric plant, the first of its kind in the country, trebled the public supply of electricity in El Salvador and laid the foundation for a good deal of industrial development which has since taken place. The capacity of the plant has since been increased to 60,000 kilowatts by the addition of two generating units, one of them financed by the Bank. This new loan will add yet another generator, of 18,000 kilowatts, which will utilize to the full the potential of the plant at Guayabo. The loan will also be used for the construction of a 25,000-kilowatt thermoelectric plant at the port city of Acajutla on the Pacific, and a transmission line to connect it with the main transmission network of CEL. These two additions to
power capacity will enable CEL to keep pace with demand, which is rising rapidly in El Salvador as a result of industrial developments which have been spurred in recent years by Central American economic integration. participations • Grace National Bank of New York; First National City Bank, New York; The Marine Midland Trust Company of New York; Bank of America, San Francisco; Maryland National Bank, Baltimore; and Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, participated in the loan for a total of $395,000.
IDA CREDIT
The International Development Association extended the following credit to El Salvador: Highway Improvement
November 2, 1962   .... $8,000,000
HAITl/lDA CREDIT
The International Development Association extended the following credit to Haiti: Highway Maintenance
November 2, 1962   .    .    .    . $350,000
MEXICO/lRRIOATION LOAN
$12.5 million 20-year 5V2% loan of April 29, 1963 borrower • Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Recent years have witnessed a large expansion of Mexican agricultural production, which now
amounts to about one-fifth of the gross national product and accounts for half its exports. Much of the increase has been made possible by an expansion of irrigation farming; more than a quarter of the total cultivated land of 42 million acres is now under irrigation. The Government is engaged in a program to complete and rehabilitate several large irrigation districts where inadequate drainage has led to rising water tables with consequent deterioration of soils. This loan will help to finance the completion and rehabilitation of three irrigation systems serving 820,000 acres. Two of the systems, Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio San Juan, are just south of the Mexican-United States border in the northeast, and the third, Ciudad Delicias, some 600 miles to the west in northcentral Mexico. When the three districts involved are fully rehabilitated, the annual net income from crop production is expected to increase by the equivalent of $10 million.
An earlier Bank loan of $15 million assisted the first stage of the program, to improve irrigation in four districts covering 1,430,000 acres on the northwest coast.
High in the mountains of Colombia, a dam
traps the water of the Guadalupe River to generate power for the industries of Medellin. The Bank has lent $34 million for the project.
Nicaragua/irrigation loan
$2.6 million 25-year 5i4% loan of March 1, 1963
borrower • Nicaragua
This loan will assist Nicaragua's first large-scale irrigation project. Known as the Rivas Irrigation Scheme, the project will bring water to 22,000 acres of land in the western region, between Lake Nicaragua and the Inter-American Highway. It is believed that eventually about 175,000 acres can be improved by large-scale irrigation schemes, thus overcoming the aridity of the Pacific coastal zone which, given proper conditions, can produce diversified food crops to compensate for the decline in prices for Nicaragua's traditional exports, coffee and cotton. In addition to increasing domestic food supplies, increased food crops could add appreciably to Nicaragua's foreign exchange earnings from agricultural exports.
The main works of the Rivas Irrigation Scheme include a canal from Lake Nicaragua, two pumping stations and reservoirs and 54 miles of distribution canals and laterals, together with distribution systems. Associated works include a 41-mile transmission line to bring electric power from Granada into the project area, the improvement of access roads, and the establishment of an experimental and demonstration farm.
participation • Irving Trust Company, New York, participated in the loan for a total of $135,000.
ida credit
The International Development Association extended the following credit to Nicaragua: Managua Water Supplies
September 7, 1962   .... $3,000,000
panama/power loan
$4 million 25-year 5}^% loan of September 14, 1962 borrower • Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion (IRHE)
This loan will be used to expand electric power facilities in the central provinces of Panama—Code, Veraguas, Herrera and Los Santos. The Government is making continuous efforts to stimulate new economic activity in this agricultural region, which contains about a third of the country's population, and plans during 1962-67 to invest the equivalent of about $48 million there, principally for the construction of roads, schools, hospitals, water and sanitary works. The total cost of the power project is estimated at $7.6 million.
The power project includes the construction of the Yeguada hydroelectric plant with an initial installed capacity of 4,000 kilowatts, and the installation of several diesel power units with a total capacity of about 2,000 kilowatts. An integrated transmission system of about 63 miles of high voltage lines will be built to feed new substations and distribution systems in the five major towns of the central provinces. The existing
transmission lines and small diesel generating units will be rehabilitated.
participations • The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia, participated in the loan for a total of $110,000.
peru/railway loan
$13.25 million 16-year 5J^% loan of March 13, 1963 borrower • The Peruvian Corporation Limited
The loan will assist the modernization of the two principal railway systems in Peru—the Central and Southern Railways. By using diesel locomotives and improving the track, heavier loads will be pulled at higher speeds, thereby enabling the railways to reduce transportation costs and provide more efficient service.
The Central Railway links the capital, Lima, and its port of Callao with the Sierra. Its most important traffic is carrying refined metals, ores and concentrates from the Sierra to Callao for export and bringing back supplies to the mining companies. About half of Peru's earnings from foreign trade are derived from exports of minerals, to a large extent carried by the Central. The Southern Railway links the populated southern highlands, including two of Peru's chief cities, Arequipa and Cuzco, with the ports of Mollendo and Matarani. The Southern is also
important to land-locked Bolivia as a transport artery between La Paz and the Pacific ports. participations • The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York; and The Royal Bank of Canada, New York Agency, participated in the loan for a total of $497,000.
uruguay/iiighway loan
$18.5 million 15-year 5J^% loan of October 26, 1962 borrower • Uruguay
This loan will be used to rebuild to all-weather standards the main north-south trunk highway from Montevideo, the capital and principal port of Uruguay, to Rivera on the Brazilian border, about 320 miles to the north. The present highway is frequently impassable during the rainy-season, and the southern section is too narrow and unsafe for the high volume of traffic. The service area of the highway comprises about a quarter of the country, and accounts for over a third of livestock and agricultural production. The road is also an important international artery for southern Brazil, for Argentina, and for other countries via the port of Montevideo.
The loan will also help to finance equipment and engineering assistance to execute the project and to enable Uruguay's highway maintenance organization to improve its methods so as to be
able to meet the requirements of the expanded highway system. Provision is also made in the loan for a highway planning study which will be helpful in preparing a long-range investment program, and in the possible reorganization of the Highway Department, including the establishment of a highway planning office. participations • Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Philadelphia; Nederlandsche Handcl-Maatschappij, N.V. (Netherlands Trading Society), New York; First Wisconsin National Bank of Milwaukee; The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia; and Grace National Bank of New York participated in the loan for a total of $365,000.