A convoy of lumber trucks traveling along a new road in Gabon. A $12 million Bank loan has helped to construct vital highways to open up new forest regions to commercial logging operations.
Part One: The Year's Activities
The economic prospects of a number of developing countries1 have improved in some important respects during the past year, notably in regard to agriculture. As discussed in Part Two of this Report, the steps taken in recent years to raise agricultural output have produced significant results in several countries. The higher yields of food grains achieved in the populous region of Asia by the use of better seed varieties in conjunction with fertilizer and other necessary inputs, and assisted by good weather, have been particularly encouraging. A greater willingness has become evident in the developing countries, on the part of governments and farmers alike, to adopt the measures and techniques necessary to sustain the improvement in agricultural production.
Several countries have also been working on the development of more effective family planning programs, recognizing a need to reduce the heavy burden on their resources of the continuing rapid growth in their populations. Despite the improvement in agriculture, the relationship of food supplies to population remains a matter of grave concern. Current efforts by the developing countries in both these matters need to be broadened and intensified if the possibility of serious food shortages is to be removed, and the way opened for faster economic development.
The developing countries have continued to make progress during the
1For the classification of countries used in this Report, see Note, page 31.
past year in improving power supplies, transportation and other essential infrastructure facilities. Further steps have been taken by some countries in respect to the exploitation of available mineral resources.
The foreign exchange earnings of developing countries were adversely affected in 1967 by a slowdown in the growth of the world economy. Apart from this cyclical factor, many countries in the developing world have continued to be faced with more basic difficulties arising from their heavy dependence on the export of a small number of primary commodities, prices of which have been unstable and often declining. As this Report is written, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank), in association with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), is actively engaged in the preparation of a study of the problem of the stabilization of prices of primary products for submission to the Boards of Governors, in response to resolutions adopted at the 1967 Annual Meetings in Rio de Janeiro.
Endeavors by developing countries to increase their foreign exchange earnings have again been hampered by tariffs and other limitations on imports in developed countries. At the second session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), in New Delhi during February and March 1968, there was unanimous agreement in favor of the early establishment of a mutually acceptable system of generalized, non-reciprocal and non-discriminatory preferences to
increase developing countries' exports, promote their industrialization and accelerate their economic growth, and machinery for formulating such a system was established. The granting of trade preferences to the developing countries would be a substantial help to the development process.
The flow of official development assistance from the developed to developing countries increased in 1967, owing at least in part to disbursements under aid commitments made in earlier years. The aid programs of several of the smaller countries which are donors of development assistance were expanded during the year, but some o.f the major donors were preoccupied with their own economic problems and, according to preliminary information, new commitments of assistance by the developed countries as a whole remained at about the same level as in previous years.
To provide the necessary groundwork for a reassessment of their development efforts by both donors and recipients of development assistance, the President of the World Bank Group recommended in November 1967 that a "Grand Assize" might be undertaken to assess the results of the last 20 years of development activity, to identify the accomplishments and errors and to suggest policies which might be more effective in future. Discussions which may lead to a study of this kind are continuing. Any such study would be fully coordinated with the work of the United Nations on the Second Development Decade.
The fiscal year ended June 30, 1968, witnessed a contraction from $1,130.3 million2 to $953.5 million in the amount of finance provided for economic development by the World Bank and its affiliate, the International Development Association (IDA). The decline was caused entirely by the approaching exhaustion of the resources of IDA, which lends on concessionary terms and is mainly dependent on contributions from developed member governments for its funds.
Discussions begun during the previous fiscal year for a second general replenishment of IDA's resources were completed in March 1968. In that month a proposal for replenishing the Association's funds was submitted by the Executive Directors to member governments for approval. The target date for the second replenishment to become effective was originally fixed at June 30, 1968. It was subsequently extended to September 30 (see pages 25-26).
With the meager resources left at its disposal, IDA was able to make commitments to provide only a small volume of finance during the past year. Including credits which were brought to the stage of being ready for presentation to the Executive Directors for their consideration but for which approval had to be deferred until new replenishment funds become available, IDA credits negotiated in 1967/68 totaled $276 million. The actual amount of credits which could be committed during the period, however, totaled only $106.6 million to 14 countries, compared with $353.5 million to 13 countries in 1966/67.
The World Bank lent a total of $847.0 million to assist development in 31 countries, compared with $776.82 million in 33 countries during the previous
fiscal year. The strong competing demands on the world's capital markets again made it difficult and more costly for the Bank to raise funds. Because of the higher cost of borrowing, the Bank's lending rate was raised from 6% to 61/4% in January 1968. It was increased further to 61/2% in early August.
The Bank's President has been engaged in recent months in formulating a Five-Year Program for the Bank's operations. While this Program has not yet reached the stage where it is ready for consideration by the Executive Directors, the President has reported that preliminary work indicates that, without
2Excluding a line of credit of S100 million extended by the Bank to the International Finance Corporation in October 1966.
any departure from its existing sound policies, the Bank's lending could and should be increased during the years ahead.
The need to make the most effective possible use of the resources available for development has been constantly stressed by the Bank over the years and is its guiding principle in its relationship with borrowing countries. The performance by a country in the promotion of its economic development is an important criterion for financial assistance from the Bank or IDA. The Bank for its part tries to help borrowing countries to improve their economic management. It has stepped up its economic studies and technical assistance activities during the past few years with this purpose in view.
The Bank has attempted to increase the effectiveness of the global development effort by establishing close working relationships with other multilateral donors of assistance, including the regional development banks and other agencies in the United Nations family, particularly the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization (Unesco), and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The fostering of coordination among donors of aid to particular recipient countries, and also to specific projects, has been another important element of the Bank's work.
Pattern of Lending
Details of Bank and IDA commitments during the past year are given on pages 6, 8 and 9. As the tables show, the loans and credits extended by the two institutions have again been widely spread throughout all regions of the developing world. The year's lending was marked by a
sharp increase in finance provided for development projects in the agricultural sector, to which nearly one-fifth of the Bank and IDA's lending was directed. The need to expand and improve education facilities in the developing countries again received close attention, though the number of education projects which became ready for financing was smaller than in 1966/67. While the Bank's efforts to assist agriculture and education have been intensified in recent years, a substantial part of the two institutions' financing has continued to be concentrated on improving basic services. Lending for the development of power, railways and roads again figured prominently in the past year's operations.
Most of the assistance provided by the Bank to industry in 1967/68 was channeled through development finance companies. The International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Bank's affiliate concerned with helping to promote the growth of the private sector of the developing countries, is responsible
for the appraisal and supervision of projects financed in the industrial field. Its operations are described in its own Annual Report.
ICSID
The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID), which is now in its second year, has continued to attract interest from actual and potential investors. New investment agreements between governments and foreign investors have entered into force or are under negotiation which provide for disputes between the parties to be submitted to the Centre. Details of the Centre's affairs are contained in its Annual Report.
The Presidency
Mr. George D. Woods was succeeded by Mr. Robert S. McNamara as President of the World Bank, IDA and IFC on April 1, 1968.
During the five years under Mr. Woods' leadership both the volume and
range of the World Bank Group's activities expanded considerably. Increasing emphasis was given to agriculture and education, and intensive efforts were made to foster coordination among donors of development assistance through the formation of consultative groups and other coordinating mechanisms. In this period, too, the Bank greatly expanded its economic studies, both in support of its operations and on broader issues of economic development. Technical assistance provided to member governments was increased. These and other developments during Mr. Woods' tenure of office are reflected in this Report.
The World Bank and IDA extend finance to member countries for productive projects which the Bank's studies have indicated are viable and will make an important contribution to the borrowing countries' economic development. Neither institution will finance a project unless it is satisfied, after detailed investigation, that the project meets these criteria.
To provide the general framework within which financing activities are conducted, the Bank seeks to acquire a comprehensive picture of the position and prospects of borrowing countries' economies and their development requirements. This makes it possible to identify sectors and areas of high potential and provides guidelines to the types of projects which should be given early attention. It also enables judgments to be formed about a country's economic policies and other questions relevant to its economic growth and to its eligibility for Bank or IDA financing.
The Bank's economic analysis is a continuous process, based on work at Head Office, visits to borrowing coun-
tries to gain firsthand knowledge of their economies, and frequent contacts with government and other officials. By giving continuous attention to the economic situation of developing member countries in this way, the Bank hopes to help them make more effective use of the resources at their disposal and so accelerate their rate of progress.
Among the principal matters with which the Bank assists member countries are the formulation of development policies, the establishment of development organizations, the drawing up of investment programs for specific sectors and regions, and the identification
and preparation of projects for financing. Assistance with these and other questions is often given by the Bank in the normal course of its operations, on other occasions through its formal technical assistance activities.
Public Services
An improvement in basic services, notably power and transportation, has been a primary requisite for faster economic growth throughout the developing world, and it has been to this important task that the Bank has devoted much of its attention since it began to
assist economic development in 1948. At that time, the inadequacy of basic services was the chief physical barrier to increasing production in the developing countries. Since then, considerable progress has been made in reducing this obstacle to development. The Bank and IDA have contributed to the headway by providing substantial technical assistance as well as much of the required foreign exchange.
During the past fiscal year the two institutions lent a further $268.5 million for power development. The total included the first assistance provided by the Bank or IDA to the power sector in
the Sudan and Tanzania. It is probable that in the coming years the first power loans or credits will be made to several other countries, notably among the newer members in Africa. Elsewhere in the developing world, however, most of the finance now being extended for power development is for the further expansion of systems which have already been assisted by the two institutions. This has been notably the case in Latin America, where $214.3 million was lent for power development in seven countries during 1967/68 (see map, page 10). Frequently, too, the power authorities receiving finance are
entities which the Bank helped, under earlier loan operations, to set up or substantially reorganize.
The ability of a number of the Bank's power borrowers to plan future expansion programs and to prepare and carry out sound projects has increased considerably over the years. In addition, some are now able to obtain at least part of the capital for their further development from other sources, for example by making bond issues on capital markets or through joint-financing arrangements of the kind agreed during the past year for power projects in Colombia and Mexico (see page 20). Thus, the dependence of these authorities on the Bank both for financial and technical assistance is tending to decline.
In the case of water supply, sewerage and drainage, on the other hand, where the Bank's participation is of more recent origin, a considerable amount of assistance with project preparation is frequently required by borrowers. At times also they need help to reorganize or establish agencies competent to carry out and operate the projects, which are apt to require intensive supervision after loans are made. In this sector, the World Health Organization (WHO) has been giving valuable help to member governments in identifying and preparing projects for consideration by the Bank, IDA or other financing agencies. The Bank made loans totaling $22 million for two water supply projects during 1967/68. A number of other projects are now being processed and operations in this sector are expected to expand in the coming years.
Loans and credits totaling $247.3 million were approved during the past year for transportation projects, of which $118.8 million was for roads and $128.5 million for railways. Support has again been provided for substantial construe-
tion programs, such as the building of the last major link in the Yugoslav railway network, a 300-mile section from Belgrade to Bar on the southern Adriatic coast.
The pattern of assistance to the transport sector, however, is tending to shift away from projects of this scale. In a number of developing countries, a reasonably adequate national network of primary transport links has now been constructed. The most pressing current need in many countries is for tertiary or feeder roads, in particular to connect agricultural districts with the main highways or rail lines. This requirement has been reflected in lending during the past year. A loan of $27.5 million to Mexico, for example, included finance for 550 miles of tertiary roads as well as for 800 miles of major highways. The construction or improvement of around 7,000 miles of roads in Mexico has now been assisted by Bank financing.
An encouraging feature of the past' year's operations in the transport sector has been the growing number of projects coming forward for financing in Africa, where assistance with project identification and preparation is being provided by the Bank's two Permanent Missions established on that Continent in 1964.
Another method extensively employed by the Bank to help countries identify and prepare projects for financing is by organizing and directing sector and feasibility studies. Over the years the bulk of these studies, which are discussed in more detail in the section on Technical Assistance, have been concerned with transport development, and this was again the case in 1967/68. The new pre-investment studies initiated during the year, with finance provided by the Bank or the UNDP, are listed on page 16. Of the 42 studies under way or authorized at June 30, 1968, no less than 36 were directly con-
cerned with transport development of one kind or another. As an indication of their range, they included a study of the East Pakistan river ports and waterways, the engineering of the Owendo-Belinga railway in Gabon, and the second phase of a major transport survey in Brazil.
The technique has also been used of providing engineering credits to help finance project preparation, especially
the detailed engineering of road projects. One such credit was extende'd during the past year, to Cameroon, and two more are being considered; a credit is also under consideration for the detailed engineering of a port project. To an increasing extent, too, provision is being made in project financing for feasibility studies and the detailed engineering of future road development. A $5.8 million loan to the Ivory Coast in
To June 30,1968, the Bank and IDA had lent a total of $3,948.6 million for power development, of which $1,846.4 million had been extended to developing countries in the Western Hemisphere to assist the addition of about 15,000 megawatts to their electric generating capacity, together with transmission and distribution facilities.
June, for example, included funds for feasibility studies of about 430 miles of primary roads and for detailed engineering of 310 miles identified as having the highest economic priority.
In the case of railways, provision is being increasingly made in project financing for consultant services to improve operations. Improvements in the technical efficiency of railways should result from capital expenditure and revised procedures, but the most hoped-for change is the adoption by management of a more forward-looking and vigorous attitude toward the running of railways as viable commercial concerns.
Considerable emphasis is being placed by the Bank in its transport operations, especially in Africa, on staff training and other aspects of institution building. Many highway projects financed by the Bank and IDA have included provision for improving government administration and organization through the assistance of qualified advisers and the training of engineers and other technical personnel, both on the job and abroad.
At the same time, the Bank is directing attention to the need of developing countries to conserve existing investment in roads through the strengthening of maintenance activities. Experience has indicated that countries tend to neglect maintenance in favor of expenditure on new road construction, and that timely investment in road maintenance can consequently yield large economic returns. The Bank and IDA are currently financing or contemplating road maintenance projects in more than ten developing countries. These projects generally provide for improving the maintenance organization with the assistance of foreign experts, the local training of mechanics, drivers and operators, the purchase of road maintenance equipment and spare parts,
the establishment of field workshops and the improvement of cost accounting techniques.
Close attention is being given by the Bank to the possibilities of increasing the efficiency of the transportation of general cargo through the use of containers. Containers are increasingly being employed in international trade, and the Bank is ready to assist in the financing of facilities for handling them where economically justified. The staff has participated in seminars and international conferences dealing with this question during the past year. A project for the expansion of the port of Singapore, for which a loan of $15 million was approved in August 1966, has been revised to provide for specialized container berths in place of the general cargo berths originally planned.
An important need in many developing countries is for the improvement of international and internal telecommunication systems as an essential means
for promoting commerce and assisting administration. Great technical strides have been made in recent years, for example through the use of satellites for international communications. The Bank has found that on the whole capital is available from many sources for economically sound projects based on these new techniques. It has thus tended to concentrate largely on the less glamorous but vital task of helping the development of internal telecommunication systems. During the year, three loans totaling $27 million were approved for telecommunication projects aimed at expanding and improving the telecommunication services in the Republic of China, Papua and New Guinea and Singapore.
Agriculture
The Bank is making intensive efforts to increase its contribution to the development of agriculture, which is the critical
aspect on which economic growth must be based in most developing countries. While lending for large-scale irrigation and flood control projects has remained an important part of operations in this sector, financing activities by the Bank and IDA have been widened to include projects covering a broad range of agricultural requirements, and additional ways to assist farmers are being constantly sought. Many of the projects now being supported are innovations for the two institutions intended to set the pattern for agricultural improvements on a much wider scale in the future.
The efforts to promote agricultural development have required considerable emphasis on technical assistance, both to help borrowers identify and prepare projects for the Bank or IDA's consideration and to ensure that loans and credits, once approved, are used effectively. A number of lending operations have included provision for initial technical services and the employment of necessary consultants. They have also made provision in some instances for the conduct of adaptive research.
A broad indication of the extent to which the Bank has intensified its activities to assist agricultural development is given by the lending statistics. To June 30, 1962, a total of $583.2 million had been lent specifically by the Bank and IDA for agricultural projects. By June 30, 1968, the figure was $1,252.8 million. Thus, during the past six years, the two institutions have lent more money for agriculture than in the previous sixteen. Again, in the fiscal year 1961/62, agricultural projects accounted for about 71/2% of the Bank and IDA's total lending to developing countries. During the past fiscal year, the proportion was 18%. In many instances, lending to other sectors has also assisted agricultural development; for example, by helping to provide farm-
to-market roads, electric power for farm equipment and trained personnel.
Despite the shortage of IDA money, a total of 13 agricultural projects involving Bank or IDA financing of $172.5 million was approved by the Executive Directors during 1967/68, compared with 12 projects involving $87 million in 1966/67. Particular attention has again been focused on the scope for raising output from existing farmland by the increased use of modern inputs, such as improved seeds, fertilizer and plant protection materials, and by improvements to equipment, fencing, pasture, breeding stock, tube wells and other capital facilities.
The Bank is acutely aware of the impact which the new cereal varieties are capable of having on agricultural output when used in conjunction with fertilizer, water and other necessary inputs. In Asia, for example, the Bank has over the past few years financed irrigation projects in Malaysia and Thailand, and has provided agricultural credit for the supply of small irrigation equipment in
Pakistan and the Philippines, which will facilitate the cultivation of the new high-yielding varieties of rice. In India, the Bank Group through IFC is assisting the construction of a large new fertilizer plant. In the same general market area, it is in the final stages of appraising a project for the bulk production of certified quality seeds of the new high-yielding varieties of rice, wheat and other crops.
In support of the Bank's aim of raising agricultural productivity through improved inputs, IFC has continued during the past year to investigate the possibilities of expanding fertilizer output within the developing countries themselves. Several fertilizer projects were under consideration at the end of the fiscal year.
A method extensively adopted by the Bank to help raise agricultural production has been to channel finance to farmers through credit institutions with the managerial and technical competence, and the autonomy, to act as satisfactory intermediaries. The Bank has
so far worked with institutions of this kind in 18 countries: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guyana, Jordan, Kenya, Morocco, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Tanzania and Uruguay. In several instances, these institutions were established or have been strengthened with the Bank's assistance, and the Bank foresees that helping to build up such organizations, so that they can be used as effective vehicles for a continuing flow of finance to the agricultural sector, will continue to be an important part of its work.
During 1967/68, the Bank made its largest agricultural credit loan to date when it extended $40 miljion to Brazil for a project to increase beef, mutton and wool output over an area of some 11/4 million acres. The project in many respects follows a similar pattern to that which has been used, and has proved successful, for livestock schemes supported by the Bank in other Latin American countries. Finance was also approved during the year for a livestock development program in Argentina.
The comprehensive nature of the Bank's approach to agricultural development is illustrated by its support, with IDA credits totaling $9.7 million, of two crop improvement schemes in Malawi. The projects involve the implementation of a wide range of measures to increase productivity on some 300,000 acres of crop land. Extension services are being expanded, soil conservation methods introduced, access roads and water supplies improved, and marketing and storage facilities provided. In addition, credit is to be extended to farmers for the purchase of seeds, fertilizers and simple equipment.
In Malaysia, a $14 million Bank loan is helping to finance the first part of an integrated program for the settlement of some of the country's unexploited land resources. This stage of the pro-
gram consists of the clearing of about 33,000 acres of tropical forest, the planting of nearly 28,000 acres of oil palms, and the settlement of some 2,800 rural families, the majority of whom are now landless. In Iran, where a Bank loan of $22 million is helping to support the first stage of a long-term project to develop the water resources and agriculture of the Ghazvin Plain, about one-third of the financing will be used to meet the cost of agricultural supply and marketing services, the training of Iranian personnel and other technical requirements.
A serious difficulty which continues to confront the Bank in its agricultural activities is that of finding satisfactory management for projects which it or IDA is proposing to finance. In Africa, the Bank's Agricultural Development Service, based in Nairobi, is helping to overcome this problem by making managers available to governments for agricultural projects on a reimbursable basis. Elsewhere, notably in the Western Hemisphere, the Bank has employed on contract a number of technical managers who have been seconded to governments to help operate projects.
Among the other complex problems standing in the way of more rapid progress in the agricultural sector, the lack of adequately studied, economically promising projects ready for financing has been particularly serious. In recognition of this fact, the Bank has taken a numberof steps to help member governments to ease this critical bottleneck. A principal move has been to enlist the assistance of FAO to work with governments to identify and prepare projects with a view to their eventual submission for Bank or IDA financing. Under its cooperative program with the Bank, FAO sent 56 missions to the developing countries during 1967/68. It also participated in 41 of the 143 missions organized by the Bank in connec-
tion with its assistance to agricultural development. In Africa, where many of the newly independent nations are in special need of help with project identification and preparation, member governments are being assisted by the Bank's two Permanent Missions stationed in Abidjan and Nairobi.
Reflecting the result of these various arrangements, the number of well-prepared, high-priority projects coming forward for consideration, particularly from African members, has increased considerably. Indeed, a queue of sound projects waiting to be financed has been building up. At the end of June 1968, 22 agricultural projects were in an advanced stage of appraisal or negotiation, and 55 others were in earlier stages of processing.
Education
The Bank and IDA have now lent a total of $162 million for the expansion and improvement of education facilities in 19 countries, and it is intended to increase assistance to this sector still further over the next few years. The Bank recognizes that, even with more funds at their command, the two institutions would only be able to provide a small proportion of the substantial outlay required on education in the developing countries. Attention will therefore continue to be directed to those parts of developing countries' education systems where investment appears to be most needed to help provide the skilled manpower essential for more rapid economic progress. In the Bank's opinion, these critical areas are technical and vocational training, secondary education and teacher training at all levels.
At the same time, the Bank is keenly aware that major changes in the techniques and structure of education must be made urgently if developing countries' manpower requirements are to be
met without absorbing a disproportionate amount of their resources. During the past few years, spending on education has been rising rapidly in almost all countries, in many instances at an annual rate of around 10%. Increasing financial constraints will entail careful assessment of priorities. The Bank therefore encourages proposals by governments for changes which will relate education systems more fully to development needs, and which will bring about greater productivity and cost effectiveness in these systems. By fostering innovation and modernization, the Bank believes it can have a major influence in stimulating advances in education, even though it and IDA may be able to provide only a relatively small volume of finance themselves.
Secondary schooling, for example, remains a serious bottleneck in many countries. In many cases, relatively more emphasis should be placed in curricula on the teaching of practical skills and less on purely academic subjects and preparation for university entrance. Education systems should take account of manpower requirements and employment opportunities, whether these are in the modern or traditional sectors, in urban or rural areas, in highly specialized occupations or in simpler skills. There is often a corresponding need to shift capital expenditure on education toward the construction of laboratories, workshops and other facilities for technical and pre-vocational training. Existing facilities and staff resources could also be used more effectively.
A good deal could be done outside systems of formal education to help close the manpower gap, and particularly to upgrade the skills and increase the productivity of the labor force. Adult education, in accordance with demonstrated needs and with the active participation of employers, and short
courses for insufficiently qualified employees should be encouraged. Much greater emphasis on agricultural education and training, at adult level and earlier, is also necessary.
In addition to changes in the structure of education, there is a pressing need for innovations in teaching techniques. In most developing countries, education is still provided on a "handicraft" basis. New technology offers the possibility for the first time of changing this situation. Audio-visual electronic teaching aids, properly integrated into the education system, could bring about a revolution in the spread of knowledge before the end of this century. Educational television, programmed learning and team teaching are examples of promising new techniques to which the Bank is giving increasing attention.
In its education activities during the past year, the Bank has continued to benefit from its cooperative arrangements with Unesco. Its arrangement with FAO has also been beneficial in the area of agricultural education. During 1967/68, 63 missions were sent to member countries in connection with Bank or IDA financing of education projects; Unesco organized or participated in 22 missions, while FAO cooperated in eight joint missions concerned with agricultural training.
Finance was provided during the year for education projects in Ecuador, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, Nicaragua and the Sudan; several further projects are in various stages of appraisal. In each instance, the projects are designed to meet the countries' pressing manpower needs as economically as possible. The project in the Malagasy Republic, for example, involves the relocation and expansion of three secondary technical institutes and two teacher-training institutes in Tananarive, the capital. The concentration of the five schools on one site will
A telecommunications technician checking the wiring at a new telephone exchange in San Salvador, El Salvador. During the past year Bank loans for the development of telecommunications have been made to the Republic of China, Papua and New Guinea, and Singapore.
make possible the sharing of various communal facilities.
Under the project being assisted by the Bank in Nicaragua, nine new general secondary schools will be built and seven will be expanded.These, together with two more secondary schools, will be furnished and equipped. All the schools will be provided with laboratories and special rooms for industrial arts, office training and home economics, permitting the application of revised curricula which include subjects that have not been taught heretofore and are directly related to the requirements of the labor market. In addition, two new primary teacher-training schools will be built and equipped and a third will be expanded and equipped. The training of primary school teachers will be concentrated in four schools instead of 14 as at present and will be extended from two to three years. The new curricula will follow modern educational practices.
In the Sudan, IDA is financing more than half the cost of a project to train more agricultural technicians, upgrade teaching standards in intermediate and secondary schools, and reorientate secondary school education toward scientific and commercial training more suited to the country's development requirements. The project includes the construction and equipping of two new agricultural institutes and a new intermediate teacher-training college, an expansion of the Higher Teacher Training institute for secondary school teachers, and the provision of facilities required for the introduction of specialized commercial and science courses at 13 secondary schools.
Industry
Of the total of $191.5 million extended by the Bank for industry during the fis-
cal year 1967/68, $159 million was accounted for by loans to 14 private development finance companies, in Ceylon, China, Colombia, Greece, India, Iran, Israel, Korea, Pakistan and Tunisia. The loan to the Korea Development Finance Corporation was accompanied by an investment by IFC as well as by finance from other sources. All except the Ceylon and Korean companies had received financial assistance from the Bank Group previously and the Group's relationship with them stretches back for several years.
Development finance companies — known also as development banks or development corporations—can play a particularly valuable part in stimulating the growth of private enterprises in developing countries. These institutions are designed to provide medium and long-term loans and equity capital for industrial and other private productive ventures, to underwrite issues of securities by such enterprises, to promote new companies and to assist entrepreneurs in preparing investment proposals. They can also act as channels for foreign capital and technology, in particular by bringing together foreign and local investors in joint ventures. By mobilizing domestic savings and channeling them into productive enterprises, they can become an important element in helping to develop a country's capital market.
By the end of the fiscal year 1967/68 the Bank Group had provided financial assistance to 27 development finance companies in 23 countries. Of the total of $731.8 million provided, $664.7 million represented World Bank loans, $39.7 million was in the form of IDA credits, and S27.4 million was in IFC investments and underwriting commitments. IFC is responsible for assessing and supervising development finance companies on behalf of the entire Bank Group, regardless of which insti-
tution provides the finance. The Corporation has helped to expand and reorganize existing companies and to establish new ones. It has brought in private investors and has provided a wide range of technical assistance, including help in drafting statutes, preparing policy statements, finding experienced management, training staff and developing procedures for project analysis.
In addition to continuing its support of industry through development finance companies, the Bank lent $32.5 million during the past year to assist specific manufacturing enterprises in Brazil and Yugoslavia. In Brazil, a loan of $22 million is helping to finance the construction of mining, refining and smelting facilities for aluminum production. Power for the project will come from the Rio Grande hydroelectric system, which was also established with assistance from the Bank. The $10.5 million loan to Yugoslavia is providing the greater part of the foreign exchange required for the modernization of seven enterprises in various industrial sectors.
One field of activity which has been assisted by development finance companies is tourism. IFC also has entered this field through an investment in Kenya, and some Bank and IDA projects have helped the tourist trade indirectly, for example by providing better roads. The Bank, however, is aware that the successful development of tourism, for which many developing countries possess the attractions of antiquity, climate and geography, requires a considerable amount of planning and expenditure by governments or subdivisions of government, including in some cases substantial spending on infrastructure facilities. The Bank
has decided to become more active in the tourist field and a special section has been set up to study needs and opportunities and to help prepare and appraise specific projects.
As already indicated, the Bank has continued to provide a substantial amount of technical assistance to member countries as an integral part of its financing activities. Indeed, this aspect of its work has become more pronounced in recent years. The rise in the Bank's membership among the new states of Africa, its intensified efforts to accelerate progress in agriculture, and the organization of substantial special technical assistance programs for West Pakistan, East Pakistan and Indonesia have all contributed to this trend.
The main emphasis of the Bank's technical assistance activities remains on assisting governments in the identification and preparation of projects. This is the chief preoccupation of the Bank's two Permanent Missions in Eastern and Western Africa. It is also the main purpose of the Bank's Cooperative Agreements with FAO and Unesco. Reference has been made earlier in this Report to the increased flow of sound projects now resulting from these arrangements.
An approach being increasingly employed in the developing countries to identify and prepare projects for financing is to undertake an analysis of a particular sector of an economy with a view to.preparing a coordinated investment program for that sector and to selecting priority projects within it. When this has been done, feasibility studies are undertaken to determine whether projects which have already been identified are technically feasible and economically justified. While not necessary in every case before an investment
decision can be taken, a sector study is often valuable in providing the basic information required for sound judgment regarding a proposed project. In many instances, a sector study greatly facilitates the evaluation of a project in relation to alternative ways of achieving the same objective. It can also help in assessing the project as part of the systematic long-term development of the sector in question. Although the studies vary considerably in complexity, duration and cost, each requires careful preparation and close supervision.
An example of the benefits to be derived from sector studies is provided by the study of the water and power resources of West Pakistan which was completed during the year. This study, to which reference is also made in the later section on the Indus Basin Development Program, provides a detailed plan, including the recommendation of specific projects, for the coordinated development of the water and power resources of West Pakistan over a ten-year period. It also suggests steps for further development of these sectors for a second decade and discusses prospects through the remainder of this century. The study was the result
of four years' intensive work and is the most comprehensive single technical assistance operation organized by the Bank to date. Because of its contribution to methodology and the desirability of giving wide circulation in Pakistan to its analysis and conclusions, a condensed version of this study is to be published by The Johns Hopkins Press on behalf of the Bank.
The Bank has undertaken responsibility for a somewhat different form of technical assistance at the request of the Government of East Pakistan in connection with its agriculture and water resource problems. The objective of this program is to assist the Government to determine priorities, review development measures, and identify, prepare and implement projects to improve the utilization of East Pakistan's water resources for agriculture and other purposes.
A country in special need of technical assistance at the present time is Indonesia, whose economic rehabilitation and development are being seriously impeded by lack of skilled personnel, particularly with experience and knowledge in sector programming and project planning and execution. As a result, the Indonesian Government
and certain bilateral donors have requested the Bank to take the lead in assisting the country to overcome these shortcomings. The Bank, as a first step, has undertaken to establish a resident team of advisers in Djakarta, first to advise the Indonesian authorities on ques-tionsof economic policy and administration, and secondly to help BAPPENAS, Indonesia's newly created planning organization, and other government agencies with the coordination and effective use of technical assistance, including studies to identify and prepare projects, the selection of consultants, the framing of their terms of reference
A
and related matters. The President of the Bank visited Indonesia in June and reached agreement with the government authorities on the establishment of the Resident Staff.
The UNDP has agreed to provide $159,000 for preliminary work on a Bank-sponsored program of transport coordination and road studies in Indonesia, ultimately expected to cost approximately $3.5 million.
The Bank has continued to encourage governments seeking finance for sector and feasibility studies to look to the UNDP as the agency of the UN specifically concerned with providing grants for studies of this kind. The Bank agreed during the year to act as Executing Agency for a further nine pre-investment studies financed by the UNDP, the majority of which are again concerned with transport development (see also pages 10-11). The finance allocated by the UNDP for these studies amounted to $5.6 million. In its role as Executing Agency, the Bank helps to draw up the "Plan of Operation" for a study, negotiates the terms of reference with the government concerned and the UNDP, selects consultants to carry on the study, supervises the work in the field and evaluates the resulting report.
To facilitate an appropriate division of functions between itself and the UNDP, the Bank in recent years has financed on a grant basis only those studies involving external financing of $200,000 or less. When larger amounts are involved the foreign exchange cost of a study may be included as part of a regular Bank loan or IDA credit; for instance, the feasibility study for a section of a highway system to be constructed in three or four years may be included in a loan or credit made to finance sections to be constructed in the current year. Studies with foreign exchange costs of $200,000 or more may also be met by an IDA technical assistance credit if UNDP financing is either not available or is inappropriate, and if the country is eligible for IDA assistance.
During the year, the Bank made a grant of $196,000 to meet the foreign exchange cost of a new pre-investment study of the Port of Tamatave in the Malagasy Republic. This and the new UNDP studies for which the Bank has undertaken to act as Executing Agency are listed on page 16. In addition, $6.2 million was included for sector and feasibility studies in ten regular Bank loans or IDA credits, four of which were for agriculture and three each for public utilities and transportation.
It is the Bank's practice not to undertake a sector or feasibility study, either with outside funds or its own, unless there is a reasonable prospect that the study will lead to financing by a member of the Bank Group or within the framework of an aid coordinating group with which the Bank is associated. By June 30, 1968, six of 16 completed UNDP studies for which the Bank had been Executing Agency had led directly to Bank loans or IDA credits totaling approximately $275 million. Of the 29 Bank-financed studies completed, 12
had thus far led to Bank or IDA financing totaling $265 million.
The Bank's advisory activities in connection with the organization of development planning continue to expand. Staff members visited Ethiopia, Indonesia, Ivory Coast, Libya, Morocco and the Sudan during the past year to give advice to governments on the establishment or adaptation of suitable organizations for formulating and implementing development programs and advising on plan administration. Advice on requirements for technical assistance in the formulation and implementation of development plans was also provided where necessary. A member of the Bank staff was seconded to advise on development planning in Ethiopia, and a planning adviser was seconded to the Government of Haiti on a short-term assignment. A staff member who had been seconded to Libya for four years as planning adviser completed his assignment in August 1967.
The Economic Development Institute (EDI), the Bank's staff college for senior government officials of the developing member countries of the Bank, was attended during the year by 140 officials from 69 countries and four international organizations. The Institute again offered six training courses: a six-month course on general development, courses of eight to twelve weeks each in English, French and Spanish on the evaluation of development projects, and specialized three-month courses in English on agricultural and industrial projects. By June 30, 1968, 885 officials from 103 countries and dependent territories had participated in courses given by the EDI since its establishment in 1956.
In addition, the Institute has given assistance to regional and national
training courses sponsored by other agencies. In June and July 1967, staff and teaching materials were provided for a six-week course in Iran in industrial project evaluation, sponsored by the Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran in association with the University of Tehran for participants from Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan and Turkey. EDI staff also conducted seminars or delivered lectures at courses at the United Nations Asian Institute for Economic Development Planning in Bangkok, at a United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) course in New York for industrial promotion officers, and at the Institute for Industrial Economics in Yugoslavia. So far, this type of assistance has been rendered on an ad hoc basis, in response to specific requests. The Institute is considering developing more formal and longer-run cooperative arrangements with a small number of overseas institutions, with a view to the possible joint sponsorship of two to three-month project courses on a regional and continuing basis.
Between 1960 and 1966, the Institute assembled and distributed small library collections in English, French and Spanish to provide basic reference and reading materials on economic development in member countries where these were not generally available. In the summer of 1967, to help keep the libraries up to date, the Institute assembled and distributed small supplements of important new books and materials. Similar supplements are being prepared for distribution early in the fiscal year 1968/69.
Ten years have passed since the Bank first attempted to encourage the coordination of development assistance from several donors to a particular re-
cipient country by organizing the India Consortium. The Bank has now taken the lead in creating 13 coordinating groups3 for countries which have requested them and whose development programs have attracted sufficient support to justify them. The most recent is the East African Consultative Group for Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and the East African Community, formed during the past year. The Bank has also been a participant in five coordinating groups4 organized under other auspices. The proportion of official development assistance for which coordinating arrangements exist has grown considerably in recent years and now amounts to about two-fifths of the total net assistance provided by the main donor countries and multilateral agencies. Twenty-two nations have been associated, either as members or observers, with one or more of the Bank-organized aid coordinating groups. The IMF, the UNDP and, where appropriate, the regional development banks and other international organizations also participate in their proceedings.
Through coordinating groups, governments and institutions in a position to provide development finance and technical assistance can consider jointly the development needs of recipient countries in a comprehensive and continuing fashion, on the basis of objective information and analysis. These groups are intended to facilitate the provision of assistance to meet the priority requirements of the recipient countries, and to make it easier to adjust the character and terms of aid to
3The term "coordinating groups" is used to describe groups consisting of governments and international financing agencies which have the common feature of addressing themselves to the problems of coordinating assistance to a particular developing country or countries but which differ considerably as to the nature and extent of involvement of the members and as to sponsorship. They include consortia, consultative groups and other groups of a somewhat less formal character.
"For Ecuador, Ghana, Greece, Indonesia and Turkey.
3The term "coordinating groups" is used to describe groups consisting of governments and international financing agencies which have the common feature of addressing themselves to the problems of coordinating assistance to a particular developing country or countries but which differ considerably as to the nature and extent of involvement of the members and as to sponsorship. They include consortia, consultative groups and other groups of a somewhat less formal character.
"For Ecuador, Ghana, Greece, Indonesia and Turkey.
the countries' special circumstances.
Another purpose of coordinating groups is to help highlight problems in recipient countries, and to encourage and assist the taking of necessary remedial action. Technical assistance in the identification and preparation of projects to which external finance can contribute has emerged as a high-priority need in most developing countries. The groups have also been concerned with the effectiveness with which local resources are being mobilized and directed to developmental purposes, the extent to which further external debt can safely be incurred, the appropriate terms for new development assistance, the role of foreign private capital in the economy, and general economic and financial policies affecting development prospects.
The Bank has maintained a flexible attitude in its approach to aid coordination, recognizing that different formats may need to be used to meet the varied and changing circumstances of the developing countries and the changing positions of the donors. The Bank has, for instance, initiated or participated in a number of informal meetings on problems of particular sectors in one country, or on specific financing or technical assistance problems of concern to only two or three donor countries or agencies.
While much of the activity involved in the coordination of development assistance takes place through or in connection with meetings of participants, effective coordination requires continuing consultation among the aid donors concerned, and between them and the recipient countries. The Bank makes every effort through its staff work undertaken for coordinating groups to make this consultation as meaningful as possible.
By far the most significant developments during the past year in the gen-
eral area of aid coordination have taken place within the framework of the India and Pakistan Consortia. Both in terms of the financial magnitudes involved and of the importance and intractability of the problems with which they are concerned, the India and Pakistan Consortia continue to be the outstanding examples of international cooperation in the field of development finance.
As Chairman of the India Consortium, and with the cooperation of the Government of India, the Bank undertook to explore the possibility of easing the situation created by the fact that in past years India had incurred large amounts of debton terms that were inappropriate to the country's economic position. Following an assessment of the problem, and of the possibilities for constructive action, by M. Guillaume Guindey, formerly Director-General of the Bank for International Settlements, as a consultant to the Bank, a rescheduling of India's debts to members of the Consortium was arranged affecting about $100 million, or 25%, of debt service
payments due during the present Indian fiscal year ending April 1969. Members of the Consortium also agreed to consider favorably a similar amount of debt relief for the following two years.
The Pakistan Consortium, in addition to continuing its review of Pakistan's economic progress, which has been particularly marked in the vital agricultural sector, provided the framework within which the successful negotiations for the financing of the huge Tarbela project in the Indus Basin were carried forward. The long experience of governments and the Bank in dealing with Pakistan's development problems through the Consortium machinery greatly facilitated the conclusion of the international agreement for establishing the Tarbela Development Fund, details of which are given on pages 21-22.
The first meeting of the Consultative Group for East Africa in April was preceded by informal meetings to discuss in detail problems of the agricultural, education and transport sectors of the three countries. A sector approach has
also been adopted by the Consultative Group for Tunisia, for which a special working party was convened to discuss problems in Tunisian agriculture before a meeting of the Group in May. In both cases, detailed studies were made by the Bank's staff of the problems of the sectors concerned.
The Consultative Group for Korea met in April. Members expressed satisfaction at the rapid growth of Korea's production and exports, which so far has exceeded the rates estimated in the Government's second Five-Year Plan (1967-71).
The Bank participated during the year in two further meetings of the Ghana Aid Group held under the auspices of the IMF to review Ghana's efforts to rehabilitate her economy and to consider her aid requirements. The Bank's present role in the activities of this Group is to help prepare the ground for development assistance to Ghana once the urgent economic problems faced by the Government have been brought under control. The progress achieved
by the Government made it possible for a $10 million IDA credit to be provided to Ghana in June for a program to extend and improve the country's power distribution system. The finance, the first provided to Ghana since a $47 million loan was made by the Bank for the Volta River hydroelectric scheme in 1962, will enable the Electricity Corporation of Ghana to make fuller use of power generated by the Volta project.
At a meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia in November sponsored by the Dutch Government, a report on the economy of Indonesia prepared by the Bank staff provided the basis for a discussion of development assistance to the country. As noted in the section on Technical Assistance (pages 16-17), the Bank has undertaken to establish a Resident Staff in Djakarta to assist the Indonesian Government in obtaining and utilizing expert help for the preparation and execution of projects, and to provide advice on general economic questions.
A fourth meeting of the group of countries interested in aid to Ceylon met in March 1968 under the chairmanship of the Bank. The group was encouraged by the continued progress made by the Ceylon Government since the last meeting in April 1967 in overcoming basic obstacles to economic growth. Because of this progress, what started in mid-1965 as an emergency operation has now been transformed into a coordinated development assistance effort. A Bank loan (for the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon) and an IDA credit (for a program to increase food production) were extended to Ceylon during the year and a number of other projects should be ready for financing in the near future, some of which are under consideration for Bank/IDA finance.
Further meetings have been held with representatives of the African De-
velopment Bank, the Economic Commission for Africa and the UNDP to consider ways of cooperating in planning pre-investment studies for power, transport and telecommunication projects affecting more than one African country. The Bank has also participated in the Advisory Committee for the Senegal River Basin under the chairmanship of the UNDP. The objective of the Committee is to bring about a better coordination of studies being carried out in the region by various UN agencies and to orient the studies toward investment possibilities.
The past year has been marked by progress in achieving effective coordination within the framework of specific projects. The chief instance of this, already mentioned in this section and described in detail later in the Report, is the agreement reached for the joint financing of the construction of the Tarbela Dam in West Pakistan. Another instance of joint financing agreed during 1967/68 was the arrangements approved in January for providing the equivalent of $27 million for a four-year highway development program in Ethiopia. Of this amount, Sweden is providing $5.8 million, in untied funds, the Bank and IDA the remainder. Sweden also joined with IDA in providing $15 million to Pakistan's Agricultural Development Bank. In Uganda, the Commonwealth Development Corporation and IDA are participating together in the financing of a program to expand tea production by African smallholders.
The Bank has for some time been seeking to combine its own loans with bilateral export credits in ways which are compatible with unrestricted international competitive bidding, thus affording the borrower economical procurement of goods and services. These efforts had productive results during
the year. In January 1968 agreement was reached with 12 countries (Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States) for the joint financing of the Mexican power expansion program for 1968/69, on the basis that the Bank would provide two-thirds and the participating countries the balance of the finance required to meet the cost of items of major equipment purchased from suppliers in their countries after international competitive bidding. It was pursuant to these arrangements that the Bank's Executive Directors approved a loan of $90 million for the Mexican power program in June.
The same governments also agreed to take part in the joint financing of three projects in Colombia, two for power and one for water supply. The formula to be applied in these instances is that the participating countries will each finance 50% of the cost of eligible major contracts placed with suppliers in their countries and the Bank will finance the remainder. The Bank has agreed to lend $32 million to Colombia in accordance with the arrangements. In promoting joint financing for these projects, the Bank is helping to discharge its responsibility as Chairman of the Consultative Group for Colombia.
With the inauguration of the Mangla Dam last November, the signing of the Tarbela Development Fund Agreement in May and the subsequent award of the main civil works contract for the construction of the Tarbela Dam, this is an appropriate moment to review the steady progress of the Indus Basin Development Program as a whole.
The signing of the Indus Waters Treaty in 1960 marked the end of a critical and long-standing dispute be-
tween India and Pakistan, and opened the way to the use and development of water resources on which depends the livelihood of over 50 million people in these two countries. The Treaty was concluded after several years of negotiations in which the Bank played an active role. The engineering concept which underlay the Treaty was a system of enormous "link" canals for transferring water from the Indus, Jhelum and Chenab Rivers to meet the irrigation requirements of eastern portions of West Pakistan which had hitherto been served by the Beas, Ravi and Sutlej, the waters of which were allocated to India.
To provide funds for implementing this plan, an international agreement was signed, simultaneously with the Treaty, to establish the Indus Basin Development Fund. The parties to the agreement were Australia, Canada, Germany, New Zealand, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, the United States and the World Bank, and the Bank was
designated as the Fund's Administrator. The Fund amounted to the equivalent of $895 million, including the equivalent of about $174 million to be provided by India under the Treaty and a loan of $80 million from the Bank.
When some of the civil works contracts had been awarded, it became apparent that the funds committed would be insufficient to complete the program of works contemplated under the Agreement, which originally included the construction of two large dams and related works, one on the Jhelum (Mangla) and the other on the Indus River. Subsequently, an additional amount equivalent to $315 million was made available under the Indus Basin Development Fund (Supplemental) Agreement of 1964 by the parties to the 1960 Agreement to cover the balance of the foreign exchange cost of the works. The Bank agreed to provide about $58 million, which took the form of an IDA credit. The Supplemental Agreement also incorporated arrangements whereby Pakistan undertook to meet the full rupee cost of completing the works. The financing plan adopted at the time of the Supplemental Agreement was calculated so that a foreign exchange balance would be available for the Tarbela project or some other wateror power project in West Pakistan. Provision was also made for a study of the water and power resources of West Pakistan to be carried out by the World Bank.
The Mangla Dam came into operation in November 1967. The storage provided by the dam will permit West Pakistan to replace the water to be diverted by India from the eastern rivers when the transitional period allowed under the Treaty comes to an end. In addition, the dam—one of the largest in the world—will make possible the development of a hydroelectric power potential of between 800 and 1,000
megawatts. The initial installation of 300 megawatts has already increased the installed capacity of West Pakistan's northern grid by about 50%. The net cost of the Mangla project, together with the link canals, barrages and other related works, is estimated at around $1,080 million.
While Mangla was being built and while construction continued on the other Treaty works, a World Bank team headed by Dr. Pieter Lieftinck, an Executive Director of the Bank and IDA, and assisted by a number of consulting firms, was engaged in carrying out the Special Study provided for in the 1964 Supplemental Agreement. The Study was in two parts. The first part, completed in early 1965, dealt with the proposal for building a dam on the Indus at Tarbela and found the project to be technically feasible and economically justified. The second part, completed in July 1967, not only endorsed the high priority of the Tarbela project but also presented a comprehensive program for the utilization of West Pakistan's water and power resources to provide the Government with a basis for development planning in these sectors within the framework of successive Five-Year Plans (see also page 16). The Tarbela Dam itself, the centerpiece of the comprehensive program, will be the largest earth and rock fill dam in the world.
In May this year, the World Bank and six countries — Canada, France, Italy, Pakistan, the United Kingdom and the United States — established the Tarbela Development Fund to complete arrangements for providing financing for the construction of the Tarbela project. Under this agreement, which was negotiated within the framework of the Pakistan Consortium, the Government of Pakistan will provide the Tarbela Development Fund with rupees for the required local expenditure, estimated
at the equivalent of $335 million. The bulk of the foreign currency requirements will come from the Indus Basin Development Fund, the balance of which available for Tarbela is now expected to be $324 million. Commitments to provide additional foreign exchange have been made as follows: Canada $4.6 million, France $30.4 million, Italy $40 million, the United Kingdom $24 million, the United States $50 million, and the Bank $25 million. The Bank will again administer the Fund.
Altogether, these promises of aid total the equivalent of $498 million. The foreign exchange cost of Tarbela, including an allowance for contingencies, is now estimated at $492 million. However, the Canadian, UK and US contributions can be used only for expenditures in those countries and thus part of them may not be usable. The World Bank loan and the US contribution will be reduced pro rata should there be a reduction in foreign exchange requirements. In addition to the funds provided under the Agreement, France and Italy have expressed willingness to make contributions of up to the equivalent of $10 million each, if at a later stage it is established that the foreign exchange funds from the bilateral contributions, together with the balance of the Indus Basin Development Fund and the Bank loan, are insufficient to meet the foreign exchange costs of the project.
The main civil works contract for Tarbela, the largest single contract ever let, was awarded in May this year by the Government of Pakistan and the West Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), after evaluating tenders by four groups, to a consortium of Italian and French companies led by IMPREGILO of Milan. The completion of the dam by early 1976 is a strategic element in the program for meeting West Pakistan's need
for additional supplies of irrigation water and electric power. At its initial capacity, the Tarbela reservoir will store sufficient water to increase rabi (winter) river flows on the Indus in an average year by about one-third, and in a dry year by about one-half. Under the scheme of development which is envisaged, Tarbela would also contribute over one-quarter of the total amount of electric energy required by West Pakistan over the decade 1975-85. By the end of that period, its contribution to total electricity requirements in the Province would be more than one-third.
In response to resolutions adopted by the Boards of Governors of the Bank and the IMF at their Annual Meetings in Rio de Janeiro in September 1967, the staffs of the two institutions have been preparing a draft of a special study concerning the problem of the stabilization of prices of primary products, possible solutions to the problem and the economic feasibility of these solutions. The draft examines postwar price fluctuations, trends in commodity trade and their causes, considers measures to improve the level and trend of export earnings and analyzes measures to deal with fluctuations around the trend. It attempts to view the commodity problem in the perspective of development efforts and policies, giving particular attention to the problems and prospects of diversification of production and exports. The draft will be considered by the Executive Directors of the Bank and the IMF prior to the submission of the study to the Boards of Governors.
The economic work undertaken by the Bank's staff includes the examination
of individual developing countries' economic problems, policies and prospects, the analysis of particular sector and project questions and the preparation of basic statistical material. It also involves the analysis of broader economic problems, some of them worldwide in scope, which affect the progress of the developing countries. In the year under review, apart from its continuing work on specific country, sector and project problems, and in addition to the special commodity study referred Jto above, the Bank's staff has been engaged on a number of studies relevant either to the problems of the developing world as a whole or to its own work.
Trade and EconqmicGrowth: The economic progress achieved by developing countries depends not only on their overseas earnings from commodities but also on their balance of payments position as a whole. This in turn is significantly affected by the growth of their foreign trade, particularly with the developed nations. A number of studies dealing with developing countries' external trade in general, and some of the factors determining its growth, have been completed in the year under review. "The Export Experience of Developing Countries", an analysis of growth patterns in this field between 1950 and 1963, was published in the series of World Bank Staff Occasional Papers in November 1967.
Another study completed during the year, at the request of UNCTAD and presented to the second session of UNCTAD in New Delhi in February-March 1968, examined the impact of industrial countries' tariffs on developing countries' fabricated exports to them and assessed the possible repercussions of the so-called Kennedy Round of tariff reductions negotiated in 1967 on this sector of developing countries' trade.
Export Credits: Two studies dealing with export credits were prepared by the Bank staff in response to a resolution of the first session of UNCTAD in 1964. The first study, completed in January 1967, examined suppliers' and other types of export credits extended by the industrialized countries. The second study, which was presented to the Secretary-General of UNCTAD in February 1968, dealt with another aspect of suppliers' credits, namely, their use by developing countries. It analyzed experience in financing developing countries' exports of capital goods, particularly in the light of the provision of the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) for rediscounting facilities for this purpose.
At the second session of UNCTAD, the Bank and the United Nations Secretariat were asked, in consultation with other institutions, to continue the study of commercial credits as a means of assisting developing countries to increase their exports and of the possibility of refinancing by international financial institutions of commercial credits extended by developing countries.
Multilateral Investment Insurance: At the request of UNCTAD, work continued during the year on the study of a multilateral investment insurance scheme which would insure new private foreign investment in developing countries against losses resulting from non-commercial risks. A first draft of Articles of Agreement for an international investment insurance agency, prepared by the staff, has been discussed by a Committee of the Bank's Executive Directors. A revised draft, reflecting the discussions, has been completed for the Executive Directors' further consideration.
Other UNCTAD-Requested Studies: Among the requests made of the Bank by the second session of UNCTAD was
one for an analysis of possible improvements in techniques of lending and in particular of conditions and schedules of repayment, and for advice to UNC-TAD's Secretary-General on the question of access to capital markets by developing countries and multilateral development institutions. Work on this study by the staff is now under way.
A study produced in 1965/66 by the Bank's staff at the request of the first session of UNCTAD, on "Supplementary Financial Measures", was considered at the New Delhi meeting. Under the scheme put forward in the study, supplementary finance would be provided to support development programs that would otherwise be disrupted by the failure of export earnings to come up to reasonable expectations. The Intergovernmental Working Group set up earlier by UNCTAD to examine the study is to be expanded and will discuss further various unresolved issues and report to the UN Trade and Development Board.
Coffee Study: Work has continued on a study financed and sponsored jointly by the Bank, FAO and the International Coffee Organization of long-term trends of coffee demand and supply, the need of the main coffee-producing countries to diversify into other lines of production, and the problems connected with such diversification. This study is expected to be completed in 1968.
Sector and Project Analysis: The Bank seeks constantly to improve the tools and methods of analysis used in the study of economic questions and particular types of project. A study entitled "Sector and Project Planning in Transportation" was published as a Staff Occasional Paper in November 1967. This study discusses the main steps in the preparation of a development plan for
the transportation sector and examines some important issues in the cost-benefit analysis of a transport project.
In January 1968, a study of selected economic development projects and their appraisal, prepared by John A. King, Jr., a member of the Bank's staff, was published by The Johns Hopkins Press on behalf of the Economic Development Institute. The book presents 30 case studies of electric power, transport and industrial projects submitted to the Bank for financing.
A number of studies, both theoretical and practical, have been made during the past year to try to refine existing techniques of analysis and judgment on policy questions. They include "A Cost-Benefit Approach to Educational Planning in Developing Countries" and "The Economics of Road-User Charges". Each of these studies is being followed up by field work to test the validity of its approach to the problem in question.
External Debt Statistics: The Bank is the principal source of information for data relating to external debt. For some time it has had an agreement with the IDB under which it provides the latter with debt information on Latin American countries. Similar agreements have recently been reached with the African Development Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
The expanded system operated jointly by the Bank and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) for reporting on statistics of loans and grants by developed to developing countries became operational during the year. While a number of reporting problems still remain to be worked out, the system should in 1968/69 produce valuable data on capital flows to the developing countries as well as help improve the quality of the debt statistics.
Borrowings: The Bank obtains the larger part of its funds by the issue of bonds and notes to investors; the state of capital markets is therefore of crucial importance to it. Despite tight conditions in capital markets, the Bank was able, with the cooperation of governments, to market $735 million in bond and note issues in 1967/68. Because of the general upward trend in interest rates, however, the average cost of these borrowings rose to a new high level of 6.17%, compared with 5.52% in 1966/67 and 4.88% in 1965/66.
During the first six months of the fiscal year, the Bank's lending rate was held at 6%, the rate adopted in February 1966, but the higher cost of borrowing made it necessary to increase the rate to 61/4% in January 1968. Since the fiscal year ended the rate has been further increased, to 61/2%, as from August 1, 1968.
It is the policy of the Bank that the rate charged on its loans should be kept as low as is compatible with the maintenance of its ability to raise in the capital markets of its members, or otherwise borrow, the funds it needs. In order to maintain the reputation and financial strength on which this ability depends, the Bank, in determining its own lending rate, pays due regard to such criteria as the trend of its earnings, the maintenance of an adequate ratio of earnings to interest requirements on its funded debt, the maintenance of a reasonable rate of return on its capital and reserves, and the accumulation of adequate reserves.
Funded debt of the Bank outstanding on June 30, 1968, aggregated $3,289.6 million, an increase of $214 million compared with a year earlier. More than 58% was held by investors outside the United States; there are holdings of Bank bonds and notes in over 60
countries. Every effort has again been made to achieve the broadest possible market for the Bank's obligations. Of the $735 million of issues sold by the Bank in 1967/68, $300 million were marketed in the United States by means of two public offerings, of which $25 million was purchased by investors in other countries. Outside the United States, the Bank placed a total of $348 million equivalent of bond and note issues with central banks, government accounts and international organizations. Placements included the Bank's first sale of long-term bonds in Saudi Arabia. The remaining $87 million of issues sold outside the United States were marketed by means of public offerings of the Bank's bonds in Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and Switzerland. The offering in Sweden was the Bank's first in that country, that in the Netherlands the first since 1962.
A total of $458 million of debt matured during the year, including an issue of $150 million of 3%% Ten-Year Bonds which came due in May 1968, virtually all of which was held by investors in the United States. The remainder of debt maturing during the year, equivalent to $308 million, was held by investors in other countries. In addition to these maturities, the Bank retired some $55.9 million equivalent of debt by means of sinking fund and purchase fund operations, including portions of US dollar, Canadian dollar, Deutsche mark, Netherlands guilder, Swiss franc and sterling issues.
Commitments, Repayments and Loan Sales: Loans held by the Bank at June 30, 1968, including those not yet effective, and net of exchange adjustments, totaled $7,576 million, an increase of $454 million. Disbursements on loans during the past year amounted to $771.9 million, compared with $790 million in 1966/67. A total of $2,425.9 million remained to be disbursed over a period of years, estimated to extend to mid-1975.
The Bank's borrowers repaid $357.6 million on maturing loans, against $346.5 million in the previous year. Repayments included $236.5 million paid to the Bank and $121.1 million to investors who had purchased borrowers' obligations from the Bank. Aggregate repayments on the Bank's loans to June 30, 1968, were $2,917.9 million, $1,499.6 million having been repaid to the Bank and $1,418.3 million to loan purchasers.
In order to offset temporarily part of the balance of payments effect on India of debt service payments to the Bank, the Bank during the year opened four special interest-bearing deposit accounts with the Reserve Bank of India. The accounts are denominated in US dollars, pounds sterling, Deutsche mark and Japanese yen. As of June
30, 1968, the balance in the accounts with the Reserve Bank of India amounted to the equivalent of $30 million. No further such deposits are expected to be made, and the World Bank will withdraw funds from the accounts from time to time, but not later than March
31, 1971.
Sales of participations and portfolio items showed an increase during the past year for the first time since the fiscal year 1961/62. The total of these transactions was $107.4 million, a rise of $38.8 million compared with 1966/67. The declining trend of sales of participations and portfolio items during recent years has been caused by the upward movement of interest rates on competing securities and the restriction on overseas investments by some capital-exporting countries.
Income^ and Expenditure: Net income of the Bank for the past fiscal year was $169 million, approximately equal to the net income of $170 million in 1966/67 and a sharp increase compared with earlier periods. The higher earnings in the past two years have reflected in part the higher yields obtainable on the Bank's temporary investments and the increase in loans held by the Bank. Commission still charged on outstanding portions of a few of the Bank's earliest loans amounted to $0.6 million and was credited to the Special Reserve, raising it to $291 million at June 30, 1968.
Gross income was $356 million, compared with $331 million in the previous year. Interest on loans rose by $28 million to $275 million, and other income by $3 million to $8 million. These increases were partially offset by a decline of $6 million in interest on investments to $66 million. The Bank's total expenses amounted to $187 million. Bond and note interest and issuance costs rose sharply to $153 million from
$131 million the year before. The rise was attributable to the increase in outstanding bond and note issues and to higher borrowing costs during the year. Administrative costs, after deduction of $4.2 million charged as a management fee to IDA, aggregated $29 million compared with $24 million computed on a comparable basis for 1966/67.
Under a decision approved by the Board of Governors at the Annual Meeting in September 1967, $10 million of the Bank's net income for the fiscal year 1966/67 was set aside for transfer to IDA in the form of a grant, after $160 million from net income had been allocated to the Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guarantees and From Currency Devaluations. After the close of the 1967/68 fiscal year, the Executive Directors allocated $94.1 million of net income of the fiscal year to the Supplemental Re-
serve, raising it to $963.1 million and total Reserves to $1,254.1 million. The Executive Directors at the same time recommended to the Board that a further $75 million be transferred to IDA by way of a grant.
In March 1968, after extensive negotiations by IDA with the economically more advanced (Part I) member countries, the Executive Directors of the Association recommended and transmitted to member governments for approval a proposal for a second general replenishment of IDA's resources at the rate of $400 million annually for three years, with the first payment by the contributing countries scheduled for November 8, 1968. Under the terms of the proposal, which represented about a 60% increase over the first general replenishment agreed in 1964, the 18 Part I member countries of IDA would make contributions equivalent to $1,170.5 million in the amounts shown below:
Country (US Dollars)
Australia........................ 24,000,000
Austria......................... 8,160,000
Belgium......................... 20,400,000
Canada......................... 67,200,000
Denmark........................ 12,120,000
Finland......................... 3,720,000
France.......................... 97,200,000
Germany........................117,000,000
Italy............................. 48,360,000
Japan........................... 66,480,000
Kuwait.......................... 5,400,000
Luxembourg..................... 600,000
Netherlands..................... 26,520,000
Norway......................... 10,680,000
South Africa.................... 3,000,000
Sweden......................... 24,120,000
United Kingdom.................155,520,000
United States...................480,000,000
Five of these countries — Canada, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands and Sweden—also proposed to make available the equivalent of $17,520,000 in supplementary  contributions to IDA
during the same period and on the same payment terms. In addition, the Swiss Confederation, not a member of IDA, has agreed to make IDA a 50-year interest-free loan equivalent to approximately $12 million payable in three equal installments on July 1 of the three years 1968, 1969 and 1970. The combined total from the above sources would enable IDA to make new lending commitments of $1,200 million.
The replenishment proposal was based upon a continuation of IDA's policy of requiring full international competition for procurement of goods and services financed by it. However, in view of the serious balance of payments problems of the United States, it was provided that, during the three years ending June 30, 1971 and for as long thereafter as permitted by the state of its resources, IDA would call upon the US contribution to meet disbursements on new credits only for the amount needed to finance procurement in the United States. Thus, during that period, payments under the second replenishment would have no adverse
effect on the US balance of payments. Amounts deferred, however, would be subject to subsequent call, thus permitting the entire amount of the replenishment to be committed. As a necessary corollary to this deferment arrangement for the United States, a number of other participating countries agreed to permit a compensating acceleration of IDA's drawings upon their contributions in order to meet its disbursement requirements.
The target date for the second replenishment to become effective was originally fixed at June 30, 1968. In order for the obligation to become binding on any of the countries, at least 12 countries, pledging not less than $950 million, had formally to notify IDA by that date that they would make their specified contributions. Since a sufficient number of formal notifications had not been received by June 30, the Executive Directors extended the closing date to September 30, 1968.
Including credits which were brought to the stage of being ready for presentation to the Executive Directors for
their consideration but for which approval had to be deferred until new replenishment funds become available, credits negotiated during the past fiscal year totaled $276 million. The actual amount of credits signed during the period totaled only$106.6million.These commitments absorbed all except $7.2 million of the $1,795.6 million of resources available to IDA up to June 30, 1968. Disbursements against these and earlier commitments amounted to $318.8 ¦ million, raising total disbursements to $1,342.5 million. Taking into consideration the additional special supplementary contribution of Sweden and the loan from the Swiss Confederation, both discussed below, theAssocia-tion's resources available for commitment totaled $40.7 million at June 30, 1968.
The Swedish Government announced further support for IDA during the year, in addition to its contributions to the proposed general replenishment. A total of $21.36 million in additional special supplementary contributions is to be made available to IDA by Sweden during the three years ending June 30, 1971. Of this, $4.12 million will be made available in the fiscal year 1968/69, $7.12 million in 1969/70 and $10.12 million in 1970/71. Under six earlier special supplementary contributions, Sweden had provided IDA with a total of $28.14 million. A supplementary contribution of $1.32 million is also to be made to IDA by Norway, subject to the effectiveness of the second replenishment. The amount will be paid in three installments of $0,84 million in calendar year 1968 and $0.24 million in 1969 and 1970.
Arrangements became effective in April 1968 for a loan from the Swiss Confederation to the Association of Sw F 52 million (approximately $12.1 million). The loan will be on the same terms as those on which IDA itself ex-
tends credits for projects: it will carry no interest and will be repayable in 40 annual installments beginning July 1, 1979. The proceeds will be made available to IDA in three equal installments on July 1 of the years 1968, 1969 and 1970 and will be freely usable in IDA's operations.
At the Annual Meeting in Rio de Janeiro in September 1967, the Board of Governors of the Bank approved the transfer of $10 million of the Bank's 1966/67 net income to IDA as a grant. Atotal of $210 million has now been made available by the Bank to IDA since the first transfer of this kind was approved by the Board of Governors in 1964. After the close of the 1967/68 fiscal year, the Bank's Executive Direc-
tors recommended to the Board of Governors that a further grant to IDA, in the amount of $75 million, be made out of net income for the year. This recommendation will be considered by the Governors at the forthcoming Annual Meeting in Washington.
During the fiscal year, the membership of the Bank was increased from 106 to 107 governments, and that of IDA from 97 to 98, by the admission of The Gambia in October. At the end of the year, action was pending on membership in the Bank of Botswana, Lesotho, Malta and Mauritius, and on membership in IDA of Botswana, Guinea, In-
donesia, Lesotho, Malta, Mauritius, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay and Venezuela.5
The Bank's subscribed capital increased from $22,850 million to $22,942 million. The Gambia's subscription to the Bank is $5.3 million. In addition, four governments increased their subscriptions to the Bank's capital by a total of $86.8 million, as shown in the following table:
5Botswana became a member of the Bank and IDA and Lesotho a member of the Bank in July 1968.
A Thai worker inspecting corn at an experimental farm. Bank loans made to Thailand for irrigation and flood control schemes are helping to increase the country's agricultural production.
During the year, there were several changes among the Executive Directors. In July, Mr. Rene Larre, who had served for ten years as Executive Director for France, was succeeded by Mr. Georges Plescoff. In August, Sir John Stevens, Executive Director for the United Kingdom since January 1965, was succeeded by Mr. Evan Maude. Mr. Sundara Rajan, Executive Director for India since August 1963, was succeeded by Mr. S. Jagannathan at the end of March. Dr. Otto Donner, who had served as Executive Director for Germany for nearly 14 years, retired at the end of April. He was succeeded by Dr. Ernst vom Hofe.
The death occurred in June of Mr. Muhammad Ayub, who since November 1966 had been the Executive Director representing Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic and United Arab Republic. He was succeeded by Mr. S. Osman AM.
Mr. Ayub's professional life was spent in governmental and international work. He participated in numerous international conferences and served as adviser on the Pakistan Delegation at meetings of the Commonwealth Prime Ministers and Commonwealth Finance Ministers. He had also been Secretary-General, Adviser and Alternate Delegate of the Pakistan Delegation to the United Nations General Assembly, Security Council and UNCTAD. Before becoming an Executive Director of the Bank, he was known to many staff members through his participation in the Indus Waters negotiations.
In November, Mr. Martin Lynch succeeded Mr. Robert Radford as Alternate Director for the United Kingdom. On April 1, Mr. Christopher Kahangi, from Tanzania, became Alternate to Mr. S. Othello Coleman in place of his fellow-countryman, Mr. Iddi Simba.
Mr. Orvis A. Schmidt, Special Adviser to the President, died in November. Mr. Schmidt was associated with the Bank from its earliest days and during the course of his career served in a number of senior positions. He had special responsibility for coordinating the activities of the Bank with those of the Inter-American Committee for the Alliance for Progress (CIAP) and other national and international agencies concerned with Latin American affairs.
In April, on his retirement from the British Treasury, Sir Denis Rickett joined the Bank and IDA as a Vice President. He had been the United Kingdom Alternate Governor of the Bank since 1958.
The Bank's European Office underwent changes during the year. Mr. John D. Miller, the Bank's Special Representative in Europe, retired in April after 131/2 years' service with the Bank. Mr. Arthur Karasz, Manager and Deputy Special Representative in Europe, was appointed to the newly-created position of Director of the European Office.
Mr. William Clark became Director of the Information and Public Affairs Department. He joined the Bank from the Overseas Development Institute, London, of which he was Director. Mr. Harold N. Graves, Jr., who had served as Director of Information since November 1950, became Associate Director of the Development Services Department.
Mr. Lester Nurick was promoted to the position of Associate General Counsel in April. He had served as Deputy General Counsel in the Bank's Legal Department since 1965.
The Program Evaluation and Control Department has been assigned responsibility for continuing work on planning Bank Group operations in addition to its present responsibility for budgetary matters. It has been renamed the Pro-
gramming and Budgeting Department. In view of the Department's additional functions, its former responsibility for reviewing the efficiency of the Group's organizational structure and operating procedures has been transferred to the Administration Department.
Mr. John H. Adler, a Senior Adviser in the Economics Department and previously Director of the Economic Development Institute, has been promoted to the position of Associate Director of the Programming and Budgeting Department.
Mr. Bernard R. Bell, Deputy Director of the Projects Department, has been named Director of the Bank's Resident Staff in Indonesia, to take up his new post in August 1968.
At the end of June 1968, the staff of the Bank and IDA numbered 1,590, comprising nationals of 75 countries.
The first 56 Young Professionals have completed their training and are now assigned to regular positions on the staff of the Bank and IFC, while 42 additional Young Professionals are at present in training. A further eight will join the Bank in the next few months, bringing the total serving the Bank Group to 106 from 37 countries as shown in the following table:
A farmer clearing an irrigation ditch on his farm near Aligarh, the State of Uttar Pradesh, India. Funds from a $6 million International Development Association credit are being used to expand tubewell irrigation in this area.
Part Two: Trends and Outlook in Development Finance
art Two of the Annual Report is de-1 voted to a short outline of the chief trends in developing countries. While major developments in regard to economic growth and external trade are briefly described, the main focus of this part of the Report is on the external financing aspects of development. Sales of external bonds of developing countries and international development institutions are discussed within the broader context of international capital markets. The Report this year contains a special section on recent experience and prospects of agricultural development and a brief discussion of problems arising in a number of developing countries as a result of rapid growth in population. (Tables referred to in the text will be found in the Statistical Annex, beginning page 48.)
The world economy in 1967 was characterized by a considerable slowdown in overall growth combined with severe strains in the balance of payments and international monetary system. This deceleration in growth began in mid-1966 and continued during 1967 both in the United States and in a number of European countries, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, France and the United Kingdom. The aggregate real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of industrialized countries increased by about 2.5% in 1967, compared to an average of about 5% per annum from 1960 to 1966. World trade increased by approximately 5% at current prices,
marking a slowdown from the annual rate of expansion of over 8% between 1960 and 1966. The trade deceleration in the industrialized countries had adverse effects on export earnings of developing countries. The overall flow of development assistance continued to fall short of accepted targets, as a result of either balance of payments deficits or budgetary problems in some of the major aid-providing countries. Preliminary estimates for the first half of 1968 indicate an increase in the growth rate of GDP, particularly in the United States and also in some European countries, which could lead to renewed expansion in exports of developing countries.
Provisional indicators for 1967 show that GDP of developing countries as a group increased at a faster rate than in the two previous years, mainly reflecting a considerable recovery in the GDP growth of India, where agricultural production steeply increased in 1967. Although the gain was in part the result of favorable weather conditions, there are strong indications of a real advance in agricultural production, due largely to technological innovations which are discussed later. Growth in 1967 in other developing regions seems generally to have continued at about the same average rate as that of the 1960s as a whole.
The slowdown in trade expansion, as well as the basic stability in the level of aid commitments, formed the background to the second session of UNCTAD which took place in New Delhi in early 1968. Even before the Conference began, it was agreed by the in-
dustrialized countries that a general system of non-reciprocal preferences for developing countries' exports was both desirable and feasible; this marked a change in attitude on the part of certain industrialized countries. The discussions during the Conference centered around four major questions: how can development aid be increased; how can more stable and satisfactory income be guaranteed to producers of primary products; how can the developing countries improve the mobilization of their domestic resources; and can there be an acceptable scheme for extending preferences to exports of manufactures and semi-manufactures from the developing countries? At the conclusion of the Conference these questions remained largely unanswered. Yet some of the resolutions adopted may eventually result in constructive action,
NOTE: Unless otherwise specified, the classification of countries is based on that used in the United Nations Statistical Yearbook. The data do not include Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, Mainland China. Mongolia, North Korea, North Viet-Nam, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Cuba, for which data are either not available or arc not comparable with data from other countries. The term "developing countries" includes all other countries of Asia except Japan; of Africa except South Africa; of Latin America and the Caribbean area; and the Southern European countries of Cyprus, Greece, Malta, Portugal, Spain, Turkey and. Yugoslavia.
The "developing countries" group, as defined above, covers about 1,720 million people or more than 70% of the total population of the countries included in the data. Other countries covered by the data are referred to as "deve'oped" or "industrialized" countries. It is to be noted that this classification does not coincide exactly with the Part [ and Part If division of membership in the International Development Association (see pages 89-90) and has no relevance as to the countries which are or are not currently considered for development finance from the Bank or IDA.
especially the decision to continue negotiations for a general non-discriminatory, non-reciprocal scheme of preferences for exports of manufactures from the developing countries. The Conference decided to continue consideration of Supplementary Financial Measures in the machinery of UNCTAD (see page 23). A new aid target which would require each economically advanced country to provide annually to developing countries net financial resources of a minimum of 1% of Gross National Product (rather than the 1% of national income as approved by the first session of UNCTAD in 1964) was also approved, although no date was set for the achievement of this target. If this resolution is realized, the amount of development assistance would be considerably increased.
Special factors such as weather conditions, military and political upheavals, and severe balance of payments constraints can significantly affect annual growth rates of developing countries; their growth record must therefore be seen in longer term perspective. Since 1950, the growth of world1 aggregate GDP has averaged about 4.5% a year at constant prices, thus doubling the total. Data for 56 developing countries, which account for about 90% of the aggregate GDP of the developing countries, show an increase in GDP at the rate of 4.7% per year from 1950 to 1966 (Table 1). Thus, between 1950 and 1966 the combined growth rate of developing countries, in percentage terms, has kept pace with that of the industrialized countries.
'Excluding the countries of Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union, Mainland China, Mongolia, North Korea and North Viet-Nam, for which data are either not available or are not comparable with data from other countries.
These overall figures conceal wide differences among regions as well as individual countries, as stated -in last year's Report. On the whole, developing countries in Southern Europe, the Middle East and East Asia, and to a lesser extent Latin America, have grown more rapidly than the average of all developing countries: growth in South Asia and Africa, which together accountformore than half the population in developing countries, has been at a slower rate.
Allowing for population increase, the economic growth record of the developing countries as a group has been far less satisfactory. Since 1950 their rate of population growth has been nearly twice as high as that of the industrialized countries (Table 1), resulting in a growth of GDP per capita for all developing countries of 2.3% per year, compared to 3.2% in the industrialized countries. Throughout the period Latin America has had a fast rate of population growth, 2.9%, equal to two-thirds of the aggregate GDP growth rate. In South Asia, the annual population growth increased
from 1.9% in the 1950s to 2.5% in the 1960s. Moreover, this was combined with a slowing down of the aggregate rate of economic growth, thus reducing growth of per capita GDP to only 0.5% per year.
In all regions of the world, manufacturing production has increased at a relatively rapid pace over the past several years, while agricultural production has grown much more slowly (Table 2). The slow growth of agricultural production in the developing countries has had a significant impact on their total growth, as an estimated one-third of their GDP originates in this sector. Because of the special importance of agriculture in developing countries, this topic, together with some aspects of the related problem of population growth, is discussed separately at the end of this chapter.
Export earnings of developing countries as a group increased in 1967 by about 3.5%, compared to an average growth of 6.5% during the period 19601966 (Table 5). If exports of major petroleum producing countries and the developing countries of Southern Europe are excluded, the increase in 1967 amounted to only about $200 million, a fraction of 1%. This stagnation in export earnings was in part a result of the slow economic growth in industrialized countries, which affected their import demand and reduced the average price level of primary products. Developing countries in all regions were affected by the slow growth of world trade in 1967, although in varying degrees; South Asia and Latin America actually experienced a small absolute reduction in export earnings. Rapid supply expansion in some commodities contributed to the decline in average prices.
The World Bank Primary Commodity Price Index for Low and Medium Income Producers, which during the 1960s has fluctuated within narrow margins, fell by 0.7% in 1967; if petroleum prices are excluded, the decline amounted to about 1.5% (see chart). The overall decline, although small, is notable since it happened in a year of international conflicts (Viet-Nam and the Middle East) and despite the closure of the Suez Canal. Although there were a few price rises during 1967—in cotton, rice, sugar and tea — the prices of most commodities decreased. Copper prices on the London market fell by about 25%, a partial downward adjustment from the abnormal record high level of the previous year. The gradual decline in rubber prices over the past several years sharpened, with prices declining by 16%. The steel recession in the United States and Europe continued to force down iron ore prices, despite an apparent temporary halt in the growth of export volume. Other important commodities which experienced price declines in 1967 included coffee, tin, jute, jute textiles, wool, sisal, lead and fishmeal.
Prices of some commodities may rise as world economic activity and trade grow at a faster rate than in 1967. But the continuation of the general erosion of coffee prices, and to a lesser extent tin, is a matter of concern, especially as coffee and tin are two commodities for which international agreements designed to stabilize prices have been in effect for some time. The successful renewal of the International Coffee Agreement in 1968 provides hope that price stability for coffee, a commodity accounting for about one-half of the export earnings of eight developing countries, can be maintained. The International Tin Agreement is expected to be able to prevent further significant deterioration in prices from the mid-
1968 level in the near future. In the longer run, however, price stability will depend on the degree to which coordination of supply is achieved among exporting countries, unless demand accelerates significantly.
As stated in Part One (page 22), in response to resolutions adopted at the 1967 Annual Meetings of the Boards of Governors, the staffs of the Bank and the IMF have been preparing a draft study concerning the problem of the stabilization of prices of primary products, possible solutions to the problem and the economic feasibility of these solutions. This draft will be considered by the Executive Directors of the Bank and the IMF prior to the submission of the study to the Boards of Governors.
The expansion of manufactured exports of developing countries has not yet benefited from any significant reduction in tariffs or in quantitative restrictions on imports by industrialized countries. A World Bank staff study of the effects of the tariff concessions
granted in the Kennedy Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) suggested that the tariff reductions negotiated in 1967 chiefly benefited the commodities traded among industrialized countries. Reductions granted by industrialized countries on the manufactured exports of developing countries were considerably smaller than the concessions made to other industrialized countries. The prospective expansion of manufactured exports from developing to industrialized countries directly attributed to the Kennedy Round tariff reductions has been estimated at $200 millon2 per year, or about 16% of present manufactured exports of developing countries. Even this small increase is not likely to materialize, and may even be reduced by almost one-half, if quotas under the long-term Cotton Textiles Arrangement as well as quantitative restrictions on
2This estimate excludes exports from those Southern European countries included in the list of developing countries given in the Note on page 31.
some other commodities are not liberalized.
The export experience of a small number of countries during the 1960s conflicts with the general export performance of the developing countries as a group. In East Asia, exports of goods from the Republic of China, Hong Kong and Korea increased between 1960 and 1967 at annual average rates of 21%, 12% and 38% respectively. In the Mediterranean area, Greece, Israel, Yugoslavia, Portugal, and Spain together expanded exports of merchandise by almost 12% per year between 1960 and 1966, and even in 1967 managed to increase them by 9%. These eight countries have two things in common: their merchandise exports consist of a relatively high percentage of manufactures and they have pursued policies explicitly designed to expand exports.
A World Bank staff study3 on the export experience of 29 developing countries suggests that variations in export growth are due to a combination of differences in economic policies and in trade positions of countries. The study makes a distinction between exports of "major" commodities, which are mostly primary commodities traded on well-organized international markets, and "minor" exports, which comprise a large group of manufactured and agricultural products traded on a relatively smaller scale. Changes in exports over the period studied, 1950-63, appeared to be associated with countries' shares in the markets of major commodities in the initial years; countries with small shares in the markets tended to fare better than those with large shares. Exports which comprised a small share of total exports tended to experience relatively favorable growth and, in this
JBarend A. de Vries, The Export Experience of Developing Countries, World Bank Staff Occasional Paper No. 3.
respect, behaved like "minor" exports which expanded considerably faster than "major" exports. A distinction is also made in the study between countries with outward orientation in their economic policies, as against those with inward orientation emphasizing production for domestic markets. The majority of countries with small domestic markets and small shares in world exports of a particular commodity have pursued policies that are predominantly outward oriented. These countries have managed to maintain competitive price levels through fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies, and have achieved a considerable increase in exports. In contrast, countries with relatively large domestic markets and important external trade positions have tended to pursue inward oriented policies. For both "minor" and "major" exports, the greatest improvement was achieved by countries which had small external market positions and a policy of outward orientation.
The growth of developing countries' imports during 1967 was affected by the slowdown in their export earnings. Imports into developing countries as a group increased at an annual rate of 7% between 1961 and 1966, but by only 3% in 1967. If Southern Europe and the oil producing countries are excluded, the import growth was 6% from 1961 to 1966 and 3% in 1967.
Although the foreign exchange reserves of the developing countries increased by approximately $800 million in 1967 and by another $735 million in the first quarter of 1968, only a few countries benefited from the increase. Up to April 1968, the combined increase in the reserves of Argentina (over $470 million),4 of the major oil exporters ($645 million), of Portugal, Korea, the Republic of China, Israel, Jordan and Thailand amounted to almost $1,550 million, while virtually all other develop-
Due to special factors, including devaluation followed by a large capital inflow, as well as short-term borrowing.
Loading a ship with an export cargo at the Port of Dakar, Senegal. A four-year development program for this important West African port is being assisted by a World Bank loan.
ing countries experienced a further decline in their reserves. The reserves of many developing countries remained at or reached a precariously low level, making these countries more vulnerable to declines in export earnings and reductions in net capital inflows.
Debt service payments on public and publicly guaranteed external debt of 92 developing countries increased by about $400 million in 1966 and by about $185 million in 1967 (Table 6). These totals conceal considerable variations in" the growth of debt service payments from country to country, but some general trends can be seen. In percentage terms, the most rapid increase in debt service payments during 1966 and 1967 occurred in Africa, East Asia and South Asia, as opposed to a much slower increase in Latin America, the Middle East and Southern Europe. These trends are in contrast to the years 1964 and 1965 when the major increase in service payments took place in Latin America and Southern Europe. The slowdown in the rate of increase of debt service payments in the latter regions was partly due to rescheduling in a number of large debtor countries, Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Turkey.
An extremely important factor influencing a country's ability to service external debt is its export performance. The ratio between public debt service payments and exports of goods and services, referred to as the debt service ratio, is shown in Table 7 for 54 developing countries.5 Several other factors, however, have a bearing on a country's ability to service debt, including its propensity to import and potential for reducing imports at times of balance of payments pressure, the amount of gross
5These ratios are based on data reported to the World Bank. See Notes to Tables 6-13, page 64.
capital inflow, the level of total and public savings, and the rate of economic return on investments. Thus, an analysis of a debt servicing problem is best done in the context of an overall evaluation of an individual country's economic and financial performance. Since no two countries are alike, it is not easy to classify groups of countries with respect to their debt servicing problems. Nevertheless, a few typical cases will be briefly discussed below.
Many developing countries have not been seriously troubled by an increase in debt service payments. For some developing countries, debt service payments are relatively low in relation to exports.This has been the case for Ceylon, Ethiopia, Jamaica, Kenya, Malaysia, the Sudan, Tanzania, Thailand and Uganda (Table 7). Some of these countries are in early stages of development and have not yet assumed debt service payments on a large scale. Others have received external assistance largely in the form of grants rather than loans. In several developing countries, rapid export growth has prevented a sharp increase in the debt service ratio, despite a rapid increase in debt service payments. Some of these countries (including Iran and Venezuela, as well as Zambia and Chile in the last two years) have benefited from favorable markets for petroleum or minerals. Certain other countries (including the Republic of China, Korea, Israel and Mexico) have pursued policies conducive to rapid export growth. However, in a number of countries, including some of the largest in terms of GDP or population, debt servicing has become a major problem, affecting overall economic and financial management.
Debt servicing difficulties have arisen mainly because of the following factors: excessive use of short-term debt such as suppliers' credits; inadequate increase in exports due either to a lack
of proper incentives or to unfavorable changes in external market conditions; or an insufficient volume of aid on appropriate terms. In some countries, there has been a combination of the above factors. Unsatisfactory management of overall economic and financial affairs has in certain cases aggravated debt servicing problems.
In a number of countries, debt servicing problems have been chiefly caused by the assumption in past years of credits on relatively onerous terms, indicating in some instances unsatisfactory balance of payments policies. This, for example, was the case in Argentina, where most imports of capital goods have been financed by suppliers' credits, often with short maturities and carrying relatively high interest rates. Heavy recourse to such credits, together with the fact that Argentina has obtained relatively few long-term loans from external sources, has meant that the terms on which she has borrowed abroad have been among the hardest for developing countries. For example, the average rate of interest on external loans incurred by the public sector in Argentina in 1966 was 6.14% and the average amortization period 5.8 years (Table 11). As a result, about 75% of the country's external public debt outstanding at the beginning of 1967 was scheduled for repayment within five years. Between 1961 and 1967 Argentina's merchandise exports expanded at an average 7% a year, but a considerable part of the increase in exchange earnings was absorbed by the rise in debt service payments. Public debt service payments reached nearly 28% of exports of goods and services in 1967. To alleviate her heavy debt service burden, Argentina had recourse to debt relief from her major creditor countries on several occasions, most recently in 1965. More prudent debt
management has been an important objective of the economic program introduced early in 1967. Under stand-by arrangements with the IMF, limits have been imposed on the amount outstanding of suppliers' credits to the public sector with maturities of less than eight years. In addition, the authorities have undertaken to monitor carefully the growth of private obligations and to take action, if necessary, to prevent any unduly rapid rise. Substantial surpluses in the current account of the balance of payments have made possible a reduction in the amount of debt outstanding over the past several years. Argentina should be able to reduce her outstanding indebtedness substantially in the coming years if policies necessary to promote rapid expansion of exports are pursued, and if her products are not hampered by restrictions in importing countries. To reduce the debt service burden, Argentina will also have to seek loans on more favorable terms than in the past, particularly by shifting as large a portion of public sector borrowing as possible from suppliers' credits and commercial bank loans to loans from international development institutions and other sources of long-term finance.
The debt servicing problem of India is among other factors the result of a combination of slow export growth and the relatively hard terms of some past aid. Between 1960 and 1967 India's merchandise exports increased at an average annual rate of merely 2.8%. Only during the last ten years has the country received large amounts of aid on concessionary terms. Moreover, the volume of such aid, while large in absolute amounts, has been too small in relation to her capital requirements. Consequently, India's debt service payments on foreign debt, including suppliers' credits, rose from about 15% of S3 merchandise exports in 1961 to about
28% in 1967, adding to the severe constraints on the balance of payments. During the past year the debt servicing problem has been a major concern of the India Consortium, as stated in Part One (page 19). In its role as Chairman of the Consortium, the Bank recommended an increase in the volume of aid, softening of the terms of aid and measures to expand exports. In May 1968, the Consortium reached agreement in principle to provide debt relief of about $100 million (or roughly 25%) of debt service payments due to Consortium members for each of the three Indian fiscal years beginning April 1, 1968, and to take action on debt relief in the first of the three years. (This agreement is subject to parliamentary approval as far as some creditor countries are concerned.) Further debt relief action may be necessary in the future; however, the long-term solution of India's debt servicing problem depends basically upon the effectiveness of overall economic policies, including poli-
cies to expand exports. It also depends on an increase in the volume of aid given on concessionary terms and on an improvement in external market conditions for India's exports.
In the case of Pakistan, where the rate of economic growth has been relatively fast, insufficiency of concessionary aid is tending to produce debt servicing difficulties. Pakistan's exports grew at the comparatively rapid rate of 6% between 1960 and 1967. However, debt service payments rose sharply by 50% from 1965 to 1967, reaching approximately 16% of exports of goods and services in 1967. The increasejn debt service payments is due to the maturing of relatively short-term debt assumed in the early 1960s. Although debt servicing has not yet imposed too heavy a burden on Pakistan's balance of payments or on her budget, future prospects are disconcerting even in the short term. Because of a hardening of average terms of loans in the past few years (Table 11), the debt service ratio
is projected to increase by 1970 to around 20%, merely as a result of existing debt. Projecting a continuing flow of gross aid at the same amount of $650 million a year on the same average terms as the last two years and an average export expansion of 7% a year, the debt service ratio would increase by 1975 to 25%. Maintenance of the debt service on a reasonable level therefore requires continuing efforts to raise exports at a rapid rate, as well as a,softening of average aid terms.
In a few extreme cases, such as Ghana and Indonesia, severe debt servicing difficulties have arisen as a result of general mismanagement of the economy in earlier years, reflected in inefficient investment, lack of incentives to promote exports and unsound fiscal and monetary policies. In both these cases debt service payments have been rescheduled, and a general overhaul of economic and financial policies has been set in train.
A country's current ability to service external debt is of course also affected by the amount of her current gross capital inflow. There are wide differences between countries with respect to the size of public debt service payments compared to the gross inflow of external capital. Tables 8 and 9 give data for service payments on public debt compared to gross loans and grants received by developing countries for which reasonably reliable information is available for the years 1965 and 1966.6 In 34 countries, public debt service payments equalled more than one-half of the external loans received by
^Because of lack of detailed data or incomparabjjity with data from other countries, several major debtor countries, i.e., Brazil, Turkey. Israel and Indonesia, have not been included in the group of countries shown in Tables a and 9. Nevertheless, information on disbursements and debt service payments for these countries suggests that the relationship between disbursements and debt service payments is fairly representative for the aggregate of developing countries.
the public sector or guaranteed by a public authority in at least one of the two years shown in Tables 8 and 9. In 12 of the 34 countries, public debt service payments exceeded total public loan disbursements. In most cases, debt service payments on loans from private sources, chiefly suppliers' credits, were equivalent to a considerable part of the gross public capital inflow.
If capital continues to be provided to the developing countries on the present average terms, debt servicing difficulties may seriously affect many developing countries, and may also pose additional problems for aid-providing countries. Many developing countries will find it necessary to allocate an increasing share of export earnings to service debt. This problem could become even more acute if the bulk of gross bilateral aid continues to be tied to projects or to specified commodity purchases, while external debt service payments are made in free foreign exchange. At the same time, the aid-providing countries will have to increase gross disbursements merely to maintain a constant net flow of financial resources to developing countries after deduction of amortization and interesl payments. For example, the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) ol OECD made an illustrative estimate that, merely to maintain the flow of public capital to developing countries ne1 of amortization and interest at the same level and on the same average terms as in 1965, the gross official capital flow from DAC member countries would have to be increased from $5,750 million ir 1965 to $7,820 million in 1975 and tc $10,180 million in 19857. These calculations demonstrate the close relation ship between the terms of developmen finance provided at present and the
'Development Assistance Efforts and Policies, 1967 Review, September 1967, Table V.5.
Terminating transmission lines at the switchyard of the Furnas hydroelectric plant on the Rio Grande, Brazil. Power from this Bank-assisted plant goes to the central-southern area where industrial and agricultural activity is concentrated.
gross amounts required in the future. The harder the terms of present aid, the higher the future gross amount required merely to maintain a constant net amount. Since legislative authorization is generally required for gross rather than for net appropriations, a steep increase in gross aid requirements may also sharply increase the existing difficulties in raising aid levels from budgetary sources. In present circumstances, it is indeed doubtful that such a steep increase in the volume of gross aid would seem a realistic prospect. Both from the point of view of creditors and debtors, the prospects emphasize the importance of softening the terms of development assistance, as well as of taking measures to improve the overall economic performance and in particular the export performance of developing countries.
World Bank data drawn from reports by debtor countries on a loan-to-loan basis show that average terms of loans to developing countries became somewhat more concessionary in 1966 (Tables 10 and 11. Bank data for 1967 are not yet available; 1967 data reported by DAC indicate a considerable hardening of average aid terms during the year). At the same time, however, the amount of grants to those countries was considerably reduced. As a result, the terms of overall development assistance softened only slightly in 1966.
The average terms of loans are expressed in three elements: interest rates, amortization and grace periods. These can also be summarized in one factor, measuring the concessionary element (or grant element) in loans. Future repayments of debts can be calculated at their present worth, using an appropriate discount rate to compare B3 future values with present ones. This
method, which is widely used in financial and economic calculations, has also been applied to development assistance.8 To the extent that the present worth of future repayments is lower than the value of loans received, the difference represents a concessionary element, which can be expressed either as an amount or as a percentage of these loans. Capital transfers in the form of grants have by definition a concessionary element of 100%.
A major factor affecting the size of this concessionary element is the discount rate applied to reduce future debt repayment to its present worth. The higher the discount rate, the smaller is the present worth of future debt service payments and the greater the concessionary element in a given loan. Conversely, the lower the discount rate, the higher the present worth of future debt repayments and the smaller the concessionary element in a given loan.
The choice of an appropriate discount rate for present worth calculations raises major questions. If the purpose is to measure the economic cost of development assistance to donors, the discount rate should express the value of alternative use for capital in donor countries. From the point of view of the recipients' benefits, one appropriate discount rate might be the interest rate prevailing in external capital markets for bonds of developing countries, although in practice only a small number of developing countries have borrowed in external markets in relatively small amounts. A discount rate of 8% might be used as a rough indication of the cost of such borrowings. Another appropriate discount rate is the marginal economic rate of return for external capital in developing countries, which indicates the benefit of such capital to recipients. Although this is most difficult to measure, a rate
!See Notes to Tables 10-13, page 64.
of 10% might be used as a rough and arbitrary approximation. Future public debt repayments as reported to the Bank on a loan-to-loan basis are then discounted at these rates to estimate their present worth. For an estimate of the concessionary element in total development finance (rather than in loans alone), the full amount of grants and grant-like contributions (including food aid repayable in domestic currencies) is added. The concessionary element for recipients as a percentage of the public capital inflow calculated in this manner is shown for the years 1965 and 1966 in Tables 10 and 11.
The quantitative results of such calculations must be interpreted with caution. Even if the results properly estimate the present worth of future debt service, there are other important elements having a great influence on actual terms of loans or grants. For example, loans that are "tied" to purchases in donor countries or to the purchase of certain commodities may require the recipient to pay higher prices than in the lowest priced markets. Similarly, aid in the form of food or other commodities and services may be shown at values higher than their real market value. Those factors are of particular importance in cases in which debt must be repaid in convertible foreign currency. The overvaluation of prices involved in "tied" aid reduces the concessionary element to the recipient, and in certain extreme cases may even exceed the concessionary element, particularly if finance'd through suppliers' credits or other loans at relatively high interest rates.
If the latter factor is disregarded, th'e illustrations of the concessionary element show an interesting pattern. There are large differences in the concessionary element between developing countries, ranging in 1966 (at 10% discount rate) from as low as 15% to as
high as 100% (Table 11). For a number of countries, the concessionary element varied considerably between 1965 and 1966. Variations in the share of the concessionary element by recipient countries reflect differences in the amount and terms of development assistance received from various sources, which have varied greatly as shown in Tables 12 and 13. To a certain extent, differences in the concessionary element of aid received by developing countries were correlated with variations in their income and balance of payments prospects. For a number of recipient countries, however, little correlation has existed between the concessionary element and the country's ability to service external debt, largely due to grants provided by donor countries to some developing countries with whom they have special relationships.
The flow of official capital from the economically more advanced (Part I) member   countries   of   the International
Development Association to developing countries and multilateral institutions, net of amortization, is estimated at about $7,040 million in 1967 (Table 14), according to preliminary information. This estimate shows an increase of about $475 million over 1966 and about $800 million over 1965. It is not yet possible to ascertain whether the increase indicates a trend of moderate growth in official assistance commitments, or whether it is merely the result of a special rise in disbursements due to the accumulation of commitments in previous years.
Several donors reported an increase in official assistance in 1967. The flow of official aid from France rose during the year from $745 million in 1966 to $831 million, a result of the expressed intention of the French Government to reverse the decline in the level of assistance in 1965 and 1966. Official assistance from Germany increased from $490 million to $549 million, apparently chiefly because of a special accumulation of disbursements. The flow of offi-
cial aid from Japan amounted to $391 million compared with $285 million in 1966, due mainly to larger reparation payments to the Philippines and grants and loans to Indonesia, the Republic of China and Korea. The amount of official aid from Australia, Canada, Denmark, Italy, Kuwait, the Netherlands and Sweden either continued to grow or maintain the considerably higher level achieved in 1966.
There was a slight increase in official aid of the United States in 1967, with some growth in both disbursements and commitments. Official assistance of the United Kingdom was reduced slightly as a result of the Government's decision to lower the ceiling on aid disbursements in the UK financial year 1967/68 due to balance of payments constraints and budgetary difficulties.
The official capital receipts by the developing countries, net of amortization, from bilateral and multilateral sources increased in 1967 by about $230 million to approximately $6,200 million. In addition to an increase in receipts of bilateral aid from IDA Part I countries, disbursements from multilateral institutions continued a rising trend and amounted to about $1,000 million net. Bilateral aid disbursements in 1967 from the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe excluding Yugoslavia are estimated, as in previous years, at about $350 million.
The flow of private capital from IDA Part I countries to developing countries and multilateral institutions, net of amortization, is tentatively estimated at some $4,270 million on the basis of preliminary figures, indicating a recovery from a lower amount in 1966 to above the level which prevailed in 1965. Bilateral private capital flows have remained at a roughly constant level during the last three years. However, the sales of bonds net of redemptions by multilateral institutions in capital markets (other
than to governments and official institutions), which are recorded as private capital flows, increased between 1966 and 1967. The private capital flow from the United States to developing countries rose after falling in 1966. Private capital flows from Japan showed a sharp increase, following the inclusion in the data of export credits for ships sold to Greece, Liberia and Panama. The private capital outflow from Germany more than doubled in 1967, mainly reflecting an increase in export credits. The flow of private capital to developing countries from Italy, which sharply increased in 1966, due to an exceptionally large rise of export credits, declined sharply.
Sales of new bonds in the international capital markets have increased sharply, reaching record levels of about $4,410 million in 1967 and about $3,500 million9 in the first half of 1968 (Table 15). An increase has occurred in sales of foreign bonds in the New York market and in sales in the Euro-bond market of securities denominated in a currency other than that of the country where sold.
The expansion in the New York market in 1967 was due mainly to an increase in sales of new bonds by the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank. The World Bank floated two bond issues totaling $400 million and the IDB two issues totaling $110 million. Because of constraints due to the US balance of payments deficit and the interest equalization tax, no new bonds were placed in New York during 1967 and the first half of 1968 by governments or corporations of other industrialized countries, with the exception of Canada and to a small extent of Japan. Although most developing
'The data for the first half of 1968 are preliminary.
countries are exempt from the interest equalization tax, only Israel managed to borrow on a large scale in the US market during the period, while Argentina, Colombia, Mexico, Panama, Peru, the Philippines,Thailand and Venezuela borrowed in relatively small amounts.
In the Euro-bond market, sales of new bonds by public institutions and corporations of industrialized countries increased in 1967 and in the first half of 1968. US corporations stepped up their borrowing, with a further sharp increase in the first half of 1968 to the equivalent of $1,315 million, mainly in the form of convertible bonds. France for the first time became a borrower in the market on a considerable scale. Sales of Austrian bonds increased sharply in 1967 and again in the first half of 1968. A significant increase took place in sales of new bonds by Scandinavian countries (Denmark, Finland and Norway); Australian, New Zealand and South African bond sales also increased. Among developing countries, Argentina, Israel, Mexico, Peru, Portugal and Spain managed to sell bonds on a considerable scale. The World Bank sold new long-term bonds in 1967 in Sweden and Switzerland totaling the equivalent of $28.5 million, and in the first half of 1968 in Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland totaling $58.5 million. Sales of new bonds by the IDB in the European market declined in 1967; one issue was placed, in Belgium, totaling the equivalent of $6 million. The European Investment Bank, which makes development loans in certain European and African countries, continued to be an important borrower.
Owing to the balance of payments difficulties of the United Kingdom, the London sterling market continued to be almost totally closed to new international bond issues, with the exception
of relatively small issues by Australia, the East African Community, Iceland, Jamaica, Malaysia and New Zealand; in the case of Australia, the new issue replaced bonds that had matured shortly before.
In addition to the long-term bonds publicly sold in capital markets, the World Bank continued to sell short-term dollar bonds and notes with two to five-year maturities to central banks and official institutions outside the United States. The World Bank also sold in 1968 a $15 million bond issue of 26 years to the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. Details of the Bank's borrowings are given on pages 75-77.
The number of developing countries managing to borrow in international capital markets is still very small, though it increased somewhat in 1967 and in the first half of 1968. Mexico and Portugal are traditional borrowers in international markets, and in the last two years both were able to increase sales of bonds in the Euro-bond market. A few other developing countries in relatively strong financial positions, such as the Philippines, managed to place bonds privately in foreign markets. Certain African countries, including Gabon and the Ivory Coast, have sold bonds in France guaranteed by official institutions of the French Government. The Ivory Coast borrowed $16 million in the Euro-bond market in the first half of 1968. These loans were made on the credit of the Ivorean Government alone and mark the first loans of this kind te a newly independent African country. Argentina made a private placement in the United States of five-year bonds totaling $25 million in the first half of 1968, the first bond issue sold by Argentina in the US market during the last 30 years. A number of private companies also borrowed in external markets—electric companies in Peru and
the Philippines, construction companies in Colombia and Venezuela, and manufacturing companies in Portugal and Thailand. Most loans raised by developing countries during the period under review were for either general budgetary purposes or for investments scheduled in development plans (Malaysia, Mexico, Portugal). In some cases they were related to specific investments (electric power in Mexico and highways in Spain). Generally, yields on new bpnds issued by developing countries in 1967 were one to two percentage
points higher than bonds issued by industrialized countries and international development institutions.
The high level of yields on foreign bonds which prevailed in 1966 was generally maintained during 1967 with minor fluctuations, and even increased in the first half of 1968. In the United States, the yield on new Canadian bonds increased from 5.63% in March 1967 to 7.63% in May 1968 (Table 16). The yields on new World Bank bonds placed in the United States increased from 5.35% in April 1967 to
5.95% in September 1967 and again to 6.54% in March 1968. In European markets (with the exception of Switzerland), yields were higher than in the United States. The yield on new World Bank bonds sold in Sweden in October 1967 was 6.0%, while that on new bonds sold in Germany in June 1968 was 6.91%. In January 1968 the World Bank placed an issue in Canada with a yield of 7.22%, the highest ever on new World Bank bonds. The yields on issues by developing countries varied somewhat, reaching 8.48% for bonds
A student at the College Moyen et Secondaire, Medjez-al-Bab, Tunisia. Two International Development Association credits amounting to $18 million are helping to build new schools and improve the educational facilities in Tunisia.
sold by Jamaica in the United Kingdom in January 1968, and 8.16% on new Mexican bonds sold in various European markets in March 1968.
Between 1957 and 1967, agricultural output in the developing countries of Africa, Asiaand Latin America increased by only 3.2% per year, as compared to a population growth of 2.4% per year, resulting in per capita growth in agricultural output of about 0.7% per year (Table 3). Food output has probably grown at a somewhat slower rate. With per capita incomes increasing at a rate of nearly 2% per year and an income elasticity of demand for food estimated at 0.6-0.7, demand for food (other than beverages) increased at a rate of 1.2% to 1.4% per year per capita, and overall demand rose by about 4% a year. The gap between supply and demand caused an increase in food prices and had to be filled by a sharp rise in the food imports of developing countries. The situation has been particularly acute in Asia where per capita agricultural output has barely increased, resulting in the need for large-scale food imports into a region which was formerly a net exporter.
New High-Yielding Varieties
In spite of this discouraging record, the prospects for developing countries' agriculture now appear to be a great deal better than could have been imagined two years ago. This new situation is the result of the successes recently achieved with large-scale plantings of new high-yielding varieties of food grains. Reports from India, Pakistan and the Philippines show a rapid expansion in acreage planted to new high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice during the past year. Yield potentials of ¦i:>i these new varieties are double or triple
the maximum yields of the traditional varieties. Combined with favorable prices, good weather and increased fertilizer supplies, food grain output in these countries has risen sharply over the levels of the preceding two years. The pessimistic projections of a food crisis are beginning to be challenged by a school of opinion which believes that an "agricultural revolution" in Asia may be forthcoming.
Traditional varieties of rice and wheat grown in much of Southeast Asia are suited to natural conditions of low fertility and uncertain rainfall and are resistant to local pests and diseases. In comparison with temperate zone varieties, however, they have shown limited response to conditions of high fertility and adequate water supply. On the other hand, traditional temperate varieties have performed poorly under tropical and subtropical conditions, showing a tendency to mature too rapidly and to produce low yields.
The picture has been greatly changed by the introduction in the last few years of new varieties. Mexican dwarf varieties of wheat developed by the Rockefeller Foundation were first released to Asian farmers in 1965. The IR 8 variety of rice developed at the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines was first released in 1966. By 1967/68 it was estimated that the new varieties had been planted in 15% of the wheat acreage in India and Pakistan and about 6% of the rice acreage in India and the Philippines. Good progress is also reported in introducing high-yielding varieties in Afghanistan, Ceylon, Indonesia, Malaysia and Turkey. Acreage planted with the new varieties is expected to double in 1968/69. The impact to date on overall wheat and rice output has been modest, and it is difficult to separate the effects of weather and higher prices. Nevertheless, the record food
grain crop in India and the record wheat crop in Pakistan can be attributed at least in part to these high-yielding varieties. More importantly, the breakthrough in rice and wheat varieties and the promising developments in maize, millets and sorghums are already changing government attitudes toward agricultural development. Decision makers are beginning to believe that resources provided to agriculture can have a high pay-off and agriculture is being given high priority in overall development.
The Background
Recent achievements must be seen in the broad context of the fundamental problems of agricultural development. Some major lessons of experience in the past are briefly discussed below.
The sheer diversity and complexity of the factors upon which agricultural growth depends make development in this sector particularly difficult. In the past, progress appears to have occurred in spurts as new elements have been introduced which overcame specific obstacles to further growth. In addition to the introduction of new plant or animal types into favorable environments, factors which have played a role in the modernization and growth of agriculture include the development of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides, the development of new types of implements and farm machinery, construction of transportation routes opening up new markets, investments opening up new land through irrigation, drainage and flood control and use of new forms of management or enterprise such as plantations and cooperatives. The time lag between introduction and acceptance of these new factors has sometimes been considerable. There are a number of examples of rapid expansion of newly introduced crops in relatively short periods of time—for ex-
ample, of groundnuts in Burma at the beginning of the century, rubber in Southeast Asia, coffee in Africa, and more recently of corn production in Northern Thailand and wheat and cotton production in Mexico. On the other hand, there have been many notable failures, such as the groundnut scheme in Tanganyika, the poultry scheme in The Gambia, and poorly planned irrigation projects in various regions.
The problems of agricultural development vary considerably between countries, depending on differences in resources, historical and cultural background and stage of development. Solutions which work in one country do not necessarily work in another. In fact, without careful adaptation to local conditions the risk of failure is high. Moreover, the dependence of agricultural production on biological cycles, the importance of weather and physical factors such as soil and topography, and the uneven quality of labor and management make the problems of each farm unique. In most cases each farmer must make his plans and pro-
duction decisions on the basis of his individual resources and objectives. How he acts will be conditioned not only by the technical knowledge he has, but also by the socio-economic environment he faces—price policies, availability of inputs, services, markets, tenure conditions, taxes or subsidies. These in turn depend on decisions on the part of other farmers, entrepreneurs in other sectors, government agencies, consumers, etc.
In short, agricultural development depends on a large number of interacting factors, both economic and non-economic. These factors vary from place to place and change with time. Solutions which depend on any single factor or set of factors are rarely successful in bringing about a self-sustaining process of agricultural development. Each solution brings forth a new set of problems which must be solved. The new high-yielding varieties may have only a limited impact unless a number of measures are taken to supplement their introduction. For example, intensive research efforts will
be necessary to assure a continuous flow of technology to meet problems as they arise, and to extend benefits to a wider range of crops under different conditions; substantial investment in better water control and more adequate supplies of inputs will be required; and government policies will have to be geared to providing farmers with adequate incentives.
Many of the problems of agriculture may be attributed to the wide gap in understanding between policy makers and farmers. Policy makers have all too often relied on simple solutions supposedly geared to the mentality of the peasant and administered by a mass of poorly trained technicians and administrators. Too often slogans and exhortation have been substituted for real incentives. Policy objectives have given lip service to the peasantry, but have in practice favored the more vocal urban and industrial groups. Even where substantial resources have been devoted to agriculture, the results have often been vitiated by a lack of understanding of what stimulates agricultural growth. In some developing countries the state of land ownership, inefficient division of land and the shortage of credit on commercially acceptable terms constitute serious obstacles to the introduction of technological innovation and to raising of productivity.
The result has frequently been a lag in agricultural output, which has given rise to food shortages and inflation. These have often led to price and distribution controls or to concessionary imports of foodstuffs, both of which have in turn had the effect of depressing farm incomes. At the same time, protective policies for infant industries have resulted in high prices for farm inputs and consumer goods. In some countries, moreover, overvalued exchange rates have acted as a particular
disincentive for exports of agricultural commodities.
One principal lesson to be learned from the postwar record of agriculture is that, given adequate incentives, the farmer will respond. To be widely accepted, a new technology must produce large increases in output, and the costs must be low enough to leave the farmer with a substantial margin of profits. Until 1963, when food grain prices were increased, the benefits available to progressive Indian farmers adopting new practices under the intensive agricultural district program were barely sufficient to cover costs. In fact, with poor weather, the farmer could very easily lose money. It was not until the successive droughts of 1965 and 1966 that food grain prices rose to levels which provided a real incentive to use fertilizers.
Through much of South Asia, crop production is heavily dependent on the timeliness and adequacy of the seasonal rains. A late monsoon or too little or too much rain can cause a 50% change in crop output from one year to the next. Under these conditions an
increase of one-third in output from fertilizer application (about the maximum with traditional varieties) often cannot be distinguished from year-to-year changes resulting from weather, and in any event is not very attractive since little or no benefits may materialize in a drought year. In fact, most of the increases in fertilizer use to date have occurred in irrigated areas or areas with reasonably reliable rainfall.
The rapid expansion of private tube-well irrigation in India and Pakistan during the past decade was no doubt related to the need for an assured water supply if fertilizer applications were to be profitable. Favorable prices for sugarcane and cotton and the good response of these crops to fertilizers and water were also important factors. Farmer interest in pest control also developed as higher yields raised the incidence of pests and diseases.
New Possibilities
The introduction of the new high-yielding food grain varieties has brought about a sharp change in farmer atti-
tudes. With reasonable weather and using suitable inputs the farmer can now expect to double or triple his grain yields per crop, as compared to increases of the order of one-third with the older varieties. Moreover, since the new varieties have a shorter growing period than the traditional varieties, possibilities of double cropping are also greatly enhanced. Under these conditions, also stimulated by higher food grain prices, farmers have been quick to recognize the benefits of shifting to these new varieties and using more water and fertilizer for their high-yielding wheat and rice.
Fortunately in 1967/68 favorable weather contributed to the success of the first large-scale production effort using the new varieties. Despite extensive irrigation developments in both India and Pakistan, much of the irrigation is designed for drought insurance rather than intensive production. Except where tubewell irrigation provides sufficient supplementary water for intensive cropping, available water is spread over too large an area. In years of poor rainfall, drought conditions af-
Building an irrigation canal near Empalme in the Rio Bravo region of northeast Mexico. The World Bank has made finance available to Mexico for the development of industry, electric power, transportation and agriculture.
feet a considerable portion of the irrigated as well as the rain-fed area. In years of excessive rainfall, much of the area is subject to flooding due to inadequate flood control and drainage facilities. Some of the new high-yielding varieties are more susceptible to drought and flood damage than the traditional varieties. As a result, the scope for expansion of these new high-yielding varieties will be limited to areas where irrigation, flood control and drainage facilities are adequate. Considerable investment in facilities for better water control will therefore be needed to realize the potentialities of the new varieties fully. On the other hand, the higher yields which can be realized will sharply raise the returns from such investments.
On the technical side, a number of outstanding problems remain. For example, consumer tastes usually favor locally grown varieties; plant breeders are already at work trying to combine these taste characteristics of local varieties with the high-yielding characteristics of the new varieties. Similarly, local varieties are more tolerant to local pests and diseases. Even if initial problems are not encountered, the new varieties can develop susceptibilities to plant diseases.
A number of basic plant types have now been developed, however, which can provide the basis for continuous adaptive research on an intensive scale. This should provide a flow of new varieties to meet changing requirements. Fortunately, the varieties developed so far have been tolerant to an unusually wide range of conditions, and their success has focused attention on the high pay-offs research can produce. Much valuable work has been done in the developing countries themselves in local adaptive research; however, substantial investment in additional facilities is still necessary to carry on the
continuous search for newer and better varieties.
The full benefits of the high-yielding varieties cannot be realized without considerable change in the farmer's customary practices. The IRRI varieties permit a substantial increase in double cropping, which in turn requires a considerable speed-up in land preparation, planting, harvesting, and threshing activities. In addition, harvesting of one of the crops may occur during the rainy season, in which case harvesting methods may have to be changed and arrangements made for drying the grain. To overcome these problems, some degree of mechanization will probably be necessary to meet peak season labor requirements. Double cropping could, however, increase total employment throughout the year and thus help relieve underemployment.
The production and distribution of seeds of proven quality will become extremely important, since poor germination resulting from the admixture of inferior seed can sharply reduce output. Legislation regulating standards of seed quality is needed as well as technical assistance and financing for development of commercial seed production and distribution. The World Bank Group is currently considering several projects aimed at developing local seed industries.
The greater responsiveness of the new varieties to. heavy fertilizer application is already producing a sharp increase in fertilizer demand. The new awareness of the importance of fertilizer is reflected in higher priorities being given to fertilizer imports and to projects for fertilizer production.
The Significance of the New Varieties
The success of the new high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice in Asia has already stimulated introduction of these varieties into research stations in other
parts of the world and focused attention on the high returns possible through expanded research. Adaptive work on other crops such as hybrid corn, millets and sorghums, grasses, legumes and oilseeds will also no doubt be stimulated. Plans for establishment of a regional research center in Africa are well under way and centers in Latin America are being strengthened.
The demand for fertilizers, pesticides, farm machinery and more adequate water supplies is rising sharply over previous expectations. Facilities for the production, storage, distribution and marketing of inputs will have to be expanded to meet these higher demands. Moreover, the change from traditional non-cash inputs to high levels of cash inputs will require the expansion of farm credit. This will entail the use of all available credit channels, including a much fuller participation of the private sector, both for short-term production and marketing credit and for medium and long-term credit to finance farm improvement. An important aspect of the new situation is that, with the higher returns from the new varieties, the ready availability and timeliness of credit become much more important to the farmer than the terms on which it is available. At the same time, credit terms may well improve, since the income prospects provided by double cropping high-yielding varieties make the farmer a much better credit risk.
The new technology is not primarily dependent on economies of scale. Both small and large farmers can benefit; consequently, millions of farms currently existing on the margin of subsistence may now have an opportunity to become viable commercial entities. This in turn will make it possible to substitute sound agricultural credit programs for rural welfare schemes dependent on uncertain grants and subsidies.
The move to a modem high input agriculture will also call for an improvement in extension services designed to cope with the more sophisticated problems which farmers will face, rather than to disseminate mass information on simple practices. In this respect there seems to be considerable scope for strengthening the extension role of distributors of farms inputs.
The larger grain crops will accentuate the needs for storage and handling facilities to prevent large-scale damage and losses from insects and rodents and from exposure to heat and moisture. Considerable investments will be required for storage, processing and marketing facilities as well as farm-to-market roads. Moreover, as more developing countries benefit from the new technology there is likely to be a reduced need for food aid and eventually a reversal of present trade patterns for food grains. This will require a rethinking of current policies in developed as well as developing countries, with a possible view to shifting production resources from food grains into feed grain and livestock production, in order to meet a growing demand for proteins.
Implications for the Bank Group
The Bank Group has always been keenly aware of the need to increase agricultural production in the developing world and is already financing many projects for this purpose. These are discussed in some detail in Part One (see pages 11-13). New opportunities for higher food grain production now exist through the cultivation of the high-yielding crop varieties. Because these respond more favorably than traditional varieties to improvements in water control and higher fertilizer inputs, investment in fertilizer and irrigation projects has now taken 4--. 3 on a new importance. The higher prod-
uctivity of the new varieties should also make such investment more profitable. The Bank Group has already sponsored irrigation or fertilizer projects in a number of countries, including Colombia, India, Iran, Malaysia, Mexico, Pakistan, the Philippines, Sudan, Thailand and Turkey, and is examining the possibility of further investment for these purposes. At the same time, the Group is already channeling funds into financing inputs such as seeds, pesticides and machinery; it is seeking to increase its support for projects of this type, and for agricultural education and credit programs.
While attention has been focused on the recent achievements in Asia with high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice, similar developments are taking place in other sectors of agriculture and other geographical areas, perhaps not on the same dramatic scale but nevertheless paving the way for more rapid development. The Bank Group has been supporting such developments by increasing the volume and diversity of its agricultural lending. Some recent examples are: livestock projects in Africa and in Latin America based on new technology for tropical grasses and legumes, improved animal breeds and better management; plantation crops in Africa and Malaysia utilizing high-yielding planting materials; and the introduction of agricultural credit schemes and integrated development projects which provide smallholders in Africa with draft power, modern equipment, fertilizers and pesticides to improve the production of their traditional crops. The large number and variety of agricultural projects currently under consideration indicate a continued growth in the volume and scope of the Bank Group's activities in agriculture.
In addition, the Bank Group in cooperation with FAO and other agencies
will have to step up its technical assistance activities in the planning, preparation and implementation of projects. The International Finance Corporation is expected to be more active in financing the production and distribution of fertilizers, insecticides and other important agricultural inputs. High priority must also be given to the financing of processing, storage and marketing facilities for the increased output which can be expected. Investments in farm-to-market roads as well as basic investments in roads, railways and ports will need to be increased to handle the higher volume of trade generated by increased production.
The need for a considerable increase in food production must be viewed against the background of the "population explosion." The population in developing countries grew at a rate of about 2.5% per year between 1960 and 1966 (Table 1). This average conceals large variations between regions and countries. Latin America, for instance, had a population growth rate of about 2.9%, since its relatively more advanced level of development resulted in a death rate lower than that of other developing regions.
These unprecedentedly high rates of population growth are the result of a rapid postwar decline in the death rate, combined with a constant birth rate. The expectation of life at birth, a measure of mortality that is not influenced by the age structure of the population, has increased by 0.5 to 1.0 years p'er annum in the postwar period. This has had a greater proportional impact on the younger age groups and has resulted in a much younger age structure of the population. The result is that the crude death rate fell to about 18 per
thousand in 1960-65; this again conceals large variations. Furthermore, many countries can still expect further declines in their death rates. In some countries such as the Republic of China, Costa Rica and Jamaica, death rates have fallen to six to nine per thousand, well below the rate in the United States.10 Similar falls could occur in other developing countries, regardless of their rate of economic development.
Since death rates may well decline still further, any prospective reversal in the present acceleration of the rates of population growth can come about only as'a result of a reduction in birth rates. To have any real effect, such a reduction will have to be substantial, more than counteracting the prospective reduction in the death rate. The United Nations has worked out the implications of these trends by assuming that
10This is to a large extent the result of the young age structure in these countries. For instance, if the Republic of China had the population age structure of the US, then with the existing mortality conditions the death rate would be around 14 per thousand instead of six per thousand.
the death rate would continue to decline, first at the present rate, and then at a slower rate, and also by assuming that the birth rate would decline slowly at first and then at an accelerating pace. Even under such assumptions, the growth rate of the population of developing countries would increase to 2.7% between 1970 and 1975, and only then would start to decline. The UN projections show an increase in the population of developing countries11 from about 1,370 million in 1960 to about2,300million in 1980, and to about 3,600 million in the year 2000.
These high rates of population growth explain the increasing emphasis on the adoption of population control policies. The adoption of such policies constitutes a drastic change in attitudes toward the role of government in this area. This change occurred in the early 1960s; as a result, about half the total population of the developing world lives in countries committed to birth control policies. The movement originated in
"Excluding Mainland China and Mongolia.
Asia, where 70% of the population lives in countries favoring such policies; comparable figures for other regions are 20% in Africa (mostly in North Africa) and even less in Latin America.
Despite the trend toward encouragement of family planning, progress so far has been extremely modest. As yet, very few if any programs have initiated a measurable decline in birth rates, though in several countries of East Asia with well-established programs (the Republic of China, Hong Kong, Singapore and probably Korea), a decline that had already started before the introduction of the program has been accelerated. In all these countries birth rates had begun to fall apparently as a result of a general improvement in economic and social conditions. The great challenge to national population policies, however, is whether a decline in birth rates can be initiated ahead of its "normal" pace within the framework of overall economic and social development.
In most cases it is too early to evaluate whether this challenge will be met successfully, because most family planning programs have been in existence for such a short time. An intensification of emphasis on population control is necessary because population growth rates are expected to rise further. As an indication of the economic benefits of a slowdown in population growth, it has been calculated that, if a developing country with an average per capita income of $150 to $200 a year successfully reduced its fertility by 50% over a period of 25 years, per capita income would be at least 40% higher than otherwise after 30 years, and over twice as high at the end of 60 years.
Population control is therefore a necessary complement to policies designed to raise food production and improve the standards of living in developing countries.
Notes to Tables 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
The figures on loans shown in Tables 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 are based on information obtained by the Bank from member countries by means of semiannual reports on their external public debt payable in foreign currency or goods with an original maturity of one year or more. External public debt consists of obligations of the central governments and their political subdivisions and agencies as well as private debt guaranteed by the said governments and/or their agencies, excluding IMF drawings. The countries (and the East African Common Services Organization} for which data are shown in these tables have been included because relatively consistent and accurate statistics for the years shown are available.
Data shown in Tables 8 and 9 pertain only to countries for which detailed information on disbursements and debt service payments for 1965 and 1966 were available. Although several major debtor countries such as Brazil, Turkey, Israel and Indonesia are not included, incomplete information for these and other countries suggests that the relation between disbursements and debt service payments of the countries included in Tables 8 and 9 is fairly representative for ail developing countries.
Table 6 provides data for an additional number of countries which have been obtained from the best published sources and from reports of creditor countries. This information is less reliable than the data €5^4   shown in the main body of the table and must be
interpreted only as an indication of orders of magnitude. The figures in the table are not comparable to those shown in previous Annual Reports due to differences in coverage and revisions reflecting more recent information.
Data on grants (included in Tables 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13) and "grant-like contributions" such as loans and other transfers of resources repayable in focaf currencies, have been obtained from the OECD and are based on reports from donor countries. In accordance with UN and DAC practices, food assistance repayable in iocai currencies has been treated as a grant.
Nofes to Tables 10, 11, 12, 13
The concessionary (or grant) element concept in development finance has been discussed and applied in the following studies by private authors and official institutions:
John Pincus (in Economic Aid and International Cost Sharing, 1965), Goran Ohlin (in Foreign Aid Policies Reconsidered, 1966), I. M. D. Little and J. M. Clifford (in International Aid, 1965), and H. G. Johnson (in Economic Policies Towards Less-Developed Countries, 1967).
The method was also used in the following official publications: OECD, The Flow ot Financial Resources to   Less-Developed   Countries,   1961-1965,   and in
OECD, Development Assistance Efforts and Policies, 1967 Review. An extensive discussion and application of the method is included in study by John Pincus for UNCTAD, Costs and Benefits of Aid: An Empirical Analysis, 1967.
in these studies, calculations of costs and benefits of external assistance have been made by discounting future repayments according to average terms of loans based on World Bank or OECD data. Information on future public debt repayments is generally available to the Bank on a loan-to-loan basis. Calculations of "present worth" of future debt repayments discounted on a loan-to-loan basis give somewhat more accurate results than discounting of average loan terms. Although loans are recorded by the time incurred (when loan agreements are signed), disbursement rates of loans are either known or can be reasonably well estimated. Thus, data on both future debt repayments and loan disbursements are available on a loan-to-loan basis, and their present worth can be calculated. Loan disbursements have been projected according to actual disbursements or a schedule whenever given; in the absence of a schedule, the disbursements were assumed to be equal to semi-annua! amounts during the grace period or up to the closing date, when the latter is known.
Food assistance repayable in domestic currencies has been considered as grants, in accordance with UN and DAC practices.
Notes to Financial Statements
Appendix F
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
June 30, 1968
Note A
Amounts in currencies other than United States dollars have been translated into United States dollars:
(i) In the cases of 77 members, at the par values as specified in the "Schedule of Par Values", published bythe International Monetary Fund;
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 30 members [Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo (Brazzaville), Democratic Republic of Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, The Gambia, Guinea, Indonesia, Ivory Coast, Korea, Laos, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Paraguay, Peru, Senegal, Togo, Upper Volta and Viet-Nam], at the rates used by such members in making payments of capital subscriptions to the Bank; and
(iii) In the case of Swiss francs, non-member currency, at the rate of 4.2975 Swiss francs to 1 United States dollar.
See also Note B.
No representation is made that any currency held by the Bank is convertible into any other currency at any rate or rates.
Note B
These currencies of the several members, and the notes issued by them in substitution for any part of such currencies as permitted under the provisions of Article V, Section 12, are derived from the portion of the subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank which is payable in the currencies of the respective members (such portion being hereinafter called restricted currency). Such restricted currencies may be loaned by the Bank, and funds received by the Bank on account of principal of loans made by the Bank out of such restricted currencies may be exchanged for other currencies or reloaned, only with the approval in each case of the member whose restricted currency is involved; provided, however, that, if necessary, after the Bank's subscribed capital is entirely called, such restricted currencies may, without restriction by the members whose currencies are offered, be used or exchanged for the currencies required to meet contractual payments of interest, other charges or amortization on the Bank's own borrowings or to meet the Bank's
liabilities with respectto contractual payments on loans guaranteed by it.
Under Article II, Section 9, each member is required, if the par value of its currency is reduced or if the foreign exchange value of its currency depreciates to a significant extent in its territories, to maintain the value of the Bank's holdings of its restricted currency, including the principal amount of any notes substituted therefor, and the Bank is required, if the par value of a member's currency is increased, to return to the member the increase in the value of such restricted currency held by the Bank. To the extent such restricted currencies are out on loan, the Bank and the members are obligated to make such payments only when such restricted currencies are recovered by the Bank.
The equivalent of $18,868,220 is receivable from 6 members and the equivalent of $387,261 is payable to 1 member in order to maintain the value of their restricted currencies as required under Article II, Section 9.
Some members have converted part or all of the Bank's holdings of their restricted currency into United States dollars to be used and reused as United States dollars in the Bank's operations, subject to the right of the Bank or the member to reverse the transactions at any time, with immediate effect as to dollars then held by the Bank, and, as to dollars loaned, upon repayment of the loans. Such dollars while held by the Bank or on loan are not subject to the provisions of Article II, Section 9. Such dollars held bythe Bank or repayable on loans are shown in these financial statements under "United States dollars" and, where relevant, as "unrestricted".
Note C
The Bank opened four interest-bearing demand deposit accounts with the Reserve Bank of India denominated in US dollars, pounds sterling, Deutsche mark and yen. The Bank intends to withdraw these funds from time to time but not later than March 31, 1971.
Note ?
Amounts of commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6, as a Special Reserve to be held in liquid form and to be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of the Bank on its borrowings and guarantees.
Note E
Of the $169,123,501 net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30,1968, the Executive Directors in August1968, allocated $94,123,501 to the Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guarantees and From Currency Devaluations and have recommended to the Board of Governors that an additional amount equal to the balance of $75,000,000 be transferred by way of grant to the Internationa! Development Association.
Consistent with past practice, the Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guarantees and From Currency Devaluations has been charged during the current fiscal year with the undermentioned amounts representing a net loss to the Bank as a result of the revaluation on the books of the Bank of the balances of amounts in those currencies held at the dates of devaluation and acquired from net earnings in the currencies indicated:
Net loss on
Currency devaluation
Ceylon rupees.............. $ 31,810
Danish kroner............... 571,030
Finnish markkas............ 618,029
New Ghana cedis........... 273,363
Irish pounds................ 293,786
Israel pounds............... 101,955
Pounds sterling............. 20,828,449
Spanish pesetas............ 466,824
Others...................... 1,452
TOTAL................... $23,186,698
Note F
In terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
Note G
Subjectto call bythe Bank only when required to meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. As to $18,353,520,000 the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement; as to $2,294,190,000 by resolutions of the Board of Governors.
Notes to Financial Statements
Appendix F
International Development Association
June 30, 1968
Note A
Amounts in currencies other than United States dollars have been translated into United States dollars:
(i) In the cases of 70 members, at the par values as specified in the "Schedule of Par Values", published by the International Monetary Fund;
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 28 members [Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo (Brazzaville), Democratic Republic of Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, The Gambia, Ivory Coast, Korea, Laos, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Paraguay, Peru, Senegal, Togo, Upper Volta and Viet-Nam], at the rates used by such members in making payments of subscriptions to the Association.
Note B
Pursuant to Article IV, Section 1 (a), these amounts may be used by the Association for administrative expenses incurred bythe Association in the territories of any member whose currency is involved and, insofar as consistent with sound monetary policies, in paymentfor goods and services produced in theterritories of such member and required for projects financed by the Association and located in such territories; and in addition when and to the extent justified by the economic and financial situation of the member concerned as determined by agreement between the member and the Association, such currency shall be freely convertible or otherwise usable for projects financed by the Association and located outside the territories of the member.
Note C
Under Article IV, Section 2, each member is required, if the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has inthe opinion of the Association depreciated to a significant extent within that member's territories, to maintain the value of the. Association's holdings of its ninety percent currency, including the principal amount of any notes substituted therefor, and the Association is required if the par value of the member's currency is increased, ortheforeign exchange value of the member's currency has in the opinion of the Association appreciated to a significant extent within that member's territories, to return tothe memberthe increase in the value of such ninety percent currency held by the Association; provided, however, that the foregoing shall apply only so long as
and to the extent that such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member.
Supplementary resources of the Association have, by agreement, the same respective rights and obligations as to maintenance of value as are set forth in Article IV, Section 2, of the Articles ofthe Association.
The equivalent of $3,464,982 is due from five members in order to maintain the value of the Association's currency holdings as required under Article IV, Section 2.
Note D
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has authorized transfers, by way of grants, to the Association totaling $210,000,000 from the net income of the Bank for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1964,1965, 1966 and 1967. Of this amount, $167,300,000 has been received as of June 30, 1968.
Note E
The Association has entered into an agreement with the Swiss Confederation whereby the Confederation will lend SwF52 million (approximately U.S. equivalent $12.1 million) to the Association. Under the agreement the proceeds will be made available in three equal instalments on July 1 of the years 1968, 1969 and 1970. The loan will carry no interest and will be repayable in forty annual instalments beginning July 1, 1979. The first ten instalments will be at 1% each of the principal amount and the remaining thirty instalments will be at 3% of such principal amount.
Note F
The principal disbursed and outstanding on development credits and the accrued service charge are expressed in terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960 and the equivalent is payable by the borrowers in currencies which the Association determines to be freely convertible or freely exchangeable by the Association for currencies of other members ofthe Association, except that such amount would be reduced if (a) there is a uniform proportionate reduction in the par values of the currencies of all members of the International Monetary Fund or (b) the Association so decides because of a substantial reduction in the value of one or more major currencies of members. The foregoing does not apply to a credit of $9,000,000 which is expressed and is repayable in legal tender dollars.
Note G
Subscriptions and supplementary resources are expressed in terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960.
Note H
The accumulated net income has been charged with $1,061,006 representing a loss to the Association as a result of devaluation on the books of the Association of the balance of the amount in pounds sterling held at the date of devaluation in November 1967 and acquired from net earnings.
Note I
With effect from July 1, 1967 the Executive Directors approved a change in budgetary procedure whereby the Association will pay to the Bank a single management fee in place ofthe previous system under which the Association reimbursed the Bank for a number of individual expense items. For the fiscal year 1968 the management fee was established at $4,216,061 which was the amount of the expenses of the Association in fiscal year 1967.
General
The Executive Directors have recommended to the Board of Governors resolutions authorizing the Association to accept from Part I Countries additional contributions as a second replenishment of the resources of the Association aggregating $1,188 million in freely convertible currencies payable in three equal instalments on or before November 8, in each ofthe years 1968, 1969 and 1970. None of these contributions shall become payable unless at least 12 contributing members whose contributions aggregate not less than $950 million shall each have given the Association on or before September 30,1968, or such later date as the Executive Directors may determine, formal notification that it will make the contribution authorized for such member in accordance with the terms of the resolutions.
In addition to the above, the Swedish Government has made a special supplementary contribution to the Association's resources of $21,360,000 payable in the fiscal years 1969, 1970 and 1971. Also, the Government of Norway proposes, subject to the effectiveness of the second replenishment referred to above, to make a supplementary contribution of $1,320,000 payable in calendar years 1968,1969 and 1970.