SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND OF THE YEAR'S ACTIVITIES
In fiscal 1972, for (he first time in any year, the Executive Directors approved lending and investment operations totaling more than $3,000 million. At the same time, the World Bank Group continued to increase the scope and depth of its development assistance in all forms, most notably to the poorer countries in its membership.
The year's lending included 72 Bank loans to 40 countries totaling $1,966 million. Credits of the International Development Association (IDA) amounting to $1,000 million were approved for 74 projects in 38 countries. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) made 23 investments in 17 countries for a total of $116 million.
Looking to the future and the need for continuity in management, the Executive Directors extended Mr. Roberts. McNamara's appointment as President of the Bank, IDA and IFC for a second five year term beginning April 1, 1973.
Lending operations during the year virtually assured attainment of the goal established by Mr. McNamara shortly after he became President four years ago: to double in five years the amount of development financing recorded by the Croup in the period 1964-68.
This accomplishment, and the improvements that have been made in the Bank's capability for helping its members with their more intractable development problems, should be viewed against the background of global trends in development, in development assistance, and in the growth of debt and debt service obligations.
Development Trends, Capital Flows, and the Problem of Debt
In 75 countries with 96% of the population of the Bank's developing members (see Annex Table 1), aggregate production and income appear to
In Indonesia, tea factories are being re-equipped and expanded as part of a project assisted by an IDA credit near the end of fiscal 7977.
have grown at an average annual rate of more than 5.5% over the last 10 years, and at slightly more than 3% per capita. Preliminary statistics suggest an even higher average rate during the last four years.
In global terms, this performance is impressive. It reflects remarkable advances in development on the part of a small but growing number of countries, especially in East Asia, Southern Europe and the Western Hemisphere, together with sharp increases in earnings of the oil-exporting countries. Averages are not wholly revealing, however. Behind them lie the grim realities of how life at the lower end of the scale is lived by the poorest among nations and the poorest within nations. Diversity is the rule, and everywhere there are wide disparities in income and growth, between areas and countries and between regions and groups within countries. As a generality, it is probably true that the world's burden of poverty is increasing rather than declining. This is in part, but by no means wholly, attributable to the continued rapid rate of population growth which dilutes the benefits of development. Aggregate statistics, in short, conceal the gravity of the underlying economic and social problems which are typified by severely skewed income distribution, excessive levels of unemployment, high rates of infant mortality, low rates of literacy, serious malnutrition and widespread ill health.
Yet despite all this, progress toward development has been made, and substantial resources have been directed toward the achievement of development goals. By far the greater part of those resources has, of course, been mobilized within the developing countries themselves. The complementary inflow of external resources, however, remains a critical factor, and it has not gone unaffected by recent world events.
The year 1971 was one of much uncertainty and
of important developments on the international economic scene. Both the new United States foreign economic policies introduced in August and the far-reaching realignments ol exchange rates begun in December had extremely complex repercussions throughout the first half of 1972, which varied widely from country to country. The growth of trade appears to have slowed somewhat in 1971, both for the world as a whole and for the developing countries, but no precise trend can be discerned.
Economic activity in the developed countries continued to expand, but at a reduced rate. Measured in terms of industrial production, growth rates for members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) declined from more than 6% in 1968 and 1969 to less than 3".> in 1970 and 1971. The slowdown in industrial activity did not affect imports of the OECD countries from the Middle East, mainly crude oil, but there was a marked deceleration, especially in 1971, in the growth rate of imports from other developing areas. It is hoped that renewed expansion will result from measures already taken and in prospect.
The prices of primary products upon which the developing areas are so dependent are influenced in varying degrees by several general economic forces. Since the main markets for all of these products, with the exception of rice, are in the developed countries, the level of general economic activity, currency alignments, and the rate of inflation in these countries have pervasive effects on prices and demand.
The recent realignment of many currencies may have had the effect of increasing prices of exports when measured in dollar terms. Prices, however, do not change automatically by the amount of change in the value of major currencies. Other factors have an important inlluence. A country or group of countries in a strong bargaining position may demand and get price adjustments, whereas countries in a weaker bargaining position may not. The adjustments demanded by and granted to petroleum exporting countries are a case in point. Another is the adjustment, under the International Sugar Agreement, of the price at which importers are given an option to purchase certain quantities ol sugar from their traditional sources of supply; the price was adjusted from 6.5 to 6.95 U.S. cents per pound, largely taking account of dollar devaluation. On the other hand, a demand by exporting members of the International Coffee Agreement for an increase of four cents a pound for coffee was not successful. These, of course, are only a few examples. The diversity of commodity markets and the importance of other factors must be kept in mind.
Note on dollar amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of this Report for capital of the Bank refer to United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944, while those used for subscriptions and contributions to IDA refer to U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960. For all practical purposes, these are the same. Unless otherwise specified, all other amounts in U.S. dollars refer to current dollars. One dollar as used for Bank capital and IDA subscriptions and contributions equals 1.0857 current dollars. For more detailed discussion, see General Notes to Annex Tables 3-10, which follow Table 2; Note A, Appendix C, Bank financial statements; and Note A, Appendix F, IDA financial statements.
Effects may be uncertain
Prices of some commodities had not vet been affected by the currency •eallgnments by the end of fiscal 1972. Forecasting the effect in the future is complicated by lack of experience of currency realignments involving more than two major currencies. In all likelihood the repercussions will spread over a period of years and thus become diffused among the effects of other forces.
Along with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATTJ, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UN'CTAD! and other international organizations, the Bank is attempting to analyze the effect of the currency realignments not only on the export (Minings of its developing member countries but also on their debt, debt service, reserves, and import capacity. An issue of major importance for the Bank is the change, and especially any increase, in the real cost to each developing country of servicing external debt. In order to release or earn the necessary foreign exchange, imports may have to be curtailed or resources diverted so as to increase exports. It is necessary, therefore, to consider the effect of these realignments on debt in conjunction with parallel effects on external assets and other liabilities of the developing countries, as well as on their trade and overall balance of payments situation.
So far as external debt is concerned, statistics collected by the Bank on the value of external debt outstanding and of service due were revised as soon as the schedule ol new exchange rates was established. The revised statistics of debt outstanding are summarized in the table below.
Some very tentative conclusions can be drawn from this table. First, the nominal value of total
external debt in terms of U.S. dollars has not changed as sharply as might have been expected. This is because almost half the total debt outstanding at the end of 1970 was recorded as repayable in U.S. dollars, a currency which was devalued, while only about 15% was repayable in currencies which appreciated in dollar value- -the yen and Deutsche mark in particular.
The larger increases produced by the currency realignment in the debt of Africa, Asia and Southern Europe reflect the major role of the Western European countries and japan in providing external financing in those areas. Conversely, the very small change in the nominal value of the debt of the Western Hemisphere countries as a whole is an indication ol the extent to which their external debt is repayable in U.S. dollars.
The foregoing constitutes nothing more than a very brief summary ot the results of multiplying elements of the old debt outstanding by new exchange rates. Translating these numbers into economically significant terms, valid over time, is a far more difficult and complex task. Economically meaningful and useful results will be produced only as the painstaking country-by-country analysis, now in hand, is pushed forward.
The external debt of developing countries continued to increase in 1970. (Data for 1971 are not yet available, but information on the flows of finance suggests that changes between 1970 and 1971 were unlikely to be greatly different from the trend of other recent years, which is now reasonably clear.)
During 1970 the external public debt of 80 developing countries increased by approximately 11% (see Table 1). More important, the patterns of change over the three years 1967-69 were remarkably similar and were accentuated in 1970. Between the end of 1967 and the end of 1970, total debt1" increased by about 38%. Bilateral official debt had increased by only about 29%.
Consequently, debt owed lo bilateral official lenders had decreased from almost 55",. to approximately 51% of debt outstanding. Debt owed to multilateral institutions increased by about 59",,. As a consequence, the share ol these institutions in the outstanding debt of developing countries rose from 18",, to more than 20%. All private debt rose by about 43"i> and private lenders increased their share of debt by about one percentage point from 27",, to 28",,. Debt in the form of suppliers' credits increased about 21 "I, !in contrast to 43% for ali private lenders). Debt to private banks and all other private lenders, which represented a relatively small proportion ol total debt until very recent years, rose by 67",,. Their share of total debt increased from 13",', lo almost 16",,.
Debt service accelerates
Debt service1 payments are estimated to have increased in 1970 by 18%, almost twice the average rate of recent years, and about the same rate seems likely to continue. This apparent change in trend resulted from the1 gradual hardening of the composition of flows to developing countries and the1 expiration of grace periods on concessionary loans of the early 1960s. Such a rate of increase1 foreshadows serious debt service1 ditticullies in the future unless it is accompanied by a rapid increase in ihe export earnings of developing countries, a larger flow of official long term lending on much easier average terms, or both. There will, of course1, be wide1 variations in the effect of such trends among individual countries and regions.
The 1971 Annual Report of the Bank, in assessing debt prospects, drew a distinction among three categories of countries. The1 first included the majority of developing countries which should be able to avoid debt difficulties; the second category was of countries where1 temporary difficulties may occur from time to time; and the third included a small number of countries which may require long term, highly concessional debt relief. During the past year debt negotiations have taken place with a number of countries in the third category. Consultations on debt relief for India have been under way within the framework of the India Consortium, looking toward an extension of the relief operation which terminated in March 1972. The Pakistan Consortium has reached an understanding on debt relief for Pakistan (see page 39!. Egypl reached bilateral agreements on the financing of its debts with Italy and the United States. In the case of Ghana, its debt position was due for reconsideration in mid-1972
(1' Including undisbursed, lor details and d.iid /o; c,>,'/,!'.' years, see Annex Tables 4 and 8.
under the terms of a 1970 debt relief agreement. Following a change of Government and a declaration by the new Government on debt service obligations, further rescheduling is being discussed between Ghana and its creditors. Of countries included in the second category, agreements on debt relief have been reached between Chile and its creditors covering most of debt service payments due in 1972. Yugoslavia renegotiated its debts bilaterally with a number of creditors.
Although the relationship between commitments and disbursements is difficult to establish with precision, the trend in bilateral commitments had two salient characteristics. Commitments of official bilateral loans seemed to be rising less in absolute terms, and more slowly, than commitments ot all forms of private lending.'1' Transactions in the last category are on market or near-market terms. As they are translated into disbursements and as service payments become due, there is little reason to expect a marked increase in the net flows of financial resources to developing countries. On the other hand, there was a
considerable increase and an upward trend in the commitments of multilateral institutions. Although these commitments were a mixture of transfers on market, near-market and highly concessional terms, the increase was rapid and the net flow from multilateral sources can be expected to rise.
Within the total commitments, the increase in the share of the multilateral institutions in general and of the World Bank Croup in particular was most striking. It was a clear reflection of changes in course and in prospect, in the complex of relations among providers and recipients of development assistance (see Aid Coordination, page 64).
The flow of external financial resources to the developing countries, according to data now available, rose slightly in 1971 over the previous year. Once again, the trends that have been noted in previous years continue to emerge and are clearly identifiable in Table 2.
Net disbursements of Official Development As-
"',4s revelled by the Hank''- Dvhlor Reporting System, in which commitments are described as "Authorizations."
sistance rose between 1970 and 1971 by about $810 million, or 11.8% in nominal terms.'" This was the largest increase in recent years. It would be incautious, however, to interpret this as a change in what seems to have been a very gently rising and variable trend over the last few years. The reasons for caution are to be found in the disappointing distance by which several major members of the DAC still fall short of widely accepted "targets" for such assistance. As to Other Official and private flows, the increase from 1970 to 1971 was greater, both absolutely and as a percentage. The increase in these two flows taken together was just over $1,410 million, or about 17%. One component in both categories of flows rose more than proportionately: contributions to and, especially, purchases of securities issued by multilateral institutions.
Although data on the distribution of financial flows are as yet incomplete, there are indications of the trend toward increased use of multilateral channels by DAC governments. In addition to the 16% of Official Development Assistance which was contributed directly by them to multilateral institutions in 1969, 38% was allocated to recipient countries for which there were consortia or consultative groups. These proportions, but of a larger amount fsee Annex Table 3), appear to have increased to 17% and 39% in 1970.
There were renewed efforts in 1971 to promote private investments of all kinds in the developing world, while in some areas the climate for such investment deteriorated. Measures were taken by a number of governments to expand insurance and guarantee schemes, both for commercial (suppliers' and buyers') credits and for direct investment. In addition, there was a revival of activity on international capital markets (see page 68).
It should be noted that international interest rates, although somewhat lower in 1971 than in 1970, were still at high levels compared with the early 1960s. This means increased cost to developing countries of borrowing new funds, as well as an increase in the cost of carrying a rising amount of debt as old loans are replaced by new ones.
The average terms of Official Development Assistance loans were slightly harder in 1971 than in earlier years. This resulted from a relatively larger increase in loans than in grants. The change was of rather modest proportions.'-'
The Growing Role
of the World Bank Group
Against this background, it is clear that the World Bank Group, even after the expansion of
the last few years, can play only a marginal, though critical, role in providing the capital resources required for development. It is also clear that generalizations about developing countries — their prospects or capacity for growth, their potential for expanding trade, or their ability to carry debt —are hazardous. Each country is unique, with its own particular set of problems and possibilities, both internal and in relation to the world abroad.
However large they have become, therefore, and however important they may be, the Bank Group's financial resources are less significant than the position it holds on the international development scene, and its still rising capability for helping each individual member confront its own dilemmas in the light of experience acquired by others.
The extreme diversity among member countries and developing regions is reflected in the accounts that follow of World Bank Group activities by areas. These accounts also give some indication of the efforts being made to tailor the Bank's assistance to the special needs of members. These sections are followed by a summary of technical assistance activities, which are also highlighted in the area sections themselves, and by accounts of the Bank's work in helping to further the international coordination of development and mobilize financial resources.
The IDA replenishment
While it is true that technical assistance is looked upon by the Bank as one of its most important functions, it is also true that the Group's ability to assist the poorest among its members depends heavily upon the availability of adequate funds which can be provided by IDA on appropriate terms. The fact that the Group was able in fiscal 1972 to maintain, and even to increase, the flow of credits to these countries resulted mainly from special action by 15 governments in making advance contributions to a third replenishment of IDA's resources. (See chart on page 26, showing the trend of assistance to the poorest countries.)
These advance contributions totaled 5448 million."" Together with other resources IDA was able to mobilize during the year (see page 72), they permitted firm commitments to be made for 64 of the year's approved credits, totaling $680 million. Pending completion of action required to make the replenishment effective, however,
111 At current prices and exchange rates. 1 he increase vv.is officially estimated by the Chairman of the DAC .!.-> "oi the order oi 5%" in "real terms."
'-'See "Terms Indicators" in Annex Table 1.
'''"for a list ol donors and amounts oi their advance contributions, see page 73.
funds were not available for S319.5 million in 10 credits approved for Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Korea, Morocco, Pakistan, Senegal, Tunisia and Turkey. Under resolutions approved by the Executive Directors, these credits will not be signed until the President makes certain findings as to the availability of funds. The date by which he may lake this action was extended by the Executive Directors from )une 30 to September 30, 1972.
The replenishment was the subject of an international agreement concluded in 1970, under which contributions of about $800 million had been expected in fiscal 1972. By its terms, however, the agreement cannot become effective until countries including at least 12 Part l'n members, with pledges totaling at least $1,900 million for the three years ending June 30, 1974, have officially notified IDA that they will make their contributions. By June 30, 1972, 16 of the 19 Part I countries had sent their notifications to IDA, but their combined contributions fell $561 million short of the required amount. Pending the completion of action required for confirmation of the United States contribution of $960 million over the three years, the Executive Directors agreed to a further extension of time for bringing the replenishment agreement into force, fixing the date of December 29, 1972.
To sustain its own higher level of lending, the Bank increased its borrowings in fiscal 1972 by-some 21% over the year before. Through 17 public offerings in nine countries, and 13 private placements, it sold $1,744 million of its obligations (see page 69). The Bank's borrowings outstanding increased to $6,951 million and its liquid resources to $3,228 million as of June 30, 1972. Subscriptions by members to shares of the Bank rose by more than $635 million, of which $63.5 million was paid in.
The Bank's lending rate remained unchanged throughout fiscal 1972, at 7'A%. Its net income totaled S183 million, $29 million less than the year before (see page 72); currency translation adjustments of $51 million were allocated automatically to the Supplemental Reserve.
Compared with the average for the five year period 1964-68, the Bank's lending in fiscal 1972 showed an increased of 129%, IDA's 274 % and IFC's 229%. For the Group as a whole, lending
'"IDA membership is divided into Part I and Part II. Part
I comprises the princifial contributing members, dll oi whose original subscrifitions and contributions are available lor use by the Association in convertible iorm. Part
II consists generally ol the lower income countries, 10% oi whose original subscri[)tions are paid in; the remainder is usahie only with the individual member's consent. There were 18 Part I countries at the time the latest replenishment agreement was concluded; Iceland, iormcrly in Part II. became a Part I member during the fiscal year.
operations had expanded by 136'',).
Geographic and sectoral goals established in 1968, however, may have been more significant in development terms than aggregate increases in the Bank Group's lending. The program for 196973 foresaw a tripling of assistance to countries in Africa compared with the previous five year period ; over the last four years, average annual lending to developing countries in Africa has increased by a factor of 2.9. The program called for a doubling of operations in the Western Hemisphere. Average lending volume in that area in the lasl four years has been two and a third times the average for 1964-68.
In terms of the sectoral distribution of lending, the 1969-73 program contemplated a tripling of financial support for education and a fourfold increase for agriculture. Average lending for agriculture during the first four years of the period has been about three and a third times the level of 1964-68, and for education more than three and a half times.
Broadening development assistance
Lending statistics, however, do not adequately reflect the Bank's deeper involvement with member governments in helping to analyze their more difficult development problems and find effective ways to solve them. In this effort, the Bank has greatly expanded its work on country economic-reports, sector and special studies, project appraisal and supervision, research, and the collection and analysis of data.
Most of the Bank's technical assistance to governments is related to work on projects—-their identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision—within the context of country and sector studies and reports. Increasingly, this work at all levels incorporates analyses and recommendations on such complex and difficult questions as employment, income distribution, population growth, urbanization, and the interrelationship among sectors. Staff time devoted to such aspects of the Bank's activity has increased even more than the totals of lending.
This is especially true with respect to agriculture projects, which in recent years have become increasingly complex as the Bank and its members, notably- in Africa, have taken a more comprehensive approach to rural development (see pages 18 and 24). The rising proportion of relatively inexperienced borrowers and the increasing number of projects with complicated administrative arrangements, as in rural development (see page 19), population planning and tourism, have been accompanied by the need for more intensive project supervision. While the number of projects being executed increased by a sixth between fiscal
1971 and 1972, for example, the amount of staff time required for their supervision rose by a third, to about nine man-weeks per project. Nearly a fifth of all project-related staff time, or more than 100 man-years, was devoted to this purpose in fiscal 1972. About 29% of the total was accounted for by agriculture projects.
While further expanding operations in such relatively new fields as population planning (see pages 36 and 40) and tourism (pages 30 and 46), the Bank Croup embarked in fiscal 1972 on its first concrete ventures in helping member countries overcome the problems associated with rapid urbanization. Projects for this purpose were supported in Senegal and Turkey (see pages 23 and 28). The Group gave its first direct support for the control of endemic diseases which affect productivity, in Malawi and Upper Volta. In Kenya, Panama and Venezuela, the Bank and IDA entered the field of airport development for the first time (see pages 19 and 45). On an experimental basis in connection with a population planning project in India, the effects of better nutrition on maternal and child health and adoption of family planning will be tested (see page 40). The Bank also became a sponsor during the year of the Protein Advisory Croup of the United Nations system, and established a special unit to oversee technical and financial assistance for nutrition improvement (see page 66). In Ecuador, part of a loan for power expansion involves an experiment in village electrification, together with a long term study of resulting benefits (see page 52). In addition, broad studies of village electrification and water supply were undertaken. Three countries—Liberia, the Philippines and the Yemen Arab Republic—received IDA credits for the first time.
An especially important study initiated during the year will explore past experience and possible new approaches to rural development in Africa. The study is to be carried out in three phases: 1) A review of experience in selected African countries with programs which were intended to benefit large numbers of people; 2) Rural sector surveys in two African countries, focusing on rural development as a whole rather than the agriculture sector alone, and 3) The elaboration of a design, or designs, for rural development, around which variations might be built to suit individual country requirements. The broad objective will be to identify, evaluate and describe the essential components and characteristics, as well as the phasing, of projects and programs to affect the quality of life of large numbers of people within a reasonable time.
Industry received an unusually large portion of Bank and IDA financial assistance in fiscal 1972. Including loans to development finance com-
panies but excluding industrial import credits, such financing for the year amounted to $624 million, more than a fifth of the total. Power and transportation, traditionally the most important sectors in terms of lending volume, accounted for 18% and 26% respectively. In geographic terms, the proportion of total lending in the major regions changed only slightly compared with fiscal 1971: developing countries in the Wester Hemisphere received nearly a third, as did those in Asia and the Pacific areas combined; about a fifth was allotted to Africa, and the remainder for projects in Europe and the Middle East. In the Middle East, there was a sharp increase over previous years.
Fiscal 1972 was the first full year in which all projects considered by the World Bank Group were subjected to expert scrutiny in terms of their impact on the environment. More than 200 projects were affected, in nearly all sectors and geographic areas. About a fifth of those analyzed required technical assistance to help identify and overcome environmental problems. About a third involved health and related measures to prevent the spread of endemic diseases.
Mobilizing domestic resources
The Bank Group has long recognized the need for more effective ways to mobilize domestic resources for productive use, both by strengthening machinery for tax collection and by the development of suitable instruments and institutions to increase the flow of investment capital. As part of a new program in this field initiated by IFC late in fiscal 1971 on behalf of the World Bank Group, a broad range of technical assistance has been provided to 12 countries in Asia, Africa, the Caribbean, South America and Southern Europe. (For details of IFC operations, see the Corporation's own Annual Report.)
Bank and IDA membership
The Bank's membership increased to 117 and IDA's to 108. Preparatory work was well advanced looking toward assistance in reconstruction for the new nation of Bangladesh, whose application for membership in the Bank and IDA was approved by the Board of Governors. Oman joined the Bank during fiscal 1972, and Equatorial Guinea became a member of IDA. As the year ended, action was pending on membership in the Bank for Bangladesh, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Western Samoa, and in IDA for Bangladesh, Fiji, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela and Western Samoa.
Iceland, which became a Part II member of IDA in 1961, assumed Part I status in October 1971. It was the first Part II member to change to Part I status.
The Year's Activities by Area
NOTE: In past Annual Reports, it has been the practice to describe the year's activities of the World Bank and IDA under sector headings: lending for agriculture, education, power, transportation, etc. In this Report, they are presented on a geographic basis. One reason is to avoid duplication of the rather complete sectoral analyses which have been a special feature of the Bank's publication program in fiscal 1972 (see page 73). Another is to respond to widespread interest in the development of countries and regions, rather than separate segments of their economies. Each area section includes a list of countries in the current lending program.
EASTERN AFRICA
In beauty and diversity, this area is one of nature's most lavishly endowed. Its lakes, rivers, mountains and high plateaus, its deserts, forests and savannas, are renowned.
Much of the region has ample resources, but in general it is one of the least developed of all the areas in which the Bank operates. It includes countries in which the forces of modern economic growth are only beginning to be felt. It also includes regions where development is much further advanced, and cities, such as Nairobi, where many problems familiar to the higher income countries have begun to appear.
Of Eastern Africa's 16 countries, occupying three and a third times the area of India with less than a fourth as much population, only one enjoys an average income as high as $250 a year. This is Zambia, which produces 11% of the world's copper. Per capita income for the group as a whole is a sixth less than India's, around $100 per year. In seven of the countries, accounting for more than half the population and area, the level is below $100.
Only two—Ethiopia and Sudan—have been members of the Bank for 15 years or more; Ethiopia was one of the earliest members, while Sudan joined in 1957 shortly after proclaiming a Republic. Of the rest, only Somalia and Tanzania have been members for as long as 10 years, and several for only three or four.
The Bank began lending in the area in 1950, to Ethiopia. Then over a period of more than 15 years, it made available some $340 million for projects in nine colonial territories and dependencies, guaranteed by the metropolitan powers. All but one of the nine are now members of the Bank.
During the earlier period, when operations were not at a high level, the Bank was not in a position to establish and maintain the close working relations it now has with most governments, or to gather and analyze the detailed information required to make its assistance most effective.
The record of lending in the area as a whole is shown in the table on page 17.
In the four years ending June 30, 1972, the Bank and IDA have lent about 90% as much in Eastern Africa as in the 19 years 1950-68. Average lending since 1968 has reached more than two and a half times the level of the previous five years, while the total for fiscal 1972 alone was three times as high. The proportion of IDA funds in the yearly average has remained around 45% over the last nine years, but reached nearly 78% in fiscal 1972.
The need for long term development capital such as IDA provides to the poorest countries, within its means, is starkly evident in Eastern Africa. In circumstances of extreme poverty, growth sufficient to generate economic momentum which will permit the attainment of minimal social goals requires a high proportion of such funds.
As the table shows, Bank and IDA support for agricultural development in Eastern Africa has increased during the last four years to a level
nearly six times the average for 1964-68. The 1972 amount alone was more than 10 times as high, all in IDA credits. Comparing the same periods, lending for education has increased by 64% on average and for power by nearly 120%. Financing for transportation, largely related to agricultural development, has virtually doubled. These trends in lending have been determined by the needs of countries in the area, the availability of Bank Croup resources on appropriate terms, and the volume and types of assistance being provided by other bilateral and multilateral institutions.
Despite the differences between countries, which are many, all of Eastern Africa depends heavily on agriculture for its livelihood and future growth. This sector typically provides 50% to 60%
of the national product and supports three fourths of the population.
The role of agriculture is beginning to be supplemented in some countries, however, by industrial development and growth of the tourist trade. Except in Swaziland, Zaire and Zambia and to a much lesser extent in Tanzania and Uganda, the exploitation of minerals has not contributed significantly to the economic growth of countries in the area.
The first stage of development after subsistence agriculture is the transition to production for the market. Since the growth of the domestic market is limited by the growth of the economy itself, any rapid increase in agricultural output requires an export market. Yet world demand for agricultural products grows only slowly, and trade barriers often limit access to foreign markets.
This represents one of the most significant constraints which African countries have to face. Only by obtaining an increasing share of the world market can a country achieve rapid growth of most agricultural exports. Over the last decade, some African countries have succeeded in doing this with commodities such as coffee, tea and tobacco. A sharp deterioration in the world market, however, as in the case of sisal, can have serious effects for countries that depend on commodity exports.
To overcome the many problems posed by the unpredictability and slow growth of demand, whether the constraint is falling prices or an international control scheme as in the case of coffee, African countries must look further than traditional commodity exports. They must concentrate on the expansion, improvement or development of other products, particularly livestock.
The process by which subsistence agriculture is transformed into production for the market is closely bound up with improvement of the transport system. For this reason, the Bank Group's lending in this area, as in other parts of Africa, has always included a high proportion for transport, especially roads. In fiscal 1972, seven of the 21 projects in Eastern Africa were for roads and their maintenance.
The year's lending clearly illustrates the importance of such projects to agricultural development. A road project approved in Somalia will encourage the country's major export, livestock. A project in Tanzania includes the improvement of about 300 miles of feeder roads in the region bordering Lake Victoria, where cotton is produced and ranching is being developed. In Kenya, some 75% of the cost of a project assisted by IDA is for feeder roads to facilitate the collection of tea and open up new settlement areas.
These operations also help to illustrate some of the administrative methods which are being developed to deal with problems of lending for large numbers of small sub-projects.
In the Tanzania project, the feeder roads will be constructed by departmental forces of the Ministry of Communications and Works, assisted by a team of consultants. This system offers the necessary flexibility to carry out the many small and scattered works involved, and helps the Ministry build up its capacity to plan, build and maintain rural roads.
In Kenya, so-called settlement roads will be improved by "construction units" of the Ministry of Works, utilizing labor from the National Youth Service. This method provides training for unskilled youths and encourages their active involvement in nation-building activity. It was initiated experimentally under a previous road project and has proved effective enough to warrant its further use.
Seven of the year's lending operations in Eastern Africa were for agriculture and another partly for this purpose, compared with five in fiscal 1971. Two are for livestock, and include the Bank Group's first assistance to this sub-sector in Ethiopia, a country in which cattle are an important resource. A credit of $4.4 million is to help the development of 350 dairy farms and six ranches for breeding dairy cattle in the vicinity of Addis Ababa, together with improvements in milk processing and marketing. It includes funds for studies to be carried out in preparation for further development.
The second operation is in Botswana, where animal husbandry is the most important source of income for the people. Ranches will be established for breeding and fattening cattle, and kara-
kul sheep farming will be further developed. Farmers will be able to increase their incomes by fattening cattle on the new ranches. By introducing proper range and livestock management, it will also help to improve grazing lands which have deteriorated because of over-grazing and erosion.
Increasing export earnings
Two loans to improve export earnings from major crops were made during the year in Ethiopia and Tanzania, the first for coffee and the second for tea. Since exports of coffee from Ethiopia are limited in accordance with the International Coffee Agreement, efforts to increase export earnings from this crop must focus on improvement in quality. The project will do this by improving processing before the coffee is exported. It will increase the incomes of some 30,000 farm families by from 10% to 15%. The tea project in Tanzania is to help develop production by smallholders. It includes the construction and expansion of five tea factories for processing the leaf, the establishment of nurseries to produce planting material, and the provision of extension services. Funds will be made available to tea growers' cooperatives through the Tanzania Rural Development Bank. The project will involve some 14,000 families, and when the new plantings reach full production they will double the country's output of tea. The effect of this increase on world supplies, however, will be minimal.
In Sudan, an IDA credit of $11.3 million will assist in bringing some 436,000 acres of uncultivated land under production. While large investments for irrigation have been made in Sudan, this project is for the development of rainfed farming.
In Malawi, the Karonga project involves comprehensive rural improvement, intended to promote the development of a whole region through a coordinated attack on all the obstacles to agricultural growth. It provides for irrigation and drainage works for rice growing, improved cultivation of maize, cotton and groundnuts, livestock development, credit to farmers, the improvement of health services and transport on Lake Malawi. Providing services of this nature, all interconnected and integrated under a single project, has come to be regarded by the World Bank Group as a crucial strategy in tackling the problem of rural poverty in Africa.
In fiscal 1972, the Bank and IDA made two loans and two credits in Eastern Africa for development finance companies. These were for institutions in Ethiopia, Mauritius and Zaire, and to the East African Development Bank.
These operations reflect the fact that industrial
development, although still in its early stages, is increasing. As a result, development finance companies confront a rising demand for funds. Potentially, this growing section of the economy has considerable importance, especially because it can provide some employment for the rapidly growing urban population. The Bank Croup is considering how best to provide more assistance in this field (see page 22).
Almost all the projects approved in Eastern Africa during the year illustrate the importance for economic growth of developing and strengthening the responsible organizations and institutions which will execute and operate them. This has been an important objective of the Bank since the beginning of its operations in Africa. One of the first loans to an African country resulted in the establishment of the Imperial Highway Authority in Ethiopia, which has since taken responsibility for carrying out four additional projects financed by the Bank and IDA.
Building institutions
Considerable progress has been made in helping to strengthen agencies which provide public services, such as transport and power. Many credits for roads in fiscal 1972, including those to Botswana, Rwanda, Tanzania and Zaire, provide for technical assistance to the responsible agencies or ministries.
In agriculture the process of strengthening institutions is equally important but more complex. For example, in the new projects for rural development in Malawi and livestock in Botswana, a key element is the establishment of a project implementation unit under the aegis of the ministry responsible for agriculture. In Malawi, this unit will coordinate the various aspects of the project, and in Botswana it will be responsible for the state-owned portion.
A somewhat similar unit will be established under the National Coffee Board of Ethiopia to administer the coffee processing improvement project. Also in Ethiopia, a key role in the dairy project will be played by a Dairy Development Agency, newly created by the Government. It will be responsible for the technical appraisal of applications from farmers for dairy loans and for helping them draw up development plans for their farms. The tea project in Tanzania will be largely under the administration of the Tanzania Tea Authority, which is responsible for all aspects of smallholder tea development.
Most loans and credits for agriculture provide for some technical assistance to the implementing agencies, and the Bank often helps to recruit some of the key personnel required. It is because of the
difficulty of finding suitable people that the Bank Group maintains an Agricultural Development Service in Eastern Africa, associated with its Permanent Mission in Nairobi. It is a corps of experienced personnel who can be made available, on a reimbursable basis, to manage new project organizations, especially in the early years.
The development of institutions capable of generating real improvements for the mass of the rural population is particularly difficult. Few countries have systems of cooperatives and local banks which are capable of administering credit to small farmers. Moreover, rural development requires the organization not only of credit but of other inputs, such as seed, fertilizer, rural water supplies, feeder roads and better agricultural extension services. Because of the importance of these problems to African countries, the Bank is preparing a systematic study of the various approaches. Its object is to determine how it can help most effectively to mitigate the rigors of rural life and increase the contribution of agriculture to the whole economy.
Other operations during the year illustrate the Bank Group's concern with new avenues of development. A loan for the improvement of Nairobi Airport is only the third the Bank has made for this type of project—all in fiscal 1972 (see page 45)—and the first in Africa. An important part of the need stems from East Africa's growing importance as a tourist area.
Tourism now accounts for almost 12% of Kenya's foreign exchange earnings. The project will improve the efficiency of aircraft operations and contribute to the growth of future traffic. The airport's future development has been planned with longer term technical and environmental factors in mind, such as the need to minimize aircraft noise over the city and nearby game areas.
A loan to the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority is designed to improve the city's water distribution and sewerage system. Addis Ababa is the political, economic and cultural center of Ethiopia and its population has been growing at more than 6% a year. Contaminated water and lack of sanitation create a danger to health which can be overcome only by providing clean water and reducing pollution by sewage and industrial wastes.
One credit for education was made during the year. It was for a project in Zaire to provide training colleges for secondary and primary teachers, technical secondary schools and a new demonstration secondary school in Kinshasa. The project also provides for a management study of the Ministry of Education as a step in the process of reshaping the educational system and regulating its expansion.
Cooperation in development
The Bank works closely in Eastern Africa, as in other areas, both with the governments of borrowing countries and with other national and international institutions providing technical or financial assistance. All these efforts are coordinated informally through regular working relations in the field and among headquarters staffs.
Cooperative approaches to the problems of countries in the area often result in joint or parallel financing of projects. Such arrangements were involved during the year in projects assisted by IDA in Botswana, Kenya, Rwanda, Somalia, Tanzania and Zaire. Toward total costs of more than Si32 million, agencies of Canada, France, Germany, Norway, Sweden and the United States provided nearly $37 million. A total of nearly $6 million was contributed by the African Development Bank, the International Coffee Organization (ICO) and UNDP. IDA's credits for these projects totaled about $66 million, and the balance was provided by the borrowing governments.
The ICO's participation was in the Tanzania project for smallholder tea production. This was the first instance of joint financing with the Bank Croup by one of the international commodity organizations. It represents a new step forward in their joint efforts to encourage the diversification of production (see page (¦>(¦>:.
The Consultative Group for East Africa met in fiscal 1972 to examine the development problems and prospects of Kenya. The Croup concluded that Kenya's economic performance and prospects justified continued technical and increased financial assistance.
The increased volume of lending in the countries of Eastern Africa has been significantly assisted by the work of the Bank's Permanent Mission in Nairobi. Mission staff members help to identify and prepare projects suitable for financing by the Bank Croup in agriculture, transport and education. The size and scope of the Mission are to be expanded.
In Uganda, as in most African countries, better roads are a key to development, especially in freeing people from a precarious dependence on subsistence agriculture.
WESTERN AFRICA
These 20 countries together are somewhat larger than Brazil in area, with well over a third more inhabitants and less than half the per capita income. All are poor, and most are very poor. All are tropical, and all but Liberia are former colonies. Five are land-locked, occupying a desert and semi-desert expanse much larger than the European "Inner Six" and the United Kingdom combined; together, they have nearly a sixth of Western Africa's population and about a tenth of its income.
In most of the area, the Bank's experience has been brief. Of the 20 countries, only Ghana gained its independence and joined the Bank before the early 1960s. Through 1963, loans totaling $137 million had been made with the guarantee of the metropolitan powers, for transport, power and mining projects involving what is now the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, Senegal and Upper Volta.
The Bank's deeper involvement began in 1964, with the establishment of a Permanent Mission for
Western Africa in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, specifically to help governments identify and prepare projects which the Bank or IDA could finance. Since then, the cumulative total of lending has risen to $1,206 million.
More than two thirds of the increase since 1963 has occurred in the last four years, as shown in the accompanying table.
Within the totals, the proportion of IDA credits has remained about the same as in 1964-68, but the average annual amount has tripled.
Recent shifts in emphasis, however, may be more significant than aggregate sums. To a certain extent, these are also reflected in the table. Comparing the period 1964-68 with the four years ending June 30, 1972, the proportion of Bank and IDA finance for agriculture has increased from 6% to 16%, and for transportation from 34% to 41% of a much larger volume. Assistance for education has expanded steadily lo a tenth of the four year total, and in the most recent fiscal year it represented 17%. The proportions applied to both industry and power have declined.
Such trends in sectoral distribution of loans and credits are surface reflections of change in the Bank's approach to the basic problems of economic and social growth. They also rellect the increased capacity of the Bank, in both staff and financial resources, to assist its poorest member countries as each confronts its own particular dilemmas.
The year's operations in Western Africa help to illustrate some of the main priorities of the area and the changing focus of Bank concern, policy and action.
With wide variations among countries, these problems characterize the area as a whole:
• Generally high rates of population growth, which will increase as mortality declines;
• High levels of unemployment and underemployment;
• Poverty, which is most acute in the countryside;
• Low aggregate savings and, in most cases, low rates of saving;
•The highest overall rate of urban growth of any major area;
• Lack of diversification of production and exports, in both agriculture and industry;
• A high incidence of debilitating diseases;
• A pervasive shortage of virtually all skills required for development; and
• Unusual difficulties in transport.
Only a few countries of Western Africa—most notably Nigeria, with about half the area's population and a tenth of its land—-have internal markets large enough to promise the economies of scale required for general industrial development without some form of regional integration. This explains in part the relative lack of emphasis so far accorded to industry. More attention is to be given in the future, however, to the area's special problems in this sector.
On the basis of a sector review carried out during the year (see page 73) and a special Bank study on problems of industrialization in Africa,''1 efforts are to be made to assist governments of the area in promoting the growth of manufacturing and other economic activities. As now envisaged, this will be done primarily by helping to establish special institutions which can serve as financial intermediaries and provide technical assistance as well as loan and equity capital to local entrepreneurs.
It is hoped that this approach, together with further encouragement of regional arrangements permitting economies of scale in industry, plus assistance to member countries in diversifying and expanding both industry and agriculture, will help over time to reduce the large and growing burden ol unemployment and underemployment.
The unemployment problem, of course, is greatly intensified by the rapid increase of population which affects most countries of Western
'" Industry Sector Working Paper. World lUnk, April 1972; and The Development of Afrit an Private Enterprise, by lohn C. do Wilde
Africa. Rates of growth ranging from 2% to 3%, which are typical of the area, not only cause the labor force to increase faster than jobs can be provided; they seriously distort the age structure of the population, increasing the ratio of dependents to workers. This tendency will continue to accelerate as death rales, which are slill high, decline at a more rapid pace in response to better health measures.
The implications of these trends in terms of economic and social cost are not yet widely recognized in Western Africa. The Bank is helping to stimulate the improvement of demographic knowledge and increase awareness of the benefits of family planning in terms of maternal and child health, infant mortalily and development.
The urbanization problem
The fact that urbanization is raising serious difficulties in Western Africa may seem strange lo Asians, Americans and Europeans, since even the largest cities are relatively small by world standards and about 70% of the people still live in the countryside. Yet the area's principal urban centers confront virtually all the familiar dilemmas associated with this phenomenon, and often in acute forms.
Change has been rapid. Two decades ago, urban centers accounted for about 10% of the area's population; today the ratio is nearly .30% of a considerably larger total. In some countries growth has been even taster, causing drastic structural transformation of their economies. For example, in 1963 only about a sixth of Cameroon's population lived in urban areas; in nine years, the proportion has risen lo a fourth, and within 15 years it may approach 40% .
In the face of such growth, most cities find it impossible to provide adequate employment, municipal services or educational and health facilities. To do so is especially difficult since a large part of the increase results from a rising flow of migrants from the countryside, ill-equipped and destitute. In consultation with governments, the Bank is attempting to find new and more effective approaches to these problems.
One of the most promising appears to be the provision of home sites and public services for families in the lower income brackets who can provide a substantial amount of self-help in building their own homes and can afford minimal payments to amortize the cost. An IDA credit of $8 million was approved in fiscal 1972 for a first project of this type, in Senegal. At a total cost of $12 million, a specially organized unit of Government will provide home sites and simple but adequate basic services for about 160,000 people in Dakar
and Thies, including schools and health clinics. (For another Bank Group innovation in the field of urban development, see page 28).
The mobilization ol savings is especially difficult for most countries in Western Africa, and negative government savings have been normal in a number of the poorest. The improvement and maintenance of essential public services often tend to raise current expenditure faster than the growth ot production and income. In some countries, this tendency is reinforced by public service employment practices, inadequate budgetary controls, and heavy medium term externa! borrowing which enlails large service payments.
Some countries have taken severe measures to raise (axes, but only in a few cases have substantial increases in public savings been achieved. A lew governments arc1 now pursuing more promising approaches: better enlorcemenl ol existing tax laws, improvements in the financial performance of government or quasi-governmeni enterprises, and stricter control of expenditures.
The Bank and IDA seek lo assist in these ellorls through support of public institutions providing services tor which appropriate charges are levied. Examples in fiscal 1972 were loans and credits for railways in the People's Republic: of the Congo and Senegal, power expansion in Nigeria, and telecommunications in Mali. IDA's concessionary terms help to keep the debt burden on the budgets of eligible member countries within manageable limits.
Reliance on commodities
The objective of higher savings is all the more difficult lo achieve, of course, because of I ho heavy reliance of most countries in the area on uncertain world markets for tropical agricultural and forest products. A few, such as Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania and Sierra Leone, depend primarily on a single mineral, produced by enclave enterprises which have little impact on tho surrounding economy except through general contributions to foreign exchange earnings and the national revenue.
Such dependence on world prices can have severe consequences lor imports required by development programs. Because of declining prices, for example, Ghana's Government income from cocoa exports dropped from more than a fourth to about a sixth ot its total current revenue trom 1969 to 1971. In Cameroon over the same period, Government revenue from this source fell from 16% to 9%. In the hope of overcoming such uncertainty, governments in Western Africa have as an important objective the diversification of production and exports (see The Commodity Problem, page 66).
For many countries, lack of trained staff required to identify and prepare viable projects has been a continuing obstacle to the success of diversification policies. The Bank has helped to fill this gap, chiefly through its Mission in Abidjan and the work of sector and general economic missions. Occasionally loans and credits include funds to finance project identification work in the same or related fields, or to carry out feasibility studies or preparatory work for projects already identified.
A key problem of the area is the extreme poverty and harshness of rural life, which is a main cause of rural-to-urban migration. Here as in other developing areas, the Bank is searching for new, better, more economical ways to help large numbers of people in these circumstances help themselves.
These efforts are exemplified by a project in Upper Volta, one of the world's poorest countries, for which an IDA credit of $2.2 million was approved in June.
Most of Upper Volta's 5.5 million people live on the margin of subsistence, coaxing a precarious livelihood from poor and shallow soils. Water is scarce. Endemic diseases such as river blindness (onchocerciasis) make thousands unable to work and close some of the more fertile lands to use. Exports must travel long distances to the sea, mainly through the Ivory Coast. Transport difficulties seriously impede the exploitation of mineral resources. In fact, economic opportunities are so poor that many young men, comprising nearly a tenth of the population, are forced to work away from home in neighboring coastal countries.
Helping to improve rural life
The IDA project represents the first step in a comprehensive new program to help the people of Upper Volta ease their burdens. In the first phase, both the means of subsistence and the health of some 450,000 people in the southwest are to be improved.
The project's main elements include the construction of about 500 wells for domestic water supply and 700 village warehouses for storing farm inputs; nearly 200 small sub-projects for drainage, irrigation and erosion control; and the improvement of about 170 miles of small feeder roads. Better water supplies will help to reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases, increase labor productivity and livestock production, and result in large savings of energy now devoted to carrying water over long distances. Warehouses, land and water development schemes and better roads will help to improve the production and marketing of exports such as cotton, Upper Volta's
main product, and nutritional levels will be improved by raising the output of food crops.
Public health measures to be carried out are incorporated directly in the project. These include an epidemiological study to provide base-line health and welfare data, against which changes resulting from the project can be measured. Irrigation ditches, ponds, etc., will be treated as necessary against the snail which transmits bilharzia. Wells will be designed and located to prevent human waste pollution, and treated periodically to avert this possibility and forestall establishment of the Guinea worm. In the season when creeks are flowing, they can be treated against the black fly, vector of river blindness. Extension services will be broadened to include the propagation of personal hygiene and disease prevention through radio and printed material.
The project is to be administered nationally through a special Rural Development Fund, set up as an operating division of the Banque Natio-nale de Developpement. The identification, preparation and management of most sub-projects will be decentralized through regional administrative units with experience in carrying out development programs financed by the French Government and the European Development Fund (FED).
If successful in the first phase, which will extend over three years at a total cost of about $3 million, the techniques employed will be applied throughout the country. They may also prove to be adaptable elsewhere.
Emphasis on the alleviation of rural poverty and, increasingly, on improvements in nutrition and health, is evident in other new IDA projects to increase livestock production in Chad and Mauritania, rice in Cameroon, Mali and Sierra Leone, and cotton and food crops in Dahomey.
These and other projects also illustrate the Bank's increased flexibility in adapting a wide variety of administrative and lending techniques to the particular cultural and economic needs of borrowing countries. Good examples are the projects in Chad and Mauritania, where livestock raising is chiefly nomadic. Successful methods of project administration, developed elsewhere by the Bank and other institutions in radically different environments, are being adapted and combined with proven local techniques initiated by the Governments with French assistance.
As in the case of Upper Volta, an IDA credit to Liberia approved in fiscal 1972 is designed to lay the foundation for comprehensive development of an entire region, rather than focusing on a single sector or commodity. The credit of $1.2 million will cover a large proportion of the cost of pre-investment work to prepare rural development projects in two outlying counties.
It is expected that the resulting program will comprise rubber and food crop projects, agricultural extension and credit services, marketing and processing services, feeder roads, water supply, health facilities, and education. The economics of each project will be carefully analyzed, but there is no reason to suppose that the objectives of economic advancement for farmers of the region will necessarily conflict with considerations of social equity. It is hoped that the approach will result in considerable increases in family earnings and a general improvement in living conditions.
As illustrated in the Upper Volta project, the human welfare and development aspects of health are closely interrelated. The Bank and other development institutions, therefore, have a strong interest in a regional campaign against river blindness now being prepared by the World Health Organization (WHO) with financing provided by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The disease is extremely debilitating over a long period, and eventually results in blindness. It is widespread in such areas as the Volta River basin. In some locations, 10% of the population may be blind, and many of the most fertile valleys have been abandoned because of the disease.
Under the general guidance of a steering committee including the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), UNDP and the Bank, a WF-IO mission is identifying possibilities for development projects at the same time as it plans the disease control program. The campaign is to cover an area of some 47,000 square miles in Upper Volta and six surrounding countries. Assistance is being provided by the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), the U.S. Agency for Internationa! Development (AID) and the World Bank.
New approaches in education
In both rural and urban areas, a pressing need throughout Western Africa is the improvement of educational systems to reduce cost, increase effectiveness, and enhance the relevance of curricula to the priority needs of member countries. In fiscal 1972, IDA credits totaling about $20 million were approved for education projects in Cameroon, Central African Republic and Liberia. A Bank loan of $17.3 million was made to Nigeria for the rehabilitation and expansion of schools and teacher training colleges.
Outside the formal system, the Bank is assisting governments in their search for effective, low-cost ways to bring the human and economic benefits of education to large numbers of adults and children not in school. The main objective is to incorporate education in normal life and work patterns, for both children and adults.
Problems of transportation
An important reason for the primacy of transportation among development problems of the area is the fact that only a few of the 20 countries have good natural harbors, and all suffer in varying degrees from a peculiar characteristic of African geography: few of its rivers are navigable except in the deep interior.
The transport network centered on the People's Republic of Congo illustrates the costly effects of this phenomenon. With its navigable tributaries, the Congo River provides a low cost outlet for Chad, the Central African Republic, southern Cameroon and Congo—but only as far as Brazzaville, more than 300 miles from the sea and across two mountain ranges.
Over these barriers between Brazzaville and Pointe Noire, much of the import and export traffic of an area the size of Western Europe moves on a narrow gauge railway built more than 40 years ago, with steep grades and sharp curves. Traffic has more than quadrupled over the last decade and is increasing at about 8% a year. Extensive improvements are urgently needed.
IDA agreed in fiscal 1972 to provide $6.3 million toward an interim project costing about $25 million. Part of the credit will finance the final engineering work for a further project to realign about 70 miles of the railway through the coastal range, at an estimated cost of more than $40 million.
Rehabilitation in Nigeria
Nigeria is one of the few countries of Western Africa with satisfactory natural harbors and no major obstacles to the further development of inland transportation. Planned extensions and improvements were disrupted, however, by the civil war. There was considerable physical damage in the east, and throughout the country widespread deterioration of roads, railways, maintenance facilities, the vehicle fleet and transport administrations.
The Bank is assisting the Government in its efforts to overcome these set-backs and enable the transport system to meet the needs of an economy with great potential for expansion. Soon after the end of the war in 1970, the Bank provided $25 million for the urgent rehabilitation of ports, railways and federal roads. In fiscal 1972, a loan of $26.3 million was approved to help with construction and improvement of 235 miles of roads in the Western State; carry out final engineering work for about 400 miles of federal and state roads, and feasibility studies for another 1,000 miles; provide technical assistance to im-
prove federal highway planning and maintenance; and purchase equipment for traffic counting and control of vehicle weights.
Technical assistance in all its forms and the coordination of both financial and technical cooperation with Western African countries are vitally important. The Bank works closely with various bilateral agencies, as well as with FED, the African Development Bank, UNDP and the United Nations specialized agencies. These institutions often refer project proposals to the Bank for possible financing, while preparatory work done by the Bank sometimes leads to financing by them.
Occasionally, projects are financed jointly with other agencies or through parallel lending operations. For example, the Bank, FAC and FED are all involved in financing the Dahomey project for cotton and food crop expansion.
Coordination is somewhat more formalized in the cases of Ghana and Nigeria, through Consultative Groups of bilateral and multilateral institutions which meet under the Bank's chairmanship. In both countries, the Bank maintains a Resident Representative.
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
In this as in most areas, there have been notable changes in the size, scope and complexity of Bank Group operations. In part, this reflects new opportunities for economic and social growth. More particularly, it results from a determined effort to grapple with the basic problems of development and shift the Bank's weight more heavily toward support of the poorer countries while greatly increasing the total volume of financial and technical assistance.
In total lending, the record is broadly summarized in the table on page 30, classified by sectors for the area as a whole.
Thus, combining all categories of lending to all current borrowers in the area, the annual average since fiscal 1968 is nearly three times the level of the previous five years. In fiscal 1972 alone volume was more than four times the average for the earlier period. Within the totals, increasing attention to the area's poorer countries brought with it an increase of more than 500% in the amount of IDA funds made available in fiscal 1972 over the average for 1964-68.
The pattern of Bank Group lending by purpose does not necessarily reflect the priorities attached by borrowing countries or the Bank to the various sectors. It is determined by many factors, including the availability of projects to finance and of funds from other external or internal sources. Nevertheless, the table suggests one important trend: increasing emphasis on agriculture and education, and ventures into new fields.
The year's principal innovation was a project to help Turkey overcome the problems of rapid, unplanned growth in Istanbul. It was the Bank Group's first entry into the field of comprehensive urban planning. A S2.3 million IDA credit will help to finance the preparation of an integrated urban development program, the elaboration of suitable policies, regulations and institutions to execute the program, the preparation of priority projects, and the development of a model to guide decision making on urban transport and land use. Together with the IDA credit, a $37 million Bank loan was made for the expansion of Istanbul's water supply system. Other projects for Istanbul are expected to follow as a result of the preparatory work financed by the IDA credit. (See also page 23.)
Average lending for agriculture has increased by 595% during the last four years compared with the previous five, and for education by 570%, reflecting in part an unusual acceleration in fiscal 1972. The greater part of a sharp rise in financing for industry was accounted for by two loans, totaling S100 million, for steel and fertilizer production in Turkey.
If the area is divided into its major geographic subdivisions, a picture emerges of the degree to which the Bank has been able to increase the proportion of total support going to the poorer countries in the group. The shift to the poorer countries is even more marked than the table on page 29 would indicate, since Turkey, a part of Southern Europe, is a relatively low-income country which has received $527 million in loans and credits, in-
eluding $173 million in fiscal 1972; about 30% of the total has been provided by IDA. Another important trend within the general picture is reflected in a sharp increase, in fiscal 1972, in lending to Middle Eastern countries: $97 million, compared with an average of $15 million in 1964-68.
This broad expansion and changing focus of Bank activity are taking place at a time when some countries in the area face promising new possibilities for growth, while many confront fundamental constraints. In the orientation of its operations and forward planning, the Bank is attempting to respond to both.
In general, the pattern of economic growth has varied during the last five years, to a certain extent along regional lines. Real income expanded most rapidly in the countries of Southern Europe; it averaged more than 6% a year from 1965 through
1970. Real growth in the borrowing countries of Northern Europe was slower, on the order of 4%, as it was in most of North Africa. Except in Israel and the major oil producing countries, the rate in the Middle East appears to have been less than 4%, implying little growth in real per capital incomes. Last year, economic activity accelerated throughout most of the area. In Southern Europe and North Africa, production expanded by 7% or 8% in real terms, and in the larger Middle Eastern countries by some 5%. Growth in the Bank's three borrowing member countries in Northern Europe was about 3%.
Four important features of the area provide special opportunities for development: oil, tourism, the prospective expansion of the European Economic Community, and foreign exchange remittances by expatriate workers employed in the wealthier countries of Europe.
Increased oil revenues
Under a new series of agreements concluded last year with the international oil companies, there has been a sharp rise in petroleum revenues and foreign exchange resources available to producing countries in the Middle East and North Africa: from about $4,700 million in 1970 to roughly $7,600 million in 1971. There will be substantial further increases annually through 1975.
As a group, therefore, these countries will have a far better financial base for their own development. They will also be in a position to give substantial assistance to other countries in the region, but their ability to do so will vary widely from country to country; in some, it will be quite limited. For example, while the resource base in Algeria has been strengthened, per capita income is still low and population is increasing rapidly. At the other end of the spectrum, Kuwait has already contributed large amounts of aid to other countries, not only through the Kuwait Arab Development Fund which it established more than
10 years ago with the Bank's technical cooperation, but as a Part I member of IDA and a purchaser of Bank bonds.
The Bank Group's activities in these countries reflect their different circumstances. After a five year lapse in Bank operations, two loans were made to Iraq during the fiscal year for telecommunications and education. In Saudi Arabia, the region's major exporter with the world's largest
011 reserves, the Bank's financial involvement has not been required but it has agreed to provide technical assistance by acting as executing agency for a UNDP transportation survey. To help Kuwait in its efforts to diversify the economy, a Bank mission has prepared a report on the promotion of
manufacturing. Missions have surveyed power services in Abu Dhabi, reviewed two industrial projects in Qatar and assessed sectoral problems and priorities in Oman.
The availability to some countries of vastly expanded foreign exchange resources has given rise to new opportunities for international cooperation in financing development. Last July, Abu Dhabi established the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, and in February 1972 a major new intergovernmental organization began operations. This is the Arab Fund for Economic Development, with a membership of 16 countries. In discussions during the year, representatives of both new Funds and the Bank explored possibilities for future cooperation. The oil producing countries have also increased their support of development through the Bank Group. During the fiscal year, Kuwait subscribed two issues of World Bank 10-year bonds, and seven others in the group participated in an issue placed with central banks in March 1972 (see page 70).
Tourism in the Mediterranean
Tourism in the Mediterranean area has grown remarkably, reflecting the rising level of incomes in developed countries. Last year, the foreign exchange receipts of 12 developing countries from
this source increased by a fourth over the year before, to a total of some $3,800 million. Spain, with 25 million visitors, accounted for somewhat more than half the total, representing more than 30% of its exports of goods and services. In five other countries around the Mediterranean, tourist receipts provided about a fifth of all foreign exchange earnings, and in four others 10%.
The development of tourism has a strong employment effect in less developed countries where labor is relatively cheap, directly in the hotel and related service industries and indirectly in construction. It also provides a readily accessible market for local handicrafts, transportation services and food producers. The Mediterranean area is highly competitive, however, requiring good facilities and service, which call for adequate training and experience. Furthermore, tourist demand is vulnerable to changes in economic conditions in the home countries of tourists and the political situation in host countries. The development of tourist areas also requires careful planning in land use and the provision of adequate infrastructure: power, water, communication and transport.
A Bank loan and an IDA credit totaling $24 million, together with a loan of DM 40 million from the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau of Germany, will help Tunisia provide such facilities to support the rapid growth of its tourism sector. The financ-
ing of hotel and other accommodations has been assisted since the late 1960s by both the Bank and IFC. In recent years the sector has grown at a rate of 30% a year, faster than in any other Mediterranean country. In 10 years through 1971, the number of foreign visitors arriving annually increased from 36,000 to 640,000. Foreign exchange earnings from this source rose from $3 million to $110 million, and are now the largest item on the income side of Tunisia's balance of payments.
The project consists of a coordinated package of road, water, sewerage, electricity and telecommunications improvements in six major tourist areas where further development is contemplated or serious problems of congestion and pollution could soon appear. All are planned with both efficiency and environmental factors in mind. The project will help to avoid further extension of the "ribbon" type of development which results from the unplanned provision of infrastructure.
Association or trade agreements which have been or are being negotiated with the European Economic Community (EEC) will affect the prospects of almost all developing countries of the area. For the semi-industrialized countries of Europe, these arrangements offer an opportunity to expand the output and export of manufactures, while confronting domestic producers with the challenge of increasing competition at home as their own tariff levels are gradually reduced.
Export opportunities to EEC
In the industrializing countries of North Africa and the Middle East, protection for domestic manufacturers oriented to local markets is likely to be retained for some time, though the advantages of a more outward orientation are beginning to be recognized. There will be greater opportunities to enter EEC markets in industrial as well as agricultural goods. In agriculture, there will be especially good prospects for fruits and vegetables, which have long been significant in Mediterranean trade because of variations in growing seasons. These opportunities and related problems were explored during the year in the Bank's economic, sectoral and project work. Special attention was given to policies and projects to strengthen the industrial sector's competitive position and further the development of export-oriented agriculture.
Worker remittances are another major source of income growth and foreign exchange for developing countries in the area, and last year the flow increased rapidly. The volume rose from about $2,000 million to $2,800 million in five countries of Southern Europe, and accounted for more than a fifth of their foreign exchange earnings. In North Africa, worker remittances con-
tributed more than $300 million, or 14% of foreign receipts of the area, mostly to Algeria but with substantial growth in Morocco and Tunisia.
For some countries in Southern Europe, the unusual increase in 1971 was in part a result ot changes in currency valuations, which gave expatriate workers a greater incentive to remit funds. In addition, despite a relative slowdown in Western Europe, the number of foreign workers in the Federal Republic of Germany, the largest employer of such labor, reached a peak of more than two million during the year. There are recent indications, however, that the demand for immigrant workers is slackening.
The impact of emigration and worker remittances on the economies of the developing countries is not confined to their balance of payments effects. They make a direct contribution to national income and savings. Emigration contributes to the relief of unemployment, a severe problem in many of these countries, and of the pressure of population on housing, rural and urban services and other resources. Workers abroad acquire valuable new skills. Emigration also involves costs, however, including the possibility of a loss to the country of the professional and other skills of workers and students remaining abroad. There are also qualitative costs resulting from family separation, frustrations following return from areas with higher living standards, and the uncertainty entailed in adjustment to conditions and social attitudes in a foreign country. To lessen these costs, it is increasingly recognized that emigration should be treated in the framework of overall vocational and employment policies in both the home and receiving countries. During the year the Bank gave special attention to this issue in the economic and sectoral work ol missions to Morocco, Turkey and Yugoslavia.
Developing countries in the area continue to face a number of serious constraints on their prospects for growth. Chief among these, but varying widely from country to country, are heavy defense expenditures, inadequate water, rapid growth of population, and shortages of capital, skills or both.
In four Middle Eastern countries, defense expenditure last year exceeded 10% of gross production, totaling some $3,000 million, and in another they absorbed 9%. To the extent that such expenditures have been financed from abroad, immediate pressures on the economy and balance of payments have been relieved, but usually at the cost of increasing foreign indebtedness and the future burden of foreign debt service. Apart from these military claims on the countries' present and future resources, the uncertainty associated with unsettled conditions in the region has
1.
adversely affected investment and general economic activity.
The Middle East is an arid region, with exceptionally low average rainfall and limited known reserves of ground water. Well over half the value of agricultural production in the region is produced under irrigation, but most irrigated areas are dependent on river systems which rise outside the borders of the countries concerned. While agricultural output can be expanded through improvements in irrigation and water management, progress towards this goal involves international cooperation among the riparian countries.
In the development of the Tigris-Euphrates basin, which represents about two fifths of the water supply now known to be available for irrigation in the region (the Nile accounts for about half), the need for international cooperation in the utilization of water is especially acute. Both rivers originate in Turkey, which is the source of most of the water of the Euphrates and nearly half that of the Tigris, and flow through Syria and Iraq on their way to the sea. With cooperation and planning, the technical issues and problems of optimum long term distribution and use of river waters could be resolved, and projects with major impact on raising agricultural production in all of the riparian countries could be realized.
The Bank's operational approach to improved water use is illustrated by an irrigation rehabilitation project in Turkey for which an IDA credit of $18 million was approved in January. In many countries, the full benefits of large and costly irrigation works have not been realized because of failure to provide adequate distribution and drainage systems and funds for on-farm development, extension services and research. This has been the situation in Turkey, where major works have been or are being constructed to serve nearly two million acres. Two of these areas, one on the Mediterranean coast and the other on the Anatolian plateau northeast of Ankara, will be improved through the IDA-supported project, at a total cost of about $37 million.
Existing irrigation and drainage systems will be rehabilitated and improved, and others constructed to serve new lands. Better use of water on farms will be made possible through land leveling, drainage and the correction of salinity problems. Village roads will be improved. Adequate credit and extension services will be provided to farmers. On completion, some 124,000 acres will be fully suitable for intensive irrigated farming, compared with about 65,000 acres now only partially served.
In almost every country of North Africa and the Middle East, population is growing at about 3% a year, compared with 1% or so in most developing countries of Europe. Growth of per capita in-
One of the most successful irrigation projects assisted by the Bank Croup is here on the Adana Plain, potentially one of Turkey's richest areas, where both the Bank and IDA have helped to finance a broad program of development. For the latest irrigation project in Turkey, see this page.
come has been suppressed correspondingly, and substantially greater sacrifices are needed to increase it in the future. The low level of per capita incomes makes the mobilization of savings all the more difficult, while investment has been hindered by pressure to provide current economic and social services to the rapidly expanding population. Continuing high rates of population growth have also created a rising demand for jobs as larger numbers of young people have entered the labor force each year. This in turn has put upward pressure on returns to capital, land and other resources which are either fixed or in relatively short supply, thus aggravating income disparities.
Among countries in the area, Egypt, Morocco and Tunisia have formulated explicit targets to reduce birth rates, while Turkey has supported private family planning activities. The effectiveness of family planning programs has varied, depending on a complex of factors including the strength of private and public commitment, religious and cultural attitudes, the scope, goals, and organization of public health services and the medical profession, and the extent and effectiveness of information systems. A population sector and project preparation mission was sent to Egypt in fiscal 1972.
The capital needs of developing countries in Europe, North Africa and the Middle East are as varied as the problems and opportunities which define them. In the higher income developing countries of Europe, savings and foreign transfer receipts, supplemented by private capital flows, are in large part commensurate with investment opportunities, and official aid is oriented less towards filling a resource gap than to achieving particular development objectives.
Domestic savings, now supplemented by receipts from emigrant workers, are still below investment levels in the lower income countries of Southern Europe and North Africa, though there are wide variations. Debt service represents an additional burden which must be financed if adequate investment rates are to be sustained. In the Middle East, the flow of investable resources has been distorted by international tensions.
In the lowest income countries of the Southern Arabian peninsula, the need for official capital is to a large extent related to the availability of technical assistance to identify and implement projects and programs and expand limited absorptive capacity.
Increased lending to Egypt and the Middle East in fiscal 1972 was the visible outcome of preparatory work which had been undertaken during preceding years. It resulted from efforts to renew or consolidate lending relations which in some countries had been disrupted by changes in economic
conditions and borrowing policies, and which in others were being initiated for the first time. Thus, in addition to the two Bank loans to Iraq, ID/A credits were extended to Egypt for railways, Jordan for education and to the Syrian Arab Republic and the Yemen Arab Republic for roads.
The year's lending operations were also characterized by a marked rise in the number and amount of loans for education: five operations totaling $89.8 million compared with two amounting to $27.3 million in fiscal 1971. One of these, a loan of $50 million to Spain, will continue the Bank's support of broad educational reforms. The Government is revising the structure and content of basic, secondary and technical education in order to equalize educational opportunities and provide the work force with more practical and flexible training, appropriate to a rapidly industrializing society.
During the course of the year 37 projects were appraised in the area, and economic missions were sent to 14 countries. Special attention was paid in a number of cases to issues of employment, income distribution and regional development. Sector missions to review in greater depth the particular roles and problems of transportation, tourism, industry and power were dispatched to various countries. The Bank has been attempting to improve its own knowledge of the economies and needs of the newly independent countries in the Southern Arabian peninsula, with particular emphasis on technical aid in development planning and the identification and preparation of projects.
In fiscal 1972, an economic survey mission reviewed the economy of Oman, and in the Yemen Arab Republic the work of a four-man advisory team got underway, financed by matching technical assistance grants from the World Bank and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development. In both the Yemen Arab Republic and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, the Bank Group's main effort is directed to project identification and preparation, chiefly through its cooperative agreements with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco), and the World Health Organization (WHO), and by acting as executing agency for studies financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
In the field of aid coordination, meetings of the Consultative Groups for Morocco and Tunisia, chaired by the Bank, were held in October 1971, and the Bank participated in two meetings of the Turkey Consortium, organized by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
Bank operations in East Asia and the Pacific extend over a vast area where virtually the entire sweep of economic, political and social development is represented.
Borrowers include Papua New Guinea, a rugged island territory where much of the population lives in a primitive state outside the money economy, but where long strides are being taken toward economic and political independence. At the other end of the spectrum is Japan, with a highly developed economy, and Thailand, one of the few developing countries without a colonial background.
Some of the most successful development records of the 1960s were achieved in this region by Korea, the Republic of China, Singapore, Hong Kong, Thailand and Malaysia. By contrast, there was little economic advance during most of that period in Indonesia, the area's most populous country. Contrast is also evident within most countries of the region, between a fairly dynamic private sector and a rather passive public sector with only recent and limited experience in economic intervention.
Except for the Philippines and Thailand, where lending began in fiscal 1958 and 1951 respectively, the Bank Group did not become deeply engaged in the developing countries of this area until 1963, and had lent no more than S40 million to any of them. In some, Bank lending and technical assistance have begun only in recent years. In three —the Khmer Republic, Laos and the Republic of Viet-Nam—lending has been precluded by war.
The flow of both financial and technical assistance for development in the area has increased considerably during the last four years. The record is summarized by sectors, in the table of lending on page 35.
As indicated, nearly 73% of Bank lending in the area through 1963 was to assist two of the most highly developed countries, Australia and Japan, while additional loans to Japan account for more than a third of the total for 1964-68. Lending to Japan came to an end in fiscal 1967. Japan's need for Bank funds, beginning in 1953, was to help finance its reconstruction program in a period when finance on reasonable terms was relatively scarce. Australia required help primarily to import development equipment.
Both countries were among the original contributing (Part I) members of IDA, and Japan has become one of the Bank's most important suppliers of funds for lending. In the last two and a half years, Japan has made available to the Bank more than it borrowed over the previous 20 years (see page 69).
New Zealand, another developed country, has also been among the Bank's borrowers, and this relationship continues. In fiscal 1972, a loan of S8 million was approved to help overcome a fundamental structural problem in the New Zealand economy: its heavy traditional dependence on a limited range of pastoral exports, chiefly to the United Kingdom.
With Britain's imminent entry into the European Economic Community, New Zealand is attempting to streamline its manufacturing sector in order to adjust to changing patterns of trade. The Bank
loan will help the newly established Development Finance Company of New Zealand in its long term lending and equity investment program over the next two years. Except for a railway loan of $16 million in fiscal 1971, all other loans to New Zealand, totaling $103 million, were within the period 1964-68.
The Bank Croup hopes to direct its assistance to developing countries in the area increasingly to such aspects of economic and social growth as education and agriculture. Support for other sectors, such as industry, power and transportation, will, of course, continue.
A loan of $9.5 million approved in fiscal 1972 will help to finance expansion of the University
of Singapore, enabling it to train more engineers, architects, accountants and business administrators. Singapore's economy has flourished in the past few years. Foreign investment has helped its growth as an entrepot and financial center, as well as the development of industry, which has expanded rapidly.
The Bank also lenl Malaysia $15.5 million in the fiscal year for a multipurpose education project, including educational television, and agreed to provide $15.4 million to help Thailand finance the expansion and improvement of its largest agricultural university.
In addition, IDA approved a $6.3 million credit to Indonesia to support an agricultural training project, part of a two phase program developed by the Government and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). The program is designed to help Indonesia's Ministry of Agriculture improve the quality of its administrative and technical staff through broader education, and to centralize the planning and management of agricultural education. Selected training institutions are to be expanded.
With the notable exception of Indonesia, most countries in the area have advanced beyond the early stages of industrialization, but the effort to increase agricultural production will be important for their future economic development. Korea, Malaysia, Indonesia and, intermittently, the Philippines, all import food grains, but the area includes exporters of these commodities as well, notably Thailand with its large surplus of rice. Agriculture still employs the majority of people in the area's
developing countries, despite the drift to industrial urban centers in recent years, and it is vital to raise agricultural incomes which have lagged behind industrial wages.
Efforts are being made to increase food grain production and diversify agricultural output. The Bank's support of these goals is illustrated by two projects approved during the year in the Republic of Korea. The first was the Yong San Gang Irrigation Project, for which a $33 million Bank loan and a $15 million IDA credit were approved in January. The second was an agricultural credit project for which IDA approved a credit of $10.5 million in May. It will help about 12,000 farmers to develop fruit orchards, engage in mushroom production, sericulture, and poultry and swine breeding. Another effort to diversify agriculture was in the Philippines, where a loan of $7.5 million will help to develop the livestock industry.
The "green revolution" has not yet produced dramatic changes in East Asia. While agricultural production in general has continued to grow, demand has increased at about the same rate because of rising populations and incomes.
There are indications, however, that important advances in rice production may be just ahead. The use of improved varieties is spreading. Many governments hope that investment in agriculture and incentives to farmers will lead to dramatic increases in food production during the next few years. In others, non-food crops may present a more economic alternative, and for them self-sufficiency in food grains is not necessarily a priority objective. Malaysia provides an example. The issue of optimum land use, as between rice and other crops, will become increasingly important as rice production expands through technological improvements.
Each developing country, of course, has its own unique set of problems. In Papua New Guinea, for example, the need is to strengthen the economy in preparation for the territory's independence. Until now, the primary need for Bank Group financial assistance has been related to infrastructure. In fiscal 1972, an IDA credit and a Bank loan were made for this purpose, the latter with Australia's guarantee.
The loan, of $10 million, will help to improve telecommunications. The wild terrain and limited surface transportation hamper communication between the agricultural and mineral production areas and the administrative and commercial centers. The other project, assisted by an IDA credit of $9.2 million, is to improve three of the territory's main seaports and build a new one.
While Indonesia has a more favorable resource endowment than most countries in the area, its neglect of infrastructure until five years ago com-
pounded problems resulting from a high population density and rate of increase. Only quite recently has the country been able to look beyond the immediate problem of rehabilitation to the prospect of more dynamic growth.
Since the end of 1968, the Bank has maintained a Resident Mission in Djakarta to assist the Indonesian Government, and IDA has made available $3.22.9 million in 21 credits for projects in nearly all major sectors. Three additional credits totaling $10 million, including one of $4 million in fiscal 1972, have provided resources required for pre-investment planning, project feasibility and engineering work, and consulting and advisory services.
Operations in Indonesia
Lending to Indonesia in fiscal 1972 also included a credit of $13.2 million for the most comprehensive family planning project yet assisted by the Bank Group. It is a part of the Government's national program, and includes not only the physical facilities and technical assistance associated with earlier projects in other areas, but support for activities in training, motivation, evaluation, research and population education.
The project also represents considerable progress in cooperation among official international and private agencies concerned with population problems. An amount equal to IDA's credit, in the form of a grant, is being provided by the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), while organizations such as WHO, Unesco, UNICEF and the Population Council have undertaken to carry out various components of the project.
Except for the islands of Java and Bali in Indonesia, the pressure of population on resources is not yet as severe in the East Asia and Pacific area as in some other regions. Nevertheless, several developing countries in the group were among the early leaders in the adoption of national policies and programs to reduce fertility. In the Republics of China and Korea and in Singapore, birth rates have been reduced by nearly a tenth of one percent a year. Even in these countries, however, the rate of decline in fertility appears to have slowed down considerably, and greatly expanded effort may be required to maintain progress in reducing the rate of population growth.
Meanwhile, most developing countries of the area, with the exception of Indonesia and the countries of Indo-China, have managed to maintain relatively high rates of economic growth. Average annual gains in production during the latter half of the 1960s, for example, were more than 6% in Malaysia and Thailand and above 10% in Singapore and the Republics of China and
Korea. Per capita incomes in these countries, therefore, have also continued to advance.
In many countries, including Malaysia and Korea, impressive gains have been made in relatively short periods of time. Korea's concerted development effort dates only from about "1963, after recovery from the disruptive effects of war, and Malaysia's from the early 1960s following a long period of national emergency. The growth of the Republics of China and Korea, Malaysia and Singapore has been fueled to a large extent by impressive and successful efforts to expand exports, especially of processed agricultural products and simple manufactures. Malaysia has been very successful in diversifying raw material exports, and in Korea the share of manufactured goods in total exports has risen dramatically.
Many difficulties remain to be overcome, different in detail from country to country but with certain common characteristics. One problem found almost universally, here as in other developing regions, has to do with debt and debt management. Except for Indonesia, countries in this area were relatively free of heavy debt service burdens until quite recently. Debt problems are beginning to appear, however, often because high growth rates have been financed by heavy external borrowing. Thailand's debt service rose during the 1960s mainly because of private external borrowings; public external debt and debt service remain low in relation to external earnings and reserves. Korea's debt service ratio has also increased since 1969 despite larger foreign exchange earnings. While the ratio for the Philippines is high, there has been a marked improvement in debt management during the last two years.
Indonesia's debt problems were of far greater magnitude, but notable progress has been made since the crisis of 1966, including rescheduling arrangements with major creditors. Although generous rescheduling terms and the fact that Indonesia's exports have risen at an annual average rate of about 21% during the past five years have improved the situation, debt management will remain a problem for Indonesia in the coming years.
The debt situation of some countries and the investment needs of all require increasing capital inflows, at least for the next few years. The prospects for increased private investment are promising because the resource endowment is high and ample labor, including skilled labor, is available. For infrastructure and public sector investment, several countries have difficulty in preparing projects rapidly enough to meet capital requirements. This is true especially in Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand. Because of this, the Bank Croup is giving increased assistance in project identification and preparation. As the
In Malaysia's jengka Triangle, where Bank lending helps advance a large settlement project for nearly 6,000 families, public water facilities add to the amenities ot rural lite.
fiscal year ended, plans were being completed to establish a mission in Bangkok to assist the Governments of Thailand and Malaysia in carrying out their development plans. The mission will be particularly concerned with the identification and preparation of projects in key sectors, and with policies for the more rapid advancement of the less developed regions and communities in the two countries. The Bank's Technical Liaison Officer for Mekong Affairs, stationed in Bangkok, will become a part of the mission.
A Bank review of land and water resource development in the lower Mekong River basin, which had been requested by the Secretary General of the United Nations and the Mekong Committee, was completed during the fiscal year. At the request of the Committee, representing the Khmer Republic, Laos, Thailand and the Republic of Viet-Nam, the Bank agreed to assist in raising investment funds for a program of "pioneer" agricultural projects. Details of the basin-wide program are being prepared by the World Bank in association with the Asian Development Bank and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. The work is financed through a $2 million fund provided by the UNDP and the Governments of Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States. Also in the Mekong region, the Nam Ngum hydroelectric project was completed during the year. It was financed through a fund provided by a group of contributing countries and administered by the Bank.
SOUTH ASIA
The last 12 months have been a time of unusual trial for the greater part of South Asia, an area where hardship is a constant companion and disaster a frequent visitor. Civil conflict in Pakistan, followed by war with India, set back development, and extended drought added to the unsolved economic problems of Afghanistan and Ceylon. The recent fast pace of development continued in Iran, however, and in Burma there were stirrings of hope for faster economic growth.
The train of events culminating in the civil conflict in Pakistan, and subsequent war with India last December, spread destruction and death even more widely in what was then East Pakistan than the catastrophic cyclone of the year before. The capacity to generate badly needed economic and social development was severely curtailed.
Following the war, the most pressing need was emergency relief for the people of Bangladesh, the new nation of 75 million that arose in what had been East Pakistan. This was provided by the United Nations, governments and voluntary organizations.
To help estimate the full extent of requirements for relief and rehabilitation, the Bank assigned nine staff members to serve with a mission sponsored by the United Nations. In April, the mission estimated that about $950 million would be required through June 1973, including some $300 million for food imports. The balance represents the cost of rehabilitating infrastructure, health services, education and industry, including about $450 million in direct imports. At the same time, both through special missions and its office in Dacca, established in mid-1970, the Bank prepared the way for the resumption of operations.
In April, the Government of Sweden offered Bangladesh an interim credit of $11 million to permit the resumption of work on a number of projects for which IDA had previously provided credits. Disbursements on these and other projects and sub-projects in the area had been suspended in December when Pakistan informed the Bank that it could no longer accept responsibility for their supervision. At that time various amounts, totaling about $96 million, were still undisbursed on 12 IDA-supported projects for agriculture, education, industry and transportation. These funds included $25 million in a credit for reconstruction following the cyclone of 1970.
Although Bangladesh had not yet become a member of the Bank and IDA by the close of the fiscal year, its applications had been approved by the Board of Governors. Meanwhile, preparations were being made to provide new IDA credits for projects under way, some of which will have to be redefined in the light of present needs, and to assist in the task of reconstruction.
In India, the care of about 10 million refugees from the former East Pakistan consumed resources that were urgently needed to step up the pace of development. Nevertheless, thanks mainly to substantial additional taxation imposed during the year and to a large international relief effort, the Government's development program continued without serious disruption. Bank Group opera-
tions in India included a loan of $60 million to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI), a development finance company, and 11 IDA credits for agriculture, transport, industry and family planning. The year's lending brought the cumulative total of Bank Croup commitments in India to $3,132 million over a period of 23 years.
In Pakistan, the war and related events severely disrupted the development program and created difficult problems of adjustment. Faced by extreme balance of payments constraints, the Government halted service on some of its debt as of May 1, 1971, but continued to service obligations to the Bank, IDA and other multilateral institutions. In May 1972, Pakistan introduced an exchange reform, in support of which the International Monetary Fund approved a standby arrangement. This was followed by a meeting of the Pakistan Consortium late in May, at which mem-
ber countries reached an understanding to provide debt relief of about $234 million over a period of 26 months ending June 30, 1973. They also agreed to provide additional commodity assistance to Pakistan.
In June, it became possible for the Bank Group to extend its first assistance to Pakistan since the credit of January 1971 for cyclone reconstruction in the east. An IDA credit of $50 million was approved by the Executive Directors to provide foreign exchange for essential industrial imports, in support of import liberalization measures which were introduced as part of the Government's program of economic and financial reforms.
Other lending in South Asia during the fiscal year was limited to Iran and Nepal. In Iran, the Bank made four loans totaling $125 million for agriculture, industry and transportation. IDA extended a credit of $4.2 million to Nepal for a tourism project.
The record of lending in South Asia is shown in the accompanying table, classified by sectors.
The table reflects two principal trends: a steady rise in volume, and a rapidly increasing share directed to the agriculture sector. Comparing the average for the last four years with the period 1964-68, the yearly total has almost doubled while the amount provided for agriculture has more than quadrupled.
The cumulative total of lending in South Asia, amounting to $5,272 million, represents more than a fourth of Bank and IDA financing in all developing countries. In part, this sizable share is a
reflection of the area's relative size and poverty: while these seven countries occupy only 13% of the land area of the Bank's developing members, they have 43% of the population and about a fourth of the income. Apart from Iran, where oil revenues boost per capita income well over $350, most of the area is still characterized by extreme poverty and average per capita incomes are lower than in much of Africa. Thus, almost half of total Bank and IDA lending has been provided by IDA, whose limited resources are reserved for the poorest countries with investment needs far in excess of the amount they can be expected to mobilize through their own efforts, even with severe curtailment of consumption.
Furthermore, except for Afghanistan and Nepal, which joined in 1955 and 1961 respectively, all countries in South Asia have been members of the Bank for more than two decades. For the most part, they already had a relatively good supply of skilled personnel and well developed systems of public administration on which to build their capability for planning and executing development programs and projects. Thus, with some notable exceptions, the main obstacle to development in South Asia has been a shortage of resources, chiefly in foreign exchange, rather than a lack of ability to plan programs or identify, prepare and carry out projects. This is especially true for Bangladesh, Ceylon, India and Pakistan, which account for nearly four fifths of the area's population.
Since 1958 and 1959, when it organized the Consortia on Aid to India and Pakistan, the Bank has taken the lead in efforts to forestall balance of payments difficulties which would retard the development of countries with generally sound economic and financial policies. By providing credits trom time to time tor imports of industrial components and raw materials, it has helped to overcome difficulties arising, in the context of the countries' changing economic structure, from critical shortages of foreign exchange which were resulting in the curtailment of production.
Non-project lending of this kind to India and Pakistan has been a relatively high proportion of total Bank Croup financing in the area. The credit of $50 million to Pakistan and one of $75 million to India in fiscal 1972 brought the total for this purpose to $780 million. Despite these and other efforts, however, including a measure of debt service relief agreed to by members of the Consortium in 1968, there has been a sharp fall in net transfers of aid to India. This reflects in part a continuing rapid rise in debt service payments, although the terms of aid have improved moderately in recent years. Chiefly, however, the drop in net transfers results from an abrupt decline in
commitments and disbursements, particularly in the last two years.
Of the 12 projects in India for which the Bank and IDA provided finance in fiscal 1972, seven were for agricultural development. Two of these are industrial projects, for the expansion of fertilizer production. One is an irrigation project. Two will increase the availability of agricultural credit in Mysore and Maharashtra, including credit for small farmers; similar IDA credits had been made during the previous vear in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Tamilnadu. Another, for which the Government of Sweden and IDA agreed to provide $5 million each, will increase storage and handling facilities in India's wheat belt, reducing waste and spoilage and relieving strain on transport. Funds are included to train personnel and conduct an all-India study of food grain storage and distribution problems.
The seventh project represents an innovation in the Bank Group's development lending. In Bihar, a large state which straddles the Ganges River west of Bangladesh and south of Nepal, market facilities are to be constructed in 50 rural towns. The IDA credit of $14 million will cover about 60% of the total cost, and includes funds for training personnel in marketing and project evaluation. Its object is to encourage the spread of fair trading practices, establish more competitive prices, and reduce wastage. Better farm prices resulting from the project are expected to stimulate increased production and make it possible for about 1.5 million farmers, mostly smallholders, to increase their incomes.
In the 50 market centers, project developments will include access roads, fenced yards, auction platforms, office buildings, wholesalers' shops and storage facilities. Various amenities will be provided, such as water for both farmers and their animals, and parking areas for bullocks and carts. Each center will be owned and managed by a Market Committee, including both farmers and traders, which will be subject to supervision by a State Marketing Board.
Population planning: India
Another noteworthy project in India, for which the Government of Sweden and IDA together are providing $31.8 million, is the largest in the population field with which the Bank Group has so far been associated. Its content is also unique, for it is an experimental effort to determine what needs to be done to improve the effectiveness of India's national program to reduce fertility, the first and largest of its kind in the world. This will be attempted through careful testing and evaluation of program alternatives in the states of Mysore and Uttar Pradesh.
Infrastructure, training facilities and equipment will be provided to make family planning services available to a population of 19 million in accordance with the Government's plan. In some project areas, additional elements will be provided to test alternatives, especially by linking the provision of family planning services to a supplementary nutrition program, more and better-trained personnel, greater use of motivational techniques, mobile teams and other methods. IDA is providing two thirds of the project cost, the Swedish Government one third, and the Indian Government will finance about $12.5 million of additional expenditures in the project facilities.
In the last five years, Iran's production has increased at an average rate of more than 10%, raising per capita income by nearly two fifths. Rising oil revenues, which have nearly trebled since the mid-1960s, have helped to support a large investment program and stimulate the growth of output.
While many advances have been made in such fields as land reform, education and public health, rapid economic expansion has given rise to some of the problems of imbalance which have tended to accompany exceptionally fast development in other countries: wide and increasing income disparities between rural areas and urban centers, particularly Tehran; urbanization progressing faster than some public services can be provided;
On the main road from Kathmandu to the Indian border at Birganj. In mountainous Nepal, development requires the closer integration ot isolated valleys. Road maintenance is a key problem, which an IDA credit approved in fiscal 1971 is helping to overcome.
reliance for industrial expansion largely on demand from middle and high income groups, with attendant heavy dependence on imports of capital and intermediate goods.
The Government has devised measures to overcome these difficulties through a broad reform program, including a recently announced decision to widen the ownership of industrial enterprises by the distribution of shares to workers and through public subscription. An object of the Fifth Development Plan for 1973-78, now in preparation, will be to deal more effectively with such problems while maintaining the pace of growth. The Bank intends to continue its assistance, emphasizing support for measures to stimulate agricultural production, increase employment, slow down population growth, and expand assistance to farmers and the smaller industries.
The year's credit to Nepal was for the first tourism project to be assisted by the Bank Group in Asia. Tourism is one of Nepal's most promising avenues for the expansion of foreign exchange earnings. The IDA credit will help to alleviate a considerable shortage of accommodation in Kathmandu, the capital, through the moderniza-
tion and expansion of an existing hotel and the construction of a new one.
To help strengthen relations with Nepal and facilitate the identification and preparation of projects, the Bank opened a resident office in Kathmandu in August 1971. In May 1972, an economic mission carried out a comprehensive review of the country's economy. It is hoped that these developments will lead to a substantial increase in the Croup's lending activities in Nepal.
A meeting of the Ceylon Aid Croup late in May under the Bank's chairmanship provided an opportunity for the Government to explain the objectives set out in its Five Year Plan for 1972-76, and to outline the major elements in its strategy for achieving them. Members of the Group agreed with the Government's analysis of the direction of policy and action required. Taking new indications of assistance into account, as well as undis-
bursed balances from prior commitments, it was expected that disbursements of aid by the Croup in 1972 would remain around last year's level of about $60 million.
While no loans or credits were made to Afghanistan during the year, work proceeded on the preparation of livestock, tourism and highway projects, and on assistance to a development finance institution, the industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan.
For the last 10 years, Burma has not sought help from the Bank Group for its development program. In 1971, the Government prepared and published a new four year development plan and asked the Bank to examine which of the projects in the plan it could help to finance. As a first response, a mission visited Burma in March 1972 to review the general economic situation, help determine investment priorities, and identify projects.
MEXICO, CENTRAL AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
While this is the smallest of the Bank's operational areas, it includes Mexico, the third largest borrower from the Bank Croup as a whole and the second largest trom the Bank alone. Except for Colombia, it includes all Bank members in and around the Caribbean basin.
All but four of the area's 13 countries were among the World Bank's earliest members. Haiti became a member in 1953, while Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago joined in 1963, followed by Guyana in 1966.
All have been borrowers from the Bank Group, and in fiscal 1972 nine obtained loans from the Bank and one a credit from IDA. The year's lending brought the cumulative total for the area to S2,447 million for 139 projects in ail sectors.
Mexico, which has well over half the area's population and income, has borrowed more than half the total. In fiscal 1972, Mexican borrowing reached a new record of $277 million. This unusually large volume raised the area's total for the year to more than $436 million, nearly three
times the annual average for the period 1964-68. Other principal borrowers during the year were Costa Rica, $33 million; Nicaragua, $30.9 million; Venezuela, $28 million; Panama, $23.4 million; Guatemala, S16 million; and Honduras, $12.3 million.
The record of lending in the area by sectors is shown in the table on page 44.
The small amount and proportion of IDA credits, averaging about 3%for the last four years, reflects the relatively advanced stage of development achieved by many countries in the area, and their correspondingly high ieveis of per capita income. Few of the 13 countries are below the income ceiling currently employed as a criterion for rationing IDA's scarce resources.
Lending in most sectors, of course, is heavily weighted by the Bank's operations in Mexico, which began in 1949 and have involved 30 loans totaling $1,351.1 million. Cumulative lending to Venezuela has amounted to $361.3 million, so that operations in these two countries represent approximately 70% of the total; between them, they have about 68% of the area's population.
Comparing the average for the four years through fiscal 1972 with the previous five year period, there has been a notable increase in lending for agriculture, although the volume in fiscal 1972 declined. As a proportion of the yearly average, loans for agriculture have increased from about 10% to more than 18%. Though the totals are still small, lending for education has more than quadrupled.
New fields of activity in the area have been population planning in Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago, tourism in Mexico, and airports in Panama and Venezuela.
The high level of lending in 1972 should be regarded as exceptional for the area. There was a considerable expansion of Bank activity in Mexico, reflecting in part the results of a transport study carried out in 1970, and this coincided with
a phase of heavy lending to public utilities in Central America. While lending to Mexico is expected to remain high, the average level for the next two or three years is likely to be lower than in fiscal 1972.
Loans for the expansion of power and telecommunications systems together accounted for nearly half the year's total. All but one of the year's loans for power, telecommunications and water supply were made to enterprises with which the Bank has been closely associated for a number of years, and which have been previous recipients of Bank loans. All are public enterprises.
Much the largest of these is Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE) in Mexico, to which the
Bank made its first loan in the area, in 1949. CFE is now the Bank Group's second largest borrower in the world, after the Indian Railways and excluding Nacional Financiera, which serves as an intermediary for all Bank lending to Mexico. The latest loan, of $125 million, is to assist in financing Mexico's fourth power sector program, covering the period from 1972 to 1974. The Bank loan will be supplemented by bilateral credits from equipment-supplying countries, as well as by borrowings from commercial banks.
The remaining power and telecommunications loans approved during the year are for public utilities in Central America: a combined power and telecommunications enterprise in Costa Rica, the national telecommunications authority in El Salvador, national power undertakings in Honduras and Nicaragua, and a new entity for managing telecommunications in Guatemala which the Bank has helped to establish. The loan for water supply will assist the further expansion of the municipal water system in Managua, capital of Nicaragua, for which IDA provided a credit of $3 million in fiscal 1963.
Two of the year's power loans, to Honduras and Nicaragua, represent an important first step toward regional integration in this sector. Funds are included to interconnect the systems of the two countries, which are naturally complementary. The Bank Group has assisted in the development of both, beginning in fiscal 1954 in Nicaragua and 1959 in Honduras. Alongside the Bank's new loan of $24 million to Nicaragua, the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) is providing $6.1 million in untied funds
advanced by the German Government through the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau. Together, the two Banks are financing more than 85% of the Nicaraguan project's total cost. For the Honduran project, the World Bank loan of $12.3 million will finance the foreign currency component, representing about 80% of the total.
The interconnection feature of both projects will permit transfers of power from Nicaragua to Honduras from 1975 through 1977. After that time it is expected that Honduras will be able to supply power to Nicaragua. Honduras has an abundance of good sites for hydroelectric development, with potential far in excess of its current demand.
Transport in Guyana, Mexico, Panama and Venezuela accounts for nearly a third of the Bank Group's lending in the area in fiscal 1972. Mexico again heads the list of borrowers. On the basis of recommendations resulting from the 1970 study, the Government of Mexico is giving high priority to a program for improving the finance and organization of public transport. The year's port and railway loans are intended to support this effort. A loan of $20 million will help to finance dredging and other equipment for the development of five major ports. A loan of $75 million to the National Railways will cover foreign purchases of railway wagons, including components and materials, rails, communication equip-
ment and other items, including the services of consultants.
The other main feature of transport lending in the area in fiscal 1972 was the approval of the Bank's first two airport loans. One was to help remodel the Tocumen International Airport in Panama, the other for construction of a new runway at Maiquetia International Airport near Caracas, Venezuela. These are among the busiest airports in Latin America. Each serves as its country's main domestic air terminal and its principal point of entry and departure for official, business and tourist travel, as well as for air cargo, which is especially important in the case of Panama.
The IDA credit to Guyana was to help finance the year's only highway operation in the area. The project provides for improvement of coastal roads serving important sugar and rice growing areas.
The diversification and expansion of Bank lending to Mexico was reflected in two other loans made during the year. One provided $22 million toward the cost of urban infrastructure required for the development of a new tourist resort at Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast. The other, amounting to $35 million, will finance long term
The Bank Group's program to help in population planning gained important new momentum in fiscal 1972 (see pages 36 and 40). The first loan for this purpose was to Jamaica in June 1970, where mothers receive birth control information in a maternity hospital.
loans for industrial equipment through a fund newly established by the Bank of Mexico to promote production for export and, in exceptional cases, for reducing imports.
Both projects are designed to strengthen Mexico's balance of payments and ease the foreign exchange constraint which contributed to the slowing down in 1971 of Mexico's very rapid rate of economic growth. The Zihuatanejo project is the first of its kind to be financed by the Bank, and represents a new concept of planned tourism development. Us location in one of the poorest regions of Mexico gives it added significance as a source of additional income and employment.
In addition to tourism and industrial linance, the Bank has explored other possible new fields of lending in Mexico during the last year, particularly in small scale agriculture and industry, and is assisting the Mexican Government with a national water study, to be financed in part by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Availability of water could become one of the most critical constraints on Mexico's economic development, since there is a growing shortage in the central plateau where most of the country's industry and agriculture are concentrated. Raising water to the plateau from lower areas where rainfall is more abundant would be very costly. The objective of the study is to provide a better basis for determining the optimum allocation of water in different parts of the country, and for devising appropriate long range policies for water use. The first phase will take about two years to complete.
While most lending operations in [he area in fiscal 1972 were devoted to the financing of infrastructure in the public sector, some funds were channeled to the private sector by way of industrial and agricultural development banks and other financial intermediaries, including the new Mexican fund for the equipment of industry. A loan was made during the year to a development finance company in Trinidad and Tobago which the Bank had helped the Government to set up in 1970, with the majority of the shares being held in the public sector. Agricultural credit loans, largely in support of livestock producers, were concluded in fiscal 1972 with Costa Rica and Venezuela for a total amount of $20 million. A small loan was made to Panama for extending credit to shrimp fishermen, mainly to replace old wooden trawlers with modern boats.
The fact that industry and agriculture occupied relatively small places in the Bank's operations of fiscal 1972 should not be interpreted as an indication of diminishing interest in these sectors. Agricultural and livestock credit accounted for more than half the Bank Group's financing in the
area during (he previous year, and industry and agriculture together account for a similar proportion of lending contemplated for fiscal 1973.
In general, however, ihe Bank has not been able so far lo provide large scale assistance to small farmers in this part of the world. A considerable proportion of the rural population in Mexico and Central America is at present difficult to reach through existing forms of institutional credit, and subsistence agriculture receives little direct government support. Nevertheless, the Bank is interested in helping the Governments concerned in their search for new ways of accelerating rural development and bringing about a better distribution of income. This has been an important theme in the Bank's economic reporting on these countries. Similarly in education, while no new loans were made in fiscal 1972, the Bank continues to be active in the area. Education projects
In Mexico, as in many other parts of the world. Bank Croup lending and technical assistance have helped to keep the supply of power abreast of demand and deliver it to users. For the latest power lending in Mexico, see page 44.
are being carried out in seven of the 13 countries, and six new ones were under preparation at the close of the fiscal year.
Efforts toward integration
In order to overcome the constraints of small economies, there has been a continuing effort on the part of several groups of countries in the area lo promote trade and widen the base of economic activity through various mechanisms for regional integration. The Bank has assisted in these efforts and will continue to do so. Five countries in the area are members of the Central American Common Market (CACM): Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua. The World Bank and CABEI have established close relations, with the aim of giving new impetus to industrial development within the Common Market.
Three Bank members—Guyana, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago,, all members of ihe British Commonwealth—are joined with Barbados, seven island territories and British Honduras in the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CAR! FT A). The CARIFTA countries, together with Canada and the United Kingdom, are members of the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), which in 1972 opened membership to Colombia and Venezuela.
Venezuela is considering membership in the Andean Pad, an effort of northern and western South American countries lo concert their economic policies and promote regional trade. It is already a member of the Pad's financial arm lor development, the Andean Development Corporation.
In the Caribbean, the World Bank has given its full support to the work of the Caribbean Development Bank and is helping to build up its technical staff and knowledge of investment opportunities by acting as Executing Agency for a technical assistance project financed by UNDP. During the past 18 months the World Bank has also organized economic missions to two ot the smaller Caribbean countries. British Honduras (Belize! and Surinam, and has given special attention to problems of unemployment in the area. In fiscal 1972 a mission visited Trinidad and Tobago lo analyze the employment question in relation to development prospects. These are mailers of close concern to other international and bilateral agencies as well, and the Bank has tried to coordinate its work with the activities of CDB, CARIFTA, the Inter-American Development Bank and the Inter-American Committee on the Alliance tor Progress,
SOUTH AMERICA
These nine countries have roughly a fourth of the total land area, a fifth of the income and a tenth of the population of the Bank's developing members.
All but Argentina were among the founders of the Bank, and the Bank's first development loans were made here—to Chile in 1948, for power and agriculture. The methods of lending which have become hallmarks of the World Bank were first developed here by trial and error, in collaboration —sometimes difficult on both sides—with ministries and staffs of the borrowing countries.
As a result, close working relations were established which have often made it possible to transform a lender-borrower relationship into a cooperative staff effort to solve common problems. This approach, evolving over nearly a quarter of a century, explains in part why South America has received such a high proportion of Bank Group financing: about a sixth of Bank and IDA lending combined and a fifth of the Bank's alone. The other principal factor, of course, has been the
area's "absorptive capacity," resulting from its relatively advanced level of development and technical capability.
In South America, however, as in all areas, there have been periods when the Bank's ability to provide assistance to one or another country has been limited. Issues have arisen from time to time over such matters as the sufficiency of domestic public savings to complement Bank financing of projects, the effect of government policies on the viability of the balance of payments over the short and long run, problems of debt management, and disputes among members over compensation for expropriated property.
In each case, the Bank strives to resolve the issue in close consultation with the government concerned, without adverse effect upon the country's development program; in other words, it seeks a degree of understanding and commitment that will permit lending to continue. In the last analysis, however, the outcome of such issues, which deeply affect the borrowers' creditworthiness and the Bank's ability to mobilize resources for development, is determined by the Bank's understanding of its obligations to all members in accordance with its Articles of Agreement.
Bank lending in South America has been affected to an unusual degree in the last few years by inability to resolve such difficult issues, in a variety of situations. Other factors, notably project readiness or unforeseeable delays in negotiations, have also influenced the pattern of operations in a particular year, such as fiscal 1972 when lending was confined to four of the nine countries in this area. The distribution of financing was also uneven as between the various sectors. An unusually large amount was lent in fiscal 1972 for industry and mining, particularly in Brazil where the demand for industrial capital has been heavy.
The record of Bank and IDA combined operations in the area is summarized by major sectors in the table on page 49.
The cumulative totals include only $123.9 million in IDA credits, representing 3.2%. This low proportion reflects the area's higher levels of income, which on average are three times those prevailing in South Asia and four times those of Eastern Africa. In fiscal 1972, the only IDA lending was to Ecuador, where per capita income is within the current ceiling employed to ration IDA's limited resources to the poorest countries; in recent years, beneficiaries have included Bolivia and Paraguay.
Including the IDA component, the cumulative total through 1972 has risen to about $3,825 million. Average annual lending during the last four years has been more than two and a half times the level of the previous live, and in both of the last two years the volume was more than three times as large. As a proportion of the total, the sharpest increases have been in transportation, industry, and water supply and sewerage systems.
Lending for agriculture actually declined in 1972, both in aggregate amount and in relation
to the whole. This fact, however, does not reflect any lack of interest on the part of the Bank in the development of agriculture in South America. On the contrary, the Bank is convinced, along with most governments and other financing agencies, that agriculture requires much greater emphasis. The pipeline for the coming year now includes six or seven agriculture projects which could result in loans of more than $100 million. All indications are that the trend will continue upward at least through fiscal 1974. The Bank shares the view that expanded agricultural production, higher real incomes, improved conditions of rural life, and better access to land are as necessary as the further rapid growth and diversification of industry.
A major feature of development in South America has been the growth of manufacturing. In countries better endowed with both natural resources and trained manpower, this process has been fairly rapid and sustained. In the earlier stages, the main emphasis has been on domestic production in substitution for imports, especially of light consumer goods. More recently, industry in the larger, more developed countries has broadened its output to include consumer durables, intermediate goods and capital equipment, all requiring far more capital and advanced technology.
At the same time, as industries have matured there has been a shift away from exclusive emphasis on import substitution. South America is thus emerging as an exporter of manufactured goods in a rapidly widening range and to diversified markets. Recently a number of countries, especially Brazil and, on a smaller scale, Colombia, have demonstrated considerable ability to develop export manufactures under international competitive conditions. Brazilian and Argentinian
industries have had similar success in winning international bids for engineering goods and transport equipment for their home markets, with relatively low protection.
Expansion of exports of manufactures and of other non-traditional goods holds the promise of reducing the excessive reliance on a limited number of primary products, some of which have uncertain demand prospects and most of which are marked by substantial price instability. Diversification of exports is necessary to assure stable and rapid growth, which is needed to generate an adequate increase in employment opportunities.
The socio-economic history of the continent has resulted in an exceptional concentration of land ownership, wealth and power in a number of countries. As a result, economic aggregates for South America conceal enormous differences, not only between countries but between regions within countries and between the wealthy few and the many poor. As in many other areas, employment opportunities in the modern sector have not been generated fast enough to absorb the growing labor force; thus unemployment, and particularly underemployment, are still widespread.
Each government has approached these problems in its own way as they have pressed more urgently for solutions. In some cases, major emphasis has been given to the acceleration of investment and growth, in the expectation that benefits will be better shared as the momentum of growth increases. A few governments, as in Chile, have adopted decisive measures to achieve immediate results through the redistribution of income. Between these two approaches, some countries have adopted various programs of expansion and reform, while others are exploring alternative solutions. The Bank intends to lend its assistance wherever feasible and whenever specific proposals for action bear scrutiny in terms of the efficient use of resources.
In fiscal 1972, for example, the Bank made a second loan to Colombia's agrarian reform agency, in support of agricultural settlement projects in the Department of Atlantico, southwest of Barranquilla. This was the fourth loan in four years for agricultural improvement in Colombia, for a total of about $48 million.
With three loans for steel expansion, the Bank gave support to the Brazilian Government's program to diversify the economic structure and make industry more competitive. They constituted the largest package of industrial lending in the Bank's history. The three projects, based on excellent iron ore resources, are expected on completion to save Brazil nearly $250 million a year in foreign exchange. They are parts of a program to increase capacity from 6.5 to 20 million tons by
1980, making Brazil a major producer of steel and engineering goods. To help finance equipment purchases through international competitive bidding, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the World Bank are providing $320 million, 40% by IDB and 60% by the World Bank. Official export credit institutions of nine countries have agreed to make about $300 million available in parallel financing; this will cover 90% of the cost of remaining equipment needs, to be purchased from suppliers in the participating countries on the basis of competitive bidding among them.
Export expansion projects
Two closely related loans made in Brazil for mining during the fiscal year will generate large new export earnings. One is for a project to develop extensive high grade iron deposits near Belo Horizonte, together with an ocean terminal on Sepetiba Bay near Rio de Janeiro. The other will provide for railway improvements, rolling stock and other equipment required to transport the ore to port for shipment overseas, chiefly to Japan and Europe.
For the mining project, a Bank loan of $50 million will cover a third of the total investment of about $150 million. Loans from five Japanese trading companies, the Japanese and United States Export-Import Banks and new equity capital of $30 million from the project's Brazilian, United States and Japanese sponsors complete the financing. For the railway project, the Bank is providing $46 million, about a third of the total cost.
Both the Government railways and private sponsors of the mining project agreed to take steps which will prevent or mitigate potential damage to the environment. Special precautions are to be taken to avoid environmental damage in and around Sepetiba Bay, an area with great potential for recreational development.
A different—and for the Bank in some ways, a novel—type of support for export expansion was provided through a $60 million loan to Colombia late in fiscal 1972. Colombia has a good, generally well executed development program, and has pursued policies resulting in growing public savings and diversification of exports. Unfortunately, events occurred during 1971—mainly a sharp, unexpected drop in coffee prices and an unusually heavy and prolonged rainfall—which broke the momentum of growth and disrupted the development program. The authorities found it necessary to reduce the import budget and imposed strict monetary measures to dampen demand. The loan was designed to assist Colombia to regain the momentum of growth and to restore the development program to levels approved by the Consul-
tative Croup for Colombia. Conceived as a loan on a non-recurring basis, it complemented Government measures to raise new revenues and to provide additional incentives for non-traditional export growth.
Two thirds of the loan was in program form to assist the financing of imports. This part of the loan was to provide quick disbursing resources required to maintain the program's momentum, a role that could not be performed by additional lending for specific projects. Only $30 million of
the counterpart generated from the import financing is to be directly available to the Government's budget, and $10 million is to provide essential working capital for firms producing goods for export. These funds will complement the $20 million portion of the loan, which will finance expansion projects by industrial and agricultural enterprises which have the capability of exporting all or part of their product. In this fashion, strong support will be given to the overall Government program for accelerated growth of non-traditional exports.
An important export project in Bolivia for which a Bank loan of more than $23 million was approved in 1969, but which had been halted when nationalization of one of the sponsor's properties disrupted the financing plan, was reconstituted in July 1971 with active cooperation of the Governments of Bolivia and Argentina and the Inter-American Development Bank. The latter is providing $19 million. The balance of total cost, estimated at $56 million, is covered by a loan of $14 million agreed to in 1969 by the New York State Common Retirement Fund. A pipeline constructed under the project will transport large quantities of natural gas to Argentina over a period of 20 years. Construction, begun in 1969, was resumed under interim arrangements in 1971 and completed this year. It will give a significant boost to Bolivia's export earnings and tax revenues.
Other transport lending in the area during the year consisted of the third in a series of highway construction projects in Brazil. Along with railway and port projects the Bank is helping to finance, it is based on the findings of a transport survey carried out in the latter part of the 1960s with financial assistance from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United States Agency for International Development (AID) and the Bank. The latest project involves a loan of $89 million, about 40% of the total cost.
Village electrification
A power expansion project in Ecuador, for which an IDA credit of $6.8 million was approved during the year, includes an especially interesting feature which marks a new departure for the Bank Croup. The credit includes about $1 million to
provide electricity for the first time to a number of small villages in the northwestern part of Canton Quito, while also providing support for a long term study of social costs and benefits attributable to rural electrification in general.
Important benefits are expected to flow from rural electrification, in the form of better living conditions, growth of small industries, a slowdown in migration to the towns, and a general stimulus to economic activity. There is little empirical evidence regarding these expectations, on which a sound project justification would normally be based, and the Bank Group lacks experience in village electrification. It is hoped that the study will help to improve criteria for project evaluation in this field.
The main project, costing nearly $18 million, will expand power production for Quito and the surrounding area. The economy is growing by about 8% a year, and manufacturing by 10%. The exploitation of major oil reserves, to be exported by means of a pipeline shortly to be completed, is expected to give further impetus to growth, which already feels the constraint of inadequate power supply.
Further steps were taken during the year to improve arrangements for the international coordination of development efforts, particularly for Colombia and Peru (see page 64). Progress was made in the Bank's efforts to establish a practical basis for collaboration with the Andean Pact in its regional integration activities, especially in the industrial field and in particular with the Pact's Andean Development Corporation. UNDP technical assistance projects which were approved in fiscal 1972, and for which the Bank serves as executing agency, are listed on page 61.
Bank and IDA-Supported Projects Approved in Fiscal 1972, by Sectors
AGRICULTURE
BOTSWANA: IDA—$1.65 million. Joint financing with Sweden of a $5.4 million project for the establishment and expansion of 69 large breeding and fattening ranches and sheep farms. Will open up unoccupied land, raise the value of livestock exports and increase the income of some 4,000 farmers.
CAMEROON: IDA—$3.7 million. To help increase rice production and farmers' incomes through irrigation and flood protection works, road improvement, construction of a rice mill, and by providing farm machinery and technical assistance. Total cost, $7.6 million.
CHAD: IDA—$2.2 million. For a $3.5 million project to construct and repair wells, establish well maintenance units and strengthen a livestock development unit, stimulating livestock industry expansion, increasing foreign exchange earnings, improving domestic food supplies.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$5 million. For an agricultural development project assisting the Government's land reform program and costing $9.7 million. Includes drainage, roads, storage depots, land preparation, equipment and farmer credits. The second stage of an earlier Bank-assisted project to increase farm output, provide employment.
COSTA RICA: Bank—$9 million. To help finance a $16.5 million project for commercial farms, agro-industrial enterprises, and technical assistance for increasing production of beef, dairy products, and crops. Continuation of an earlier Bank-assisted agricultural credit project.
DAHOMEY: IDA—-$6.1 million. To help intensify cotton and food crop cultivation through a $12.7 million project that includes farmer credit, construction of ginneries and rice mills, technical assistance for supporting services, feeder roads rehabilitation, development of low-lying land.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$4.4 million. To help meet growing demand for milk in Addis Ababa with a $6.5 million project for expansion of dairy farming and improvement of milk collecting, processing, marketing.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$6.3 million. To assist a $10 million coffee processing improvement project, including new washing stations, improvement of existing stations, access roads, technical assistance. Designed to create employment, raise farmers' cash incomes, increase export earnings.
INDIA: IDA—$30 million. For a $51.9 million project in the State of Maharashtra to provide
some 45,000 farmers with loans for wells and land improvement, increasing crop output valued at $23 million from about 700,000 acres.
INDIA: IDA—$40 million. Help in financing a $70.4 million project for on-farm irrigation, land improvement, mechanization in the State of Mysore. To increase agricultural output on about 700,000 acres and benefit some 36,000 farmers.
INDIA: IDA—$5 million. Financing, together with Sweden, of a $15.9 million project to provide modern grain storage and handling facilities in India's wheat belt. Will reduce storage losses, ease transport strain, stabilize foodgrain prices.
INDIA: IDA—$39 million. To help finance the remaining $91 million cost of completing the $126 million first phase of the Pochampad irrigation project, including a dam on the Godavari river, roads, land leveling, drainage, and canals and distribution systems to serve about 250,000 acres.
INDIA: IDA—$14 million. First Bank Group assistance for farm products marketing—a $23.3 million project to develop 50 market centers in the State of Bihar, including auction platforms, buildings, shops, storage, access roads and other facilities, technical assistance. (See page 40.)
INDONESIA: IDA—$12.5 million. For a $23.4 million irrigation rehabilitation and improvement project in East Java affecting 566,000 acres. Will increase crop production, foreign exchange savings and farmer incomes.
INDONESIA: IDA—$11 million. For rehabilitation and development of about 60,000 acres on 14 agricultural estates. Will increase output, raise annual net foreign exchange earnings from $2 million to $10 million, and provide employment for about 2,500 people. Total cost, $21.9 million.
IRAN: Bank—$14 million. To provide part of the foreign exchange needs of the Agricultural Development Fund of Iran for its estimated $35.1 million in lending, over a two year period, to commercial agriculture and to processing industries.
KOREA: IDA—$10.5 million. To assist in expanding, diversifying and balancing output of some 12,000 small farmers in a cooperative federation through a project to provide credit for on-farm improvements, technical assistance. Total cost, $18.2 million.
KOREA: Bank—$33 million; IDA—$15 million. To help finance an $85.2 million project to increase and diversify production on 82,000 acres in the drought-prone southwest area. Includes land consolidation, construction of dams, new and
improved irrigation and drainage networks, roads, on-farm improvements, supporting services.
LIBERIA: IDA—$1.2 million. To assist in preparing two rural development investment proposals, surveying rubber industry, implementing pilot rubber project, providing technical assistance to help Government improve capabilities in the agricultural sector.
MALAGASY REPUBLIC: IDA—$15.3 million. For a $27 million rural development project involving about 23,000 acres. Includes irrigation and drainage works, roads, construction and expansion of villages, equipment and farm machinery, and a health program. Expected to increase farm output, foreign exchange earnings and farmer income, and improve education and medical services.
MALAWI: IDA—$6.6 million. For a $7.8 million comprehensive rural development project on about 15,300 acres. Includes irrigation, drainage, crop improvement, livestock development, farmers' credit, freight service, health services. Will benefit 4,600 farmers, increase cash incomes.
MALI: IDA—$6.9 million. To increase rice output on about 77,000 acres and improve farm income through construction and rehabilitation of polders, provision of related equipment, buildings and technical assistance, at an estimated cost of $9.42 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$4.15 million. For a $6 million project to expand the vital livestock sector by providing adequate water through well construction and reconstruction, establishment of an animal health program, training well-maintenance teams, establishing and maintaining 4,000 miles of firebreaks.
MOROCCO: Bank—$24 million; IDA—$10 million. To cover the foreign exchange costs of Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole's program which contemplates 8,000 loans, totaling some $69 million, to farmers and packing facilities operators. Expected to generate jobs for some 18,000 workers and result in annual foreign exchange benefits of about $21 million by 1985.
PANAMA: Bank—$3.4 million. To help finance the $5.4 million cost of replacing old shrimp trawlers with 40 modern steel vessels. Includes technical assistance, fishermen training. Will permit maximum development of shrimp resources and increase annual export earnings by some $1.7 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$7.5 million. To help finance a $15.5 million project for increased production, foreign exchange savings, creation of some 1,700 jobs. Includes medium and long-term loans for about 1,475 livestock, poultry and coconut ranches and farms, 25 cattle breeding ranches, three small slaughterhouses, technical assistance.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$4.3 million. For a $5.6 million integrated agricultural project covering a variety of crops, project management, establishment of an Agricultural Development Authority. The first phase of a program to raise income and living standards of about 2,500 smallholder farm families.
SUDAN: IDA—$11.25 million. To help finance a project to develop some 435,000 acres of uncultivated land through mechanized farming, creating employment and increasing crop output and foreign exchange earnings. Includes funds for farm machinery, land clearance, road rehabilitation, water supply, ancillary buildings and a farm machinery training center. Total cost, $19.5 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$10.8 million. For a project assisted by Norway and the International Coffee Organization to diversify agricultural output. Includes tea planting by 14,000 smallholders on more than 20,500 acres, road construction, leaf-processing factories, related services, technical assistance, at a total cost of $16.5 million. (See page 20.)
TUNISIA: Bank—$5 million; IDA—$3 million. A $15 million project to increase wheat, dairy and vegetable output and create desert oases for date crops.
TUNISIA: IDA—$2 million. To assist fishing industry in replacing obsolete vessels and obtaining equipment, spare parts and technical assistance, increasing protein supply, employment, fishermen's earnings. Total cost, about $3.1 million.
TURKEY: IDA—$18 million. To help finance a $36.6 million project to improve and extend irrigation and related works, and supply equipment, vehicles and technical assistance. Will provide adequate water for 123,000 acres and increase employment and farm incomes. (See page 32.)
TURKEY: IDA—$16 million. For a $28.3 million project to provide credit to farmers, farmer groups and small feedlot operators, in addition to technical assistance. Will increase livestock output, employment and farm incomes, and help to meet rising domestic and foreign demand.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$2.2 million. Financing of some 1,400 small, scattered agricultural and agriculture-related projects to improve rural living standards, incomes and health and benefit perhaps as many as 450,000 people. Total cost, $3 million, including $380,000 provided by official French agencies. (See page 24.)
URUGUAY: Bank—$11.2 million. To help expand meat production and increase exports by providing part of $24.3 million in financing for farmers, ranchers, ranch development contractors and seed processors, and through technical assistance.
VENEZUELA: Bank—$11 million. To help expand beef output by 12%, providing credit to ranchers and cooperatives for on-ranch improvements, financing breeding units, providing technical assistance in a $39 million project.
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES
CYPRUS: Bank—$3 million. To help cover the import component of the Cyprus Development Bank Limited's planned commitments of nearly $10 million through mid-1974, with emphasis on projects in sectors earning foreign exchange.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY: Bank—$8 million. To help cover—along with the African Development Bankand Sweden—the import component of the East African Development Bank's expected $22.4 million commitments for industrial projects in the three member countries, over a two year period.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$11 million. To finance the estimated import component of the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank's expected lending, over a period of 18 months, for projects in the industrial and agricultural sectors.
GREECE: Bank—$25 million. To cover part of the import component of the National Investment Bank for Industrial Development's estimated $100 million of financing for private enterprises through 1973.
INDIA: Bank—$60 million. To cover most of the import component of the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India's long term loans for productive projects until mid-1973.
INDONESIA: IDA—$10 million. To help cover the import component of loans and investments of Bank Pembangunan Indonesia for small and medium-size industrial enterprises, over the next two years.
IRAN: Bank—$50 million. To cover most of the import component of the Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran's projected lending to industry through 1973.
LIBERIA: Bank—$1 million. Joint financing with the African Development Bank of the Liberian Bank for Industrial Development and Investment's contemplated investment activity in the 1972-73 period.
MAURITIUS: IDA-$3.5 million. To cover the import component of planned financing of industrial and tourism projects by the Development Bank of Mauritius over a two year period, and for an industrial estate program study.
MEXICO: Bank—$35 million. To cover the import costs of the Industrial Equipment Fund's loans to qualified financial intermediaries for financing enterprises with export or efficient import-substitution potential.
MOROCCO: Bank—$15 million. To help finance import costs of Credit Immobilier et Hotelier's estimated hotel-financing investments through 1973, helping to meet demand for accommodation resulting from rapid tourism growth.
NEW ZEALAND: Bank—$8 million. To assist Development Finance Corporation of New Zealand in financing capital import requirements of its industrial clients in 1972 and 1973.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: Bank—$2 million. To finance the off-shore procurement component of Trinidad and Tobago Development Finance Company's projected investments over a two year period, with special emphasis on medium industry and tourism facilities.
TUNISIA: Bank—$10 million. To cover part of the import component of Societe National d'ln-vestissement's financing of industrial and tourism enterprises through the end of 1972.
ZAIRE: IDA—$10 million. To cover import costs of medium and long term financing by Societe de Financement du Deveioppement for economic projects in the productive sectors of the economy.
EDUCATION
CAMEROON: IDA—$9 million. For a project to help improve, reform and integrate the education system at a cost of $11.4 million. Includes building, rehabilitating and equipping teacher training colleges, demonstration and technical schools, and a vocational training center.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: IDA—$3.9 million. For construction and expansion of secondary schools, lycees, teacher training college and related facilities, as well as technical assistance for a $5.4 million project to alleviate skilled manpower shortage, replace expatriates, improve teaching and curricula.
INDONESIA: IDA—$6.3 million. For a $12.3 million project to improve agricultural training and education. Includes establishing an agency within the Ministry of Agriculture; construction, equipment, rehabilitation, expansion of training centers, schools and an institute; and technical assistance.
IRAQ: Bank—$12.9 million. For a $20 million project to build and equip more than 50 schools, school laboratories, vocational workshops, institutes, work training centers, farm training and demonstration facilities, and to provide educational television equipment. The project is for the expansion and improvement of comprehensive secondary education and agricultural and industrial schooling, and to restructure the educational system.
IRELAND: Bank—$13 million. To help reform, consolidate and expand the education system
through a $33 million project to build and equip post-primary schools, agricultural education centers, technical and commercial educational institutions, and provide technical assistance.
JORDAN: IDA—$5.4 million. To help finance a $9.8 million project for construction and extension of comprehensive secondary schools, technical, teacher training and agricultural educational institutions, and provision of technical assistance. Will strengthen emphasis on vocational education and improve teaching and educational planning.
LIBERIA: IDA—$7.2 million. To assist a $9.6 million project to improve, expand and reshape the educational system, increasing emphasis on practical technical and agricultural training. Includes construction, expansion and equipping two high schools with curricula in agriculture and mechanics, a new college of agriculture and forestry, expansion of a rural teacher training institute, equipment and teacher training at Monrovia and Yekepa, and technical assistance.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$15.5 million. For a $28.4 million project to construct and equip schools and an educational development center; to provide related facilities and equipment; to construct and equip an educational television studio and provide receivers and videotape recorders.
MOROCCO: IDA—$8.5 million. To assist a $13.5 million program to improve the educational and training system, provide an adequate supply of manpower, and help replace expatriates. Includes building and equipping teacher training, technical, commercial and agricultural educational institutions and departments.
NIGERIA: Bank—$17.3 million. For reconstruction and expansion of 23 schools and seven teacher training colleges, and provision of technical assistance in a $27.8 million project to rehabilitate and expand war-damaged educational facilities, improve teaching, and reform curricula.
SINGAPORE: Bank—$9.5 million. To assist a $20 million relocation and expansion of the University of Singapore as the first phase of a program to concentrate and develop the university campus.
SPAIN: Bank—$50 million. For building and equipping more than 80 educational institutions at a total cost of $152.5 million in a project to extend education reforms which were initiated with the help of an earlier Bank loan.
THAILAND: Bank—$15.4 million. For a $28.3 million project to expand and improve Thailand's principal agricultural university. The existing campus will be improved and a new one developed. The project includes specialized teaching and research facilities, faculty and student buildings, and technical assistance.
ZAIRE: IDA—$6.5 million. For an $11.8 million project to construct, rehabilitate and equip edu-
cational institutions. Will improve and expand teacher training and increase effectiveness of the educational system.
ELECTRIC POWER
BRAZIL: Bank—$60 million. For the construction of a hydroelectric generating station designed for 2,500 MW, with initial capacity of 1,000 MW, a reservoir, associated transmission lines and related facilities costing about $396 million. Will help to meet rapidly growing demand and prevent power shortages.
CYPRUS: Bank—$9 million. Installation of a sixth 30 MW turbogenerator at Mohi electric power station, building associated transmission and distribution facilities, and providing technical assistance. Will help to meet rapidly growing demand, sustain economic development. Total cost, $11.9 million.
COSTA RICA: Bank—$6.5 million. For an $8.3 million project to install two gas turbine generators near San Jose and a small diesel power station at Limon, construct transmission lines and substations, and provide technical assistance. Will assure adequate reserve capacity for growing peak demand.
ECUADOR: IDA—$6.8 million. Construction of a hydroelectric plant and diesel power station, improvement of transmission and distribution facilities, and provision of technical assistance to increase electricity supply by 48 MW and meet demand in the Quito area until 1975. Total cost, $18.7 million. (See page 52.)
HONDURAS: Bank—$12.3 million. For a $16 million project that includes the Honduran portion of interconnection with the Nicaraguan electric power sector (see below) and will help meet domestic demand. Includes installation of four diesel generating units, transmission lines, ancillary facilities. (See page 44.)
INDONESIA: IDA—$40 million. Together with a previous $15 million IDA credit, will help to finance a $59.8 million rehabilitation and expansion of Djakarta's electricity transmission and distribution system, providing the city with an adequate, balanced system and improved service.
IRELAND: Bank—$15 million. For a 250 MW thermal generating unit, associated equipment and transmission lines linking to existing grid, in order to meet anticipated demand. Total cost, $40.5 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$125 million. To help finance a three year investment program to install 8,250 MW of generating capacity, 11,150 miles of transmission lines, ancillary substation and distribution facilities to meet growing demand and maintain adequate service. Total cost of program, about $1,400 million.
NICARAGUA: Bank—$24 million. Joint financing with the Central American Bank for Economic Integration, for a $34.7 million project that is the Nicaraguan portion for interconnection with the electric power sector in Honduras (see Honduras above), and includes a 100 MW steam-electric plant, transmission systems, and technical assistance. (See page 44.)
NIGERIA: Bank—$76 million. To help finance a $126 million project to strengthen the electric power system and extend service to major population centers by the addition of two 100 MW generating units, transmission lines, substations, related works.
PHILIPPINES: Bank — $22 million; IDA — $10 million. To expand capacity of the Government's National Power Corporation on Luzon by 30% in order to improve service and supply additional users. Includes a 150 MW generator, transformers, equipment, substations, transmission lines, technical assistance.
THAILAND: Bank—$27 million. Further expansion of capacity at South Bangkok Power Station through addition of a 310 MW thermal electric generating unit, at a cost of $43.1 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$12 million. Fora $16.7 million project to install two electric generators utilizing gas now being flared off, expand transmission and distribution system to meet increasing demand, provide technical assistance.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$75 million. For a $225 million project to construct 1,850 miles of electric power transmission lines, associated facilities, and equipment to expand and integrate the existing system and increase its flexibility.
INDUSTRY
BRAZIL: Bank—$50 million. To assist a $150 million project for iron mining, an ore preparation plant, and marine loading facilities that will increase exports and foreign exchange earnings. (See page 50 and related project under Transportation.)
BRAZIL: Bank—$64.5 million. To help finance $448 million expansion of Companhia Siderurgica National's steel capacity from 1.7 to 2.5 million tons a year—a part of Government-formulated $1,330 million program (see page 50 and two related Bank-assisted projects below).
BRAZIL: Bank—$63 million. For a $407 million, second phase expansion of the USIMINAS plant in Minas Gerais State, increasing steel output from one to 2.4 million tons a year, providing 3,400 additional jobs, large foreign exchange savings (see related Bank-assisted projects above and below).
BRAZIL: Bank—$64.5 million. For a $472 million project to expand raw steel capacity of Companhia Siderurgica Paulista from one to 2.3 million tons
annually (see two related Bank-assisted projects above).
INDIA: IDA—$20 million. Second stage, $50.7 million expansion of a fertilizer company in Cochin, Kerala, to increase output to 485,000 tons of NPK annually and help support increasing agricultural production.
INDIA: IDA—$10 million. To assist a $16 million project to almost double the output of a fertilizer plant in Uttar Pradesh, from 180,000 to 314,000 tons of urea a year. Will help to sustain rising crop output and reduce foreign exchange expenditures.
TURKEY: Bank—$76 million. To help double Erdemir Iron and Steel Company's annual capacity to 1.8 million tons, at a cost of $290 million, keeping pace with rising domestic consumption of flat steel products, creating 1,200 jobs, saving foreign exchange.
TURKEY: Bank—$24 million. For the construction of a $57.8 million plant to produce annually 274,000 tons of urea as well as 90,000 tons of ammonia. Will help make Turkey self-sufficient in nitrogenous fertilizer.
NON-PROJECT LENDING
COLOMBIA: Bank—$60 million. Two thirds, or $40 million, will assist the financing of imports and help maintain the momentum of the Government's development program. The remaining third will be re-lent, through the Banco de la Republica, to finance expansion projects by industrial and agricultural enterprises which can export all or part of their output, providing support for the Government's efforts to increase non-traditional exports. Of the counterpart funds generated by import financing, the equivalent of $30 million will be directly available to the Government budget for the public investment program; the other $10 million will be used to provide working capital for export-oriented firms. (See page 50.)
INDIA: IDA—$75 million. To provide part of $258 million in foreign exchange for imported materials and components required to ease shortages of materials in key agricultural, electric power and transport sectors.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$50 million. Financing imports of goods and supplies for a wide range of industries in order to help correct under-utiliza-tion of plant capacity and assist fertilizer import program. Complements assistance by members of the Pakistan Consortium and the International Monetary Fund. (See page 39.)
POPULATION PLANNING
INDIA: IDA—$21.2 million. Joint financing with
Sweden of a $31.8 million project in selected areas of two states, to develop and evaluate new approaches relevant to the national population program. Includes establishment of a population center in each state, health and training facilities, vehicles, equipment, technical assistance. (See page 40.)
INDONESIA: IDA—$13.2 million. Joint financing with the United Nations Fund for Population Activities of a $33 million project to strengthen and expand the national family planning program in Java and Bali, and increase acceptors from about 250,000 at present to 1.6 million in 1975. (See page 36.)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
INDONESIA: IDA—$4 million. To provide technical assistance for pre-investment, feasibility and engineering studies, and for consulting and advisory services to cost an estimated $4.6 million.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
COSTA RICA: Bank—$17.5 million. For a $32.2 million expansion of telecommunications, including local, trunk and telex facilities to improve service in the capital, provincial cities and outlying areas, and to establish 600 rural public-call offices.
EL SALVADOR: Bank—$9.5 million. To expand and improve local, long-distance telephone service and eliminate congestion, meet rising demand through installation of automatic exchange equipment, cable network and subscriber facilities, long distance equipment. Total cost, $12.7 million.
FIJI: Bank—$2.2 million. To assist a $5.7 million project expanding telephone, telegraph and telex services to meet growing demand and provide service essential to government administration and commerce, which are hampered because of the large number of scattered islands and rugged terrain.
GUATEMALA: Bank—$16 million. To assist a $21.2 million comprehensive telecommunications project that will improve local and domestic long distance service, help meet projected demand, alleviate congestion and delays.
IRAQ: Bank—$27.5 million. For a comprehensive project, costing $39.7 million, to modernize and expand telecommunications, including local, national and international services.
MALI: IDA—S3.6 million. For a $4.3 million rehabilitation and expansion of local, long distance telephone services to meet needs of production, trade and public administration.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Bank—$10 million. For a $17.2 million project to meet demand for local and long distance telecommunications service
through installation of automatic exchanges, cable network, radio systems, telex exchanges, related equipment and buildings, and to provide technical assistance.
TOURISM
MEXICO: Bank—$22 million. First Bank Group financing of a tourism infrastructure project. Total $44 million project includes streets, electric power, telephones, water, sewerage, storm drainage, a new airport, and training of hotel personnel for a new tourist resort at Ixtapa beach, Zihuatanejo.
NEPAL: IDA—$4.2 million. To assist a $6 million project to construct a new hotel and expand and modernize an existing hotel. Project is expected to double foreign exchange income from tourism, create 500 jobs and stimulate indirect employment.
TUNISIA: Bank—$14 million; IDA—$10 million. For a $55 million project to construct high priority tourism infrastructure and provide technical assistance, permitting the construction of hotels totaling 43,000 beds and meeting the essential needs of existing hotels.
TRANSPORTATION
BOLIVIA: Bank—$23.25 million. Replaces similar 1969 loan for $56 million gas pipeline to Argentine border that will help diversify, expand Bolivia's exports and help meet growing demand in Argentina. (Not included in tables of lending or totals for fiscal 1972.)
BOTSWANA: IDA—$2 million. Joint financing with Sweden of a $6.5 million high priority improvement of the 50-mile Gaborone-Lobatse road, serving a 15,400 square mile area with a third of the nation's population.
BRAZIL: Bank—$89 million. For a $221 million project to build or pave 1,150 miles of Federal highways to meet increasing road traffic, and to preparestudiesand engineering for future projects.
BRAZIL: Bank—$46 million. Rail line construction and rehabilitation, equipment, rolling stock, locomotives costing an estimated $133.2 million to provide shipping for iron ore. (See page 50 and related project under Industry.)
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$4 million. To assist a $4.25 million, four year program to improve highway maintenance through reorganization of maintenance operation, training, procurement, overhaul of equipment, extension and renovation of workshops.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$6.3 million. For a $25.1 million project to expand and improve the Congo-Ocean railway. Includes line realignment, track replacement and improvement,
equipment improvement, new equipment, technical assistance. (See page 26.)
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$30 million. For railway rehabilitation and modernization. Includes relaying track, provision of operating equipment and spare parts, and training of personnel. Estimated total cost, $135 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$17 million. For a $22 million project to help develop rural areas and expand the agricultural sector. Includes the construction and supervision of six feeder roads, equipment, and technical assistance. Funds are to be channeled in part through the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank. A related road surfacing project is to be financed by the United States.
GUYANA: IDA—$4.4 million. To improve highway planning and maintenance and assist agricultural development. Includes road construction, weigh-bridges and technical assistance, at a total cost of $8.2 million. UNDP is helping to finance the project.
INDIA: IDA—$75 million. Assistance for a $1,010 million railway improvement and modernization program to meet traffic increases, reduce operating costs. Specifically to help finance locomotives, rolling stock, line electrification, track renewal and system additions.
INDIA: IDA—$83 million. Financing six tankers for import, export and coastal distribution of crude oil and petroleum products.
INDONESIA: IDA—$8.5 million. To help finance, through Bank Pembangunan Indonesia, a $13.5 million rehabilitation of the inter-island shipping fleet, including repair and re-equipping of nearly 120 of the Regular Liner Service's vessels, as part of a program to eliminate surplus capacity and reassign ships to meet traffic needs.
IRAN: Bank—$32 million. To help finance a $46 million expansion of Iran's pipeline system carrying oil and oil products from production centers to internal markets.
IRAN: Bank—$29 million. For a ports project costing $42 million and including four deep water berths, cargo handling equipment and technical assistance to help alleviate congestion at Iran's Persian Gulf ports by increasing their capacity and improving management.
ISRAEL: Bank—$30 million. Construction of an urban expressway, national roads and interchanges costing $91.3 million to eliminate important bottlenecks, improve and upgrade the main highway network, improve transportation in Tel Aviv.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$17.5 million. For a $29 million highway maintenance and betterment project, covering about 70% of the road network to help keep pace with rapid economic growth and increased traffic.
KENYA: IDA—$22 million. Joint financing with
Sweden of a trunk and feeder road construction and improvement project, costing $42 million, which will link agricultural areas to the trunk roads system and encourage greater agricultural output.
KENYA: Bank—$29 million. Construction, at a cost of $46.3 million, of new passenger, freight and ancillary facilities at Nairobi Airport to accommodate tourist and other passenger and freight traffic demands. (See page 19.)
MALAYSIA: Bank—$16 million. To increase railway efficiency and reduce costs through a $23 million project including rail line realignment, track renewal, rolling stock and staff training.
MEXICO: Bank—$75 million. To modernize and renew equipment and improve operations of the National Railways, and provide technical assistance to increase efficiency and financial viability. Total cost, $203 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$20 million. For port installations costing $27.6 million, including cargo handling and ancillary equipment, and technical assistance to improve operational efficiency at five major ports and help promote exports.
NIGERIA: Bank—$26.3 million. For a $42.6 million project to construct roads and reconstruct bridges damaged during the civil war, and to provide equipment and technical assistance to strengthen planning and road maintenance in order to meet the demands of rapidly increasing traffic.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IDA—$9.2 million. For a ports project costing $11.1 million including new cargo-handling berths and equipment for four ports, together with technical assistance. Will help to alleviate congestion.
PANAMA: Bank—$20 million. Financing for a $34.8 million airport modernization project, including runway and terminal building, construction of related works, systems, equipment to meet projected demand.
RWANDA: IDA —$3 million. Joint financing with UNDP and Germany of a $5.1 million project to reorganize and strengthen road maintenance by providing supplies, equipment and workshop facilities.
SENEGAL: Bank—$6.4 million; IDA—$3.2 million. Joint financing with French official agencies of a $12.3 million railway project, including track renewal, locomotives, rolling stock, workshop, equipment, which will improve railway operations and financial viability.
SOMALIA: IDA—$9.6 million. For a 100-mile, all-weather road from Hargeisa to the port of Ber-bera, and for technical assistance. Total cost, $10.6 million, including a $1 million loan by the African Development Bank.
SYRIA: IDA—$13.8 million. For a $28.7 million project to construct, improve three high priority
road sections of the main trunk system on which Syria depends for international trade, and improve an important regional road system.
TANZANIA: IDA—S6.5 million. For a $9.5 million project to improve about 420 miles of main and feeder roads to assist development of agricultural areas, and to provide technical assistance for improving road construction and maintenance capabilities.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$2.8 million. For a $3.5 million, 60-mile road improvement project linked with an earlier IDA-assisted project for development of West Volta cotton output.
VENEZUELA: Bank—$17 million. To help finance a $54.5 million improvement of Caracas international airport, including a new runway and associated works, together with design work for a second stage. Will help to meet growing demands of business and tourist traffic.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$7.7 million. For a road building project costing $8.6 million to link the major marketing center of Taiz with the important agricultural center of Turba, and to improve the Government's highway planning, design and construction capabilities.
ZAIRE: IDA—$19 million. Joint financing with four other economic development institutions of a $46.4 million project that includes establishment of a Bureau of Roads, rehabilitation of 1,180 miles of high priority roads, equipment, technical assistance. Includes the provision of top-level staff and the training of Zairian nationals for the Bureau of Roads.
URBANIZATION
SENEGAL: IDA—$8 million. The Bank Group's first financing of a site and services project, costing $12.9 million and including acquisition and preparation of about 1,140 acres of land and the provision of public services, so that dwellings accommodating some 160,000 people can be built in Dakar and Thies. (See page 23.)
TURKEY: IDA—$2.3 million. For a $3.3 million project to prepare an integrated urban development program for Istanbul, including the development of high priority investment projects and the improvement of planning capabilities. (See page 28.)
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
ETHIOPIA: Bank—$10.8 million. Construction of primary and secondary water distribution lines, reservoirs, pumping stations, major and minor sewers, sewage treatment plant, and provision of related equipment and technical services for a $13 million project to alleviate acute water shortages, improve sanitation, reduce health hazards.
NICARAGUA: Bank—$6.9 million. For a $10 million expansion of Managua's water supply system to meet demand over the next decade, through well construction, expansion of transmission and distribution networks, new administration building.
TURKEY: Bank—$37 million. For an $85.1 million water supply project in Istanbul, including treatment, pumping, transmission and distribution facilities to help meet demand, which greatly exceeds supply, and improve health standards.
Technical Assistance and Other Activities
Technical Assistance
The Bank's technical assistance activities have continued to grow in both volume and variety. Many have figured as components of Bank loans or IDA credits, to the extent of $74 million during fiscal 1972. Many others have been financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), providing assistance necessary for the identification, preparation and implementation of projects, or to strengthen the management of economic sectors in member countries.
During the year, the UNDP has been undergoing reorganization and will base future operations on three to five year programs of technical assistance and pre-investment requirements for each country. This has involved substantial changes. The Bank has been working closely with UNDP, both to insure that necessary operations continue during the transitional period and to adapt its own procedures in accordance with the new structure.
The UNDP shift toward country programming as a basic procedure is important not only for the Bank Group and its members, but for all agencies in the United Nations family. Under its new method of operation, the UNDP has established a projection of the resources it expects to have available for each country during the next five years. With this figure as a basis, each government has been asked to prepare a country program aimed at identifying projects and other activities toward which the aid will be applied. Thirty five UNDP country programs were approved in the past year, and about the same number is scheduled for preparation and approval in fiscal 1973. For most of those approved, Bank economic reports were employed as basic documentation, and in some cases the Bank Group provided additional advice and assistance.
With the introduction of country programming, the UNDP has also established a system under which the Administrator is authorized to approve most individual country projects without prior reference to the Governing Council. This has eliminated the pattern of semi-annual project approvals which, in the past, had caused certain delays. In addition, the UNDP Resident Representative in each developing country has been given authority to approve projects costing less than $100,000.
These changes will permit more rational planning and administration of UNDP's future assist-
ance programs. While initial results raised concern that the system might not be flexible enough to meet preinvestment needs not included in country programs, either because they were not identified when the program was prepared or because they could not be accommodated within the limited resources available to a country, the UNDP has now agreed to make supplemental allocations for feasibility studies with high investment potential. The Bank Group has supplemented UNDP's grant financing by continuing to include substantial amounts of technical assistance in loans and credits.
In adopting the new system the UNDP revised its organizational structure. The agency is now set up primarily on a geographic basis with field work centered in regional bureaus. There have been increasingly close contacts between the regional bureaus and the Bank's area departments, and comprehensive program reviews took place at the Bank during the year with all Assistant Administrators for the regions. Bank staff also participated in regional meetings organized by the UNDP for its Resident Representatives. The fact that the Bank itself has long allocated primary staff responsibility for operations according to geographic area and countries has made the process of adjustment to the new UNDP arrangements relatively easy.
While the UNDP system was changing, approval of new projects for which the Bank is executing agency continued. During liscal 1972, 26 new projects were approved. The pattern was much the same as in the past. About half were in the transportation field, including several that were continuations or extensions of projects already under way. Others covered a wide range ot fields including industry, development banking, water and agriculture, urban and regional development, power, tourism and development planning. A list of the new UNDP-financed studies undertaken by the Bank Group during fiscal 1972 follows:
Afghanistan: Supplementary assistance tor highway maintenance program, $410,000; supplementary assistance for agricultural development bank. $741,200.
Bolivia: Technical assistance to National Railways (ENFE), Phase II, $1,135,000.
Costa Rica: Transport study of the Metropolitan Area of San jose, $568,000.
Dominican Republic: Investment feasibility study for tourism development, $199,600.
Ethiopia: Expert assistance to the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank, $180,000; investment feasibility study tor internal airport development program, $175,000.
Greece: Highway project, $985,000.
India: Rajasthan phosphate investment feasibility study, $175,000.
Indonesia: Preparatory assistance for development financing advisory services, $139,500.
Jamaica: Highway organization and maintenance study, $161,900.
Malawi: Economic feasibility and engineering studies of two main roads, $1,016,200.
Malaysia: Klang Valley development study, $461,000.
Papua New Guinea: Development planning advisory service, $54,500.
Philippines: Port feasibility studies, $475,000.
Singapore: Mass transit study, $855,400.
Surinam: Hydroelectric study in Western Surinam, $1,070,400.
Turkey: Supplementary assistance for transport coordination, $267,000; Antalya forest utilization pulp and paper project, $355,000.
Venezuela: Feasibility study for tourism development in the Los Caracas-Higuerote coastal area, $430,000.
Yemen Arab Republic: Supplementary assistance for detailed engineering of Taiz-Turba Road, $175,000.
Zaire: National Highway Administration, Phase II, $2,200,000; river transport study, Phase III, $535,000; expert assistance to Socofide, $120,000.
Regional Asia: Mekong agricultural pioneer projects program, $1,145,000.
Global: Preparatory assistance for the establishment of an International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics, $100,000.
The Bank Group also served as executing agency during fiscal 1972 for about 50 UNDP projects approved in previous years; of these, 20 were completed during the year.
Of the $1,506 million in Bank loans and IDA credits which included activities specifically identified as technical assistance, $7.1 million was for overseas training, $47.3 million for expatriate experts and consultants, and $19.1 million for feasibility studies.
In addition to the technical assistance included in project loans and credits, the Executive Directors approved a $4 million project preparation credit to Indonesia (see page 36.)
Most technical assistance financed or carried out by the Bank Group is project-oriented, but the Bank also provides aid in the form of advisory services to member governments facing special development planning problems. In fiscal 1972, staff members visited six countries to review their machinery of development planning, and to advise on possible improvements and technical assistance needs. The Bank continued to provide planning advisors to assist the Governments of Ethiopia and Mauritius. Closely allied to this activity is the Bank's supervision of development planning projects in Ethiopia and its work on a new project of this type in Papua New Guinea. Both these projects are being undertaken by the Bank as executing agency for the UNDP.
The Bank also provided assistance to six countries on the preparation and reporting of external debt data, to one on the collection of data and preparation of reports on suppliers' credits, to three on the development of statistical programs and organizations, and to another three on the development of planning and projection models. A mission was sent to one country to advise its tax commission. In cooperation with the Asian Development Bank, a seminar was conducted on external debt reporting problems for officials of countries in the Asia and Pacific region.
The Bank maintains Permanent Missions in Eastern and Western Africa, stationed in Nairobi,
Kenya, and Abidjan, Ivory Coast (see pages 20 and 21). In November 1971, the Bank assigned a Resident Representative to Accra. His duties include monitoring the Bank Group's operations in Ghana, assisting the Government in improving coordination of external aid, and following the country's economic development. The Bank continued to maintain resident staffs in India, Indonesia, Nigeria and Pakistan, and Resident Representatives in Afghanistan, Colombia, Ethiopia, Nepal and Zaire.
In February 1972, the Bank completed a review of land and water resource development in the Mekong River basin at the request of the United Nations and the Mekong Committee (see page 37). As the year ended, arrangements were near-ing completion to establish a regional project identification and preparation mission in Bangkok (see page 37).
Economic Development Institute
Success in economic development depends mainly on improving the effectiveness with which economic resources are allocated and used. In 1955, the Bank set up the Economic Development Institute (EDI) to provide training for middle and senior government officials concerned with development programs and projects. By the end of fiscal 1972, more than 1,500 had attended the Institute. About 200 took part in courses at the Bank's headquarters during the year, and 50 in courses elsewhere.
Courses conducted in English in fiscal 1972 included one in general development and others in sector programming and project evaluation in agriculture, education, industry and transport. General project analysis courses were given in French and Spanish. In addition, in cooperation with the U.N. African Institute for Economic Development and Planning and the Institute of Development Studies of the University of Nairobi, the Institute conducted a project analysis course for participants from English-speaking African countries. In cooperation with the Secretariat of the Presidency of Mexico, EDI held a six-weeks agricultural projects course for Mexico and the Central American countries. Lecturers and leaching materials were provided for courses at the U.N. Asian Institute for Economic Development and Planning in Bangkok, and to training institutions in Japan, Nepal and Sweden.
The Institute is enlarging its program, both in Washington and overseas. In fiscal 1973, courses will be added in urbanization, water supply and advanced methodologies for agricultural project analysis. A course in national economic management, concerned with the tools of policy, will replace the former general development course. In
Spanish, the present general projects course will be replaced by courses on agricultural and educational projects. The Institute will increase the number of courses in Washington from eight in fiscal 1972 to 10 in fiscal 1973.
Also in fiscal 1973, the Institute plans to co-sponsor four regional courses overseas, and will increase its technical aid to institutions which operate their own courses, providing curricular advice, teaching materials and short term teaching assistance for various training programs, including those conducted in Germany, Iran, Japan and Yugoslavia, and at the U.N. Asian Institute for Economic Development and Planning.
Greater emphasis will be placed on the multiplier effect of courses in Washington, using them as "teaching laboratories" in new fields and developing teaching materials that can be taken to courses elsewhere. To this end, the Institute is embarking on a publications program, including a series of seminar papers and teaching materials, as well as monographs by staff members on subjects related to the training courses.
In Washington, EDI courses are normally limited to 25 participants. They are conducted by the Institute's full time teaching staff of 14 and by experts drawn from the Bank Group's departments, other international organizations, government agencies, universities and private companies. The sessions include lectures, group discussions, work exercises, field trips and assignments during which participants analyze and solve a variety of problems. EDI staff members make frequent use of case materials, drawn largely from the Bank's experience in development work.
Aid Coordination
At the request of both donor and recipient governments, the Bank has taken the lead for many years in organizing aid coordination mechanisms for a number of developing countries that receive assistance from several bilateral and multilateral sources. The form varies from country to country. In some cases, the Bank sponsors consortia, consultative groups or some other coordinating arrangement. In others, it supports similar efforts sponsored by the recipient country, a principal donor government or another international organization.
During fiscal 1972, the Bank conducted 11 formal meetings of coordination groups, as well as informal working party sessions. At each of the formal meetings, senior officials of the developing country concerned meet with representatives of governments and international institutions which provide assistance for the country's development program. The 1972 sessions considered the devel-
opment performance and prospects, and the external capital requirements, of Ceylon, Colombia, India, Kenya, Korea, Morocco, Pakistan, Peru, the Philippines, Thailand and Tunisia.
The Bank also provided staff support to the Inter-Governmental Croup for Indonesia (1GGI), organized under the Chairmanship of the Government of the Netherlands, and the Consortium for Turkey, sponsored by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development tOECD). For other countries, special arrangements were made for consultation on problems of particular concern with other international organizations and donor governments. Examples of specific operations involving coordination with bilateral and multilateral agencies are given in the area sections of this Report.
Normally, the government of the country for which the aid coordination group has been organized prepares extensive documentation for meetings of the group, often assisted by the Bank. To an increasing extent, governments are preparing and circulating to participants detailed lists of specific investment projects for which they hope to obtain external financing, and often also technical assistance. These national documents, together with economic reports prepared by the Bank, usually constitute the principal papers for consideration at the meetings.
Technical assistance is assuming greater importance in the aid coordination work of the Bank. Recipient countries attach particular significance to the help provided by the Bank and other participants in aid coordination groups in formulating and presenting proposals for preinvestment activities, and in preparing investment projects. The process of programming United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) assistance for each country over a three to five year period is also encouraging governments to improve their own planning and coordination machinery. UNDP Resident Representatives regularly attend aid coordination group meetings, and UNDP country-programs are becoming a part of the documentation.
The Bank also supports a variety of aid coordination efforts within the developing countries themselves. During the year, for example, it arranged meetings on programs of pre-investment studies for East Africa, formulated by a Bank mission in cooperation with other international agencies. In addition, the Bank's Resident Missions in several countries play a role in informal local coordination work. Effective local coordination, however, is a matter for which the recipient country's government must assume primary responsibility, with whatever support the Bank and other international agencies can provide. Because of the
great diversity of country situations, there is no standard format for this type of coordination.
Inter-Agency Cooperation
The World Bank maintains close working relations with many other international organizations. The most extensive and active links are with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the UNDP. The Bank has frequent consultations with the Fund at all levels on matters of mutual concern. Apart from its work as executing agency for certain projects financed by UNDP, the Bank follows closely the wide range of operations carried out by the UNDP directly or through other United Nations agencies.
The Bank has formal cooperative arrangements with three specialized agencies of the United Nations. They are the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco), and the World Health Organization (WHO). Discussions have begun with a view to establishing a similar cooperative arrangement with the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO).
Under these programs, the United Nations agencies assist in identifying and preparing projects for eventual financing by the Bank. They also provide staff assistance to the Bank in its studies of economic sectors within their competence, and for economic, appraisal and supervision missions. The Bank pays 75% of the cost of agreed cooperative program activities, while the agency concerned provides the balance. Since the first cooperative programs were begun in fiscal 1965, the Bank's contribution has grown from $560,000 to more than $3,000,000 a year.
During fiscal 1972, cooperative program staff participated in preparing 16 of the 36 agriculture projects approved by the Executive Directors, and 10 of the 14 education projects approved. The agreement between the Bank and WHO entered into force during the year. The World Health Organization provided support for about a dozen project, sector and country economic missions during fiscal 1972.
Cooperation between the Bank and the International Labour Organization (ILO) has grown in recent years, although no formal cooperative program has been established. ILO staff have participated in several country economic missions, and Bank staff contribute to the work of missions sent to developing countries under ILO's World Employment Program. Staff members of ILO have been seconded to work in the Bank, and there are frequent consultations between the two organizations.
Inter-agency cooperation in the field of population planning is assuming greater importance, since both the number of agencies involved and the extent of their operations have expanded rapidly in recent years. Arrangements have been made for regular reviews of the Bank's current and future operations with WHO and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities iUNFPA).
Onchocerciasis, or river blindness, which affects large portions of tropical Africa, has also recently been made the object of a cooperative effort within the United Nations system. UNDP, FAO, WHO and the Bank have established a steering committee to prepare a work program covering research into insecticides, the organization of a control campaign, and the development of land after it has been cleared of the disease (see page 26).
The Bank's analyses of the economies of borrowing countries, its sector studies, and reports appraising Bank and IDA projects are made available to United Nation agencies, regional development banks and other institutions concerned. The reports serve to help coordination of the work of all the agencies and to reduce the number of economic analyses that would otherwise have to be done. They also contribute to the coordination of technical assistance provided by other agencies with investment projects financed by the Bank Group.
Arrangements are also being made for the reciprocal exchange of policy papers with the regional development banks. In fiscal 1972, the World Bank provided on-the-job training for staff of the African and Caribbean Development Banks, and assisted the African Bank in its work on proposals to create an African Development Fund.
Regular consultations are held between the Bank and the financing agencies of the European Economic Community, and a number of projects have been financed jointly with the European Development Fund (FED). The expanding work of the Bank, IDA and FED, as well as the imminent enlargement of the European Community, opens new possibilities for cooperation on individual operations as well as on more general development problems.
The World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank (1DB), the Inter-American Committee on the Alliance for Progress (CIAP), the IMF and the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID) are working together to improve the coordination of assistance to Latin American countries through the CIAP review process. The five agencies cooperate in an Inter-Agency Advisory Group, which does preparatory work for the CIAP country reviews. Consultations among the participating agencies are being expanded to cover
technical assistance.
The Bank is a permanent observer at the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of OECD. The technical resources of the Bank staff are often used to assist DAC. The Bank in turn benefits greatly from work carried out by the OECD Development Center and the staff of DAC.
International Agricultural Research
The Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), established in May 1971, now has 27 members. In addition to the sponsors—the Bank, FAO and UNDP—they include the Ford, Rockefeller and Kellogg Foundations. The 12 donor governments are Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. The African, Asian and Inter-American Development Banks and the International Development Research Center, an autonomous organization financed by the Government of Canada, are also members. The five major developing regions of the world participate in the Consultative Group through representatives designated for two-year terms by the FAO Council. The Bank acts as Chairman of the Group.
The second meeting of the Consultative Group was held in December 1971, at the Bank's headquarters. The Group approved recommendations of its Technical Advisory Committee (TAG! concerning financial support for five major centers already in operation: the Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (C1MMYT), in Mexico; the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines; the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (OAT) in Colombia; the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Nigeria; and the International Potato Center (CIP), recently established in Peru. Following approval by the Executive Directors of grants totaling $1.26 million for agricultural research, the Bank has decided to support specifically CIMMYT ($1.0 million), and CIP ($160,000).
In addition, the Consultative Group endorsed a proposal of the TAC to establish a world center for research on farming systems for the semi-arid tropics. The center will study ways to improve the quality and yield of millet, sorghum, chickpeas and pigeon peas in developing countries. It will be called the International Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), and will be located in India. A formal agreement establishing ICRISAT has been signed with the Government of India, a site has been made available, a Governing Board chosen, and a Director is expected to be appointed soon. The Bank has made a grant of
$100,000 to a preliminary fund for ICRISAT to which the United States, United Kingdom and UNDP are also contributing $100,000 each.
Nutrition
The Bank is concerned about the consequences for social and economic development of inadequate nutrition, and particularly the prevalence of protein deficiency. Toward the end of 1971, the Bank became a co-sponsor of the Protein Advisory Croup of the United Nations system (PAG), and began contributing to its budget. The Bank Group has consulted with the United Nations and specialized agencies on protein and nutrition problems in developing countries, and is establishing in its Population Projects Department a unit which will be concerned with technical and financial assistance for nutrition improvement projects and programs in developing countries.
The Commodity Problem
The Bank completed formal arrangements during the year for consultations with intergovernmental commodity organizations which represent both primary producers and consumers. This system provides a basis for better review of the probable effect of Bank Group projects on world supplies and prices of selected commodities.
The commodities covered by consultation arrangements include bananas, citrus fruits, cocoa, coffee, fats and oils, fish, grains, hard fibers, meat, rice, sugar, tea and wheat.
The Bank now has such arrangements with the intergovernmental Commodity Groups of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the FAO Committee on Fisheries, the International Coffee Organization (ICO), the International Sugar Organization (ISO) and the International Wheat Council !IWC).
If a proposed project would increase production of a commodity to an extent likely to have a significant effect on world supplies or prices, the Bank consults with the relevant international organization. It is prepared to extend the coverage of such arrangements to include other commodities as well.
The Bank has begun to carry out broad analytical studies of selected commodities of major importance to developing member countries. So far two of these, on tea and rubber, have been completed. A paper presenting price forecasts for nine of the principal primary products exported by developing countries—coffee, copper, sugar, cotton, rubber, tea, cocoa, rice, and fats and oils—has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Together, these nine commodities account for almost half the value of primary product exports from
the developing countries, excluding petroleum.
Production changes in certain commodities have led to readjustments in international trade. In the past, for example, India, Ceylon and what is now Bangladesh were the traditional producers of tea. Now several African countries are also growing and exporting tea. Similarly, palm oil was once exported almost entirely from Africa. An increasing proportion of the world's supply now comes from Southeast Asia.
These and other problems associated with commodities have long been a concern of the Bank's Executive Directors and management. In a paper presented at the third United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in Santiago, Chile, the Bank pointed out that most of its projects contribute in some degree to the broad objective of economic diversification in the less developed countries. Many are aimed directly at reducing a country's dependence on a small number of traditional export commodities. Almost half the developing countries depend on a single commodity for more than half their total export earnings, and three fourths of them get more than 60% from only three primary products. (For an account of the first cooperative venture in financing for diversification, involving the Bank Croup and one of the international commodity organizations, see page 20).
Economic Research and Studies
The Bank's research program was reorganized and expanded during the fiscal year. Its objectives are to establish a factual and conceptual basis for Bank policies, support operations in particular sectors, increase knowledge of basic development processes and, through research projects, to help develop the institutional capacity for research in developing countries. In the planning and execution of its program, the Bank is giving special attention to the increased use of research institutions and consultants in the less developed countries.
The research program covers many areas of interest to the Bank and its members, ranging from income distribution to highway design. A representative list of studies under way in fiscal 1972 would include: Development Strategies in Semi-Industrial Countries, Influences on Income Distribution, Agriculture Mechanization in India, Capital-Labor Substitution in the Mechanical Engineering Industry, Substitution of Labor for Equipment in Road Construction, Village Electrification, and Village Water Supplies.
The results of Bank research and staff studies are made available through various publication
series. Most of the studies are issued as "Working Papers." A "Catalog of Economic Studies" is issued at regular intervals. Select papers, of monograph length, are published in "World Bank Staff Occasional Papers." The latest are: "The Costs and Benefits of Family Planning Programs," bv George C. Zaidan; "The Economic Benefits of Road Transport Projects," by Herman G. van der Tak and Anandarup Ray; and "Cost-Benefit Analysis in Education: A Case Study of Kenya," by Flans H. Thias and Martin Carnoy. A paper by Anthony Churchill on "Road User Charges in Central America" was in the final stages of publication at the end of fiscal 1972.
One Bank study of special interest is a multilevel planning model for Mexico, which analyzes the relationships between projects, sectors and the total economy. It is one of the most extensive studies of its kind yet attempted, and is scheduled for publication in 1972.
"Economic Growth of Colombia, Problems and Prospects" is an experiment in publishing a complete World Bank country economic report. It results from the work of a Bank mission in 1970, led by Dragoslav Avramovic. The report discusses the main issues of development strategy in Colombia. It goes into problems of unemployment and underemployment, methods of improving living conditions in the countryside, diversification of production and exports, public investment and savings, capital requirements, and external indebtedness.
The study presents a detailed review of past trends, the present situation and future plans in all major economic sectors such as industry, mining, agriculture, transport, power, education, water supply and public health. Medium and long term projections of economic growth are included in the report, which has been updated with current information.
In fiscal 1972, the Bank Group also began publication of a new series of pamphlets entitled "Sector Working Papers" (see page 73).
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
By June 30, 1972, 63 States had ratified the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States, and are thus members of ICSID. Four additional governments had signed but not yet ratified the Convention.
During the past year, ICSID registered the first request for arbitration proceedings, which arc-now in progress. The Centre's own Annual Report provides details of its membership and affairs.
Borrowings and Finance
World Capital Markets— Calendar 1971
Activity on the world capital markets turned sharply upward in calendar 1971, after a two year decline. The volume of issues sold by external borrowers on foreign and international'" markets was second only to the peak level in 1968. Moreover, sales of securities on international markets, amounting to some 54,300 million, reached the highest point ever recorded.
An aggregate of $7,718 million equivalent in foreign and international long term debt issues was marketed in 1971, a gain of $1,751 million or nearly 30% above the year before. The gain was due primarily to increased marketings by all categories of borrowers, but the total was further increased in terms of U.S. dollar equivalents by upward revaluations of other currencies during the year.'-'
Borrowings by issuers in the industrialized countries amounted to $4,980 million, equal to 64% of the year's total and an increase of $870 million, or 21 %, over the previous year. Issuers in the developed countries of Europe borrowed $2,180 million, up $400 million over the 1970 volume. Issuers in other industrialized countries increased their borrowings by $469 million, to a total of $2,800 million for the year.
Borrowings for development reached a new high in 1971. The total was $2,297 million, an increase of S655 million, or 40%, above the level of 1970. International development institutions increased their marketings by $567 million, for a total of $1,828 million, and borrowings by the developing countries of $469 million represented an increase of $88 million.
For the seventh consecutive year, Europe was the principal supplier of long term funds to external borrowers in 1971. Sales of foreign and international obligations on European markets aggregated $5,600 million, an increase of some $1,375 million over 1970.
The most heavily-borrowed European currencies were Deutsche mark and Swiss francs. Sales of issues denominated in mark rose by $276 mil-
111 The lerms ''foreign" and "international" in this context refer to issues sold outside the country of the borrower: foreign if sold in one national market, international if in more than one simultaneously.
Non-dollar securities sold in calendar 1971 are expressed in U.S. dollar equivalents based on the exchange rate vis-a-vis the dollar at the time the securities were offered or placed.
lion. They included foreign issues of $392 million and Eurobond mark issues of $873 million, principally of multilateral European institutions and of development agencies. All Swiss franc issues were marketed in Switzerland and the total of $827 million equivalent was $540 million more than in 1970. For the first time in a number of years, Sterling was a factor in the European market. Sales of Sterling issues totaled the equivalent of $203 million—$141 million of foreign issues floated on the London market and $61 million sold internationally. In 1970 Sterling issues amounted to only $12 million equivalent.
External borrowers in the industrialized countries drew heavily on the markets in Europe in 1971, with total sales, including issues of multilateral European institutions, of $4,800 million equivalent, an increase of $1,365 million over 1970. U.S. corporations and their European affiliates were the largest class of borrowers in Europe during the year; their foreign and international sales of obligations aggregated $1,380 million, an increase of $498 million over 1970.
The United Kingdom was the second largest borrower in Europe, with corporate and governmental issues equivalent to $665 million, including $494 million sold on the Eurobond market. Other major borrowers in Europe were French issuers with sales of $346 million; Canadian, $225 million; South African, $218 million; Dutch, $188 million; and Italian, $150 million.
Issuers in the developing countries tapped European markets for the equivalent of $185 million in 1971. The Highway Authority of Spain borrowed DM 200 million in the Eurobond market by means of two public offerings. Other borrowers in amounts ranging from $10 million to $30 million equivalent were a private firm in Hong Kong, the National Bank of Hungary, a Mexican bank, the Development Bank of Singapore, PETRONOR S.A. of Spain, Panama and the Netherlands Antilles.
The volume of securities sales by foreign issuers in the United States declined by $62 million to a total of $1,343 million. For the second consecutive year, there was a sharp decline in marketings by Canadian provincial and corporate issuers. The total of such marketings amounted to $635 million compared with $904 million in 1970.
Borrowings by the developing countries in the United States amounted to $283 million, including $237 million of Israeli issues. International development institutions increased their U.S. borrowings by $125 million to $425 million: $375 million of bonds and notes offered by the World Bank and $50 million by the Asian Development Bank.
As in 1970, Japan was a major supplier of funds to development institutions in 1971. For the first
time, the World Bank raised funds by means of public offerings of long term bonds in the Japanese market: ¥ 11,000 million ($30.6 million) of 73A% 10-Year Bonds, and ¥ 12,000 million ($35.9 million) of 71/2% 10-Year Bonds. The Bank of Japan also made four additional loans to the World Bank, aggregating ¥ 85,000 million ($237 million) with an average maturity of about five years. With these loans, the total of financing of World Bank operations by The Bank of Japan rose to ¥ 157,000 million by the end of 1971.
The Asian Development Bank raised $124 million equivalent through securities sales of S 150 million in Austria, BF 400 million in Belgium, ¥ 10,000 million in Japan, SwF 40 million in Switzerland, US$50 million in the United States, and US$20 million through placement of two-year dollar issues with central banks.
Similarly, the Inter-American Development Bank raised $119 million equivalent by sales of S 150 million in Austria, BF 400 million in Belgium, F 100 million in France, f 36 million in the Netherlands, Swf 12 million in Switzerland, and US$ 47 million by placement of two-year dollar bonds with central banks.
World Bank Issues—Calendar 1971
The World Bank marketed 25 issues in 1971 totaling $1,584 million, the largest volume in any calendar year. Included were two public offerings each in Germany, Japan and the United States and one each in Belgium, Canada, Kuwait, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, for a total of $750 million equivalent. By means of 12 private placements in Canada, Germany, Japan, and the Netherlands, the Bank sold issues amounting to $463 million; and it sold a further $371 million of two-year dollar bonds by placement with some 60 central banks.
The Bank's Borrowings—Fiscal 1972
The volume of World Bank borrowings continued to increase in fiscal 1972 and reached a new peak level, both in amount and in the number of issues sold.
Thirty issues of Bank obligations (listed on page 70) were sold during the year, 17 by means of public offerings in the capital markets and 13 by private placements. The aggregate principal amount was $1,744 million equivalent, compared with sales of $1,368 million in fiscal 1971 and $735 million in fiscal 1970. The equivalent of $1,178 million in Bank obligations were purchased by private investors and $566 million by central banks and other governmental agencies.
In March 1972, the Bank arranged for the Iarg-
est single borrowing in its history when it signed a loan agreement with The Bank of Japan to borrow up to ¥ 100,000 million. The World Bank will draw down the loan proceeds from time to time, over a period ending December 30, 1972. The average maturity of each tranche will be six and a half years, and the interest rate of each will be based on the yield to original subscribers to Japanese Government Guaranteed Bonds. To June 30, 1972, one tranche amounting to ¥ 10,000 million had been drawn down, and is included in the total of borrowings for fiscal 1972. Interest cost to the World Bank on this tranche is 7.05%.
Included in issues sold or on which settlement was made in fiscal 1972 were three public offerings in Japan, the first by the Bank in that market. The Bank also sold its first issue denominated in French francs, consisting of F 150 million of 7\U% bonds. For the first time in about 12 years, the Bank returned to both the Belgian and British markets, with two bond offerings in Belgium and one in the United Kingdom. After a hiatus of nearly four years, the Bank also returned to the market in Canada, with one public offering of bonds and a private placement of a loan with The Bank of Montreal. The latter, amounting to Can$ 50 million, was the Bank's largest single borrowing in Canada. On the Swiss market the Bank sold two bond issues publicly, including the largest issue the World Bank has offered on that market, amounting to SwF 200 million. The Bank also made its largest single borrowing in Switzerland, raising SwF 300 million by means of private placement through three principal Swiss banks.
Other funds were raised during the year through public offerings in the United States, Germany and Kuwait; through private placements with the Deutsche Bundesbank, The Bank of Japan and a group of banking institutions in the Netherlands; and through placement of two United States dollar issues with central banks and other governmental agencies.
Germany, where the Bank has obtained nearly 27% of its borrowed funds over the last four years,
again supplied about a fifth in fiscal 1972, including 16% of the year's new funds and 28% of refundings. The United States market was the largest source for the year, providing 24% of the total, all in new funds. Twelve percent of the year's new money was raised in Japan, and 11% each in Kuwait and Switzerland. Total borrowings in fiscal 1972 included $1,264 million equivalent in obligations sold to obtain new funds, and $480 million in refundings. In the previous year, new borrow-
ings totaled $886 million and refunding obligations $482 million.
The outstanding borrowings of the Bank were further increased during the year by delivery of $12.7 million of bonds sold in a previous year on a delayed delivery basis. The U.S. dollar equivalent of the Bank's outstanding debt was increased by $385 million as a result of the appreciation in terms of U.S. dollars of the value of the non-dollar currencies in which the debt was denominated.
A total of $549 million equivalent of debt matured during the year; central bank bond issues, and notes held by the Deutsche Bundesbank, accounted for the larger part. Included, however, were $30 million of 31/2% Nineteen-Year Bonds sold on the U.S. market in 1952, original amount $60 million; and SwF 60 million of 41/2% Twelve-Year Bonds sold on the Swiss market in 1960. A further $59 million of debt was retired during the year by means of sinking fund and purchase fund operations.
Distribution of Bank Debt
Outstanding borrowings of the World Bank on June 30, 1972, stood at $6,951 million equivalent, an increase of 51,527 million for the year. The estimated distribution of holdings of the Bank's debt by countries at the end of fiscal 1972 showed about 35% held by investors in the United States, 26°/) in Germany, 10% in Japan, 6% in Switzerland, and 4% in Canada. The remaining 19% was held largely by central banks and other governmental institutions in about 85 countries.
The Bank's borrowing costs in the period, weighted by amount and maturity, averaged 7.38% compared with 8.07% in the previous fiscal year. The Bank's lending rate continued throughout the year at 71/4 %, unchanged since September 1970.
Liquid resources available to the Bank on June 30, 1972 amounted to $3,228 million, an increase of $662 million during the fiscal year and of more than $1,827 million over the amount at the end of fiscal 1968.
Increase in Capital: Bank
Subscriptions by members to the Bank's capital stock were increased in fiscal 1972 by $635.2 million. This included an original subscription of $6 million by The Sultanate of Oman, which became a member of the Bank in December 1971. The remaining $629.2 million represented special increases in the capital stock subscriptions of 20 member countries, as shown in the accompanying table.
The increases were received by the Bank under a resolution adopted by the Board of Governors in December 1970, which enables the Bank to accept special increases in the capital stock of 75 member countries. Thirty had been accepted by the end of the fiscal year, for a total of $1,281.9 million. This included increases by 10 members in the previous fiscal year. Total subscriptions to the Bank's capital on June 30, 1972 amounted to $24,506,200,000. A number of other members eligible for special increases were making preparations to take up the additional capital stock. Authorized capital of the Bank remained unchanged during the year at $27,000 million.
Other Financial Operations: Bank
Loans held by the Bank on June 30, 1972 totaled $13,079 million. The total included lo.ans not yet effective, and $561 million in exchange adjustments resulting largely from changes in currency valuations during the fiscal year. Effective loans held by the Bank amounted to $11,692 million on June 30, 1972. These figures do not include loans to IFC, which totaled $260 million on June 30, 1972, $78 million of which had been disbursed.
Disbursements on loans to member countries exceeded $1,000 million for the first time in any fiscal year, reaching $1,182 million, an increase of nearly 30% over the previous year. The increase reflected both the higher volume of lending by the Bank over the last four years and steps being taken, in cooperation with member countries, to reduce the lag between loan commitments and
disbursements. The undisbursed portion of loans at the end of the year was S5,299 million.
Repayments by the Bank's borrowers were 5511 million in the year, including S385 million to the Bank and 5126 million to investors who had purchased portions of its loans. Cumulative repayments as of June 30, 1972 were 54,738 million: 52,829 million to the Bank and 51,909 million to purchasers of loans.
Sales of participations in loans which were approved and signed, and of items from the Bank's loan portfolio, increased by $75 million in the year to a cumulative total of $2,448 million. Changing interest rate patterns, especially in the last six months of the fiscal year, brought rates on World Bank loans more closely into line with general market rates and contributed to the rise in loan sales. A further factor was broadening interest in Bank loan participations on the part of institutional investors. Thirty-seven investment institutions made initial purchases of World Bank loans during the year. They included 17 banks in japan and 16 in the United States.
Income and Expenditure: Bank
Net income for fiscal 1972 amounted to $183 million, a decrease of 529 million compared with the previous year. The decline resulted primarily Irom an increase of S86 million in the cost of servicing the Bank's debt, which rose by $1,527 million during the year, together with a drop in the abnormally high returns the Bank had earned on its invested funds during the previous two years. Thus, although the volume of invested tunds rose by $632 million, investment income declined slightly.
Total income in fiscal 1972 amounted to S646 million, an increase of $68 million over the previous year. Income from investments remained virtually unchanged at S187 million. Income from loans, on the other hand, rose by $70 million to S453 million. The level of income from other sources decreased by $1 million from fiscal 1971.
More than offsetting the rise in total income was an increase of $97 million in expenditures, to a total of $462 million. Bond and note interest and issuance expenses were up $88 million to $397 million. This reflected the high level of Bank borrowings over the last two years which has contributed to a sharp rise in outstanding borrowed funds and continuing relatively high costs of funds in the capital market.
Despite the high level of borrowing costs during the last several years, the overall costs of funds to the Bank remains at a moderate level because of the sizable amount available from paid-in capital and accumulated earnings. The average cost
of all funds to the Bank through fiscal 1972 was 4%, compared with 3.7% through fiscal 1971.
A further increase in staff arising from expanded operations, as well as the continuing rise in other operating costs, contributed to higher administrative expenses in fiscal 1972. For the Bank, they increased by $10 million to S66 million, after deducting $29 million as a management fee charged to IDA, compared with $20 million in fiscal 1971, and S1.4 million paid to the Bank by IFC as a service and support fee.
In August 1971 the Board of Governors approved a transfer of $110 million from the Bank's net income for fiscal 1971 as a grant to IDA. The remaining $102 million of that year's net income was allocated to the Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and from Currency Devaluations.
Finances: IDA
New credits approved in fiscal 1972 amounted to $999.7 million. They included credits totaling $680.2 million for which t:rm commitments were made, increasing gross commitments to $4,406 million as of June 30, 1972. Effective credits held by IDA on June 30, 1972, amounted to $3,805 million, including undisbursed portions of credits totaling $1,382 million. Aggregate disbursements on that date were S2,425 million, including $261 million disbursed in the fiscal year, and a $188 million adjustment to reflect the devaluation of the U.S. dollar on May 8, 1972.
Resources available for commitment in fiscal 1972 were increased during the year by $673 million. This included $448 million of advance contributions made by 15 member governments toward the third replenishment of IDA's resources without waiting for the replenishment agreement to become effective. These governments and their advance contributions arc listed in the accompanying table. Two of the 15, Ireland and Yugoslavia, are Part II members of IDA, while Iceland assumed Part I status during the fiscal year. Mexico, also a Part II member, made $2 million available for IDA's use by releasing part of the reserved portion of its subscription; 90% of Part II members' subscriptions may be used only with their consent.
On approval by the Board of Governors in August 1971, the Bank marie a grant to IDA of $110 million from its net income for fiscal 1971. As a result of the United States dollar devaluation, funds available to the Association for commitment during the year were further increased by $102.6 million, reflecting increases in the U.S. dollar value of undisbursed contributions made by member countries in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Other funds that became available in fiscal
1972 included $6.6 million from cancellations and refundings of existing credits, $2 million in repayments, and net income of $1 million. There was also a carry-over of $3.5 million from fiscal 1971.
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors met 80 times in formal session during the fiscal year, and 15 times for informal discussions. They considered proposals for 72 Bank loans and 74 IDA credits, and Directors of IFC acted on proposals for 23 investments. In addition, they considered a wide variety of policy questions and many specific aspects of the Bank Group's operational activities. They also continued their discussion of a proposal for the creation of an International Investment Insurance Agency, on which no conclusion could be reached by the close of the fiscal year.
The Bank's sector work was reviewed in considerable detail by the Executive Directors, who discussed 10 staff papers dealing with agriculture, education, industry, population planning, electric power, telecommunications, tourism, transportation, urbanization, and water supply and sewerage. These papers were initiated as management tools to clarify the Bank's perspective and philosophy on each of the main areas of development activity in which it provides assistance to members. In response to interest in government, academic and professional circles throughout the world, all such papers discussed by the Executive Directors during the year were published and widely distributed as "Sector Working Papers." They are also being published in a single volume by the Johns Hopkins University Press, under the title "World Bank Operations—Sectoral Programs and Policies."
The Executive Directors also considered staff papers on such questions as unemployment in developing countries, and evaluation studies on the developmental impact of past operations in a single country and through lending for power expansion in a selected group of countries.
During the 1972 fiscal year, a group of four Executive Directors visited Mexico, Colombia and Panama to obtain firsthand knowledge of development problems and to view Bank Group projects in these countries. A similar visit was being planned for the coming fiscal year.
A list of all Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors, showing their voting power and the countries they represent, with notations of changes during the year, appears on the following page.