Summary and Background of the Year's Activities
In fiscal 1975, the World Bank Group greatly expanded its lending to developing member nations. Lending and investment commitments totaled $6,108 million, or $1,591 million above the record level set in the previous year. Lending by the Bank accounted for $4,319.7 million, compared with $3,218 million. In absolute terms, the increase amounted to 34%; in real terms (1974 dollars), the increase came to 25%.'') Commitments by the International Development Association (IDA) were up 44% to $1,576.2 million, as against $1,095 million last year. In real terms, IDA commitments in the year rose by 34% over fiscal 1974. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) made investment commitments of $211.7 million (for further details, see the IFC's Annual Report). In addition, the Bank made one loan of $50 million to the IFC.
Net income by the Bank ($275 million), borrowings ($3,510 million), and disbursements ($3,021 million, including those of IDA)/2) also reached record highs. (For further details, see the "Borrowings and Finance" section on page 75.)
IDA commitments rose because additional resources were received under the terms of the Fourth Replenishment. Those resources amount to approximately $4,500 million over the three-year period 1975-77. The Fourth Replenishment became effective in January 1975 when the United States Government officially notified the Association of its participation. Under the • agreement reached by 24 member nations in Nairobi in September 1973, the Fourth Replenishment could become effective only after 12
i'l Since the real value of loan commitments by the Bank is eroded to the extent that cost inflation occurs over the period of disbursements, it is the practice of the Bank to make allowance for escalation at the time of commitment. The deflator now used by the Bank to express lending in real terms is a weighted average of the price levels assumed to be prevailing over the period of the execution of the project. The lack of a deflator for IFC investments prevents the expression of total Bank Group lending and investment commitments in real terms.
I2> But excluding disbursements on loans to IFC.
The development oi'lheporl olLa Coulet'e in 'Iunhid was aided by two World Bank loans, in 1964 and i'X>8. Over S'l,400 nnIIion has been lent for pori.t, waterwavs, and ship/ping protects by the Bank and IDA,
donor (or Part I) IDA members had given official notification of their contributions, and when the amount of contributions notified reached $3,500 million, or about 80% of the total.
The Bank continued to expand its assistance to the least developed countries. The expansion was in line with the policy of providing more assistance to the poorest countries and people. Their needs took on additional urgency in a year during which their problems were exacerbated by economic events beyond their control. The poorest countries accounted for 38% of total Bank and IDA commitments, as opposed to 31% in fiscal 1974. In the case of IDA alone, such countries accounted for 84% of commitments.
Agriculture accounted for a record 32% of all commitments (it was 22% in fiscal 1974); lending in the Bank's "traditional" sectors—power, transportation, and telecommunications—continued to decrease as a proportion of the whole (29% in fiscal 1975, compared with 43% in the previous year).
More than half of all Bank and IDA operations for agriculture—involving commitments of nearly $1,000 million-were for rural development projects designed specifically to increase the productivity of the rural poor. In addition, about $80 million was committed for nine education projects whose primary objective is to increase skills in rural areas. About $130 million was committed for the construction of rural roads. Thus, in fiscal 1975, the Bank and IDA committed over $1,000 million specifically for the rural poor, or more than twice the fiscal 1974 figure of less than $500 million.
A World in Uncertainty
During the 12 months covered by this Annual Report, the uncertainty in world economic relationships continued—as in the previous year— to cloud the prospects of developing countries. In fiscal 1974, the upheaval in global economic relationships was characterized by accelerated rises in prices of both capital goods and primary commodities, sudden and substantial increases in petroleum prices, food and fertilizer shortages, and the beginnings of recession in the industrial countries. 5
Note on dollar amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of this Report for capital of the Bank refer to United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944, while those used for subscriptions and contributions to IDA, with the exception of the Fourth Replenishment, refer to US dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1,1960. For all practical purposes, these are the same. Unless otherwise specified, all other amounts in US dollars refer to current dollars. One dollar as used for Bank capital and IDA subscriptions and contributions equaled approximately 1.20635 current dollars, as of June 30,1975. For more detailed discussion, see General Notes to Statistical Annex; Note A, Appendix G, Bank financial statements; and Note A, Appendix F, IDA financial statements.
In fiscal 1975, little relief from the problems of the previous year was found. The year was haunted by the specter of a deepening recession and rapid inflation in the industrialized countries (in combination on a scale unprecedented in the last quarter-century), steady prices for petroleum products (in calendar 1974, the total bill for such products amounted to 12% of the total cost of imports in those developing countries which are not members of OPEC), and by a sharp drop in the prices paid for many of the primary commodities traditionally exported by the developing countries. No country was able to escape the effects of these forces. Even those countries which had, or were able to obtain, the resources necessary to maintain growth rates were significantly affected by the world economic slowdown.
For the 1,000 million people living in lower-income countries/') the economic events of the past year have meant that average real incomes have not risen at all. Current projections indicate that their real incomes may grow by less than 1% yearly for the rest of the decade. Not surprisingly, these countries are the ones whose immediate prospects depend to an extent greater than others, on factors largely beyond their control: the weather, the availability of external aid, and international prices for their exports and imports.
Real growth rates in other developing countries remained at about 4% per capita. They were maintained in large part because many higher-income countries were able to borrow substantial amounts from foreign commercial sources, albeit on relatively hard terms.
The recession in the industrialized countries in 1974 and 1975 has sharply affected the developing world. One important result of industrial slowdown and of measures adopted to reduce
I'l T-oi' purposes of this analysis, developing countries with an estimated annual per capita income in ,972 of less than $200 are classified as "lower-income."
inflation was a general decline in the prices of major primary commodities (excluding petroleum) supplied by developing countries. This decline came in successive stages throughout 1974; the downward movement of prices rapidly accelerated as 1975 began, and has continued ever since. On the other hand, prices of manufactured goods—which comprise more than two-thirds of the import bill of the developing countries—continued to rise. As a result, the terms of trade of most developing countries worsened. The purchasing power of exports of primary commodities is expected to decline by about 13% in 1975.
Countries with annual per capita incomes of above $200 are particularly affected by the decline in the growth rates of developed countries. The demand for many of the goods and services that earn their foreign exchange—tourism, manufactures, non-ferrous metals, and some raw materials such as rubber, timber, and fibers—is highly sensitive to economic conditions in the industrialized nations. Thus, the ability of the industrialized world to resolve its own economic problems directly affects their export receipts. Latin America has been particularly affected by the downturn in the industrial nations. It is estimated that the decline in manufactured exports from this region could be almost $1,000 million in 1975.
The recent changes in the international situation have also worked against the lower-income countries, particularly those which depend on imports of food and fertilizers and exports of textiles. In addition, exporters of non-ferrous metals and ores have been adversely affected.
The principal response of most developing countries to the crises that have jolted the world economy in the last two years has been to adopt policies to attempt to meet them head on. They have taken dramatic and, at times, extremely harsh measures—at considerable political cost—to alleviate the adverse effects of the international economic climate.
In the Sahelian countries, for example, where economic performance has been affected in large measure by recent droughts, the major response has been to organize emergency food relief programs with the help of external aid. In most of the Sahelian countries, the slender base of resources has left economies with very little room for maneuver.
Countries affected principally by the recession in the industrialized world have also acted with great speed to soften its impact. The Republic of Korea—heavily dependent on the American and Japanese markets for its exports-has adopted a special credit program which provides a large volume of short-term financing to help industries carry larger inventories; preferential rates go to small and medium-sized firms. A "land bank" was established to buy real estate from private firms that need cash to strengthen their finances. Public investment
programs for labor-intensive sectors are being initiated to create employment. Along with a number of countries, its currency was devalued in order to strengthen its balance of payments over the longer run.
Most of the countries especially hit by inflation deployed a wide variety of monetary and fiscal instruments to dampen inflationary pressures. Interest rates were raised, reserve requirements increased, and severe restrictions were placed on the extension of credit by the banking sector. For a short while, many governments cushioned the impact of higher world
* prices on final consumers by increasing subsidies on crucial commodities. As a result, there were some cutbacks in investment programs. However, to avoid worsening economic problems in the future, governments began to reduce subsidies; they passed on price increases to consumers, and restored investment programs, particularly in those social sectors which can be effective in removing the handicaps of the poorest sections of society. In Kenya and Tanzania, various methods were tried to soften the impact of inflation on the poor. Moderate wage increases in Tanzania were limited to lower-paid employees; in Kenya, it was decided that only the lowest-paid would be compensated fully for cost of living increases.
Many developing countries adversely affected by deteriorating terms of trade took steps to redirect production and investment. Egypt and India were among those that shifted their focus towards better utilization of installed capacity and away from the installation of new capacity Some countries shifted investment away from infrastructure and towards commodity production sectors. Many governments increased their investment in food production in order to avoid an abject form of dependence and to ward off the threat of starvation. A number of governments—including Ecuador, Bolivia, Ivory Coast, Pakistan, India, and Sri Lanka—greatly stepped up their investments to locate, develop, and exploit domestic energy sources.
The prospects of developing countries depend heavily on their resource endowments. Most cannot, by themselves, make the adjusl-
• ments that will permit them not only to weather the current economic uncertainties, but also to increase growth rates. The need for external assistance has grown; the need to examine ways by which developing countries can earn more through increased exports has also become more apparent.
Capital Flows
Bank estimates indicate that if developing countries, as a whole, are to reach a growth rate of 6% annually by 1980—a rate necessary for them to attain a reasonable degree of economic and social development—through additional capital inflows alone, the amounts required would be massive. Indeed the sums would have
to go far beyond any amount likely to be forthcoming—even assuming that economic growth in the industrialized countries is rapid.
Such massive additional capital flows are unlikely for a number of reasons.
In recent years, members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)O have significantly increased their financial assistance to developing countries and to development institutions, both in terms of commitments and disbursements. The development assistance policies of these countries, particularly for the medium term and long term, are in a process of evaluation. OPEC members have decided to give high priority to domestic development as long as their own per capita incomes are lower than those of the industrialized nations. OPEC commitments and disbursements are likely to be related to their balance of payments. Their current account surplus, which increased dramatically to a level of about S65.000 million in 1974, is not expected to grow significantly for the remainder of the decade. Even assuming a quick recovery by the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) nations, a number of OPEC members capable of undertaking large programs for domestic development may be in current account deficit by 1980.
Another major source of increased capital flows to the developing world is the DAC (Development Assistance Committee of the OECD) countries.t2' Their concessionary assistance, measured as a percentage of their combined Gross National Product (GNP), has declined from 0.51% in 1963 to an estimated 0.33% in 1974. If a 6% rate of growth in developing countries were to be achieved solely by reliance on larger ODA (Official Development Assistance) flows from DAC countries, concessionary assistance would have to increase to 0.81% of GNP. Present projections, however, indicate that despite the rise in 1974, and despite indications that some countries will either maintain high rates of ODA, or will increase them, flows of concessionary assistance might drop to 0.24% of GNP by 1980.
Capital Flows, OPEC and DAC
Although the statistics on the aid flows from members of OPEC are much less firm than those for the OECD/DAC countries, reports indicate that total commitments by OPEC members rose from $3,000 million in 1973 to S16,000 million in 1974. Reported disbursements also rose rapidly, from about $1,000 million to $5,000 million.
i'l Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon. Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwai;, Lioyan Arab Republic, Nige.ua, Qatar, Saudi Aralra, United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela.
i2> hroudes Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany {Federal Republic of), Italy, lapan, Netherlands, New Zealand, \orway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kmgdom, United States, and the Commission of the European Communities.
These figures include both concessionary and non-concessionary resources. In 1974, approximately 40% of disbursements were on concessionary terms. The non-concessionary disbursements included loans to the Bank ($1,460 million) and to the International Monetary Fund's oil facility ($1,220 million, the proportion of the facility lent to developing countries).
Preliminary data from DAC indicate that ODA by DAC members rose by 21% in dollar terms, but very little in real terms in fiscal 1975. The total ODA of $11,300 million (or 0.33% of combined G.NP) was the first significant reversal in the downward trend observed so far in the 1970s. All 17 DAC nations increased their outflow of ODA in dollars during the year, and 13 countriesO) also raised it as a share of their GNP. in fiscal 1975, Sweden became the first DAC country to meet the 0.7% of GNP target for ODA which has been accepted by the majority of DAC members.
Total flows for development by DAC members, which include export credits extended by official and private sectors, and direct and portfolio investments, rose10% in the year to $26,700 million. In real terms, according to DAC estimates, that figure was equivalent to 0.78% of DAC members' combined GNP, the same percentage as in 1973.
Multilateral institutions such as the World Bank have increased their lending commitments in the wake of the worldwide economic malaise. In order to encourage assistance from other sources, the Bank has also increased the scope of its co-financing activities with other bilateral and multilateral agencies. Details of this cooperation are provided in the regional sections and in the "Aid Coordination" section of this Annual Report.
Because flows of concessionary assistance can only supplement the finances developing countries themselves raise to fund the means to
I'i Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom, and the United States.
their developmental ends, other measures must be found if an annual 6% growth rate for the developing countries is to be achieved.
Trade Policies
In this context, it becomes essential to examine trade policies which can add to the export earnings, and hence to the growth, of developing countries.
Over the years, the Bank has increased its support of international commodity agreements, including the provision of technical assistance. In the past, it has entered into consultative arrangements with specialized commodity bodies to ensure that its actions affecting those commodities are consistent with their policies. Recognizing that the stocking of commodities is an important segment of the production process, the Bank has also provided assistance for building foodgrain warehousing facilities in several countries. In fiscal 1975, the management of the Bank reaffirmed its readiness to receive applications for the financing of buffer stocks and to examine each proposal on its merits. It was also recognized that one major issue that may arise stems from the Bank's constitutional need for governmental guarantees that loans will be repaid, and that in the case of international buffer stock authorities, the nature and form of such guarantees would have to be worked out.
Though the entire range of issues dealing with commodity exports, including assistance for financing buffer stocks, has come into the forefront of international discussions, few countries have taken measures to lower the barriers imposed against the imports of primary products from developing countries. The Bank believes, however, that if such barriers were dismantled, impressive short-term export gains could be achieved by developing countries. These additional earnings could, by 1980, equal half the amount of additional foreign exchange needed to lift the growth of developing countries to a rate of 6%.
Progress has been made in improving export possibilities, as exemplified by the recent agreement reached in Lome defining trade relations between 46 African, Caribbean, and Pacific nations and the European Economic Community. In particular, the mechanism included in that agreement for the stabilization of earnings from 12 commodity exports holds promise for the improvement of trade prospects of many developing countries. As the importance of trade in helping the developing countries meet the needs of their citizens looms ever larger, the trade discussions in various international fora have become all the more important. Trade-related negotiations between developed and developing countries under the auspices of both UNCTAD (UN Conference on Trade and Development) and GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) are currently under way.
Increased earnings by developing countries which produce primary commodities are not thwarted only by trade restrictions in the industrial countries. Another constraint is productive capacity in the developing countries themselves. A Bank study indicates that only by investing about $18,000 million (in 1974 dollars) by 1980 to expand production of these commodities could the developing countries take full advantage of the elimination of trade restrictions.
Import liberalization for primary commodities, though significant in overall terms, would nevertheless probably prove to be of limited value to the developing world over the long term. The markets for such products will continue to grow only slowly, as income elasticities are, in most cases, low. Improved long-term export prospects must, therefore, be based largely on trade in manufactures.
Although manufactured goods now account for 25% of the total exports of the developing countries, their share of the world trade in manufactured goods is still only about 6%. Moreover, exports of manufactures from developing countries have grown only marginally faster in value between 1960 and 1972 than total world trade in this category.
Manufactured products from developing countries often face a variety of tariff and non-tariff barriers (countervailing duties, quantitative restrictions, and voluntary but negotiated restraints on exports, for instance). In recent years, several industrial countries have begun efforts to phase out domestic industries which cannot compete with manufactured goods from developing countries. Although there are limits to the speed at which this can be done, the Bank believes that the adoption of more liberal policies by developed countrieson the importation of manufactured goods is essential to the long-term growth prospects of the developing countries. In the short run, however, increases in exports of manufactured goods by developing countries will be particularly sensitive to the extent of recovery from
recession in the industrial world. A Bank study estimates that manufactured exports from developing countries in the period 1976-80 could increase by more than 15% yearly, provided that growth in the OECD countries were to average 6% in the same period.
Even if growth in the industrialized world is slow, petroleum exporting countries might be a significant market for many developing countries. Imports of goods by OPEC members, estimated to be on the order of $43,500 million in 1974 (a figure almost double that of 1973), are projected to increase by as much as 25% annually through 1980. The past share of exports to this group of countries by developing countries has been only 14%; a maintenance of this share would contribute greatly to their ability to pay for their import requirements.
Long-Term Development Needs
An increase in exports—both of primary commodities and of manufactures—from the developing countries would provide a boost to their stagnating economies. Yet greater earnings through exports cannot be expected to solve the accumulated economic problems and constraints of the developing world.
The fact is that developing countries with annual per capita incomes of above $200 would be the chief beneficiaries of export expansion and trade liberalization. The degree of their current dependence on world trade is far larger than that of the lower-income countries. Since 1974, external finance has been less used as a supplement to domestic savings as terms of trade deteriorated. Export growth can help return rates of domestic savings—and hence, domestic resources available for development programs—to more normal levels. But if long-term development is to proceed —especially for the 1,000 million people living in the lower-income developing countries—much larger capital flows on concessional terms must be provided.
There are but a few developing countries with highly diversified economies which can hope to achieve adequate rates of growth solely through export growth. For the rest, a combination of measures will be needed to enable them to pay for the imports required for sustained development. That combination can be provided only through cooperation among the industrialized, petroleum exporting, and developing countries. Expanded exports to and increased capital flows from OECD and OPEC members can help the developing countries weather the current transitional period of economic disequilibrium. Beyond this period, however, long-term development finance on concessional terms will be needed to help provide developing countries—especially the lower-income ones, whose dependence on foreign trade is relatively small—with the capital needed to finance programs designed to achieve basic development objectives which increasingly are
designed to raise the productivity of the poorest groups in their midst.
In response to the worsening economic conditions, global initiatives were launched during the past fiscal year to deal with two of the world's most intractable problems: the deteriorating economic posture of the developing countries, and the continuing threat of disastrous imbalance between food supplies and population.
The Development Committee
In October 1974, following the approval of parallel resolutions by the Boards of Governors of the Bank and the International Monetary-Fund, the Development Committee—formally, the Joint Ministerial Committee of the Boards of Governors of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on the Transfer of Real Resources to Developing Countries-was established.
The Development Committee consists of 20 members, generally Ministers of Finance, each appointed for the first two years by one of the 20 countries or groups of countries designating a member of the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. The Committee is-required to advise and report to the Boards of Governors, both of the Bank and the IMF, on all aspects of the broad questions of the transfer of real resources to developing countries, and to make suggestions for consideration by those concerned regarding the implementation of its conclusions.
The initial focus of the Committee's work was on the situation of the poorest and the "most seriously affected"'') developing countries, and on measures by which their needs for the immediate period ahead might be met. In its January 1975 meeting, the Committee requested that the creation of a "special trust fund," providing additional highly concessionary resources, be examined by the Executive Directors of the Bank and the IMF.
The Bank's Executive Directors studied how the need of developing countries, especially the lower-income ones, for quickly-disbursing balance of payments assistance could be met. The need was made more urgent by the knowledge that the rapid commitments of assistance by some OPEC members, much of it fairly quickly-disbursing, might not continue on the same scale, and that the IMF oil facility was scheduled to be phased out.
In view of the character of the urgently-needed assistance for balance of payments relief, the two Boards agreed that if any such trust fund were to be established (its establishment would depend on the availability of additional
I1'The term "most seriously affected," or MSA, has come into widesptead use in the past two years, and denotes those developing countries with lowest per capita incomes that have also been hardest hit by recent world economic events. Identification of MSA countries is among the tasks of the United Nations Emergency Operation. Forty-two countries have to date been incorporated into the MSA list.
resources), it should be administered by the IMF, though on longer and more concessional terms than those applying to the existing facilities of the Fund.
The Third Window
At the same January meeting, the Development Committee also requested the Bank to examine the possibility of establishing a "third window," providing development assistance on terms intermediate between those of the Bank and IDA. Indeed, even before that meeting, the Bank had begun to study the feasibility of establishing such a facility.
The response by the Bank to the proposal was affirmative, for it believed that the Third Window could prove a valuable source of capital resources to developing countries.
At its June meeting, held in Paris, the Development Committee unanimously supported the establishment for one year in the Bank of the new intermediate lending facility. The Committee also urged the Bank to proceed with its establishment in the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1975, in order to lend to the developing countries in that year up to $1,000 million in assistance separate from other Bank operations.
The Third Window is essentially an intermediate lending facility whose terms are softened by the availability of interest subsidies. The funds needed to finance disbursements under Third Window loans, which would be made over a one-year period, would have to be borrowed by the Bank. The amount of concessionary resources needed to finance the interest subsidization of such loans depends on both the volume of lending to be undertaken and the terms offered on individual loans. At an intermediate interest rate of 41/2%—4% below the Bank's present lending rate-about $225 million in interest subsidization funds would be required to finance the lending of each $1,000 million. Contributions in the form of grants would be voluntary.
The chief beneficiaries of Third Window operations would be those countries with per capita GNPs of less than $375, and especially the lower-income countries. Though many of the lower-income countries could not afford the intermediate terms of Third Window loans—exclusively, at any rate—they would stand to benefit indirectly through a re-allocation to them of IDA funds from some developing countries which can afford intermediate terms. Taking into account both the direct and indirect effects of Third Window lending, the lower-income countries might receive a net increase in total Bank Group assistance of approximately 20%, with an appreciable softening of the average terms of that assistance. The Bank believes, however, that the Window should not be completely closed to countries with per capita incomes higher than $375.
World Food Conference
In early November, 130 governmental delegations, as well as a large number of non-governmental and intergovernmental groups, met in Rome in the wake of the serious deterioration of the world food situation. The immediate problems of food and fertilizer shortages were not dealt with in substance, for the Conference had a long-term reference—approximately 10 years—which looked both toward the improvement in persistent, unfavorable trends in food production in the developing countries, and to the establishment of means to cope with emergencies when major crop shortages occur, as happened in 1972 and 1974. The Conference was remarkable for the unanimity with which it endorsed the basic principle that the world's food problems could be solved only through a great and sustained growth in food output in areas in which the great masses of undernourished and vulnerable people live, namely, the developing countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America.
Delegates agreed to hold subsequent negotiations on four principal subjects:
—the creation of an International Fund for Agricultural Development ("World Food Fund");
—the establishment of a global information and early warning (for potential crop failures) system;
—the reconstitution of the existing Intergovernmental Committee of the World Food Program as a body to coordinate food aid; and
—the creation, at the ministerial level, of a World Food Council of about 25 members to coordinate the activities of a standing committee of the (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations) FAO Council on world food security (which deals with the establishment of food stockpiles), the Intergovernmental Committee of the World Food Program, and a new body, the Consultative Group on Food Production and Investment in Developing Countries (CGFPI).
Several of these actions taken by the Conference had implications for the work of the Bank. Resolution XIII, which was sponsored by many of the OPEC members, and which recommended the establishment of the "World Food Fund," contemplates the disbursal of its resources by "international institutions," a term intended to cover the Bank, among others. The World Food Council, asked by the Conference to coordinate the actions of, make recommendations to, and receive reports from "United Nations bodies and agencies," will work closely with the Bank, the world's major source of external funds for direct investment in the agricultural sector. The proposed activities of the CGFPI, as well as its relationship to the Bank,
are discussed in the "Inter-Agency Cooperation" section of this Annual Report.
The World Food Conference highlighted the importance of taking action to narrow the projected world food gap, and the Bank has begun to take action to assist its members to formulate and implement plans to increase food production. In many cases, such plans might involve some fairly radical changes in pricing and other policies, and the removal of socio-political, institutional, and other constraints. While the emphasis is being put on quick-yielding activities, the Bank is also paying attention to actions which may bring about important, long-term results. The Bank is, for instance, helping some of its members—Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Iran, Kenya, Nepal, Zaire, and the countries of the Sahel, to name a few—in the use of satellite remote sensing imagery in resource survey and evaluation work, and in all aspects of project planning.
During fiscal 1975, as a result of a comprehensive study of the problems of the rural poor, the Bank gained an improved global perspective of absolute and relative poverty, of where the rural poor are located, and some idea of their production potential. Knowledge of the constraints which impede the fulfillment of this potential has also been increased.
Rural Development
Almost 650 million people in the developing world are considered to live in absolute poverty, existing on annual per capita incomes of not more than $50. About 100 million more, in relative poverty, have incomes, though above $50 a year, which are below one-third the national average. Of this total of three-quarters of a billion people, 600 million, or 80%, live in rural areas. Their number is growing by approximately 2% a year.
The poverty of the rural poor is reflected in their poor nutrition, their inadequate shelter, and low health standards. Schooling in rural areas is often both inadequate and irrelevant. Rural areas, compared with urban areas, have a smaller share of economic infrastructure, such as domestic water, electricity, and waste disposal. Even when such services exist, the poor often do not have access to them because organization is inadequate, and costs are high.
If the problems of food production are to be alleviated, the rural poor must be made a part of the solution. Because the problems are so complex, complex solutions, cutting across sectoral lines, must be devised to help the rural poor contribute more fully to an increase in output.
The Bank believes that rural development, properly conceived and carried out, need not conflict with the objectives of higher food production. Indeed, studies indicate that small farmers are often more efficient in the use of farm resources than are large farmers. And though it may take longer to increase food out-
put on small farms than on larger units—it is more difficult, for instance, to devise and implement development schemes involving large numbers of smallholders than those affecting only a few large-scale farmers—the Bank has concluded that, in the longer run, increases in food production of the magnitude required to satisfy worldwide demand can only be achieved by heiping small farmers increase their productivity and output.
Experience has taught the Bank that, in many instances, a lack of finance alone is not the only factor limiting production among small-scale producers. Frequently, technological, procedural, and manpower constraints thwart the effective use of additional investment.
Overriding these factors, however, is the need, at the national level of government, for a strong commitment to rural development policies. Such commitment is required if the impact of programs designed to attack the problems of rural poverty are to be both effective and broad-based. The Bank is in no position, nor would it want to be, to dictate the design of such programs, for the choice of ways to deal
with the problem, and the sequence in which they are used, will necessarily reflect local conditions as well as narrower technical considerations.
In some instances, present policies must change if programs for rural development are to be effective. The Bank's analysis indicates that all too often, government policies discriminate against agricultural production in favor of manufacturing or processing industries; in addition, policies designed to keep food prices low for the large urban market have frequently been adopted to the disadvantage of the small farmer. In other cases, national fiscal policies-through high levels of indirect commodity taxation and low effective rates of income or property taxes, the poor often pay a considerably larger share of their income than the rich, for instance—must be made consistent with the commitment to rural development. Elsewhere, land policies, involving land reform or settlement schemes, to name but two, must be designed to aid the rural poor. Technologies of relevance to and within the means of the smallholder must be made available and promoted.
In those countries where there exists a strong, national commitment to improve the productivity of the rural poor, the Bank has already become a major source of external funds for direct investment in the agricultural sector. It is the Bank's estimate that the rate of growth of output of small farmers can exceed 5% by 1985 if assistance, properly conceived and targeted, is provided. The Bank also knows, however, that some innovative rural development programs will inevitably be unsuccessful. (Risks can be reduced by providing facilities for monitoring and evaluation so that the lessons of experience can be learned.) And, the Bank realizes that its rural development program for the next five years—ambitious as it is—will scarcely keep pace with the additional numbers of the rural poor—some 70 million—who will be born during the same period. A five-year (fiscal 197579) lending projection by the Bank foresees commitments of up to $7,000 million for agriculture and rural development projects. Such lendingcould benefit about 100 million people, of whom 60 million are presently living in either absolute or relative poverty.
The Bank has estimated that over the next 10 years, up to $100,000 million might be required to provide the impetus for sustaining productivity and real income growth among all the rural poor. Because Bank and IDA financing, on average, accounts for but one-half of project costs, the lending projections, if realized, would support a total annual investment program of approximately $2,000 million by fiscal 1979. This alone would represent 20% of the yearly requirement for financing the target of a production increase of 5% by 1985.
The main elements of the Bank's rural development projects will remain largely the same. They will be designed to benefit large numbers of the rural poor, while earning an economic
rate of return at least equal to the opportunity cost of capital; they will be comprehensive in their approach to small-scale agriculture, and will provide for a balance between directly productive and other components (where the inclusion of the latter is appropriate); and they will have a low enough cost per beneficiary so that they might be extended to other areas, given the availability of additional resources. At the same time, however, the Bank has recognized that there is a need to develop new approaches to solve the many difficult technical, organizational, and other constraints which hinder the realization of the productive potential of low-income rural people in agricultural and other pursuits. Because increasing food output on small farms takes a long time, the Bank will continue, under appropriate conditions, to help finance projects designed to increase food production and expand exports on medium-scale and large farms.
Education
Bank and IDA lending for education development is but 12 years old; during that period, the perceived objectives of education, and its relationship to development, have changed in much of the developing world. The Bank, too, has periodically re-examined its role in fostering educational development.
Until recent years, overall strategies, including those for education, have been directed toward modern sector activities and educating people for roles in a highly modernized society. This has often resulted in a concern for urban populations and more highly-skilled groups in the labor force which works to the disadvantage of the rural dwellers and other segments of the poor who are engaged in traditional or transitional ways of life.
The Bank believes that educational strategies must adapt themselves to and be consistent with broadly-defined development objectives which increasingly are focusing on ways to raise the productivity of the poorest segments of the population. The 750 million people who live today in poverty are, in most cases, the same people for whom education in the past was either inaccessible or irrelevant. Development strategies to increase these people's productivity and incomes cut across manysectors— including agriculture, health, and population, as well as education.
In attempting to promote balanced educational development, the Bank believes that minimum, basic education should be offered to all, as fully and as soon as resources permit, and that further education and training beyond the basic level should be provided selectively to improve the knowledge and skills needed to carry out economic, social, and other developmental roles.
The Bank realizes, however, that new educational strategies to provide relevant training to masses of people cannot be divorced from the various political milieus in which decisions affecting new strategies are developed. In addition, it knows well that there are risks involved for developing nations in embarking on highly innovative policies in such an emotion-laden field as education.
For countries not content with the results of past educational policies, and which wish to redress existing imbalances and irrelevancies, the Bank stands ready to share the risks involved in evolving new educational policies and programs. For others which are yet to determine what direction new educational strategies should take, the Bank has indicated its willingness to assist in financing comprehensive sector studies which broadly assess the degree to which a country's educational system responds to its developmental objectives and needs. The Bank firmly believes, however, that such studies must be undertaken at the initiative of, and carried out by, the countries themselves if the best and most firmly-rooted results are to be achieved.
Almost three-quarters of a billion people above the age of 15 are today illiterate; unless remedial action is taken soon, that number may rise by mo re than 100 million in 10 years. Such is the magnitude of both the problem and challenge. The Bank is aware that its contribution to educational development—in terms of dollars-is small (though increasing to more than $1,000 million for 80 education projects in the period 1974-78). It believes, however, that through its lending program, combined with its advice, given in continuing dialogues with concerned developing countries on how best their own needs might be met, it can act as a significant catalyst in helping developing countries achieve their goals.
Health
Health programs in developing countries, too, have historically neglected the rural masses. This bias against the provision of adequate health services for the rural poor is manifested in two ways, the Bank has determined. A large proportion of public expenditures on health in developing countries has been allocated to impressive, but expensive modern hospital facilities and highly-trained medical manpower. Both are naturally found in urban centers. Urban dwellers are doubly favored: they also have better sanitation and water supply facilities, higher school enrollment ratios, and superior environmental and personal health services than do their rural counterparts. (People living in urban slums, however, have also largely remained beyond the reach of modern medicine.)
The Bank believes that inefficiencies and inequities in health policies should be removed. The issue is one of more than equity alone; it is also economic, for ill health imposes economic costs by impairing the productivity of both workers and capital goods, and by reducing the availability of labor. To promote economic development, the poorest in developing societies must be permitted and encouraged to become as productive as resources permit. As health conditions and economic development are fundamentally related, the majority of the people cannot be denied access to better health care without damaging national development prospects.
Evidence indicates that the effectiveness of limited resources for health services (government health expenditures in many developing countries total less than $1 per person) can be increased, and that more equitable access to health care can be ensured if governments were to curtail their considerable expenditures on hospitals and highly-trained personnel, and devote more resources to the staffing of low-level health services in areas with few or no facilities. Preventive medicine—focusing on improving environmental and public health, personal health practices, and nutrition —rather than curative medicine should be emphasized.
While the Bank has not directly financed conventional health infrastructure as such, it has initiated project lending in a number of areas that directly affect health, either through the provision of project components, or through the overall project itself. These areas include population and nutrition, education, rural development, irrigation and drainage, "sites and services," and especially, water supply and sewerage. This effort will continue. In addition, the Bank has decided that, within the context of its present lending program, it will systematically analyze the health consequences of the projects it supports, and seek available opportunities to improve health conditions in the developing world.
The responsibility for implementing this policy has been assigned to an expanded Office of Environmental and Health Affairs. The Office will:
— review all Bank lending operations with a view to preventing their possible detrimental effects on health and providing opportunities for health improvements;
—coordinate the Bank's participation in specific disease control projects;
— undertake-initially on a highly-selective basis—analyses of the health sector in particular countries;
— plan and oversee Bank-related research in the sector; and
— organize and monitor field experiments to test out more effective health care systems.
The Bank is also extending its collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO), particularly in improving the allocation of national resources devoted to health. Indeed, because the strengths of the two organizations are complementary (WHO has great technical expertise, while the Bank Croup has substantial strength in conducting economic analyses), substantial scope exists for collaboration with WHO and other agencies—as has already taken place in the Western Africa onchocerciasis project. Perhaps of even greater importance is the fact that the Bank and WHO, starting from different conceptions of their respective roles in assisting their common member countries, have arrived at a substantial convergence of views as to priorities and methods of approaching the health problems of the poor.
Housing and Urban Transport
In attempting to define solutions to alleviate the poverty that exists in much of the developing world—through rural development, education, and better health care—the Bank also took increasing note during the year that poverty is by no means confined to rural areas.
Estimates by the UN indicate that in 1975,819 million, or 30%, of the people in developing countries live in cities and towns of over 20,000 habitants; by the end of the century, it is expected that the proportion will have risen to about 42%, and the number of urban dwellers will be 2,200 million. Half will have come from rural areas in search of better employment opportunities. Most will find deficient living conditions in their new surroundings, but though their deplorable conditions may be more visible than those of the rural poor, most migrants, nonetheless, will consider urban living a distinct improvement.
One fact is clear: the services provided to the poor, whether they live in urban or rural areas, fall very far below those provided to the middle classes and the well-to-do. In the area of housing, for instance, the supply of urban land and urban services, such as water, sewerage, and electricity, tends to be strongly skewed toward
upper-income groups, leaving the lower-income groups with minimal or non-existent services. Typically, the standards adopted for utility supplies are, in any case, too costly for the poor. The supply of housing for middle-income groups is limited, and housing ostensibly provided for the poor is often usurped by higher-income families. As far as urban transportation is concerned, governmental policies have often worked, unintentionally, to the detriment of the poor. Many, particularly in the poorer cities, cannot afford any form of motorized transport on a regular basis. Ten cents a working day—fairly typical of fares for two bus rides of two or three miles—represents about 10% of an income of $300 a year. Many of the poorer wage earners earn less than that. Nevertheless, facilities for both walking and cycling, in cities of most developing countries, are notoriously poor and are being reduced by the priority accorded to the private automobile. In sprawling, low-density cities, the distances involved often make walking or cycling impractical. "Squatter" housing settlements are periodically demolished, and the poor, unable to build, buy, or rent housing near centers of employment, are pushed to the peripheries of cities where transportation facilities are often non-existent or costly.
A reorientation of existing housing programs, the Bank has concluded, can make a substantial contribution to economic development and social welfare. Though a few developing countries have adopted imaginative programs to serve adequately their growing urban populations, housing conditions in most countries are worse than they need be. The reasons for this state are complex, but basically, they are due to a lack of understanding of the underlying problems and resource constraints which result in the formulation of misguided policy.
It is the Bank's belief that many countries have often chosen to respond to the needs of their urban citizenry by constructing dwellings of such high standards that the broad demand for housing cannot be met. In addition, the costs of such housing are often beyond the reach of the urban poor. This condition, then, is similar to those prevailing in the field of health, where modem hospitals have substituted inadequately for measures designed to help the masses of the people attain better health.
If developing countries were both willing and able to bring the cost of housing down by reducing standards, by encouraging self-help building projects, by encouraging or providing for higher-density construction, by using local building materials, through the provision of fewer private and more communal plumbing and sanitary facilities, and by improving the effectiveness of housing finance institutions, housing conditions could be greatly improved
for the poor majority of the city populations. In very large, lower-income cities, the upgrading of squatter areas also appears to hold great promise for alleviating the grossly sub-standard living conditions of the very poor. Positive zoning and land use policies can also be used to influence the locations of residences and places of employment within cities in ways which reduce transport needs and widen the opportunities of poor workers.
As with housing, Bank activities in urban transport will be concentrated in cities where authorities demonstrate a willingness to consider and implement bold measures to adapt their policies to the mounting pressures of rapid urban growth. Priority will be given to projects supplementing basic transport systems which are directed primarily to the needs of the majority who cannot afford an automobile, and for goods traffic. Though consideration will accordingly be given to bus and urban rail systems, including vehicles, repair shops, terminals, and road and track improvements required for efficient functioning, particular attention will be given projects catering to the many cyclists and pedestrians who cannot afford even low-cost public transportation.
The growth of Bank activities in helping to develop and finance urban transportation programs will inevitably be limited by the long preparation times for projects and a general shortage of expertise in the field. The Bank is convinced, however, that increased involvement is inevitable because urban transport is, in many respects, a leading influence on determining physical and social urban patterns. Because inadequacies exist in current methodology for analyzing urban transport problems and designing solutions to them, the Bank will also attempt to stimulate further development of methodologies specifically related to general urban conditions in developing countries.
The effectiveness of Bank assistance can be maximized only if it is placed in the context of an overall urban development program. The Bank believes that such an overall program might include such elements as initiatives to improve land management policies, policies to restrain too rapid development of peak hour automobile use, and both an understanding of market imperfections by the authorities concerned, and a willingness to reduce them over time. Only within such a context can Bank assistance in financing urban transport, "sites and services," the upgrading of squatter settlements, and in building up the capabilities of local housing finance institutions through technical assistance and the provision of "seed capital" to mortgage insurance institutions, be maximized. During the year, increasing attention was given to projects in support of general urban and urban/regional development programs.
Eastern Africa
All the countries in Eastern Africa are heavily dependent on the export of a small number of primary products to earn the foreign exchange required to pay for the increasing costs of imports. In fiscal 1975, as in the past, economic progress—or lack of it—in the region's 16 countries has been closely linked to the price trends of principal exports. Many countries, which had benefited from a boom in export commodity prices through mid-1974, suffered when their export earnings fell. Yet unfavorable movements in the terms of trade only partly explain the serious difficulties experienced by several nations; in Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, and Tanzania, continuing drought caused a major setback, while Mauritius suffered serious damage in January when it was hit by the worst cyclone in 15 years. In Ethiopia and Madagascar, the ability to deal with economic problems was affected by political changes, and the organizations of the East African Community were restrained from action by the need to negotiate further for agreement among the partner cou ntries.
The sharpest setback in export earnings was experienced by the two countries in the region —Zaire and Zambia—critically dependent on
world copper prices. Record high prices reached in early 1974 led to a rapid increase in imports; when copper prices dropped precipitously, the steadily-rising costs of the new level of imports compounded the two countries' economic problems. As a result of the decline in copper revenues, Zambia expects to register a very large budget deficit in 1975. In Zaire, too, rapidly-rising public expenditures outstripped the growth in revenue and fueled a price inflation which reached 30% in 1974. Both Zambia and Zaire experienced sharp declines in their foreign exchange reserves in 1975.
The countries whose principal export is coffee—Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, and Rwanda—also faced declining export receipts. The price of coffee, which peaked in early 1974, has fallen sharply in recent months. High prices for sugar benefited two major producers Swaziland and Mauritius, though in the latter country, production dropped by 15% to 20% as a result of cyclone damage. A drop in the price of cotton adversely affected the economies of Sudan and Tanzania.
In Tanzania and Madagascar, the need to import large quantities of food seriously aggravated a balance of payments situation already
made difficult by the escalation in the prices of petroleum products and manufactures. By December 1974, Tanzania's foreign exchange reserves had fallen to less than the equivalent of one month's imports. It was then that the Bank approved a quick-disbursing $30 million loan to help enable the country to continue importing raw materials and intermediate goods essential for its development program.
Somalia's predicament was even more precarious during the year. A drought which began in 1973 became acute during 1974, and killed as many as a third of the livestock (some 1 million cattle and Vh. million goats and sheep). Nearly a quarter of a million people were fed in well-organized relief camps. Since livestock is the main source of Somalia's foreign exchange earnings, the drought caused a deterioration in that country's balance of trade. Despite large capital inflows, foreign exchange reserves declined in 1974 and continued to do so in the first half of 1975.
Although the drought also affected southern and southeastern Ethiopia, that country benefited—up to the middle of 1974—from a very favorable trend in its terms of trade. Since then, however, greatly increased prices for its imports have resulted in a moderate decline in Ethiopia's sizeable foreign exchange reserves.
Kenya was very adversely affected by a combination of deteriorating terms of trade and drought. As a relatively large importer of petroleum products, the country was also severely hit by the increased cost of oil. Foreign exchange reserves covered less than two months' imports at the end of 1974, and a residual external financing gap of over $150 million is forecast for 1975. To help maintain investment momentum, the Bank provided a $30 million non-project loan to cover the cost of essential imports while new policies relating to agricultural prices and investments, in particular, are taking effect.
The country of the region registering the highest rate of economic growth during fiscal 1975 was Botswana, where yearly per capita incomes have doubled in less than five years. This rise is due mainly to large investments in the mining sector over the past five years which have enabled it—despite technical difficulties in some projects—to begin exploitation of its diamond, copper, and nickel resources.
Co-financing Arrangements
In an effort to direct additional financial assistance to priority needs in the region, the Bank worked closely with bilateral donors and other international organizations in concluding co-financing arrangements for several projects: in Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, and Zaire. Total investments by all co-financers, excluding the Bank and IDA, came to $290 million.
The most notable operation of this kind was a co-financing arrangement between the Bank (a $100 million loan), the Libyan Arab Republic (also a $100 million loan), and the European Investment Bank (a $20 million loan) to assist the expansion of Zaire's State-owned Gecamines mining company, the successor company to Union Miniere du Haut-Katanga which was nationalized in 1967. The loans from the three parties will help the company implement a $435 million investment in its copper and cobalt mining facilities.
The loan represented the first Bank (as distinct from IDA) lending to Zaire (with special debt servicing arrangements) since its independence; it also marked the first direct Bank Group involvement in that country's mining sector. Once completed, the project will create 2,000 new jobs, and will raise Zaire's copper and cobalt production by more than 20%, resulting in additional foreign exchange earnings of about $160 million yearly.
A highway in Kenya. Bank Group lending for transportation projects in the Eastern Africa region increased by more than half in fiscal 1975.
The Bank and IDA responded to the economic difficulties confronting the countries of the region in fiscal 1975 by increasing their aggregate lending by 61% over the previous year's total. Total lending amounted to $656.4 million— $344.35 million by the Bank, and $312.05 million by IDA. The number of projects assisted also rose—from 30 in fiscal 1974 to 35 in the year just concluded.
Lending to the transportation, industrial (including mining), non-project, education, telecommunications, and urbanization sectors increased greatly. More agricultural and rural development projects (nine) were approved than in any other sector.
Raising Agricultural Productivity
A disquieting trend in the region towards an increasing dependence on food imports has appeared in recent years. Given the large agricultural potential of most of the countries, renewed efforts are required to boost production, both for domestic consumption and for export.
It has become increasingly accepted, both by the Bank and the countries of the region, that a
minimum investment in economic and social infrastructure, simultaneously provided, is one prerequisite for raising agricultural productivity among the rural poor. Most of the agricultural projects assisted by the Bank and IDA, therefore, included improvements in roads, health facilities, education, and other services. In a number of projects, attempts were made to improve the total rural environment through comprehensive regional development. Perhaps the most noteworthy example is the Kigoma rural development project in Tanzania for which a $10 million IDA credit was approved in August 1974.
To improve rural living standards, the Tanza-nian Government has been assisting the half million inhabitants of Kigoma Region to resettle in ujamaa villages, thereby facilitating the task of providing economic and social services. The IDA credit is designed to help some 250,000 people, who have established themselves in 135 villages, double (to about $40) their yearly per capita incomes. In mostly individually-owned plots, the people cultivate crops such as maize, beans, cotton, or groundnuts. Agricultural credit will be channeled to the villages
through the Tanzania Rural Development Bank, while the Kigoma Cooperative Union will be responsible for buying and collecting village produce.
Though the inhabitants of the 135 ujamaa villages are to be the direct beneficiaries, the entire population of the region will also benefit. The project will develop a credit and marketing system, strengthen village-level extension services, facilitate clearing the area of tsetse flies, enable feeder roads to be constructed, and will introduce into the area a program of adaptive agricultural research. The level of social services will be improved through the provision of education and health facilities, and village water supplies. (The United Nations Capital Development Fund is providing $1.5 million for the health and water supply components.)
In Malawi, a third IDA credit, on this occasion for $8.5 million, is assisting the third phase of the Lilongwe Land Development Program which began in fiscal 1968. The newest phase is designed to provide modern agricultural inputs, credit, a stock breeding ranch, water supply and other infrastructure, an intensified extension service, and improved health facilities for about 110,000 farm families cultivating more than 1,500,000 hectares. (The United Nations Capital Development Fund is providing $1.6 million for the health and credit components.)
In Madagascar, a $9.6 million IDA credit will assist cattle producers in the underdeveloped northwest region of the island. Eighty thousand families in 200 villages will benefit from measures to improve pastures, water supplies, schools, mobile health units, and investments in roads. The last mentioned is of particular importance for the rural population is often cut off completely from other parts of the country for six to eight months a year. Intensive veterinary services will be provided, and annual per capita cash incomes are expected to rise from $20 to $30.
Manpower Training
Despite the high priority accorded by governments to the education sector over the past decade, in most countries of Eastern Africa there remains an acute shortage of skilled manpower, particularly in the technical fields. Substantial training components have, therefore, been included in the majority of Bank and IDA education projects in the region. The projects all show a marked movement away from the more formal types of academic training towards basic education programs focusing on the need to provide relevant practical training. For example, IDA credits were made available during the year for 10 nomadic training centers in Somalia, 40 rural education centers in Sudan, and lOOcommunity skill training centers in Ethiopia; all provide vocational training facilities in rural areas for children and adults alike.
About two-thirds of Somalia's 3 million people are nomads who tend their livestock in an arid and generally harsh environment. The literacy rate stands today at about 5%. The Government is striving to increase literacy, and, at the same time, to further the task of nation-building by developing the Somali language using Latin script. In 1971, the Somali language was adopted nationwide as the teaching medium to replace the diverse use of Arabic, English, and Italian. The education project, aided by an $8 million IDA credit, is the first Bank Group operation designed to support the development of a national language and to include a training scheme for nomads.
Ten educational and training facilities for nomads will be constructed. As many as 1,600 children will be enrolled annually in four-year courses, and 2,000 adults will be able, each year, to attend short courses in subjects such as hygiene, agriculture, and animal husbandry.
In pursuit of greater efficiency in education investment, major emphasis is also being placed on low-cost construction in conjunction with self-help techniques. For instance, in Rwanda, an $8 million IDA credit will help finance an innovative program for primary education. Workshops are being added to about 150 village schools, where some 6,000 pupils will be taught agricultural and craft skills. The labor for the construction of the workshops will be contributed by the villagers themselves, following the traditional African pattern of communal action.
Investment in Transport
A fundamental problem facing countries in Eastern Africa is the maintenance and expansion of transport facilities for the movement of goods within the country and for export. Exports from landlocked countries such as Burundi, Rwanda, and Zambia, or from regions such as eastern Zaire, western Uganda, or southern Sudan, may travel 1,500 kilometers or more to reach the sea. These countries are severely handicapped by the costs and delays of such lengthy overland journeys. Current railway projects in Sudan, the East African Community, and Madagascar will improve the routes to the sea. In June, a$26 million IDA credit was approved to assist in the financing of rail and river facilities in Zaire which will improve the efficiency and capacity of the Voie Nationale, which links Shaba Province and the sea. Road transportation in the country was also assisted through a $26 million credit designed to meet some of the country's most urgent needs for road rehabilitation and to strengthen the Bureau of Roads.
Agricultural products must be able to find their way to the railways and main roads. In fiscal 1975, five Bank- and IDA-assisted agricultural projects contained transportation compo-
nents designed to facilitate the marketing of agricultural products. In Ethiopia's lower Adiabo project, 240 kilometers of roads will be either improved or constructed; in the forestry and livestock development projects in Madagascar, more than 330 kilometers of roads will be maintained or upgraded, and almost 1,750 kilometers of service and feeder roads constructed. In Tanzania's Kigoma Region, 370 kilometers of roads will be improved, and as a component of the Kilombero sugar estate project in that country, a rail spur, linking the sugar factory to a line of the East African Railways will be constructed. The two telecommunications projects for which loans were made during the year—to Ethiopia and Zambia—are characterized by an emphasis on the establishment of links between urban centers and provincial and rural communities. As such, they are an important complement to transportation investments, facilitating regional administration and the achievement of improved productivity in all areas.
Sites and Services Schemes
The rapid expansion of Eastern Africa's urban population is giving rise to potentially explosive social problems in many countries. In the past year, three urban projects—in Kenya, Tanzania, and Zambia—were supported by the Bank and IDA. Because the development of urban services tends to be costly except on a per capita basis, the Bank's involvement has been directed to finding more economical solutions requiring a minimum subsidy.
The Tanzania project, for which an $8.5 million IDA credit was approved in July 1974, includes 10,000 serviced sites and support for self-help housing in DaresSalaam and two regional urban centers as well as improvements to existing squatter settlements. In addition, a pilot nutrition project will be carried out by the newly-created Tanzanian Food and Nutrition Center. Nutrition education and the development of capabilities to prepare and disseminate nutrition information will be emphasized.
Western Africa
Economic conditions in Western Africa during the year were influenced principally by domestic and international adjustments to the abrupt changes in commodity and other prices, which began at the end of 1973, the beginnings of recovery from the effects of drought in the Sahelian countries, and the emergence, in certain sectors, of the effects of declining activity and demand in the industrialized countries.
For some countries, higher commodity prices and export volumes more than compensated for the effects of rising import prices, and they experienced short-term improvements in their foreign exchange earnings and public revenues. Apart from the petroleum producers (Nigeria, Gabon, and, to a lesser extent, the People's Republic of Congo), the gains accrued mainly to producers of groundnuts (Gambia, Nigeria, Senegal), phosphates (Senegal, Togo), and bauxite (Guinea). The scope for allocating these increased resources to economic development depended on the degree of severity of
financial constraints, the outlook for deteriorating terms of trade over a longer period, and the need to retain higher reserves and savings to meet the increased costs of investment. Generally, the situation in these countries could be regarded as providing temporary relief to hard-pressed budgets and as an occasion to increase allowances for future contingencies. Yet, some of them seized the opportunity to introduce extensive changes in the domestic price structure of tradeable commodities in order to pass part of the gains on to rural producers, and to reduce the burden on public finances of the high consumer subsidies (particularly on rice) that were introduced in many West African countries over the past two to three years; others, especially the petroleum producing countries, markedly stepped up their rates of public expenditure for development as well as for consumption.
The larger and more diversified economies of countries which do not produce petroleum
(Cameroon, Ghana, Ivory Coast) were adversely affected by international economic conditions. Prices for their main exports (cocoa, coffee, timber) rapidly declined from their record highsinthefirsthalf of 1974, and declining construction demand in Europe also reduced the volume of timber exports. At the same time, higher levels of energy consumption, and of imports of intermediate and capital goods associated with industrialization, required larger outlays of foreign exchange. During the year, all of these countries, as well as several others in the region, completed, or were in the process of drawing up, new development programs emphasizing continued economic diversification, substitution for imported energy and staple foods, and intensified rural development. These programs will demand much higher levels of foreign financing than the previous ones.
Recovery from drought was the main economic concern of countries in or bordering the Sahel region. Rainfall during the year was close to the 30-year average, and crops were generally good. However, heavy losses of cattle, the failure of food and export crops in the two preceding years, the southward migration of pas-toralists, the loss of public revenues, and an increased need for public assistance-all were factors which contributed to the continuing difficulties of the stricken region. Large amounts of aid in the previous years helped prevent widespread famine and epidemics, but continuing long-term assistance on a wide front will be essential to attack the chronic problems of the Sahelian countries, which are related fundamentally to a poor resource base and a harsh climate. The international community is assisting the Sahelian states in a broad program of studies aimed at evaluating resource availabilities, population and migration trends, education policies, the potential for irrigation and new cropping patterns, alternative livestock development strategies, and transport infrastructure and services.
Regional Cooperation
The year was also marked by the signature of the Lome Convention defining trade and aid relations between 46 African, Caribbean, and Pacific nations and the European Economic Community and by increased attention to regional economic cooperation. The Convention's several innovative features include a scheme for the stabilization of export earnings from 12 primary commodities and their products, including such major exports as groundnuts, cocoa, coffee, cotton, timber, and iron ore, with preferential treatment to be accorded to the least developed and landlocked countries. Following the institution in 1974 among six francophone states of the Communaute Economique de I'Afrique de I'Ouest (CEAO), a draft treaty-establishing the 15-member Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) was
signed in May. The latter community/1' will become effective upon ratification by at least seven member states. The West African Subcommittee of the Association of African Central Banks set up a clearinghouse to facilitate payments in the region so that intra-West African trade might be expanded. And spurred by the prospects for substantial international assistance in the development of the Sahel, the Organization for the Development of the Senegal River Basin (OMVS) made significant progress during the year. The OMVS, with headquarters in Dakar, seeks to promote the integrated development of the agriculture, power, transport, and mining sectors of the three basin states-Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal. The Bank has participated in the early planning stages, and a $1 million IDA credit was approved in May 1975 for the engineering of irrigation works in the Debi and Lampsar polders in the Senegal River valley.
Bank and IDA Activities
In fiscal 1975, the volume of Bank and IDA lending in the region reached a new high— $424.2 million. This amount represents an increase of 50% over fiscal 1974, the previous record year, and of 139% over the fiscal 1969-73 annual average. As the accompanying table shows, the year's increase was entirely in Bank lending; IDA assistance remained at its fiscal 1974 high, which exceeded the fiscal 1969-73 average by 102%. The number of projects rose from 24 in the previous year to 30. There were several innovative features in the year's activities.
The year's lending pattern was affected by-large, anomalous variations in the cycles of agricultural and transportation project preparation. To discover any significant changes in the lending pattern, therefore, a comparison of fiscal 1974 and 1975 averages with those of fiscal 1969-73 is appropriate. Such a comparison shows a dramatic shift towards lending for agriculture and rural development. This sector's share in total lending more than tripled, from an average of 17% in fiscal 1969-73 to one of nearly 57% in fiscal years 1974 and 1975. Rural development includes development of agricultural roads; for the last two years the construction, maintenance, and upgrading of such roads averaged almost 6,000 kilometers, a large increase over previous years. The share of lending for conventional transportation projects—highways, railways, and ports—declined, amounting to 25% in fiscal years 1974 and 1975 compared with 39% in fiscal 1969-73. These shifts reflect the increasing influence of the Bank's new-strategy, which focuses on broad-based rural development to help raise the productivity of
m Includes Dahomey. The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta.
the poor and to bring about a more even distribution of income.
Food, Livestock Production Emphasized
Most of the year's 20 agricultural and rural development projects emphasized domestic food crop or livestock production so as to improve the nutritional and health levels of the rural population and, at the same time, reduce the dependence on imports of food. Only five projects, accounting for about 17% of the total lending to the sector, were of the more conventional type, focusing on export crops, viz., cocoa projects in Cameroon and Ivory Coast (assisted by Bank loans of $6.5 million and $20 million respectively), a cocoa/coffee project in Togo (aided by an IDA credit of $6 million), a rubber project in Cameroon, and a pineapple project in Guinea (assisted by IDA credits of $16 million and $7 million respectively). But even they included elements such as agricultural roads, provision of inputs, and credit characteristic of the "new style" (integrated rural development) project package approach. This approach is most fully reflected in the year's six rural development projects—three in Nigeria and one each in Ivory Coast, Senegal, and Sierra Leone. Bank and IDA assistance for these projects totaled $124 million.
The three Nigerian projects are in the rural North East (Gombe), North Central (Funtua), and North West (Gusau) States. Here live a significant proportion of the country's food and industrial crop producers: their annual per capita incomes, of about $40, are the lowest in the Federation. More than 2 million people live in the 17,000 square kilometer area covered by the projects, and some 230,000 families will directly benefit. The projects' objective is to increase the production of cotton, groundnuts, sorghum, maize, and cowpeas. To achieve this
goal, "packages" of services will be provided to existing farming communities. The major elements of these packages are: development of 3,500 kilometers of feeder roads; the construction of some 250 small and medium-sized earth dams; and the provision of farm inputs and equipment—110,000 tons of fertilizer, 10,000 tons of improved seeds, 20,000 ox carts and plows, and 200 tractors. At full development, the net farm income of the farmers directly affected by the projects should increase by between 35% and 54%.
The Ivory Coast project will expand the cotton growing area from 60,000 hectares to about 80,000 hectares, and the area of food crops grown in rotation with cotton from about 9,000 hectares to 70,000 hectares. Special features of the project include the improvement of feeder roads and the construction of nearly 1,000 small bridges on existing roads; the digging of several hundred wells for village water supplies; provision of credit to farmers; the training of local artisans and blacksmiths to service farm equipment; the building of two cotton ginneries; and the establishment of a maize seed farm. The project area has a population of 1.3 million whose annual average per capita income, of about S50, is only one-seventh the national average. At full development, the project is expected to benefit 84,000 families-about 600,000 people—and will raise annual per capita incomes to about $80, thus promoting regional balance and improving income distribution. Although on a smaller scale, the rural development projects in Senegal and Sierra Leone have many of the same features.
Of the year's three livestock projects—in Mali, Nigeria, and Upper Volta involving Bank and IDA assistance totaling $43 million—the one in Mali is of special interest. Assisted by an IDA credit of $13.3 million, the project represents the first comprehensive effort to increase
A rural school in Mali. Bank operations during the year in Dahomey, ivory Coast, and Senegal will help rural youth acquire relevant skills.
range livestock production by about 100,000 pastoralist families living in the Sahelian zone. Special features include the introduction of livestock extension services and grazing controls, the construction of an abattoir and hide-drying facilities, and the testing of a functional literacy program for pastoralists. The principal direct benefit from the project will be a greater annual livestock production worth nearly $8 million in 1974 terms. The pastoral families will increase their average annual cash incomes from livestock production from $140 to about $220, and 400 new jobs will be created. The project also aims to halt the deterioration of nearly 90,000 square kilometers of rangeland, and to protect both the cattle and the people in the area in the future against all but calamitous droughts.
Adapting Education to Needs
Two IDA-sponsored education projects—in Senegal and Dahomey—feature further advances in the definition of a relevant strategy in this important sector which had been pioneered earlier in projects for Mali, Mauritania,
and Upper Volta. The strategy emphasizes the adaptation of existing education systems to the economic needs of the rural population; it also promotes the participation of industry and commerce in the upgrading of their employees' skills. The Senegal project, assisted by an IDA credit of $15 million, includes an experimental scheme of 30 village education centers offering practical training in agricultural and related occupations, and the elements of literacy and arithmetic to children leaving primary schools, and to youths and adults who have never attended school. By the third year of operation, the scheme will involve about 2% of the equivalent age group in rural areas. The Dahomey project, supported by an IDA credit of $4 million, also focuses on providing training in such basics as functional literacy, health, nutrition, and fundamental farming techniques for the country's rural youth who have either not attended school or who have dropped out prematurely. This training would be provided through the support of the country's rural youth training program. The project also aims at improving the skills of industrial and clerical workers in urban areas through the construe-
tion of a center for the upgrading of skills. The training given at this center will consist of short, practical courses enabling up to 2,000 trainees yearly to become more proficient in such fields as mechanics, electricity, construction, and business.
Another first in the year's Bank and IDA operations in the region is a sewerage and drainage project, located in Abidjan, and assisted by a Bank loan of $9 million. About half the Abidjan urban area is low-lying, and several densely-populated areas in the city have experienced serious flooding. Moreover, in the absence of public sewage treatment stations, waste water is discharged untreated into the lagoons around which the city is located, posing a serious health hazard. An increase in typhoid and cholera in areas where sanitary conditions are worst has recently been noticed. The project will prevent further deterioration in public health and will improve sanitary conditions in the fastest-growing residential areas of Abidjan, as well as in areas occupied by people with low incomes. In addition, the project will diminish significantly the incidence of flooding, thereby reducing economic losses and health hazards.
Further operational "firsts" during the year included the first Bank loan to Ghana since 1969, and the first IDA credit ever to Guinea. The $23 million loan to Ghana will help finance the first phase of a telecommunications project concentrating on high-priority works for rehabilitation, replacement of obsolete and worn-out plant, and expansion and general improvement of the quality of local, domestic, long distance, and telex services. The $7 million credit to Guinea will help finance the establishment of a pineapple estate which, at full development, will produce an additional 10,000 tons of pineapple from the estate and nearby outgrowers, with a gross value of about $3 million annually. Studies of the rice and livestock subsectors are also included, and future projects in those subsectors will be identified and prepared.
Co-financing Activities
Bank and IDA lending in the region continued to be complemented by co-financing from other organizations, both bilateral and multilateral. In fiscal 1975, these donors included Canada, France, Kuwait, and the European Investment Bank. Co-financing from these sources involved seven of the year's 30 projects, and totaled $43.6 million, compared with $85.7
million in Bank and IDA assistance for the projects concerned.
The program for the control of onchocerciasis (riverblindness) in the Volta River basin entered its first phase of operations under the general supervision of a Joint Coordinating Committee consisting of representatives of governments and international agencies. The Committee held its first meeting in Abidjan in February 1975 and elected M. G. Candau, former Director General of the World Health Organization (WHO), as its chairman. Aerial application of larvicides to kill the vector, a species of black fly, started at the beginning of the year in parts of Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali, and Upper Volta. The program is jointly sponsored by the World Bank and three other international agencies—the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), WHO, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). While WHO is the executing agency, the Bank has assumed responsibility for mobilizing the external finances needed to cover the costs, estimated at $54 million, for the initial six-year phase of the program (1974-79). Most of this financing is now assured under the Onchocerciasis Fund Agreement signed in May 1975 which covers contributions from nine donor governments (Belgium, Canada, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, Kuwait, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the United States), together with the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the World Bank. Financing for chemotherapeutic research and training is being provided outside the Fund by the UNDP. The program is designed to clear the way for eventual resettlement and economic development of the potentially productive areas affected, and the seven participating African Governments") will be assisted by the sponsoring agencies in undertaking the necessary pre-in-vestment studies.
In order to cope more efficiently with increasing Bank Group operations in Cameroon, the Bank assigned a resident representative to Yaounde. He will assume his duties early in fiscal 1976. He will also assist as necessary in expediting operations in neighboring countries. Reflecting the Bank Group's increased concentration on rural development, a Feeder Road Section was established within the Bank's Regional Mission in Western Africa, based in Abidjan, to identify feeder road projects and to assist governments in their implementation.
I'! Dahomey, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta.
East Asia and Pacific
For most countries of the East Asia and Pacific region, the past year was a difficult one, generally characterized by decelerating growth rates, worsening terms of trade, deteriorating balance of payments positions, and escalating inflation. While the region's aggregate Gross National Product (GNP) grew by some7% in real terms in 1974, most of this growth took place between January and June; the second half of the year saw a general pattern of decelerating growth. One cause of the less encouraging performance was a fall, beginning in mid-1974, in the world market prices of the region's major export commodities, notably rubber, timber, and coconut products. As a result, rural incomes which had benefited considerably from high commodity prices declined.
The terms of trade worsened for all countries in the region because of high import prices, mainly for fuel, foodstuffs, and capital equipment. The Republic of Korea's terms of trade index, dropping by 18%, was the most adversely affected. Even Indonesia, despite increased oil revenues, saw some deterioration in its terms of trade.
Falling export prices and rising import prices, together with a drop in the demand for manufactures, resulted in adverse changes in the bal-
ance of payments positions for all countries in the region, except Thailand, which benefited from high prices for its rice exports. In the Republic of Korea, for example, the current account deficit increased by more than $1,500 million and in the Philippines, the current account, in surplus by $520 million in 1973, was in a deficit position by $210 million a year later. Accumulation of reserves during the recent commodity price boom provided most countries with a cushion against the deterioration in their balance of payments positions.
The rapid rise in foodgrain prices led to increased efforts by food importing countries to achieve self-sufficiency in grain production. Taken as a whole, the region is marginally a net exporter of rice, but must import much wheat and other cereals. Moreover, there are wide variations in each country's food position. The Republic of Korea, formerly a food surplus country, is now a net importer and is trying to become self-sufficient in food by the early 1980s. Though Thailand still has an export surplus, it has diminished in recent years, as production increases have been used largely to meet growing domestic demand.
All countries in the region except Singapore are predominantly agricultural, but industry is
becoming increasingly important to growth and development. The Republic of Korea and Singapore, for example, have rapidly industrialized in recent years, exporting goods mainly to Japan and the United States. The recession in these two major markets has hit both countries' manufacturing sectors. Markets have been reduced, and external funds on suitable terms have been difficult to find. The Philippines and Malaysia also have dynamic, though smaller, manufacturing sectors, which, encouraged by Government incentives, have shown relatively strong growth in recent years with increasing emphasis on export markets as a source of future growth.
The region as a whole receives large inflows of external capital which have been an important factor in the economic expansion of the last decade. In the past year, despite increased inflows of foreign funds into most countries, many governments had to draw down foreign exchange reserves to help finance procurement of higher-priced capital equipment. Increased external finance will be required if the momentum achieved in earlier years in the development of agriculture and industry is to be regained. The region is generally well-endowed with natural resources but its agricultural potential is still under-utilized. In terms of per capita income, most countries in the region belong to the middle-income group of developing countries ($200 to $375 per capita GNP) although Singapore is significantly above this level, and Indonesia, with a per capita GNP of about $100, is one of the poorest countries in the world.
Concern over Inflation
Inflation continues to be a major cause for concern in the region. Malaysia had enjoyed a
long period of remarkable price stability. However, consumer prices rose in 1973 by 10.5% and in 1974, by 18%. Indonesia's inflation has been fed by rapidly-rising import prices which increased by an estimated 80% between 1972 and 1974; the main increases were in foodstuffs and fertilizers. These price increases have used up more than one-half of the country's additional oil earnings. In the Philippines, consumer prices rose by some 40% during 1974 but the rate of increase had moderated sharply by the end of the year. In the Republic of Korea, petroleum and foodgrain imports have led to a very sharp rise in prices with consumer prices increasing by 31% and wholesale prices rising by more than 60% annually.
Because of the importance of international trade to these countries, imported inflation has been a major factor in domestic price escalation. For many countries, rising prices for petroleum products have been the primary element. For example, between 1972 and 1974, payments for imported oil increased almost fivefold to some $2,500 million for the Republic of Korea, the Philippines, and Thailand. The Republic of Korea, which depends on oil imports for about 60% of its fuel requirements, was hit hardest. Its oil bill rose by some $800 million in 1974.
Increased oil prices, on the other hand, helped Indonesia in 1974 and should help Malaysia substantially in a few years. Oil revenues now contribute about 10% to Indonesia's GNP. Malaysia's current production is modest—less than 100,000 barrels a day—but it is expected to increase fivefold by the end of the decade. Malaysia also possesses substantial natural gas reserves which could come into production by 1980.
In fiscal 1975, Bank lending to the countries of the East Asia and Pacific region emphasized increased smallholder agricultural production, especially in foodgrains. At the same time, the
Buffaloes plow muddy furrows in a Central Luzon rice field in the Philippines. A $17 million Bank loan approved during the year will help upgrade irrigation systems in this major rice producing area.
Bank stepped up assistance for industrial development, infrastructure, and public utilities projects to support systematic development of urban and rural areas in a number of countries. Bank lending to the region continued to rise. In fiscal 1975, new lending totaled $976.4 million, an increase of about 39% over the previous year. The only IDA operation was a credit to Western . Samoa, the Bank Croup's first operation in the new member country.
Agricultural Development
A large portion (32%) of the Bank's lending was for projects related to agricultural development. It supported efforts to promote rural development in the Philippines and agricultural research in Malaysia and Indonesia. The Bank continued its support for land settlement in Malaysia, irrigation projects in Indonesia and the Philippines, and fertilizer production in Indonesia.
A noteworthy project, helped by a Bank loan of $25 million and illustrating the wide sweep
of activities undertaken to raise the living standards of the rural poor in an undeveloped and isolated area, is a rural development project on Mindoro island in the Philippines. Only 45 kilometers from Luzon, Mindoro already provides surplus rice to other parts of the Philippines, and has potential for much additional agricultural development because of its land and water resources, and its relative freedom from typhoons which periodically destroy crops in Luzon.
The Philippines Government plans to improve the standard of living of the island population and to supplement rice supplies from Central Luzon to metropolitan Manila. In addition to improving irrigation, highways, and port facilities, the project contains programs to control schistosomiasis, an endemic snail-borne disease, which affects the health and productivity of the people, and to help improve the living conditions of some 80,000 people of the Mangyan tribes, the island's original inhabitants, by providing mobile medical teams, constructing roads, and introducing new agricultural practices. The project will help increase 33
includes the reorganization of the Commission on Population and assistance to the Department of Health for the establishment of over 200 rural health units which will extend a new health and family planning service approach into the rural areas.
A significant share of the Bank's lending has gone to support urban development programs in Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, and Singapore which are designed to improve the living conditions of the urban poor. A $25 million loan, for example, will help finance the Jakarta urban development project which includes the upgrading of roads and footpaths, drainage,
water supply and sanitation, schools and health facilities in about 2,000 hectares of densely-populated, low-income neighborhoods, with provision for the eventual expansion of the program to about 30,000 hectares. The project also provides for the development of "sites and services," including the construction of core housing on about 130 hectares of under-utilized land. The project will support the recently-established National Urban Development Corporation and the National Mortgage Bank, and is designed to assist the testing and formulation of a prototype program for later expanded operations of these institutions.
South Asia
This has been one of the most difficult years in the recent history of the South Asia region. More than 800 million people live in the region; most of them suffered losses in their real incomes, and the poorest among them suffered acutely from the rises in food prices which took place during the year.
It was apparent in early 1974 that the months ahead were likely to provide a severe test for the region. Some of the main commodities imported by South Asian countries, particularly petroleum, fertilizer, and foodgrains, increased sharply in price, while prices of most of the important exports went up only slightly. As a result, the volume of exports which purchased a dollar of imports during the year ending June 1973 bought only 52 cents worth in Bangladesh, 63 cents worth in Sri Lanka, 70 cents worth in India, and 84 cents worth in Pakistan during fiscal 1975, after a continuous sharp deterioration in the previous 12 months.
The sharpness of the deterioration in the terms of trade, together with the extreme poverty of most of the countries, resulted in the placement of five of the six regional countries (Nepal being the exception) on the United Nations Emergency Operation's list of countries
"most seriously affected" by recent world economic developments. To alleviate their pressing balance of payments problems, sizeable resource transfers were required. There was indeed a record resource transfer in nominal terms for most countries, from the Bank Group, the International Monetary Fund's oil facility, the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), of the India and Pakistan consortia, and of the Bangladesh and Sri Lanka Aid Groups. These large amounts were barely sufficient, however, to maintain the volume of imports at the previous year's level.
The inflows from abroad might have been sufficient to avert the kind of hardship which took place, and combined with judicious domestic policies, to safeguard levels of investment, if the monsoon had not been so poor. The Governments of Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka were forced by poor harvests into making large food purchases which preempted significant proportions of the limited foreign exchange available. South Asian nations (excluding Burma) imported 7% or 8% of their total foodgrain consumption in 1974 and 1975. It is apparent that, for most of the coun-
tries of the region, increased food production is also the key to improving the balance of payments.
Weather a Factor
The foodgrain situation in South Asia seems, if anything, to be worsening. While populations grow annually at a rate of 2% or 3%, most South Asian countries have been unable to sustain growth rates of foodgrain production of as much as 2%. Even in good monsoon years, domestic production in most countries is only sufficient to satisfy the minimum per capita consumption requirements. In bad years, large-scale imports are needed to avert severe malnutrition. The shortcomings in agricultural development in South Asia are generally not a matter of inadequate technology or lack of farmer motivation; the roots of the problem lie in the fact that there have not yet been enough programs for investment in water resources, distribution of credit and inputs, and provision of supporting services. In the longer run, however, even a substantial improvement in this regard may not be sufficient if population growth rates cannot be reduced from their present levels.
Bangladesh's terms of trade have deteriorated rapidly, with import prices rising by about 91% as against a rise in export prices of less than 30% between fiscal 1973 and 1975. Higher import prices could not be passed on immediately to consumers and, as a result, the budgetary deficit increased markedly. The high levels of deficit financing, combined with commodity shortages, led to a rapid rise in the pace of inflation. The Government attempted to minimize the effects of inflation by continuing to place large orders for foodgrains during the first half of 1974 in spite of the higher level of domestic
foodgrain production in that year. By June 1974, faced with the realization that its cash commitments for foodgrain and other imports exceeded by a substantial margin the foreseeable foreign exchange availabilities in the following three months, the Government instituted drastic measures to reduce imports. Simultaneously, it appealed to its major trading partners to afford relief with respect to current payments and requested the Bank to form an Aid Group. The Aid Group for Bangladesh had its first meeting in Paris in October 1974. It met again in May 1975.
Worldwide inflation and another year of agricultural shortfalls combined to cause India severe economic hardship during the year. Food-grain production has been stagnant and is unlikely to be more than 106 million tons in fiscal 1975. This amount represents an improvement over the harvest of the past two years, but it is still below the 108 million tons achieved four years ago. The import requirements generated by this shortfall, combined with rapid price increases of other essential imports, have roughly doubled India's import bill in the last two years. Although export earnings have risen impressively—mainly as a result of price, rather than volume, increases—the current account deficit has grown roughly tenfold during the same period, to about $2,000 million. Even with this deficit, imports in real terms (aside from foodgrains) showed little change. This level of imports, combined with energy deficits, due in part to some reduction in oil imports, contributed to stagnation throughout the economy, particularly in industry. The rate of inflation, which threatened to exceed 25% during the year, has lessened, although the fiscal and credit austerity required to contain inflation has induced some slowing of the pace of economic activity.
Harvesting wheat by hand in Pakistan. The Bank approved during the year $400 million for projects aimed at. increasing agricultural production in the South Asia region.
Pakistan's economy has suffered from worsening terms of trade which, together with the floods in August 1973 and a long period of drought in 1974, held back agricultural production and the volume of exports. Terms of trade deteriorated by almost 16%. The value of exports of raw cotton, yarn, and textiles was reduced by a smaller cotton crop and by a sharp drop in demand. Imports of wheat and edible oil have also had to be increased to make up for lower-than-expected growth of domestic production. Pakistan's current account deficit may have nearly doubled when the figures for fiscal 1975 are tallied. The effects of the terms of trade deterioration were, however, mitigated in 1974 by the generous assistance Pakistan received from the members of OPEC. In the longer run, the trade picture should improve substantially as a result of projects under way to increase agricultural and other production. The largest of these is the Tarbela Dam. A series of mishaps, which took place when the initial filling of the reservoir began in mid-1974, necessitated a program of remedial works. They were completed
in time for the second filling in mid-1975. The stored waters will be available for irrigation in the winter crop season and will add at least 40% to suppliesof canal irrigation water. Power generated there will become available later in 1976. Other projects for increasing agricultural and other production are the Multan fertilizer plant and Pakistan's second oil refinery which will substitute cheaper crude oil imports for more expensive imports of refined products.
Burma was an exception within the region in that its terms of trade improved with substantial price increases for rice (which accounts for nearly half of its total exports) and timber. However, stagnating agricultural production prevented Burma from taking advantage of this improvement, since an increasing population led to the further dwindling of its traditional export surpluses. Recorded rice exports, which had averaged 1.5 million to 2 million tons during the 1960s, stood at 250,000 tons in 1974. While increased agricultural production in Burma is, therefore, important because of its contribution to higher exports rather than through
reduction of imports, Burma is in the same position as other countries of the region in that a vigorous agriculture sector is one of the keys to an improved balance of payments outlook. Nepal, which is also a net exporter of food-grains, faced a similar situation except that, given the heavy weight of petroleum, cement, and fertilizer in its import bill, its terms of trade deteriorated. As a consequence, Nepal, during the <year, faced its worst balance of payments situation in the past decade.
One of the countries most severely hit by the price changes was Sri Lanka. The price rises of a year ago aggravated the long-term decline in its terms of trade. Sri Lanka's major export commodities—tea, rubber, and coconut (together accounting for about three-quarters of total export receipts)—increased in price in 1974, although, except for major coconut products (150% increase), at relatively modest rates. The increases in world prices of Sri Lanka's major imports, however, were much greater than the increases in the country's export prices. Thus, the rise in the prices of its five major import commodities, making up about two-thirds of total import costs, ranged from a low of 100% (wheat flour) to a high of 250% (petroleum products). The result was a current account deficit in 1974 estimated at $193 million compared with $38 million in 1973. In the longer run, the expansion of agricultural output is the main remedy for Sri Lanka's balance of payments problem.
The Bank's Response
The overriding concerns for the region, and therefore for the Bank in its operations there, are to ensure that productive capacity is efficiently utilized, to maintain investment programs at appropriate levels, and to promote agricultural production to avert serious famine in later years, and to free foreign exchange currently used to buy food. One constraint on foodgrain production during the past year was the limited availability of fertilizer. The development of domestic fertilizer production to provide assured supplies and substitute for costly imports has, therefore, had high priority both for South Asian governments and for Bank activities. At the same time, the Bank has continued to emphasize the potential benefits rural development offers to the poorer sections of the population.
, Total Bank assistance to the countries of the region rose to $1,189.6 million in fiscal 1975, an increase of about 80% over the previous year. Of this amount, 53% went to projects related to agricultural development, 24% to non-project lending, and the balance to non-agriculture-related industries and to population and infrastructure projects. Of the agriculture-related lending, 37% was for major fertilizer projects which will have a substantial impact on agricultural production (mainly foodgrains) and on balance of payments positions. The Bank and
IDA approved assistance during the year to India and Bangladesh for fertilizer production, and to Pakistan foraa natural gas pipeline project to carry feedstock to a fertilizer plant.
Some 366,000 tons of nitrogen yearly are expected to be added to India's fertilizer capacity in 1978 when two Bank- and IDA-supported fertilizer projects are completed. Of the total, about 230,000 tons will come from the new plant at Phulpur in Uttar Pradesh, and an additional 136,000 tons annually will be produced at the Sindri plant of the Fertilizer Corporation of India when its modernization and expansion program is completed. A Bank loan of $109 million and an IDA credit of $91 million, respectively, were approved for the projects.
A fertilizer project in Bangladesh, which is to be assisted by an IDA credit of $33 million, will produce approximately 528,000 tons of urea and 305,000 tons of ammonia annually for domestic consumption. The $250 million fertilizer plant, to be constructed at Ashuganj, about 60 kilometers northeast of Dacca, will help reduce Bangladesh's heavy dependence on foodgrain and fertilizer imports. The plant will use the country's abundant natural gas resources. Other contributors to the project are the Asian Development Bank, the Federal Republic of Germany, Iran, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
A $60 million loan to Pakistan for a pipeline to carry natural gas will also have a major impact on fertilizer production in that country, since the gas provides the main feedstock for the Multan fertilizer plant which will nearly double Pakistan's domestic fertilizer production. An expanded plant will begin operation in 1977.
During the year, the Bank Group intensified its work in support of agriculture in South Asia. There were active lending programs in this sector in all the countries in the region; in most, the Bank has a continuing dialogue with the governments concerning the formulation of agricultural strategy. The Bank also prepared reports on the agricultural sectors in Burma, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. In Bangladesh, past agricultural sector work forms the basis for the lending program, and in India, where the Government itself has an active program for analyzing the problems of the agricultural sector, the Bank is working in cooperation with the authorities in a number of areas chosen jointly by the Bank and the Government. The specialist agriculture staff of the Resident Missions in Bangladesh and India has been strengthened to increase the Bank's ability to assist in project preparation and progress review.
The Bank supports, at the request of governments, population programs in the subcontinent. Such programs contribute to efforts to strengthen the economy and also to bring into better balance foodgrain production and population. During the year, IDA approved a $15 million credit for a family planning project in
Bangladesh, where the population growth rate of 3% a year puts a severe strain on resources. The project is designed to help the Government work out a feasible program, to organize itself for carrying out the program, to secure financing, and to get the program moving. It will also help create the capacity for training the manpower to be used for health and family planning services; it will bring new life to the family planning program by expanding the services provided by basic health and family planning workers; and it will assist in developing activities aimed at changing social attitudes toward family size. The project is also noteworthy in that five ministries in addition to the Ministry of Health and Population Planning will be involved in its implementation.
Help for Industrial Expansion
During theyear, IDA also approved non-project credits to Bangladesh and India to help ensure the flow of essential supplies to maintain or expand industrial production, and to Sri Lanka for more efficient utilization of existing facilities in agriculture, industry, and selected services through imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts. For example, a $200 million credit to India was designed to enable selected priority industries, most of which are involved in producing essential investment goods, to maintain and expand their production. The credit will help them to import raw materials, components, and spare parts. About 850 medium-scale and large industrial enterprises will benefit. The industries selected manufacture or produce tractors and power tillers, fertilizers, pesticides, electrical equipment, aluminum, commercial vehicles, automotive components, castings and forgings, machine tools, heavy construction equipment, and spare parts for heavy earth-moving and power-generating equipment.
An example of the Bank's role in strengthening the capacity of a government to carry out a project is provided by a$27 million IDA credit to assist an irrigation project in Bangladesh. The project will ensure a reliable supply of irrigated water to the Bakerganj district in the vicinity of Barisal, a town in southwestern Bangladesh. About 650,000 people live in this area. Irrigation facilities will help raise rice production in the project area from its present 143,000 tons annually to an expected 345,000 tons by 1985. The project will also expand dry season rice cultivation, and allow high-yielding rice varieties to replace local varieties over most of the project area in the wet season by providing better wa-
ter control and agricultural supporting services.
No separate project authority will be established for carrying out the project. Instead, the responsibility for each aspect of implementation will remain with the individual agencies normally involved in such matters. The Water Development Board will handle the construction of sluices and the widening and deepening of creeks. The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation will handle the procurement, installation, and maintenance of the water pumps. The Ministry of Agriculture will be responsible for extension work in the project area, while the Integrated Rural Development Program will handle cooperatives and credit. Coordination of the activities of these agencies will be the responsibility of an interdepartmental project implementation committee.
The Bank's continuing support for rural development in South Asia is also illustrated by a $35 million IDA credit to India to help stabilize or increase production from agriculture and related activities in six drought-prone districts in central and western India. The six districts are in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan, and were selected from those especially affected by the 1972 drought. This is the first Bank operation in India specifically designed to tackle the difficult problems affecting rural development in that country's arid and semi-arid regions. The five-year project is expected to benefit over 1 million people by improving the incomes of some 225,000 rural households. They represent more than 10% of the population of the six districts, and most of them are among the poorest in the country. Annual crop production will increase by about 58,000 tons (principally foodgrains and oilseeds). Substantial increases will be realized in saleable fodder, as well as milk, wool, and mutton. About 85,000 jobs will be generated over the project period and about 20,000 jobs will be created after the project is completed. These objectives will be achieved through irrigation, soil conservation, pasture improvement, afforestation, dry farming development, improved sheep and wool production, and dairy development.
The broad range and the large number of project activities, together with the high degree of coordination required between all agencies, public and private, instrumental for carrying out the drought-prone areas project, make it both unique and complex, and the project exemplifies the World Bank's efforts at finding new approaches to help the poorest among the rural masses of South Asia.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Trend in Lending, 1964-75
(US$ millions. Fiscal years.)
Annual Averages (00) Number of Operations
Developments in the region in fiscal 1975 were, as in the previous year, strongly influenced by the major international economic events of 1973-74. The events included the increase in the price of oil, worldwide inflation •and its impact on import prices, the deterioration in the terms of trade of developing countries, and the economic recession in the industrialized countries.
The region includes three countries (Afghanistan, the Yemen Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) with annual per capita incomes of considerably less than $200. The majority of countries, however, fall in the middle and higher per capita income categories of developing countries; in this group are eight major petroleum exporters—Algeria, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.
Recent economic events have had a significant negative impact on the balance of payments of those countries in the region which are not major petroleum exporters; as a result, they will require increases in capital inflows in order to maintain the rates of economic growth achieved in recent years.
The three countries with per capita income levels below $200 depend heavily on imports of food, fertilizers, manufactured goods, and petroleum. All three have been particularly adversely affected by recent economic events; the United Nations has also determined that the three, plus Egypt, are among the 42 developing countries "most seriously affected" by these events, thus requiring special international emergency assistance.
Among the middle- and higher-income developing countries of the Mediterranean,
Greece, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, and Yugoslavia have, as a result of both the increases in the price of oil and capital goods and the economic conditions in those European countries with which they have close economic links, experienced serious deteriorations in their terms of trade, declines in their export volumes, and adverse effects on two major sources of foreign exchange earnings—tourism and workers' remittances. Morocco and Tunisia, however, experienced significant increases in export volumes (mainly on account of phosphates) and also a small gain in the terms of trade.
The eight major petroleum exporters in the region earned over $87,000 million from their oil exports in 1974 (compared with $27,000 million in 1973). But principally because of the effects of the world economic recession on oil consumption, this figure was below the amount forecast earlier. The combined current account surplus of these countries was $53,000 million, but two-thirds of that amount accrued to only four countries-Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. The oil export receipts and current account surpluses of the major petroleum exporters are projected to increase only slightly in 1975.
The eight major petroleum exporting countries have considerably expanded their assistance to other developing countries—a number of them within the region—either bilaterally or through multilateral institutions. Total bilateral commitments—the figures are "highly tentative" according to the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD—of Official Development Assistance (ODA) by regional members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) were estimated to be about
$9,000 million in 1974, and disbursements were about $2,000 million, or 1.3% of their combined Gross National Product (GNP).
Relations with Major Oil Exporters
In fiscal 1975, there was a further evolution in the changing relations, referred to in last year's Annual Report, between the major oil exporters and the Bank. Financing—either in the form of borrowings or other contributions—provided to the Bank Group by these countries increased substantially. (For details of financing provided by countries in the region, see the "Borrowings and Finance" section in this Annual Report.) The number of projects co-financed by the Bank Group and these countries also increased. On the other hand, Bank lending to this group of countries decreased; but since its need for technical assistance of the kind the Bank can provide has become more acute, the Bank's technical assistance activities expanded.
Bank assistance has also been given in the form of advice and, in some cases, secondment of staff (during the formative stages) to a number of regional and national institutions, such as the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD), the Islamic Development Bank, and the Saudi Arabian Development Fund.
During fiscal 1975, an increasing number of co-financing arrangements were concluded between the Bank and major petroleum exporters in the region. By the end of the year, about $425 million had been mobilized for projects for which the Bank and IDA had committed about $365 million. Among the most important bilateral co-financers were the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Libya, Abu Dhabi, and Qatar.
The AFESD, a multilateral institution, also contributed to the financing of several Bank and IDA projects.
Technical Assistance Activities
The petroleum exporters in the region have become increasingly aware that their economic "development could be promoted by a greater ability to use effectively their foreign exchange earnings. At their request, the Bank is helping several among them speed up their develop" ment by emphasizing, in particular, the acquisition of skills and the creation of institutional frameworks required for modern economies. Ninety percent of the technical assistance activities extended by the Bank in the region are being carried out in the eight regional member states of OPEC; most of the technical assistance programs are in Iran and Saudi Arabia. The Bank's technical assistance covers many sectors and takes many forms, ranging from its role as Executing Agency for the United Nations Development Programme-financed National Transport Survey of Saudi Arabia, to the advisory and pre-investment activities of the resident agricultural mission in Teheran. In both countries, most of the technical assistance work is related to major internal investment decisions the countries are contemplating, and is generally comparable to the services the Bank provides in the course of its lending operations. Of special significance are the studies undertaken in both countries whose objective it is to help the authorities in the formulation of their manpower employment policies as well as their education and training programs.
Some other examples of the new relationship with regional OPEC members are provided by the Bank's Economic Development Institute's collaboration with the Arab Planning Institute in offering a regional, general projects course in Kuwait and the collaboration with the Algerian Government on an industrial projects course in Algiers, the assessment by Bank staff of power demand and expansion in generating rapacity in Abu Dhabi, and the joint review of costs of major agricultural projects in Libya.
¦Overall Trends in Lending
The Bank and IDA helped finance 43 projects "in 17 countries. Total lending was $1,434.2 million. The three largest borrowers were Yugoslavia ($263 million, five projects), Romania ($230 million, four projects), and Egypt ($227 million, five projects). One of the noticeable differences from the previous year was the phasing down of lending to Iran and the postponement of projects in Cyprus previously planned for the year.
Lending for agricultural development rose in fiscal 1975 over the previous year's figure, and
.A worker in a small electronics plant in a Casab/anca suburb in Morocco. Plant capacity has been expanded with funds from the Banque Nationale pour le Developpernent Economique (BNDE), the country's main source of long-term finance for industrial development. BNDE has received several Bank loans, the latest being a $30 million loan approved during the yea r.
constituted 33% of the region's operations, and 28% of total commitments during the year. Ten loans were made for industrial development and to development finance companies (DFCs). The region remains by far the largest recipient of loans to industry and DFCs, since several of the borrowers have fairly diversified and sophisticated economies. About 28% of total Bank and IDA assistance for industrial development went to the region. The continuing 43
high prices for petroieum products have caused several of the petroleum importing countries of the region to look to alternative sources of energy. In fiscal 1975, the Bank helped finance the construction of a lignite-fueled power plant (Romania) and a hydroelectric power plant on the upper reaches of the Drina River (Yugoslavia).
Agriculture and Rural Development
Of the loans to agriculture during the year, one-third were to assist agricultural and rural development projects, more than a third were for agricultural credit, and a quarter supported irrigation activities. Loans to each of these sub-sectors are of special interest because they include socially innovative or other significant features.
One of the most ambitious projects to be undertaken in the region in fiscal 1975 was a rural development project in Turkey. It is ambitious, both in its objective of reaching some of the most disadvantaged people in isolated areas, and in the comprehensiveness of its multisec-toral approach.
The project, aided by a Bank loan of $75 million—it marks the Bank's first involvement in integrated rural development in Turkey—will affect farmers living in the north-central provinces of Corum and Cankiri. Primarily dependent on rainfed agriculture, the two provinces are among the poorest third in the country on the basis of income levels and living standards, agricultural development, industrial development, health and sanitation facilities, and communications. The project seeks to raise by 70% the incomes of about 400,000 rural poor by enabling them to double their production of grain; it will also improve the infrastructure of the villages in which they live.
An intensive agricultural extension program will be instituted; credit will be provided to buy inputs such as seed, fertilizer, buildings, and machinery; new irrigation facilities will be constructed to serve an additional 6,250 people living on 12,000 hectares of land; new village access roads will be built, and existing ones upgraded; drinking water will be provided to 120 villages, and electricity will be extended to 233 villages. In addition, facilities for basic health and social needs—public baths, toilets, laundries, and meeting halls — will be constructed.
A Bank loan of $50 million for an agricultural credit project in Yugoslavia has two major objectives: to help increase agricultural production by extending credit to socially-owned agricultural enterprises and private farmers, and to help improve the allocation of resources by supporting institution-building within the eight banks through which the loan proceeds will be channeled. The major constraints on the development of Yugoslav agriculture-it remains an important sector, absorbing 44%, of
the labor force and accounting for more than 20% of the country's GNP—are lack of capital, and, especially for small farmers, insufficient credit and extension facilities.
The project calls for investments in livestock, fruit and vegetable production, land reclamation, mechanization, and agro-industries, and is expected to help reduce crop fluctuations and promote self-sufficiency in foodgrains and milk. Small farmers (to whom 40% of the loan is allocated) will receive subloans, either directly or through agricultural enterprises, thereby increasing their prosperity in general, and, in particular, helping them exploit their comparative advantage in livestock production. About 380 social sector agricultural enterprises and 10,200 private farmers will benefit directly from the project; the average farmer's income is expected to rise by over 150%. The project should also create about 6,000 new jobs.
A shortage of water has hampered agricultural development in southern Morocco. The Souss groundwater project, assisted by a Bank loan of $18.5 million, is designed to assure the optimum use of available groundwater resources for the benefit of about 1,600 poor rural families. The project provides for sprinkler irrigation on about 6,200 hectares of new land, and the rehabilitation of a crude gravity irrigation system covering 1,000 hectares. The project will create viable farm units through land consolidation and distribution, improve supporting agricultural services, and organize farmers into service cooperatives. The family farms will produce cereals, milk, meat, and, to a lesser extent, fruit, for the domestic market. The project will also improve the rural environment by providing streets, street lighting, domestic water supply, schools, and health and community centers.
A rural development project in Algeria, aided by a Bank loan of $8 million, is designed to help the Government improve the social and economic conditions of the country's rural poor. The project—which consists mostly of technical assistance—will strengthen Algeria's capacity for project preparation and implementation, particularly at the local and regional levels; moreover, it will help develop rural institutions and services.
The project provides the technical personnel and equipment needed to plan, test, and ultimately begin the implementation of four sub-projects, each of which will concentrate on improving the productivity of small farmers. Two of the subprojects aim at overcoming two of the main constraints to rural development at the national level (credit and extension) by designing and testing a model for a national extension system and by assisting ongoing agricultural credit efforts. The two remaining subprojects focus on two of Algeria's poorest areas—its steppe and mountain regions.
The steppe subproject will attempt to stop the degradation of pastoral lands, will tackle
the sociological problems arising from the disintegration of traditional tribal arrangements concerning grazing rights and migration routes, and will support pastoral development, including the permanent settlement of semi-nomads into cooperatives. The mountain region sub-project will seek to improve economic opportunities for the population living in the Aures mountains, and thus discourage their mi-•gration to urban areas. It is hoped that the solutions developed by the Bank-aided project can be widely applied elsewhere in the country.
Environment
One of the year's most innovative loans marks the Bank's initial involvement in a national program to improve the environment. A $20 million loan in support of a project in Finland is designed to help protect both man and the environment from the harmful effects of industrial wastes. The project will reduce water pollution—even at the expense of some economic growth.
Half of Finland's almost5 million people live near severely or moderately polluted waters; a quarter of the people live in areas where the municipal water supply is taken from unsuitable surface sources. The trend of urbanization and industrialization indicates that pollution will accelerate if effective counter-measures are not taken as soon as possible. The Finnish Government has launched a 10-year national program to control industry-caused water pollution. The program, of which the Bank-supported project will cover the three-year period 1975-77, will also be a part of Finland's efforts to reduce the serious pollution of the Baltic Sea by curtailing the sources and levels of pollutants discharged into the Baltic from Finnish territory. The Bank has contributed to the design and implementation of the program, whose target is a 50% reduction by 1980 of industrial water pollution. The Bank loan, made to the Mortgage Bank of Finland, will be re-lent to industrial enterprises which will share in the costs of the program.
By contributing to Finland's program, the Bank will acquire detailed knowledge about pollution control costs and benefits in industry, and experience in the research needed for •modeling aquatic eco-systems and applying systems analysis for pollution control.
Environmental protection is also a major concern in a water supply and waste water disposal project for the medieval, walled city of Dubrov-nik in Yugoslavia. Eighty percent of all tourists vacationing in Yugoslavia spend some of their time on the Adriatic coast, where the town is located. Tourism, which currently accounts for about 15% of Yugoslavia's total convertible currency earnings, is highly sensitive to environmental conditions. If Dubrovnik's water supply system (part of which was built in the 15th century) were not to keep pace with the growing
demand, and if waste were not properly disposed of, the environment would be degraded, and tourism would suffer. The project, for which the Bank loaned S6 million, will allow Dubrovnik to expand its water supply system, and reduce the health hazards of pollution through the construction of sewage treatment facilities.
Education
A $5.4 million IDA credit for an education project in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen exemplifies the Bank's new approach in the field of educational development.
Since its independence in 1967, the country has experienced an education explosion: primary school enrollment has increased 300%. Preparatory school enrollment has risen by 100%, and in secondary schools, the rise has been on the order of 500%. Modernization of curricula, provision of adequate school buildings and equipment, and training of the teaching force could not keep up with the increasing demand, and thus real progress in the sector was limited. In addition, schooling outside Aden, except in the more developed Fifth Gov-ernorate, is still sparse.
In coordination with other external programs designed to help the Government by providing supplementary school buildings, secondary teachers, and technical advisers, the project will supply annually about half the new primary school teachers needed, and will help upgrade almost a third of the existing unqualified teachers. More practical, broad-based curricula will be introduced into preparatory and secondary schools, training will be provided to meet urgently-needed skilled manpower in agriculture, industry, and the social services, and two pilot rural development centers will be built in the remote rural areas of the country. The centers will help support existing local crafts, will be the focus of adult literacy programs, will introduce vocational training, and will support the activities of the Ministry of Health in carrying out family care and nutrition programs. As much as 80% of the project's costs will be directed towards people living in rural areas.
Other Projects
In the past 12 months, Egypt has taken a number of measures to accelerate its economic development, and has both sought and received commitments of large amounts of development assistance from various donors. Bank Group assistance, which had been limited to IDA credits until fiscal 1974, increased significantly in fiscal 1975 by the addition of the first Bank loans since 1959. The Bank and IDA lent $227 million to Egypt during the year—a sum more than quadruple any previous year's total. The largest loan, of $70 million (half on Bank and half on IDA terms), made in December 1974, is the first non-project loan ever made
to a country of the region. It will provide the foreign exchange necessary to use the economy's existing productive capacity more fully.
A major portion of the proceeds of the loan is being used to import raw materials, intermediate goods, and spare parts to support current production in industry and inputs for agriculture. The loan will also help finance the acquisition of urgently-needed equipment and spare parts required to improve operating efficiency at the port of Alexandria, which, since 1967, has been Egypt's only port handling import and export traffic.
A Bank loan of $50 million—supplemented by contributions from other sources—was also made to the Suez Canal Authority for a project to rehabilitate the Canal, the total cost of which is estimated at $288 million. The Bank's association with the Suez Canal dates back to 1959, when a loan was made for its expansion. Since the closure of the Canal in 1967, almost all the
equipment and facilities there—but not the main structures—have been destroyed. The project will help restore navigation, and will enable the waterway to operate at its former efficiency.
The Bank also extended loans to all three of Romania's key economic sectors—industry, power, and agriculture. The two loans for agriculture, which totaled $100 million, are for projects representative of the country's overall program of agricultural investment. The Sadova-Corabia agricultural credit project will help increase productivity, and through its subprojects, will significantly improve the production potential of over 40 cooperatives, state farms, and agro-industrial enterprises. The Giurgiu-Razmiresti irrigation project will provide 100,000 hectares of irrigation infrastructure, essential to the future growth and stabilization of agricultural output. Incomes of about 17,000 farm families will be raised.
Latin America and the Caribbean
Trend in Lending, 1964-75
(US$ millions. Fiscal years.)
Annual Averages (OO) Number of Operations
Recent trends in the international economy, including the recession in the industrial world which began in 1974, have had powerful but somewhat divergent effects on Latin America and the Caribbean. In most countries, higher
-import prices and lower export prices created serious problems of domestic economic management and contributed to inflation.
, The world price of petroleum has not, of course, been the only influence on recent trends. But it has probably been—directly or indirectly—more important than any other factor. Important distinctions can thus be drawn between the few countries—Bolivia, Ecuador, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela—which derive a major share of their foreign exchange earnings from this commodity, a few others-Argentina, Colombia, and Mexico—which are actually, or are nearly self-sufficient in petroleum, and the remainder—including Brazil, Chile, Jamaica, and Uruguay—which at present rely heavily on imports.
Some of the petroleum importing countries export commodities whose relative prices have also risen in the last two years, thereby softening the impact of more expensive imports. In Barbados, the Dominican Republic, and Guatemala, for example, there has been a major increase in export earnings because of higher world prices for sugar, while the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Jamaica have benefited from increased earnings from bauxite.
During 1975, however, market conditions for most of the region's principal export products deteriorated. Consequently, the terms of trade worsened. The relative decline in coffee prices has had a particularly widespread effect, because several countries in the region derive20% or more of their export receipts from this crop. Lower copper prices have adversely affected Chile and Peru, and lower wool prices, together with adecline in world market meat prices,and, even more importantly, a limitation of beef exports to the countries of the European Econom-
ic Community, has reduced export earnings for Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay.
For those countries which have achieved substantial economic diversification—Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, and Mexico—the recession in the industrial world has reduced demand for their manufactured exports. It is also likely to lead to a decline in tourism earnings for the region. The economies of the Bahamas, Barbados, Haiti, Jamaica, and Mexico, will be particularly affected.
For most countries, changing price and demand conditions are likely to mean larger trade deficits. In general, the possibilities for cushioning the effect of these deficits by drawing down reserves or running up short-term debts are limited. It thus seems likely that for most countries in Latin America, the recession in the industrialized world will lead to lower rates of economic growth, although the extent of this impact will vary according to their export prospects.
World trade conditions and their own economic structures are such that most countries— at least in the short run—will find it even more difficult to diversify their exports. As a result, there have been several attempts to reduce imports through policies designed to lessen aggregate demand. In Mexico and Peru, attempts have been made to combine demand restraint with efforts to sustain the level of development outlays. In Colombia, however, development expenditures had to be cut back as part of a stabilization program, but the fiscal reform measures adopted recently are expected to increase resources for development and also induce a more equitable distribution of income.
The process of short-run adjustment is proving particularly difficult for many smaller coun-
tries. In Costa Rica, Uruguay, and Panama,for instance, the current account deficit in the balance of payments as a proportion of Gross Domestic Product nearly doubled in 1974 as compared with 1973. The immediate outlook for their traditional exports is unpromising. The economic difficulties of Honduras were accentuated by a hurricane which devastated much of the country in September 1974.
In the medium term, the general outlook for the region is somewhat brighter, because it has a strong resource base and also because some countries have succeeded in creating relatively advanced industrial structures and in diversifying their exports in recent years. This, combined with recent general improvements in public finance and balance of payments policies, augurs well for the region's ability to make the necessary adjustments and to maintain growth rates which may be above those of other parts of the developing world. This is likely to be particularly true of Brazil, Colombia, and Mexico, all of which, in recent years, have increased their productive capacity, expanded their industrial exports, and accumulated international reserves.
Forthe major oil exporting countries, notably Venezuela, the adjustment process has been entirely different. Venezuela has used its increased oil revenues to build foreign exchange reserves, to increase domestic investment, and to finance development elsewhere in the region and the rest of the world. In August 1974, the Bank borrowed $500 million from Venezuela. During 1974, the country also committed $540 million to the International Monetary Fund's oil facility, and a total of about $700 million for the Central American Bank for Economic Integration, the Caribbean Development Bank,
A Bank-supported road project in Honduras will help this lumber mill move its products lo the capital city oi Tegucigalpa. Over $400 million has been approved by the Bank during the year for transportation projects in the Latin America and the Caribbean region.
the United Nations Emergency Operation, a special oil facility in Central America and Panama, the financing of coffee stocks in Central America, and some other loans to Latin American countries. During 1975, Venezuela has established a $500 million trust fund in the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and intends to establish trust funds in the Andean Development Corporation and the Caribbean Development Bank.
In many countries, including those with relatively advanced economies, external capital requirements have recently increased in real terms. Venezuela is playing a constructive role in meeting some of these needs. But other sources of public external capital—including the Bank—must also be responsive to them.
The Bank's Response
Against this background, Bank and IDA lending to the region in fiscal 1975 was $1,215 million, an increase of 32% over the previous year.
A total of 34 projects was approved, against 32 in fiscal 1974.
The Bank's interest in spreading the benefits of economic development to poorer regions and population groups was reflected in a larger number of loans for rural development and agriculture, education, urban development, and water supply projects. Industry, power, and transportation continued to account for substantial commitments.
In rural areas, the Bank is supporting national efforts to promote development—as in Mexico. In urban areas, the Bank is supporting low-cost housing, and water supply and sewerage projects—as in El Salvador and Colombia.
Two integrated rural development projects in Mexico will benefit about 1,250,000 people in the poorest parts of the country. Both are among the most complex projects with which the Bank has ever been associated and indicate the ambitious and far-reaching efforts being made by the Mexican Government to overcome stagnation in the rural sector.
Both projects will help raise family incomes and expand food production through the provision of credit and technical services. They will also create permanent jobs and improve the living conditions in poor villages by bringing to them potable water, electrical services, primary school classrooms, workshop facilities, and community centers.
A $50 million Bank loan will bring benefits to more than 500,000 people in the Papaloapan basin and a $110 million loan will benefit about 750,000 people in 30 "micro-regions" in different parts of the country, and will support a project which will help increase annual production of maize by 200,000 tons, beans by 40,000 tons, and beef by 25,000 tons.
Similar goals have been attached to the lower Sao Francisco polders project in Brazil. With the construction of dikes and pumping stations, the project will protect more than 32,000 hectares of lowlands, which would otherwise be almost entirely lost to production because of a change in the river flow associated with the construction and expansion of hydroelectric facilities at Sobradinho and Paulo Afonso. It is the first Bank project in Brazil which contains irrigation and agrarian reform components. Following the pattern adopted in two other areas, the Government will purchase the land and redistribute it to sharecroppers and to owners of small and medium-sized farms. The project will, therefore, prevent large landowners from securing windfall benefits; it will also guarantee a substantially higher income to new landowners, and raise the current level of production quite significantly.
One of the most serious problems in Latin America has been the pressure which rapid migration from rural to urban areas has put on the supply of low-cost housing; one form of response with which the Bank has been associated involves the provision of urban "sites and services." In El Salvador, for example, a $2.5 million Bank loan, together with a $6 million IDA credit, will help finance the construction of about 7,000 dwellings for families earning between $40 and $120 per month. This project is intended as a model for replication throughout the country. A private organization is acting as the executing agency and is providing additional financial resources for the project. The involvement of the private sector demonstrates its potential role in such ventures, and will ease the burden on Government resources. The Sal-vadoran Government is financing the extension of urban electricity, water supply, and sewerage facilities into the project area. Education and community facilities will also be constructed.
Another problem arising from the rapid growth of demand for urban services is the inadequacy of water supply systems, which has led to poor health and sanitary conditions in many urban areas. A $27 million Bank loan to Colombia will help finance the construction of water distribution and sewage collection facil-
ities in eight departmental capitals and provide additional water supplies for some 2 million people in 30 small towns.
Employment and Diversification
Although an increasing part of the Bank's effort has been allotted to projects designed to benefit the poor, many Bank loans have the direct purpose of promoting sustained economic growth and expanding the base for rural and urban employment and economic diversification. These goals are approached through projects designed to increase agricultural and industrial production, especially for export, and through the development of basic infrastructure. In the transfer of resources, the Bank's role is complementary to that of other lenders, and, in many cases, the Bank has sought to combine its loans with those of other institutions.
A Bank-assisted project which aims directly at increasing agricultural production is the livestock development project in Paraguay for which the Bank approved a$10 million loan. As the country enjoys a comparative advantage in beef production, the project will help generate, through meat exports, the foreign exchange needed to import goods required to expand productive capacity and to improve the living standards of the people.
While agricultural development continues to be a basic objective in the countries of the region, industrial development is also of major concern. Although manufactured exports have been growing, industrial development has been largely confined to countries with sufficiently large internal markets to facilitate import substitution within a framework of external protection. The Bank's lending for industry, nevertheless, takes place in an environment in which several Latin American countries now have relatively strong industrial bases and have recently improved export incentives.
One aspect of Bank operations in industry is illustrated by a $95 million loan to Brazil in support of the Government's steel expansion program. The program, which will help sustain the process of economic import substitution, has also been supported by the IDB, and involves total investments of more than $5,000 million. Now in its third stage, the program will substantially increase the basic iron and steel making, rolling, and finishing capacities of the three Government-controlled companies which account for the bulk of Brazil's output of flat-rolled products.
Another example of the Bank's industrial lending, and illustrating the importance of inter-sectoral relationships, is a loan to help finance the construction of two fertilizer plants and the expansion of a pesticide plant by Guanos y Fertilizantes, S.A., a state-owned enterprise in Mexico. Both fertilizer plants will produce urea to help satisfy the growing domestic demand for this product during the next
several years, and temporarily sustain a modest level of exports. The construction of the fertilizer plants and the expansion of the pesticide plant are to take place in the southeast and north-central regions, and will, therefore, contribute to the process of urban-industrial development outside Mexico City. As part of the project, a study is to be carried out for improving fertilizer distribution so that a larger number of small farmers will benefit. The project will cost $133.5 million, of which the Bank loan amounts to $50 million.
Throughout the region, the development of small-scale industry has generally been limited by inadequate access to credit and insufficient technical assistance. The principal objective of a $5.5 million Bank loan, to be re-lent to small and medium-sized industries by Colombia's Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), is to help remove these constraints. Small and medium-sized industries account for 41% of employment and 26% of value-added in manufacturing in the country. Some 200 firms are expected to benefit from the project, and an estimated 1,700 to 2,000 new jobs will be created—mostly outside Bogota. The project will thus contribute to the dispersal of economic activity.
Industrial growth in particular, and economic growth in general, depend on the availability of basic utilities; the development of hydroelectric power has thus recently acquired particular importance in non-petroleum producing countries. The Bank's sixth loan, of $35 million, for power development in Honduras will help finance the third stage of the Lake Yojoa/Rio Lindo hydroelectric scheme, the first two stages of which were also built with Bank and IDA assistance. The additional capacity to be provided under the project will meet Hon-duras's incremental needs until 1980, and will lessen its dependence on imported fuel. The project also includes additions and improvements to the utility's distribution system, and will extend the benefits of electrification to 300,000 new consumers.
Technical Assistance and Studies
Regional integration is an increasingly important topic in Latin America and the Caribbean, and a major Bank study of the English-speaking states of the Caribbean completed during the year illustrates the Bank's role in fostering this process. These countries have made considerable progress towards integration over the last decade, and the study concludes that further integration can be most effectively promoted by means of technical assistance and external financing designed to benefit the region as a whole as well as individual countries. The findings of the study also indicate the need for an expansion of the role of regional institutions, notably the Caribbean Development Bank. The study also identifies a number of projects suitable for external financing in the transportation, education, agriculture, and tourism sectors, but argues that coordination between sources of external aid must be improved if such efforts are to be fruitful.
Another study, undertaken jointly by the Bank, the United States Agency for International Development, and the IDB, concerns agricultural sector surveys in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. These surveys have focused on the needs of the rural poor, on project identification, and on how the technical and financial assistance efforts of the three agencies might be better coordinated.
Finally, the Bank has been helping petroleum exporting countries in their efforts to diversify their economies. Most of this effort has been directed towards Venezuela, where the Bank has provided technical assistance to the Venezuelan Investment Fund involving initial advice on establishing the Fund, and subsequent assistance with project evaluation. The Bank will also provide advice to the Venezuelan Government on sectoral development, employment policies, and other economic strategies, including diversification.
Projects Approved for Bank and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1975, by Sector
Agriculture
AFGHANISTAN: IDA-$13 million. Funds will be provided the Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan for loans to farmers and to the Afghan Fertilizer Company to build fertilizer warehouses throughout the country. More than a quarter of a million farmers and their families will benefit from higher incomes; foodgrain production should increase by 1985 by almost 250,000 tons; and the country could achieve self-sufficiency in wheat and increase exports of commodities such as cotton.
ALGERIA: Bank—$8 million. This technical assistance loan will help study and implement measures to increase agricultural productivity of small farmers and other rural poor, strengthen local administrations, and develop rural institutions and services. Preparation of schemes for integrated development will be set up in two poor regions, in the steppe zone and in the mountain zone. An experimental program will explore ways of developing agricultural extension services; and assistance will be provided to improve the agricultural credit system.
BANGLADESH: lDA-$27 million. Reliable irrigation water will be supplied to 56,000 hectares of land near the city of Barisal in southwestern Bangladesh, rice production will increase by 200,000 tons yearly to 345,000 tons, and more than 600,000 people will benefit from the project. Total cost: $46 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA-$7.5 million. About 3,600 poor rural families will earn more through cultivation of crops, and ranchers will get help in raising cattle and sheep under the provisions of this fourth IDA operation for agricultural development in the country. More sugar cane and beef will be exported and put on the local market. Full employment for 4,000 smallholders and seasonal employment for 8,000 workers will be created. Total cost: $12 million.
BRAZIL: Bank-$23 million. Dikes and pumping stations will be built to protect 32,000 hectares of land in the broad flood plains of the lower Sao Francisco valley. Important elements of agrarian reform incorporated in the project will help ensure the equitable sharing of benefits. An incremental production of 25,000 tons of rice is expected, and new farmers, sharecroppers, and small landowners should see their incomes increase from an average of $200 yearly to $1,800 by the sixth year. More than 18,000 jobs will be protected. Almost 2,000 new farms will be created. Schools and health centers will be built, and electricity and potable water supplied. Total cost: $56.5 million.
BURMA: IDA-S24 million. This credit will help rehabilitate and improve much of Burma's timber extraction operations. Key personnel will be trained, roads constructed and maintained, sawmills rehabilitated, and equipment bought. No adverse environmental effects are foreseen as a result of the project. Total cost: $35.8 million.
CAMEROON: IDA-$16 million. Almost 6,000 hectares of land will be cleared and planted with high-yielding rubber; 3,000 persons and their families will be employed, and provided housing, health, education, and social facilities. A master plan for the region will be prepared. At peak production, the estate will produce 13,000 tons of rubber. The project is jointly financed with the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of France. Total cost: $28.5 million.
CAMEROON: Bank-$6.5 million. The incomes of 32,000 farm families will be increased by as much as 70% as a result of this project involving cocoa planting and rehabilitation of cocoa land on 50,000 hectares of land in the region surrounding the capital city of Yaounde. The project is jointly financed with the French agencies Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC). Total cost: $23.8 million.
CHILE: Bank-$20 million. About 22,000 small farmers, among the poorest 40% of the population, will be provided short-term and medium-term credit to finance the purchase of fertilizers, seeds, and pesticides. Total cost: $55.5 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank-$21 million. This project in the Sinu River valley calls for the completion of drainage works on 40,000 hectares, including reclamation of 6,000 hectares of permanently flooded land. About 1,000 landless families will be settled on the reclaimed land, and other land to be acquired under existing land reform laws. Another 2,800 small farms will benefit from the drainage works. Improved community services will be provided to 35,000 people. The project, to be implemented by the Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA), will increase farm incomes and crop yields. Total cost: $35.7 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank-$19.5 million. This second phase of a land colonization project in Ca-queta will emphasize follow-up assistance to established farms, environmental protection, and social services. An estimated 2,850 small farmers will receive medium-term and long-term credit. Pasture land will be established,
roads constructed, and health centers and primary schools built. Total cost: $37.1 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA-$9.5 million. A pattern for settlement with secure tenure in Tigre Province's lower Adiabo region will begin as a result of this credit which constitutes the first five-year phase of a program which will eventually settle about 12,000 farm families on 22,000 hectares of Government-owned land. Annual net cash incomes of the farmers could rise from the present $25 to more than $75. Basic services, infrastructure, and necessary institutions will all be provided. Total cost: $13.5 million.
GHANA: IDA-S13.6 million. Help will be provided in financing the first phase of a10,000-hectare integrated oil palm development program which involves planting 5,200 hectares of oil palm in a poor and relatively underdeveloped region of the country. This new industry (for Ghana) may generate a gross income of as much as $17 million yearly. The nucleus plantation will employ 600 staff and laborers, and an outgrower program will directly benefit about 250 farmers. Total cost: $22.5 million.
GUINEA: IDA-$7 million. This first IDA credit to Guinea will help establish a 420-hectare irrigated pineapple estate, which will supply fruit of high quality for export. Road transportation and fruit handling services will also be improved. Pineapple growers near the estate will also be provided with a package of support services to help them increase their productivity. Rice and livestock studies will be prepared so that future projects can be identified and prepared. Total cost: $8.5 million.
INDIA: IDA-$83 million. Two hundred thousand hectares in the area of the Rajasthan irrigation canal will be provided all physical work and agricultural supporting services required for full water utilization. The project does not extend the irrigated areas; it seeks, rather, to realize all the potential benefits from already existing irrigated land. The project includes land development, canal lining, afforestation, feeder road construction, and provision of water supply systems to 100 villages. About 70,000 jobs will be provided over the next 10 years. Total cost: $174 million.
INDIA: IDA-$75 million. About 600,000 people—many of them involved in small-scale farming—will benefit from this credit which will support the activities of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, an agency established to provide medium-term and long-term finance to commercial and cooperative banks for on-lending to farmers. The credit's main focus will be on development of minor irrigation and staff training for personnel in rural banking institutions.
INDIA: IDA-$45 million. A new barrage across the Godavari River in the state of Andhra Pradesh will be completed, replacing an older one which is in danger of collapse. About 400,000 hectares of land will be protected, and water for irrigation will be assured, along with
incomes of about 160,000 farmers in the area. Total cost: $70 million.
INDIA: IDA-$35 million. By 1980, the incomes of more than a million people, most of whom belong to the poorest segments of the population in six drought-prone districts in four states—Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan—will be increased. This credit is the first Bank Group operation in India designed specifically to tackle the problems of rural development in the country's arid and semi-arid regions. Public investments in minor irrigation, soil conservation, forestry and pasture development, dry farming, sheep and dairy development, and provisions for applied research and training are all included. Total cost: $102.7 million.
INDIA: IDA-$34 million. About 200,000 farmers—75% of them smallholders—will directly benefit from, and 100,000 man-years of labor yearly will be provided by a project designed to increase foodgrain production (by 310,000 tons a year by 1979), farm income, and rural employment in West Bengal State. Total cost: $67 million.
INDIA: IDA-$27.7 million. A dairy development project in Rajasthan. (For details, see below.) Total cost: $52 million.
INDIA: IDA-$16.4 million. A dairy development project in Madhya Pradesh. (For details, see below.) Total cost: $31.2 million.
Milk production in the two states will be increased from 9 million tons to 21 million tons as a result of these two projects. Village cattle owners will be organized into dairy co-ops, which, in turn, will be grouped into eight milk producers' unions. Quality crossbreeding, animal health improvement, and the development of facilities for milk collection, processing, and marketing are included.
INDIA: IDA-S24 million. As many as 12,000 additional jobs will be created over the next decade, the incomes of 93,000 farmers will nearly double, and foodgrain production should increase by 165,000 tons yearly as a result of a project providing all necessary physical works and agricultural supporting services to enable full realization of the benefits of the existing Chambal irrigation system in Madhya Pradesh State. Total cost: $46.6 million.
INDONESIA: Bank-$65 million. Three irrigation systems covering about 200,000 hectares will be rehabilitated, improved or completed, and as many as 2% million people will benefit directly from the project. As many as 45,000 additional full-time jobs will be created by 1985, and paddy production may jump from 500,000 tons to 950,000 tons. Total cost: $165 million.
INDONESIA: Bank-$21.5 million. This loan is to help finance an agricultural research and extension project designed to improve crop yields throughout the country. The production-oriented research will concentrate on four types of commodities. It is hoped that high-yielding, disease-resistant varieties of seeds
and planting materials suitable to Indonesian conditions will be developed. The project also provides for one national and nine regional information centers to assist in disseminating research information to farmers. Total cost: $46.6 million.
IRAN: Bank—$40 million. This project—which essentially extends activities under two previous loans—will help support a two-year lending program for investments in commercial agriculture as well as agri-business and agro-industry by the Agricultural Development Bank of Iran. With this loan, however, more emphasis will be placed on developing smaller-scale commercial agriculture.
IRAN: Bank-$12.5 million. Credit facilities to both commercial and traditional fishermen for the purchase of needed equipment are included in this project which is expected to generate the production of 19,000 tons offish and shrimp a year. A training program which will benefit about 900 fishermen is also included. Total cost: $18 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank-$31 million. Areas in northern Ivory Coast under cotton cultivation will be increased from about 60,000 hectares to almost 80,000 hectares and the area of food crops grown in rotation with cotton will be increased from about 9,000 to 70,000 hectares. Construction of two cotton ginneries, feeder roads, and other infrastructure are also included. Living conditions of about 84,000 farm families will be improved. Total cost: $52.5 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank-$20 million. About 26,500 hectares of high-yielding cocoa plantations will be developed, and access roads and wells will be constructed and rehabilitated. The project is expected to generate net annual foreign exchange earnings of $23 million, and to triple the incomes of about 17,000 farmers. Total cost: $34.7 million.
JORDAN: IDA-$7.5 million. This credit will help finance a part of a larger development scheme for the entire Jordan valley which aims at developing irrigation and providing rural development facilities to increase production and narrow income distribution disparities. About 25,000 people will benefit directly, and by 1983, agricultural production should almost double in the 7,600 hectares of the project area. Total cost: $17,429 million.
KENYA: Bank—$10 million; IDA-$10 million. This second forestry project includes afforestation of 318,000 hectares for sawlogs and 8,000 hectares for. pulpwood plantation, and further development of 120,000 hectares of established plantation. Forest roads will be improved and technical assistance will be given for recommending land use policies and for improving sawmill operations. The project will help reduce paper, wood products, and sawn timber imports, and increase sawn timber exports, thus adding$150 million yearly to Government revenues. Total cost: $55:5'million.
KENYA: Bank-$7.5 million; IDA-$7.5 million. One hundred twenty-six group-owned, large-scale mixed farms and coffee estates which have encountered serious management and production problems will be rehabilitated. Technical and managerial services to all the farms will also be given and credit for machinery, infrastructure, and working capital will be offered. Wheat, maize, and coffee production will be expanded and foreign exchange earned; employment for about 13,000 group-farm owners will be ensured. Total cost: $23.2 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA-$9.6 million. An additional 70,000 head of cattle will be raised and the output of pigs, rice, maize, manioc, and peanuts increased as a result of this village livestock and rural development project. Some 80,000 poor, rural families (400,000 people) will be assisted. Communal pastures will be improved, schools built, water supply facilities furnished to 200 villages, roads built and maintained, and veterinary facilities provided. Total cost: $12.8 million.
MADAGASCAR: Bank~$6.75 million; IDA— $6.75 million. About 34,000 hectares of pine plantations will be afforested, service roads built and maintained, and technical assistance provided for this project which will provide full-time jobs for 1,600 people, and which will reduce soil erosion and improve soil fertility in the Mangoro valley. Total cost: $17.2 million.
MALAWI: lDA-$8.5 million. This final (third) phase of the Lilongwe Land Development Program will cover 32,000 farmers who have not yet benefited from the program which, when completed, will affect 500,000 persons. The Lilongwe program is designed to raise agricultural productivity and increase rural incomes through measures including land demarcation and registration, farmer credit, livestock development, and extension services. Total cost: $12.1 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank-$36 million, About 3,400 settler families will be provided housing in two new urban settlements, 25,500 hectares of land will be cleared, 22,000 hectares of oil palm planted, and two palm oil mills built in this land settlement project. About 5,000 workers will be directly employed during the project's development period, and settlers' average yearly incomes will increase from $355 (prior to joining the scheme) to about $2,650 (after they finish loan repayments). Total cost: $98.7 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank-$28.5 million. This project will help assist the development and expansion of the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI) over the 1975-81 period. A new Extension Unit in the Federal Department of Agriculture will also be created, marking the first step in increasing the flow of information from MARDI to smallholder farmers. Total cost: $108.5 million.
MALI: IDA-$13.3 million. Some 100,000 pastoral families, badly hit by the 1972-73 drought, will be aided by this project which marks the
first comprehensive effort to increase range livestock production in the Sahelian zone. The people will be better protected against future droughts through the introduction of livestock extension services and grazing controls in three special development areas, and through the provision of improved animal services throughout the region. Wells and ponds will be built, markets constructed, and a functional literacy program begun. Average cash incomes from livestock production may increase from $140 to $220 yearly, and 400 new jobs will be created. Total cost: $17.3 million.
MALI: IDA—$2.6 million. A supplement to the Mopti Rice Project credit of $6.9 million approved in January 1972.
MEXICO: Bank-$150 million. More than 100,000 people will benefit directly and intensive agriculture and livestock operations will be developed on more than a quarter of a million hectares as a result of this irrigation scheme in the lower Rio Bravo basin. Incomes of average small-scale farmers will increase from $1,600 to $4,000 at full development. Total cost: $384.4 million.
MEXICO: Bank-$110 million. This complex project, involving 30 separate areas in the country, and which will be implemented by 14 different federal and state agencies, is intended to increase production of maize, beans, beef, fruits and vegetables, and honey with an added value of about $85 million yearly. It has been described as the Mexican Government's most ambitious and far-reaching rural development project ever. As many as 750,000 people, in regions throughout the country ranging from arid to humid tropical zones, will benefit directly, and 30,000 permanent jobs will be created. Irrigation systems will be constructed, feeder roads built, as well as market stores and warehouses. Water supply systems for a quarter of a million people will be built, rural health centers constructed, and classrooms furnished. Farmers will be trained and technical assistance provided. The project is important, Bank President Robert S. McNamara has noted, in that it demonstrates the Government's determination to attack the problem of rural poverty by adopting practical measures designed specifically to help low income families become more productive. Total cost: $295 million.
MEXICO: Bank-$50 million. This integrated rural development project is designed to improve the quality of life for more than a half million people. Located in the Papaloapan basin (southeast of Mexico City), the project will help expand food production, and will improve the distribution of income by raising the income level of poor families through the provision of credit and technical services. Total cost: $138.5 million.
MOROCCO: Bank-$18.5 million. This project is designed to help increase agricultural production in the Souss valley by providing a rational development of irrigated agriculture
based on the use of groundwater resources. The project provides for development of sprinkler irrigation over6,300 hectares, rehabilitation of 1,000 hectares of traditional gravity system, and rural infrastructure. Total cost: $39 million.
MOROCCO: IDA-$14 million. The project aims at increasing agricultural production and incomes and improving income distribution in an area of 170,000 hectares in Meknes Province. These objectives will be achieved by land redistribution and consolidation, land tenure changes, strengthening the technical services available to farmers, introducing farmers' cooperatives, propagating improved agricultural practices, and constructing access roads, water supplies, and small-scale irrigation networks. About 50,000 people will benefit, most of whom presently have incomes less than one-third the national average. Total cost: $32.4 million.
NIGERIA: Bank-$29.5 million. (An agricultural project in Mid Western State; for details, see below.) Total cost: $59.7 million.
NIGERIA: Bank-$19 million. {An agricultural project in East Central State; for details, see below.) Total cost: $37.5 million.
NIGERIA: Bank-$17 million. (An agricultural project in Western State; for details, see below.) Total cost: $34 million.
These three projects for which the Bank loaned a total of $65.5 million, will, at full maturity in 1990, provide 100,000 tons of palm oil yearly for domestic use and 22,000 tons of kernels for export. Some 14,000 smallholders and 1,600 laborers will participate in the development of three high-yielding oil palm estates, and more than 100,000 people will benefit directly.
NIGERIA: Bank-$29 million. About 1,500 kilometers of agricultural roads will be built, dams and ponds constructed, training facilities, farmer credit and marketing services will be expanded and created, seed multiplication farms rehabilitated and equipped, and a project evaluation unit will be established in this rural development project, located in North Central State. About 16% of the inhabitants of the state—approximately 900;000 people-Will benefit. Total cost: $57.6 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$21 million. About 1,000 kilometers of agricultural loads will be built, ponds and dams constructed, 50 village service centers built, farmer credit and marketing services provided, and a training center erected. A total of about 640,000 people living in North Eastern State will benefit. Total cost: $42.1 million.
NIGERIA: Bank-$21 million. Seven State-owned ranching companies will be either es' tablished or improved/two fattening ranches will be upgraded, technical support provided to commercial and smallholder farmers, and pastureland improved or established. Total cost: $42 million.
NIGERIA: Bank-$19 million. Some 1,000 kilometers of agricultural roads will be built, dams and ponds constructed, physical infrastructure created, and farmer extension, credit, and marketing services provided to a total project population of about 620,000 who live in North West State. Total cost: $37.4 million.
NIGERIA; Bank-$17.5 million. About 9,000 hectares of swamp valley areas in East Central and South Eastern States will be developed for rice cultivation by some 6,000 farm families; milling and marketing facilities will be provided, and feeder roads built. The project's swamp valley development has the potential for wider application in the country. Total cost: $35 million.
PARAGUAY: IDA-$11 million. About 7,000 low-income rural families will benefit from this project which seeks to increase agricultural production and improve the living conditions of the rural poor. Schools, health and community centers, as well as roads, will be constructed; a lending program to 2,000 small farmers will be supported. Total cost: $15.8 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank-$10 million. This fourth livestock operation in the country features lending to small farmers and cooperatives and the financing of investments in sheep, dairy, pig,, and poultry production. About 2,700 ranchers will be aided. Total cost: $23 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank-$25 million. About 40% of the population of the island of Mindoro— some 200,000 people—will benefit from this rural development project, which includes the construction and improvement of irrigation systems and roads, improvements to the island's main port of Calapan, rat and schistosomiasis control, and technical assistance to minority tribes. Paddy production may increase by 100,000 tons by 1985, and per capita incomes on typical farms will increase from $90 yearly to $140. Total cost: $50 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank-$17 million. More than 100,000 people living in Central Luzon will benefit from this project which will upgrade the irrigation systems on about 21,000 hectares of land, and extend those systems to an additional 13,000 hectares. In addition, the loan will help finance a national irrigation system improvement study; about 400,000 hectares will be inventoried, and 150,000 hectares will be selected for future improvement.Total cost:$34 million.
ROMANIA: Bank-S70 million. About 100,000 hectares of land along the Danube will be irrigated, cropping intensity increased by 15%, farm employment more than doubled, and incomes for about 17,000 families working on cooperative farms improved as a result of this project. The gross value of annual agricultural production in the area may rise from $33 million to $90 million after full development (1985). Total cost: $151.8 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$30 million. Financial help for more than 40 individual agricultural production projects in southwestern Romania will be
provided. The project includes on-farm and livestock development as well as investments in related agro-industries. Total cost: 559.5 million.
SENEGAL: Bank-$7 million; IDA-$7 million. About 34,000 farmers in the heavily-populated Sine Saloum region will benefit from increased extension services geared to promote improved farming methods for peanuts, cereals, cotton, and livestock. Farmers' incomes should rise in five years' time by 40%. The project is being co-financed by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France). Total cost: $30.9 million.
SENEGAL: IDA— $1 million. This engineering project is designed to reformulate within the framework of Senegal River basin regional development, an irrigation project in the Senegal River delta for which IDA approved a credit in 1973. Fully-controlled irrigation with double cropping will be developed instead of a single-crop controlled flooding system. The engineering is to be completed within 21 months. Total cost: Si .25 million.
SIERRA LEONE: Bank-$5 million; IDA-$5 million. About $5 million in foreign exchange will be saved yearly, and about 14,000 farmers and their families will benefit directly from this project, designed to increase yields of rice for domestic consumption, and export crops, and to promote more balanced regional development. The North and East areas of the country are involved; the absolute poverty level in the former will be reduced, and incomes in the latter will be brought closer to the national average. Total cost: $13.7 million.
SPAIN: Bank—$33 million. Credit will be provided for the development of 400 cattle production farms, 200 cattle fattening farms, and 150 sheep production farms. More than 5,000 farm families (25,000 people) will directly benefit from this second Bank-assisted livestock development project, and increased employment opportunities will be realized. Total cost: $149.3 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA-S9 million. Credit and technical services for on-farm development of about 1,800 small (under four hectares) and 600 larger (16 to 20 hectares) dairy farms will be furnished under this project. Milk collection services will be expanded and technical assistance provided. Milk production should increase by more than 5 million gallons yearly, and 1,500 jobs will be created by 1981. Total cost: $12.7 million.
SUDAN: IDA-$20 million. An amendment to the Rahad Irrigation Project, increasing the $42 million IDA credit made in March 1973.
TANZANIA: IDA-$10 million. About a quarter of a million people with annual per capita incomes of about $20 will benefit from a project designed to provide 135 ujamaa villages in the Kigoma Region of western Tanzania with economic and social infrastructure, credit, and technical support services for agricultural de-
velopment. The United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) is providing $1.5 million on a grant basis for financing the water supply and health components of the project. This marks the first occasion of Bank-UNCDF joint participation in a project. Total cost: $13 million.
TANZANIA: Bank-$9 million; IDA-$9 million. A new sugar estate in the Kilombero valley will be developed (as well as outgrower lands worked by u/amaa farm families) and a new sugar refining factory will be built. Outgrower ujamaa farm families' incomes may rise from $275 in the second year of the project to $725 after six years. Denmark and the Netherlands are participating in the project's financing, with $17.3 million and S11 million equivalent respectively. Total cost: $55.8 million.
TOGO: IDA-$6 million. About 4,000 hectares each of coffee and cocoa trees will be planted, maintained, or rehabilitated; feeder roads will be constructed and taken care of; agricultural development agencies will be strengthened. The project, assisted by a grant from FAC (Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation), will benefit about 6,500 rural families. Total cost: $10 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$12.2 million. This project aided by the Bank will help close the gap between potential and actual use of irrigation investments in Tunisia's Medjerda valley and the Nebhana area. About 11,300 hectares of land in the two areas will be fully developed, and about 3,800 smallholder farmers will be aided. Total cost: $23.8 million.
TURKEY: Bank-$75 million. About 400,000 people living in two rainfed provinces in central Anatolia will benefit from a project which is based on an intensive extension service to assist farmers to increase the production of crops and livestock, thus raising incomes. Most of the farmers have incomes below one-third the national average. Credit will be provided, new irrigation facilities built, roads built and maintained, and villages supplied with drinking water, electricity, and community centers. The quality of life in about 1,200 villages should be improved. Total cost: $162 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA-$9 million. About 330,000 traditional cattle producers will benefit from this project, which will also introduce traditional farmers and pastoralists to commercial ranching. Nine group ranches and a ranch development center will be established, improved veterinary services provided, a livestock market constructed, and 730 kilometers of stock routes improved. Total cost: $11.5 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA-S10 million. This first integrated rural development project in the country seeks to improve the standard of living of some 21,000 farm families living in selected areas of the Southern Uplands. By providing credit for agricultural inputs, production and distribution of improved seeds, and construction of feeder roads, the country hopes to reduce its dependence on food imports, and to
increase its exports of commodities like potatoes, onions, and fresh vegetables. The project also provides for the construction of about 180 kilometers of feeder roads and about 90 village water supply schemes, and funds required for the provision of molluscicides and equipment for reducing the incidence of waterborne diseases. The Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development is also providing $10 million toward the financing of the project. Total cost: $23.2 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$1.6 million. A supplement to a $3.5 million credit for a fisheries project approved in April 1973.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank-$50 million. This first agricultural project covering the whole of Yugoslavia will provide credit to social sector enterprises and private farmers for investments in livestock, vegetable and fruit production, land reclamation, agro-industries, including grain drying, cold storage, milk collection, and on-farm mechanization. The project will help Yugoslavia increase its food production and expand agricultural exports. By channeling the proceeds through a participating bank in each republic and province, the loan will assist in strengthening agricultural credit institutions throughout the country.
Development Finance Companies
ALGERIA: Bank—$40 million. This project is a line of credit to the Algerian Development Bank and will help finance the foreign exchange cost of projects in the construction materials sector. Funds wil' be used both for projects of large State enterprises and for those to be carried out under the responsibility of regional authorities. Technical assistance will improve the development bank's standards of project appraisal and supervision.
COLOMBIA: Bank-$5.5 million. This loan will help the Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP) finance a small-scale industrial project. The loan will also contribute to alleviating the scarcity of long-term resources available to the CFP, and will permit increases in its financing of fixed investments by small-scale industry.
FINLAND: Bank-$20 million. This project is expected to reduce in half by 1980, industrial wastes discharged into Finland's waters. Pollution in the Baltic Sea will also be lessened. The loan will go to the Mortgage Bank of Finland, which, in turn, will help finance pollution control investments by industry, notably the pulp and paper industry.
GREECE: Bank-$25 million. This fifth Bank loan to the National Investment Bank for Industrial Development S.A. (NIBID) will help meet a portion of the institution's additional resources requirements for 1975 and 1976. NIBID loans help develop all regions of Greece and promote export-oriented industrial enterprises.
INDIA: Bank-$100 million. This eleventh Bank loan to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) will help that institution meet part of its foreign exchange requirements through June 1977. ICICI, established in 1955 with the Bank's advice and assistance, helps promote large and medium-scale enterprises, primarily in the non-traditional sectors of industry,
INDONESIA: Bank-$50 million. This third loan to the State-owned development finance company,. Bank Pembangunan Indonesia, will be used mainly to finance the importation of machinery and equipment for the industrial sector.
ISRAEL: Bank—$35 million. Most of the loan's proceeds will be made available to the Industrial Development Bank of Israel to assist private sector projects which are either export-oriented or are located in the less-developed regions of the country. Five million dollars will be allocated to industrial research and develop-' ment for specific commercially-oriented projects tt> help Israel make effective use of its skilled manpower and develop local industrial technology; this is the first Bank assistance of its kind to a member country.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank-$60 million. The country's largest institution providing me-dium-and long-term capital to both public and private industry, will use the proceeds of this loan principally for projects in the private manufacturing sector. Clients of the institution (Korean Development Bank) account for about 40% of Korea's exports of manufactured goods.
LIBERIA: Bank—$4 million. This second Bank loan to, the Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI) will help permit that institution to cover its requirements through 1976. The LBDI, the only institutional source of long-term finance for Liberia's private sector, invests most.of its money in small and medium projects.
MOROCCO: Bank-$30 million. This seventh loan to Morocco's Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique (BNDE), the country's main source of long-term finance for industrial development, will help finance the import component of investment by industrial enterprises.
PAKISTAN: IDA-$30 million. Part of the foreign exchange requirements of the National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) for the years 1975-77 will be met through this credit. The NDFC was established in 1973 to provide assistance to Government-owned industrial enterprises in Pakistan.
PHILIPPINES: Bank-$30 million. This fifth loan to the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines will provide foreign exchange needed to finance imports for projects in the fields of industry, agro-industry, mining, tourism, and transportation.
SRI LAN KA: I DA—$4.5 million. The credit will supply foreign exchange to the Development
Finance Corporation of Ceylon (established 10 years ago with Bank assistance) over the next two years for lending, mainly to export industries and for tourism. Industry contributes about 13% to the Gross Domestic Product and provides employment for about 410,000 people or about 11% of total employment. Tourism has been growing rapidly since the mid-1960s.
TRINIDAD ANDTOBAGO: Bank-$5 million. This Bank loan to the Trinidad and Tobago Development Finance Company (TTDFC) will help finance the foreign exchange costs of the company's lending operations through mid-1976. The loan will assist the TTDFC in promoting manufacturing industries and will thus help the Government's industrial diversification and employment efforts.
TURKEY: Bank-$65 million. This loan will help the Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi meet part of the foreign exchange requirements for investments in private industrial projects, largely in the less-developed regions of the country.
Education
BRAZIL: Bank-$23.5 million. Educational development in eight low-income states in northern and Northeast Brazil will be aided by this project which, when completed in 1979, will provide 71,500 new student places in both basic and secondary schools, increasing present enrollment at the latter level by 25%. The project will help correct regional imbalances in educational opportunities, particularly at the secondary level, and will help ease the shortages of technicians and skilled labor in the eight states. Total cost: $58.7 million.
CAMEROON: 1DA-$1.2 million. A supplement to an education project assisted by an IDA credit for $10.5 million in September 1969.
DAHOMEY: lDA-$4 million. A non-formal rural youth training program will be helped with this IDA credit. The program encourages the establishment of rural youth clubs for teaching reading, writing, and arithmetic, improved agricultural techniques, and better nutrition, health, and hygiene habits. The project will help improve the six-year-old program by establishing a more effective administrative structure. A "skills upgrading" center to train up to 2,200 industrial and commercial workers annually will also be constructed. The UNDP is providing $780,000 to help finance the project. Total cost: $5.2 million.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Bank-$8 million. More than 200 Rural Community Learning Centers, providing at least four years of basic education for children, and non-formal education and training courses for youths and adults, will be built. The project also aims at improving adult training in agricultural techniques,will help extend a reform of secondary education curricula to a greater portion of en-roiled students,and establish a national scheme for vocational training in industrial, construe-
tion, and service industries. The project was prepared with the assistance of Unesco. Total cost: $13.5 million.
ECUADOR: Bank-$4 million. A major constraint to Ecuador's economic development— the lack of qualified middle-level manpower-will be redressed as a result of this project which will improve and expand vocational education. Total cost: $7.9 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA-$23 million. Rural primary and secondary schools, with about 116,000 new student places, will be built as part of a program of basic and specialized education emphasizing the expansion and improvement of educational opportunities in remote rural areas. One hundred Community Skill Training Centers, 24 District Rural Development Centers, and 2 Agricultural Training Centers will also be constructed. Total cost: $34.7 million.
GABON: Bank—$5 million. One hundred technicians and 130 skilled workers a year will be trained as a result of this project which will help finance the expansion and diversification of technical education in Gabon. This second Bank-supported education project in Gabon also includes the introduction of a basic technology course at two lower secondary schools, and additional dormitory and classroom space for the national Commerce and Forestry Schools. Total cost: $8.1 million.
GREECE: Bank-$45 million. This third Bank education operation aims at expanding technician and industrial craft training to support the needs of industry for skilled manpower. The project will also help improve the relevance and quality of general secondary education and teacher training. The annual output of the education system will be increased by 2,400 crafts graduates and 1,500 technicians, thus meeting 10% and 15% respectively of the projected manpower needs at those levels projected for 1978. Total cost: $106 million.
GUYANA: Bank—$8 million; IDA-$4 million. Buildings, equipment, and facilities needed to help make Guyana's education system more responsive to its development needs, and to support the Government's education development strategy will be provided. The project is designed to increase the practical content of secondary curricula, to improve opportunities for non-formaleducation, and to alleviate shortages of skilled manpower in agriculture and other productive sectors. A Caribbean Regional Center will be established to train technicians from all Commonwealth Caribbean countries in animal health. Total cost: $18.9 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank-$5 million. This second Bank loan for education in ivory Coast will consolidate the progress achieved under the first loan which included support of primary teacher training and an instructional television production center, and expansion of technical, agricultural, and vocational education and training. Two primary teacher training colleges will be built, and studies in rural education and train-
ing programs will be undertaken. Total cost: $8.7 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank-$2.2 million. A supplement to an $11 million loan for education approved in April 1970.
JORDAN: IDA-$6 million. This second education project seeks to expand and reinforce vocational and technical skills in mining, industry, agriculture, food processing, and tourism; to support integrated rural development projects through a pilot scheme of non-formal basic education; and to improve, rationalize, and make more economical elementary, preparatory, and secondary education by providing schools with adequate workshops and other teacher training facilities. Total cost: $17.45 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank-$22.5 million. This third education loan to Korea will help meet manpower needs at the skilled worker and technician levels for specific economic and geographic sectors and lay a sound basis for a flexible, employment-oriented system of non-formal vocational training. A new technical high school will be built and equipped and three agricultural junior colleges expanded. Four fisheries training facilities and a merchant marine junior college will be expanded and equipped, and seven vocational training institutions established. Total cost: $39.1 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$4 million. Vocational, technical, and commercial education will be expanded and improved under this project. A number of smaller projects within the Government's education plan will be integrated into one coordinated program. Total cost: $8.14 million.
MAURITIUS: Bank-$3.5 million; IDA-$3.5 million. Schools emphasizing practical scientific and agricultural subjects will be built and equipped. In about 10 years' time, half the total institutional number of craftsmen and skilled workers, and some three-fourths of all secondary school graduates with backgrounds in science will have been educated in these schools. Total cost: $11.6 million.
RWANDA: IDA-$8 million. The quality of primary education will be improved and the productivity of new entrants into rural occupations will be increased through appropriate training. One hundred fifty workshops (6,000 student places) will be built, and a print shop, capable of publishing more than 4 million textbooks and student guides, will be constructed. Total cost: $9 million.
SENEGAL: 1DA-$15 million. This second education project will reinforce and expand the scope of the first—meeting modern sector requirements through the introduction of more practical and scientific programs in lower secondary education, vocational training, and planning and management of the education system; it also includes an experimental scheme of 30 village education centers offering practical training in agricultural and related occu-
pations, and the elements of literacy and arithmetic to children leaving primary school and youths and adults who have never gone to school. Total cost: S19 million.
SOMALIA: IDA-$8 million. This project is the Bank Group's first education operation designed to support the development of a national language. A training scheme for nomads will also be inaugurated and Somalia's formal school system will be expanded. Almost 4,000 new student places will be constructed. Total cost: $10.1 million.
SUDAN: 1DA-$10 million. Designed to meet the most critical requirements of the country's educational system (especially in southern Sudan) and to make the system more responsive to developmental needs, the project will provide training facilities for out-of-school youths and adults, for primary and junior secondary schools, will strengthen teacher education and curriculum development, expand the training of skilled workers, and will assist a nationwide education sector review. Total cost: $18.9 million.
SWAZILAND: IDA-$5 million. Swaziland's annual output of technicians and artisans will be doubled, and its teacher training facilities increased by 50% as a result of this project, designed to help the country meet its manpower needs through the expansion and improvement of vocational, technical, and commercial education facilities, and of a teacher training college. Total cost: $7.1 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$5.4 million. New curricula will be developed and education opportunities provided in specialized fields through this project. The credit will help finance the construction of two primary teacher training schools, three preparatory schools, two secondary preparatory-schools, two vocational training centers, and two rural development centers. More than four-fifths of the project's resources will be directed to rural dwellers. Total cost: $6 million.
Electric Power
COSTA RICA: Bank-$41 million. The project, which includes extension of two hydroelectric power plants, the construction of adiesel plant, the provision of new transmission lines, and the extension of others, will help the country to meet growing demands for electricity while helping it to reduce its dependence on imported petroleum. Total cost: $70.4 million.
HONDURAS: Bank-$35 million. Electricity service will be provided to some 300,000 additional Hondurans through this project. The loan includes provisions for four dams, hydroelectric generating facilities, distribution systems improvements, and repairs to hurricane-damaged equipment. Total cost of this sixth Bank-supported power project in Honduras: $60 million.
INDONESIA: Bank-$41 million. The project will provide a third 100-MW thermal unitforthe
Muara Karang power plant in Jakarta, thus increasing the public power capacity in the Jakarta vicinity by more than 10%. In addition, the project includes a program for technical training, an overseas fellowship program, and a team of management advisers. Total cost: $69.5 million.
JORDAN: IDA-$5 million. A third 33-MW steam electric unit will be installed at Zarqa, a diesel-electric power station at Marqa will be reconditioned, and a power development study for southern Jordan undertaken. Total cost: $22 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank-$45 million. Malaysia's growing (about 13% a year on average) power needs will be aided through this project which will help transmit the output of a major hydroelectric power scheme to the major load centersof the National Electricity Board's (NEB) interconnected network. This is the sixth Bank loan to the NEB. Total cost: $68.5 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank-$61 million. On the island of Luzon, 70 towns now without electricity will be hooked up to the Luzon grid as a result of this project. The transmission lines associated with this project will connect a total of 130 towns and municipalities and about 60 large consumers, including 27 pumped irrigation projects. The loan will also help finance the installation of a 100-MW hydroelectric power plant at Pantabangan. Total cost: $92 million.
ROMANIA: Bank-$60 million. A large, lignite-fueled power plant will be built, 600 kilometers of transmission lines constructed, and road and rail links provided under this project. Total cost: $353.5 million.
SUDAN: IDA-$23 million. The project will provide additional generating capacity and transmission facilities necessary to help meet the country's increased demand in major industrial and agricultural areas up to 1980 and will support a variety of managerial and technical services to the Public Electricity and Water Corporation. Total cost: S40 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: Bank-$72 million. This second Bank loan for power in the country will further help finance the Etablissement Public de I'Electricite's (EPE) $704 million development program for 1974-80. EPE's organizational structure will be aided, a second stage of a 150-MW steam-electric power station will be constructed, and eight substations either built or expanded. Total cost: $89.4 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: Bank-$8.6 million. A supplement to the $25 million loan of May 1974 to the Etablissement Public de I'Electricite.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank-$70 million. A 450-MW hydroelectric power plant will be constructed to help Yugoslavia meet its forecast demand for electricity and develop its domestic energy resources. Total cost: $242.5 million.
ZAMBIA: Bank-$42.1 million. A supplemental loan to help finance the completion of the Kariba North Project, for which a $40 million loan was made in July 1970.
Industry
BANGLADESH: IDA-$33 million. Plans call for seven different agencies, including IDA, to help finance the construction of a fertilizer plant 60 kilometers northeast of Dacca. The plant, whose principal raw material will be local natural gas, could, when completed in 1978, save the country about $74 million yearly in foreign exchange. Total cost: $250 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$95 million. An expansion of the Companhia Siderurgica Nacional's (CSN) steel plant at Volta Redonda and its iron ore mines at Casa de Pedra will be undertaken. The company is the largest steel producer in Latin America; the overall expansion of its production facilities will require financing estimated at over $2,000 million. The Inter-American Development Bank is helping finance the project, and 13 countries have indicated an interest in participating in the financing as well. Total cost: $2,115 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank-$40 million. Financial help for the expansion of the cement production capacity of the Tourah Cement Company will be provided by this loan. Net foreign exchange savings are projected to be over $11 million yearly, thus offsetting the project's estimated foreign exchange costs in about five years. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development has made a loan equivalent to $23.5 million towards the project. Total cost: $93 million.
INDIA: Bank-$109 million. This loan will help finance the construction of a fertilizer plant in Uttar Pradesh State. Scheduled to start commercial production in 1978, the plant is planned to add 230,000 tons of nitrogen to India's fertilizer production capacity each year. Annual foreign exchange savings could amount to $59 million. Total cost: $220.5 million.
INDIA: IDA-$91 million. This fifth IDA credit for fertilizer production in India will help finance the modernization and expansion of a fertilizer plant in the state of Bihar. When completed in 1978, the project will increase the output of nitrogen by 136,000 tons a year, and will help India save $68 million a year in foreign exchange. Total cost: $188.8 million.
INDONESIA: Bank-$115 million. This second Bank Group operation in support of a Government-owned fertilizer company will expand its South Sumatran facilities so that production can be increased by more than a half million metric tons of urea yearly by 1977. An increase in foodgrain production resulting from larger supplies of fertilizer may total 2 million tons a year. Total cost: $192 million.
JORDAN: IDA-S1 million. Potash will be produced from Dead Sea brine through solar evaporation in this pilot project. The credit will help finance the foreign exchange cost of engineering and other technical services required to prepare and develop the final project. Total cost: $10 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$50 million. Two new urea plants will be constructed and an existing insecticide plant expanded. The project should enable Mexico to become independent of imported urea fertilizer in the medium term, and it is estimated that gross foreign exchange savings after five years of operations will total almost $100 million annually. Total cost: $133.5 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank-$30 million. Proceeds of the loan will be re-lent to three agencies which, in turn, will make loans to help meet two priority needs of the Philippines' small and medium-scale industries, which account for over 80% of the total number of firms employing 20 or more workers. These needs relate to increased access to institutional sources of credit, and technical assistance aimed directly at solving problems. At full operation, industries to be assisted are expected to create more than 12,000 jobs, mostly in rural areas.
ROMANIA: Bank-$70 million. A cold roiling mill complex with an annual capacity of about 30,000 tons of stainless steel sheet and strip, and a rod and bar rolling mill complex producing 120,000 tons of alloy steel rod and bar products will be constructed under this project, designed to continue Romania's development emphasis on heavy industry. Total cost: $185.3 million.
TANZANIA: Bank—$15 mi 11 ion. In conjunction with a $15 million loan by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Bank loan will help expand production at the Mwanza Textiles Limited plant. An additional 1,200 people will be employed, and with minor expansion to other textile plants, the project will almost eliminate the country's need for cotton fabric imports by 1980. Total cost: $44.3 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$23.3 million. As much as 1.6 million tons of marketable phosphate rock will be mined in southern Tunisia, near Gafsa. The project, which includes mining equipment, water and power supply, offices, service and repair shops, and even the construction of minor roads, will help modernize and expand the country's phosphate mining industry. Net foreign exchange earnings by 1980 may reach $40 million. Total cost: $64.74 million.
TURKEY: Bank-$18 million. An amendment to a $24 million loan to help finance expanded fertilizer capacity, made to the Istanbul Gubre Sanayii Anonim Sirketi in June 1972.
ZAIRE: Bank—$100 million. Increasing copper and cobalt production is the object of this loan, the first by the Bank to Zaire since its independence and the first direct involvement by the Bank in the country's industrial sector. (Previous Bank activities were financed through IDAcredits.) The Libyan Arab Republic, through the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank ($100.7 million) and the European Investment Bank ($20 million) are also helping finance this project which will assist Gecamines (Union Miniere du Haut-Katanga's successor company) implement its expansion scheme. About 2,000 new
jobs will be created, and the project will provide the country with annual foreign exchange earnings of about $160 million. Total cost: $435 million.
Non-Project
BANGLADESH: IDA-$50 million. This credit will help finance imports of raw materials and components needed to maintain or expand production in the country's industrial and agricultural sectors.
BANGLADESH: IDA-S25 million. An amendment to an imports credit of $50 million, approved in October 1974.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank-$35 million; /DA-$35 million. This first non-project loan ever made to a country in the EMENA region, is aimed at relieving Egypt's dominant constraint on development—lack of foreign exchange which leads to low capacity utilization throughout the economy. The major part of the proceeds is being used to import raw materials, intermediate goods, and spare parts to support production in industry and agriculture, as well as to relieve pressure on the port of Alexandria. The proceeds will also finance planning studies of the major industrial sectors.
INDIA: IDA—$100 mi I lion. About 850 medium-scale and large-scale industrial enterprises will be able to maintain and expand production with the help of this credit designed to alleviate the under-utilization of industrial capacity caused by shortages of raw materials and components,
INDIA: IDA—$100 million. An amendment to the Industrial Imports credit of $100 milllion, approved in February 1975.
KENYA: Bank-$30 million. The loan will help finance the import of essential raw materials and capital and intermediate goods to maintain a reasonable level of development while long-term changes are made to the structure of growth in the Kenyan economy.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank-$100 million. Urgently-needed foreign exchange will be provided to help pay for essential imports—mainly capital and intermediate goods for export industries—by the country's private sector.
SRI LANKA: IDA-$15 million. Helping to alleviate the country's foreign exchange constraint, the credit will finance imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts required for the expansion of industrial and agricultural output, and for improvement of selected services.
TANZANIA: Bank-$30 million. This loan, providing foreign exchange for imports of capital and intermediate goods and raw materials, will help the country implement its 1974-75 economic development program.
Population
BANGLADESH: IDA-$15 million. Six sources of assistance will join with IDA to help finance this project, designed basically to provide the human and organizational underpinnings for a
national family planning program in the country. The Government will integrate family planning education and motivation with other development programs; six different ministries will become involved in an effort to reduce the population growth rate from its present 3%. Total cost: $46 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank-$25 million. More than 20 million births may be averted by the year 2000 as a result of this project under which 205 rural health units and 11 training centers are to be built. Total cost: $50 million.
Telecommunications
BURMA: 1DA-$21 million. Telephone connections will be increased, service improved, worn-out equipment replaced, the country's trunk network expanded and upgraded, and a national telex service introduced. Total cost: $31 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank-$T5 million. Longdistance equipment and telex equipment as well as call-office telephone facilities in rural areas will be installed by the Empresa Nacional deTeleeomu-nicaciones with the help of this loan. In addition, 16,000 new subscribers will be connected as a part of the corporation's national expansion project. Total cost: $52.1 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: lDA-$30 million. More than 160,000 new telephone lines and exchanges, telex exchange equipment and teleprinters as well as other telecommunications equipment lines willbe provided to help meet part of the rapidly-increasing demand for telephone and telex services in the country. Worn-out exchange equipment and defective telephone cables will be replaced. The Saudi Arabian Development Fund and bilateral lenders are also contributing to this project. Total cost: $173.4 million.
ETHIOPIA: 1DA-$16 million. This fifth telecommunications project in the country will contribute to improved long distance telecommunications services, extend services to 100 new rural areas, and provide international communications to existing and new destinations through an earth satellite station. Total cost: $60.6 million.
GHANA: Bank-$23 million. This first Bank Group loan to Ghana since1969to be financed under conventional terms will help finance the installation of 18,300 lines of automatic telephone exchange equipment, improve and extend long distance facilities, and will expand the telex system. Total cost: $29.5 million.
GUATEMALA: Bank-$26 million. Equipment and facilities needed to help Guatemala overcome unsatisfied demand for telephones, and better telephone services will be provided by this second Bank-assisted telecommunications project in the country. Totalcost: $45.9 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA-$36 million. This credit will help finance a project which includes new works to be completed during fiscal 1975-77
and help in completing two on-going projects financed by two previous IDA credits. Microwave, open wire, and VHF radio routes will be provided and 75,000 lines of local telephone exchange equipment and cable distribution networks installed. Total cost: $67.5 million.
ZAMBIA: Bank—$32 million. Exchange equipment will be installed in 60 towns, including 32 that now have no facilities, and the capital, Lusaka, will be linked by microwave communications with main provincial centers, including towns bordering neighboring countries. Total cost: $78 million.
Tourism
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Bank-$21 million. Infrastructure for two resort sites, and a terminal building and other facilities for an international airport will be provided in order to develop tourism in the North Coast region. By 1986, the project is expected to generate some $19 million yearly in additional net foreign exchange, and provide both direct and indirect employment to about 8,000 people. Total cost: $36 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank-$9.7 million. All but $700,000 will be re-lent to the Credit de la Cote d'lvoire (CCl) to provide long-term financing for the construction of about 1,200 hotel rooms, needed to meet the demand of about 150,000 international visitors yearly by 1980. The remainder of the loan will finance the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance to the CCf and the Ministry of Tourism.
Transportation
BOLIVIA: Bank-$32 million. This second railway project aims at the technical and financial rehabilitation of the national railway system and its development in such a way that the future transport needs of the economy can be met efficiently. Total cost: $41 million.
BRAZIL: Bank-$175 million. This loan to the country's Federal Railways System will help finance high priority investments of the System aimed at accommodating substantial increases in the demand for rail transportation. A large part of this expansion is related to growing production in the agriculture and industry sectors. By 1980, more than a half million new passengers—largely low-income workers—in the Riode Janeiro and Sao Paulo areas will be served by the improved System. Total cost: $2,974.3 m illion.
BRAZIL: Bank-$110 million. Parts of five highways totaling 612 kilometers, and linking major cities or important industrial or agricultural areas in five states will be constructed and upgraded. Programs for decentralization and improved efficiency of maintenance of federal and state highways in Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul are also included. Total cost: $276.3 million.
CAMEROON: Bank-$1 million; IDA-$1 million. A supplement to the financing provided by
the Bank and IDA ($19 million total) in March, 1970 for a highway project.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank-$50 million. Navigation in the Suez Canal will be restored to the pre-1967 level as a result of this project. Navigation, communications, and safety systems will be provided, and damaged or destroyed infrastructure and buildings will be rehabilitated. Technical assistance will also be extended to the Suez Canal Authority. The Kuwait Fund and the Saudi Arabian Development Fund, and the Governments of Abu Dhabi and the State of Qatar are contributing funds for the project. Total cost: $288 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank-$37 million. This second railway project is designed to rehabilitate, modernize, and increase further the capacity of the country's railways. The project will contribute to building up the infrastructure of Egypt's economy, and is designed to meet traffic demands in the immediate future. The project also includes a detailed national transport survey covering all modes of transportation. Eastern and Western European countries, Canada, the United States, and the Saudi Arabian Development Fund are helping finance the project. Total cost: $299 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA-$32 million. This sixth highway project in Ethiopia aims at continuing the development and maintenance of the country's road network in order to integrate further the agricultural sector into the national economy. Roads will be constructed in the south, southwest, and north-central regions of Ethiopia, and will pass through areas of considerable agricultural potential where the Government is establishing agricultural extension programs. Total cost: $54.7 million.
HAITI: IDA-$20 million. Reconstruction of the 250-kilometer Northern Road linking Port-au-Prince with the country's second city, Cap Haitien on the north coast, will be completed. Total cost: $26,3 million.
JAMAICA: Bank-$13.5 million.Thisthird Bank project aiding Jamaica's road maintenance and construction program, includes construction and reconstruction of about 32 kilometers of roadson the principal east-west and north-south road links, both of which are in urgent need of improvement. Total cost: $23.6 million.
JAMAICA: Bank-$12.5 million. The island's two international airports, serving Kingston and Montego Bay (Jamaica's main business and tourist centers), will be both expanded and improved. The project will enable the airports to meet forecast traffic until 1980. Total cost: $19.6 million.
KENYA: Bank-$20 million. A 452-kilometer pipeline for refined oil products will be constructed from Mombasa to Nairobi. When the pipeline goes into operation in 1977, it will save transportation costs and release capacity on the railroad. The loan will finance the foreign exchange costs of the line pipe and related pipe materials. Total cost: $82.9 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank-$100 million. This fifth Bank loan in support of the Korean National Railroad will assist it in handling rising volumes, particularly of freight traffic. Total cost: $292 million.
MALAWI: 1DA-$10 million. Help in financing the improvement and paving of a 118-kilometer road link between Lilongwe and Kasungu will be provided. The project will serve about 500,000 smallholder farmers who grow and market corn, groundnuts, and tobacco, as well as the Kasungu Game Reserve, an important tourist attraction in the project area. Total cost: $11.8 million.
MALI: IDA—$8.3 million. A supplement to the Second Highway Project to which IDA committed $9.5 million in May 1973.
MAURITANIA: IDA-S3 million. This third highway project, jointly financed with the Canadian International Development Agency ($4.5 million) and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development ($3.8 million), is designed to consolidate the work done (road construction and maintenance) during the two earlier projects, and to expand maintenance efforts. Total cost: $11.3 million.
PAKISTAN: Bank-$60 million. The gas transmission capacity of the Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited will be expanded so that the demand for gas for fertilizer production at Multan, Lahore, and in the North West Frontier Province can be met. Gas supplies will also be expanded to a variety of industrial, commercial, and domestic consumers. Total cost: $103.2 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$24 million. A new fishing port on the Pacific side of the isthmus will provide modern facilities for Panama's shrimp and inshore fishing fleet, and for servicing international tuna fleets. The project will help increase foreign exchange earnings for the fishing industry. Total cost: $34 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank-$14.5 million. About 100 kilometers of high priority roads will be constructed and improved, highway maintenance equipment purchased, and technical assistance furnished. Total cost: $20 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank-$20 million. New ships will be bought and old ones repaired with the aid of this project, designed to improve the standards of the country's inter-island shipping fleet. Improved inter-island shipping is essential to the country's development; by 1980, more than 5 million tons of freight and 6 million passengers will be serviced by such ships. Total cost: $34.1 million.
SIERRA LEONE: Bank-$2.3 million. A supplement to a $3.7 million loan for a road project approved in October 1970.
SWAZILAND: Bank-$7 million. Sections of two roads, totaling 82 kilometers in length, will be improved, thus contributing to the country's principal transport aim of building up a national network of all-weather roads. Total cost: $9.9 million.
TANZANIA: IDA-S10.2 million. More than 3,000 kilometers of primary roads in half of Tanzania's 20 regions will be maintained under this project which also provides for assistance in strengthening the organization and operation of the roads division of Tanzania's Ministry of Communications and Works. Total cost: $12.5 million.
UPPERVOLTA: IDA-$7.5 million.This project provides for the improvement and subsequent maintenance of about 1,200 kilometers of rural roads and the maintenance of about 2,100 kilometers of existing rural roads. Technical assistance to the Department of Rural Roads will also be provided. In addition, the project includes funds for consultant services for an evaluation study of the impact and effectiveness of road components included in agricultural and rural development projects financed by IDA over the past five years. Total cost:$10.2 million.
WESTERN SAMOA: lDA-$4.4 million. This first Bank Group operation in the country will help reconstruct about 42 kilometers of roads in the relatively less-advanced eastern and southern parts of Upolu island. Rural dwellers will have better access to markets, and tourism benefits will be spread more evenly. A total of 11 bridges will also either be repaired or replaced. Total cost: $8 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA-$9 million. The construction of Taiz-Km 64 road will complete the paved highway from Taiz to Hodeida, and provide an improved road link to Mocha. Transport costs will be lowered, principally between Sana'a and Hodeida, Taiz and Hodeida, and Taiz and Mocha. Technical assistance to the Highway Authority is also provided. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is expected to provide $5 million toward the financing. Total cost: $15.7 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$15.5 million. A 358-kilometer road connecting two regions with major potential for agriculture and fisheries development (they are now inadequately served by tracks only) will be constructed, technical assistance provided, and road maintenance equipment and spares furnished. Export prospects for agricultural products will increase, and a new and sizeable market for the coastal fishing industry will be opened. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is expected to provide $15.3 million toward the financing. Total cost: $31.8 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank-$93 million. This fourth loan for a railway project will help complete the task, started in 1964, of modernizing Yugoslavia's railway lines. Money from the loan will be used to electrify some remaining sections of the network, to buy signaling and telecommunications facilities, to make investments in track rehabilitation, and for staff training and consultants' services. Total cost: $1,139 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank-$44 million. This Bank-assisted project for port development will, by 1980, quadruple the traffic handling capacity of the port of Bar, located on the southern Adriatic coast. As many as 800 jobs will be created. Total cost: $78 million.
ZAIRE: IDA-$26 million. Routine maintenance on almost 3,200 kilometers of roads will t be carried out, 600 kilometers of highways rehabilitated, two pilot highway maintenance schemes organized, technical assistance provided the Bureau of Roads, feasibility studies "affecting about 1,500 kilometers of roads undertaken, and a highway traffic survey scheme started. Total cost: $40.3 million.
ZAIRE: IDA-$26 million. Zaire's Vote Natio-nale, its river and rail transport system, will be improved and expanded. The credit will finance a major part of the 1975-77 investment needs for river transport equipment and railroad improvements. Technical assistance will be provided, and port and railway studies will be made. Total cost: $52 million.
Urbanization
EL SALVADOR: Bank-$2.5 million; IDA-S6 million. The first Bank Group "sites and services" project involving a private (but nonprofit) firm as executing agency will help finance the costs of infrastructure for 7,000 self-help housing lots in the country's five major cities. About half the lots will be located in the metropolitan area of San Salvador. Total cost: $15.5 million.
INDONESIA: Bank-$25 million. This project, which contributes to the establishment of a national Urban Development Corporation and a national Mortgage Bank, is the first undertaking to improve the physical facilities in Jakarta's poorest and most crowded neighborhoods and to prepare a new neighborhood with a minimum level of infrastructure and core housing for purchase on a mortgage basis by low-income families. Some 20% of Jakarta's population, about 1 million people, is expected to benefit from the increased job opportunities, addi-
• tional health and elementary school services, an improved water supply, paved footpaths, drainage canals, and commercial sanitary facil-
\ ities. Total cost: $51 million.
KENYA: Bank-$8 million; IDA-$8 million. Six thousand lots near downtown Nairobi will be
" prepared and serviced, and loans for materials will be provided the poor beneficiaries so that they might build self-help dwellings on the lots. The sewerage components of the project—part of the services provided—are an important part of the first-stage sewerage program to serve other areas in Nairobi. Total cost: S29.5 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank-$15 million. Housing "sites and services," including roads, water supply, and drainage, will be provided in three cities, a fishery harbor complex with an industrial processing center will be built in one
of the three, and a city market will be constructed in a fourth city with the help of this loan. All four cities are located in the Gwangju region, one of Korea's least-developed areas. Total cost: $25 million.
TANZANIA: IDA-$8.5 million. More than 10,000 newly-serviced housing plots will be built and about9,000 existing dwellings in squatter settlements will be improved under this project, the first in a series of proposed "sites and services" projects for the country. This particular project will affect residents of Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, and Mbeya. Total cost: $16.7 million.
ZAMBIA: Bank-$20 million. The social environment and the public health conditions of most of the low-income squatter population in the capital city of Lusaka should be improved as a result of this project; urban infrastructure will be provided to more than 29,000 dwellings and residential plots. Schools, community centers, health clinics, and markets will also be built to service the upgraded areas. Total cost: $41.2 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
AFGHANISTAN: IDA-$9 million. The project will increase the available supply of water from 10,000 mVday to 70,000 m3/day and introduce a reliable water supply system that will serve about 330,000 inhabitants of Kabul, compared with 167,000 now. The sanitation component aims to improve sanitary conditions in the old city where the poorest part of Kabul's population is living and the need is greatest. Another important benefit of the project will be the strengthening of the implementing agency as an institution capable of improving and extending water supply and sewerage services throughout the country. Total cost: $10.8 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank-$27 million. This project will help finance a second multi-city water and sewerage project (to be implemented between 1975 and 1979) in eight cities of the country. Groundwater supply will also be provided for some 30 small communities. Total cost: $52.9 million.
INDONESIA: Bank-$14.5 million. By 1981, 48% of the population (590,000 persons) of five cities (three in Java, one each in Sumatra and Kalimantan) will be supplied with potable water as a result of this project. Today, only 16% (160,000 people) has access to good water supply. Total cost: $24.5 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank-$9 million. This project marks the first phase of a 10-year program for improving and extending the sewerage and storm water drainage system serving the Greater Abidjan area. Total cost: $16.7 million.
JAMAICA: Bank—$15 million. This project will help to satisfy water demand in the Kingston metropolitan area during 1976-80 while long-term sources of water are being studied
and developed. Construction work will also begin on the first phase of the Kingston master sewer plan. The project will further improve the organization and management of the Water Commission, Kingston, the project implementing agency. This second Bank loan for water supply in Jamaica is the first with a sewerage component. Total cost: $29.9 million.
SINGAPORE: Bank—$25 million. An incinerator and about 200 refuse collection vehicles and dump trucks to be provided under the project will help free the limited land available to the island country for residential and industrial uSe. The incinerator will burn up domestic and trade refuse, and will also be designed to handle oil and other industfiar wastes. Total cost: $55 million.
SWAZILAND: Bank-$3.5 million. About a quarter of the country's urban population will benefit directly from new water and sewerage facilities provided by the loan. Swa/i land's Water and Sewerage Board will also be strengthened through provision of technical assistance. Total cost: $5 million.
TUNISIA: Bank-$28 million: Tunisia's first urban sewerage project, whose major purposes are to support the establishment of a national
sewerage authority as an effective operating agency and to improve sewerage facilities in the Greater Tunis area, will be aided by this Bank loan. Nearby beaches will be protected and public health in the area should be improved. Total cost: $86 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA-$8.1 million. The water supply component will provide water through house connections to 75% of the population by 1985, and a safe, reliable supply through public taps to the remainder of the population. A system, adequate to serve the population in the year 2000, for the collection and treatment of sewage is also provided. Technical assistance to the National Water and Sewerage Authority, and funds for the preparation of an urban development plan for Hodeida are also included.The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development is expected to provide $20,2 million toward the project financing. Total cost: $31.2 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank^$6 million. Water supply and waste water:systems in the tourist center of Dubrovnik will be extended. The project also wilt improve the environmental protection of the town's scenic Adriatic waters. Total cost: $9.6 million.
Technical Assistance and Other Activities
Technical Assistance
Most of the Bank's technical assistance is provided in the course of its project, sector, or economic work, and the cost is therefore not easily identified. To an increasing extent, however, a separate technical assistance component—consultant services, for example—is being incorporated in loans and credits. In fiscal 1975,139 lending operations made specific provision for technical assistance, compared with 112 in the preceding year. The amount available—$160 million—exceeded $100 million for the first time.
Technical assistance provided to regions and countries within regions is discussed in greater detail in the regional sections of the Annual Report. Technical assistance is also provided to a few oil exporting countries which do not borrow from the Bank. Technical assistance to oil exporting countries will continue, but virtually all of the future assistance to countries which can afford to pay for it is planned to be on a cash reimbursement basis, and on arrangements to be worked out with each recipient country.
Only rarely does the Bank provide its technical assistance on a grant basis. It encourages member governments seeking grant financing to apply elsewhere. However, the Bank frequently serves as Executing Agency for pre-in-vestment projects financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) which, within the United Nations system, is the principal source of grant funds. In fiscal 1975, the Bank agreed to serve as Executing Agency for15 new projects, for which the UNDP committed $5.4 million. Under these arrangements, assistance in development planning is growing in importance. As Executing Agency for this type of project, the Bank helps to determine the expertise required, puts together a planning team, and monitors the team's work. During the year, the Bank had planning projects under way in Ethiopia, Indonesia, Jordan, Liberia, Sudan, and Zaire, and took on three new projects, in the Philippines, the Republic of Korea, and Lesotho. Projects are in prospect in Somalia and Swaziland. Other new projects for which the Bank agreed to serve as Executing Agency during the year were concerned with development
finance institutions in Chile, Indonesia, and the Republic of Korea, agriculture in Paraguay and Uruguay, and tourism in the Philippines and Senegal, among others.
A novel project undertaken by the Bank with UNDP financing is a three-year, $2 million research study in Brazil to consider interrelationships between highway construction, maintenance,and utilization. It is expected that the results of the study will be applicable to other countries as well. Another project will finance a program under which the Bank will help the Government of Burma to formulate and carry out investment projects in agriculture, power, transport, industry (fertilizer, and iron and steel), and tourism.
Studies completed or under way have led to an estimated $356.8 million of Bank and IDA project financing as of December 31,1974.
Economic Development Institute
In response to the review of its policies conducted by the Executive Directors in the previous fiscal year, the Economic Development Institute (EDI) has extended further its program for the provision of training for senior officials in developing member countries who are concerned with development programs and projects. The emphasis on overseas courses continued during fiscal 1975, with 17 courses (involving 452 participants) held in member countries, compared with 11 courses (with a total of 265 participants) in Washington. This preponderance of overseas courses reflects the fact that the Institute cannot alone meet the constantly growing demand for the training it provides; it is, therefore, anxious to maximize its scarce resources by building up training capabilities in member countries themselves, either by working with and through existing institutions or by organizing courses which can form the basis of indigenous training programs. To this end, it has also adopted the policy of "training trainers"—i.e., including in its courses an increasing number of officials responsible for training in their own countries, who, after participating in EDI courses, will themselves be able to organize training programs. Overseas courses also save travel expenses and are con-
ducted in the directly relevant environment of the participants' own region or country.
Since its foundation in 1955, about 4,000 participants have attended EDI courses in Washington and overseas, and though the number of applicants has increased steadily, their credentials have not become any less impressive. In recent years, the number and variety of courses have expanded sharply. The move towards courses concerned with project analysis in specific sectors (as opposed to general projects courses or national economic management courses) continued in fiscal 1975; of the 28 courses held, 21 were of the former kind and only seven were of the latter. The project analysis courses covered a wide range, including agriculture and rural development, agro-industry, development banking, education, industry, transportation, urban development, and water supply and waste disposal. Most of these topics had been dealt with in previous years, but two, both in English, on rural development projects and agro-industrial projects, were new. In addition, one national economic management course for Arab countries was held in Washington.
Since 1955, about 4,000 participants have attended EDI courses in Washington and overseas. Here, participants in a Project Evaluation Course in Spanish visit the site of a Bank-assisted power project in Venezuela
Of the year's 17 overseas courses, seven were regional courses open to nationals of a number of countries. As in previous years, EDI joined with the African Development Bank (AfDB), the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), and the African Institute for Economic Development and Planning (IDEP) in sponsoring regional courses in Ivory Coast for French-speaking African participants. Two courses were held, on agriculture and highway projects. The ongoing program of regional courses in Spanish, held in Brazil under the co-sponsorship of EDI and the Center for Development Planning of the Brazilian Planning Ministry (CENDEC), continued, with courses on education projects, education project management, and agriculture projects. The remaining two regional courses were held in Japan and Kuwait: the former, on development economics, was sponsored by the Industrial Development Center of Japan (IDCJ); the latter was a general projects course under the co-sponsorship of the Arab Planning Institute.
The remaining 10 fiscal 1975 overseas courses were national courses, each for participants from a single country. A general projects course
was conducted in Iran in collaboration with the Industrial Mining and Development Bank of Iran and the Agricultural Development Bank of Iran. The Government of Algeria co-sponsored an EDI course on industrial projects for Algerian nationals. During the regional course on agriculture in Ivory Coast, a seminar on agriculture projects was held in Abidjan under the co-sponsorship of the National Bank for Agricultural Development. EDI presented its first course in Saudi Arabia, a general projects course, in cooperation with the Saudi Arabian Institute of Public Administration. In India, EDI helped the Bankers' Training College of the Reserve Bank of India present a course on development banking. Two courses were held in Indonesia, both co-sponsored by the National Planning Institute—a general projects course and a rural development projects course. The Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies again collaborated with EDI in presenting an agriculture projects course. The first EDI course to be given in Romania, on industrial projects, was held under the auspices of the Romanian Management Training Center. Two courses were held in Sudan, on transportation projects and agriculture and rural development projects, under special programs sponsored by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
The trend toward the provision of courses in French and Spanish continued in fiscal 1975. Four courses were given in Spanish (three in Brazil and one in Washington), and three in French (two in Ivory Coast and one in Washington).
Aid Coordination
At the request of both donor and recipient governments, the Bank has continued to take the lead in organizing various aid coordination mechanisms for a number of developing countries that receive assistance from several bilateral and multilateral sources.
During the year, formal meetings of 10 of the aid coordinating groups chaired by the Bank were held. These were the groups for Bangladesh, Colombia, India, Pakistan, Peru, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Tunisia, and Zaire. In addition, the Bank co-sponsored, with the Asian Development Bank (AsDB), a meeting on Laos, and provided staff support for a meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia, of which the Government of the Netherlands serves as chairman. In Latin America, active participation by the Bank continued in the country reviews sponsored by the Permanent Executive Committee of the Inter-American Economic and Social Council (CEPCIES—formerly CIAP).
One indication of closer cooperation among various development assistance agencies is the large number of projects which the Bank and IDA helped finance jointly or in parallel with
other bilateral or multilateral agencies. Co-financing with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), and various regional financing institutions, as well as with aid agencies in Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Kuwait, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the European Economic Community, followed well-established patterns. In addition, projects were financed together with several bilateral and multilateral sources, such as Iran, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the Abu Dhabi Fund, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD), the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED), and the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank. And, for the first time, assistance in project financing was extended by the United Nations Capital Development Fund.
On a regional basis, the Bank was active in the program for the control of riverblindness (onchocerciasis) in West Africa. (Forfurther details, refer to the "Western Africa" section in this Annual Report.) In addition, the preparation of 11 projects in the Mekong Committee's program of pioneer agricultural projects was substantially completed with the help of funds provided by the UNDP (Regional Project 253) and the Governments of Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The World Bank is Executing Agency for the UNDP project in association with the AsDB and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
During the year, the Bank and IDA concluded a cooperation agreement with Germany which sets out the general scope, and terms and conditions for future co-financing with the Federal Republic. Consultations were held during the year regarding the respective lending programs of Japanese agencies (the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund and the Export-Import Bank of Japan); with the Abu Dhabi Fund, the AFESD, and the KFAED to determine possibilities for cooperation on specific projects; with the Commonwealth Development Corporation to review questions of common interest and to discuss country and project matters; with the African Development Bank, the European Development Fund, and the European Investment Bank (also to determine possibilities for cooperation on specific projects); and with the Inter-American Development Bank.
Inter-Agency Cooperation
One of the resolutions adopted by the World Food Conference at its meeting in Rome in November 1974 has brought the Bank into a new cooperative undertaking with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The resolution requested the three organizations to organize a Consultative Group on Food Production and Investment
(CGFPI) to increase, coordinate, and improve the efficiency of financial and technical assistance for food production in developing countries, from both bilateral and multilateral sources.
The CGFPI has its headquarters at the Bank. Its Chairman, nominated by the three sponsoring agencies, is Edwin M. Martin, former Chairman of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Moise Mensah, FAO Regional Representative for Africa, has been appointed Vice-Chairman and Executive Secretary. The CGFPI's budget will be shared by the sponsoring agencies in equal proportions. The participants in the CGFPI will be governments and international bodies which have, or intend to have, significant programs of assistance to the food systems of developing countries, drawn from traditional bilateral donors, multilateral aid agencies, developing countries, and "new donors," i.e., members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and aid agencies of states which are members of the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC). The CGFPI is to hold its first meeting in July 1975. The agenda for the first meeting includes a review of recent and proposed investment for food production in developing countries, an analysis of the world fertilizer situation, and identification of priority topics for future work by the CGFPI.
In another inter-agency initiative, the Bank, the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the UNDP, the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), the OECD, and the International Development Research Centre of Canada launched an exercise to design an international system and program to expand significantly assistance to rural communities in the developing countries in potable water supply and sewage disposal. It is expected that the program will include strengthening existing international, regional, and national research centers, the dissemination of information, and the provision of training and technical services, as well as support for related national efforts.
During the year, the Bank's Executive Directors approved certain health policy proposals. The Bank and WHO, which for several years have been coordinating their activities in the fields of water supply and wastes disposal and of population, began consideration of modes and scope of collaboration in the health sector. They held the first of what are to be regular periodic reviews of operations of mutual interest. The Bank continued the reviews of current planned operations in the population sector with the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) and with WHO; with the International Labour Office (ILO) in connection with training, employment, income distribution, rural development, and manpower ele-
ments of Bank projects; and with UNICEF in various areas of common interest, including urban improvement schemes, education, population, nutrition, rural development, and water supply, with particular consideration of ways of increasing contacts in the field.
The four cooperative programs in each of which the Bank and a United Nations agency are partners continued to assist governments to identify and prepare projects for World Bank financing, and to provide support for Bank economic sector studies and Bank economic, project appraisal, and project supervision missions. The programs with FAO and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) are now in their tenth year. Staff of the FAO/Bank Cooperative Program helped to prepare about one-third of the agricultural projects financed by the Bank, and carried out 143 missions in 50 countries. The Unesco/Bank Cooperative Program participated in or carried out 56 missions, largely on pre-appraisal activity. The cooperative program contributed to the identification or preparation of 13 education projects approved by the Executive Directors.
The cooperative program between the Bank and WHO in the field of water supply and wastes disposal continued to emphasize work on sector studies, paying increasing attention to the problems of the rural sector. Nine reconnaissance missions and nine sector studies were carried out by the cooperative program during the year, and three countries received project preparation or other project-related assistance.
The cooperative program between the Bank and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) helped to prepare three industrial projects financed by the Bank, and participated in 11 project identification, preparation, or appraisal missions, three sector missions, one project supervision mission, and one technical assistance mission.
The Bank was involved in preparatory work on several international conferences during the year. These included the World Food Conference and the World Population Conference. The Bank was represented at the former meeting, which considered the establishment of an International Fund for Agricultural Development, and assisted the Secretariat of the World Food Council in the preparation of a draft charter for the proposed fund. It was represented at the sessions of the Law of the Sea Conference held in Caracas in the summer of 1974 and in Geneva in the spring of 1975, the Second General Conference of UNIDO, held in Lima in March 1975, and the World Conference of the International Women's Year held in Mexico City in June 1975. It prepared contributions for the UN Conference on Human Settlements to be held in 1976.
The year's lending included a number of joint financing operations with UN agencies. UNFPA is financing elements of a population project in
Bangladesh (which six bilateral donors are also helping to finance) and worked with the Bank in preparing and appraising the project. The UN Capital Development Fund joined with the Bank for the first time, providing a grant for water supply and health components of a rural development project in Tanzania. It later made grant funds available for the third phase of a land development program in Malawi. UNEP is helping to support a research project being carried out by the Bank on the implementation by Singapore of a scheme for regulating urban traffic.
International Agricultural Research
The Bank continued to serve as Chairman and, with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), as co-sponsor of the Consultative Croup on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). The serious shortages in world food supply which have developed recently have focused greater attention on the activities of the CGIAR. The work of the Group was favorably noted at the World Food Conference, and the Conference specifically recommended that the resources of the CGIAR be substantially enlarged to enable it to expand its activities. New Zealand, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, and the United Nations Environment Programme joined the Group as donor members during the year, raising total membership to 33 governments, international organizations, and private foundations. Twenty-three members made grants to support research and training programs in calendar year 1975. The total of funds available was $49 million, compared with $34 million a year earlier.
Included in the total was an amount of up to $4.8 million from IDA. Out of this amount, IDA made a first tranche of grants, totaling $2.94 million, as follows:
—to the International Center of Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), based in Colombia: $110,000;
—to the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), in Mexico: $110,000;
—to the International Potato Center (CIP), in Peru: $100,000;
—to the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), in Nigeria: $485,000;
—to the international Rice Research Institute (IRRI), in the Philippines: $1,780,000;
—to the International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases (ILRAD), in Kenya: $255,000;
—to the Computerized Agricultural Research Information System and the International
Information System for the Agricultural Sciences and Technology (CARIS-AGRIS), administered by FAO: $75,000;
—and for a preparatory fund looking toward the establishment of an International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA), directed particularly to the needs of North Africa and the Near East: $25,000.
The CGIAR is now in its fifth year. Since it was founded in 1971, the amount of funds available, starting with $15 million for program activities in 1972, has more than tripled. The number of research programs supported by the Group has grown from fourto12, including, in addition to those already named, programs supported by the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) in India, the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) in Ethiopia, the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources, whose secretariat is in Rome, and the field trials system of the West African Rice Development Association (WARDA), whose secretariat is in Liberia.
The newest project being developed by the Group is ICARDA. This center will devote its research to some cereals (e.g., barley), some grain legumes (e.g., lentils), and to farming systems centered on sheep and goats, with particular attention to the problems of areas with low and irregular rainfall. When the Center is established and begins its work, probably in 1976, the Consultative Group system of research programs will embrace the major food crops and animals, and all of the ecological zones, to be found in the developing world.
Audit and Evaluation
Helping enable the Bank Group to give assurances to its creditors and stockholders that the resources supplied by them are both protected and are achieving the desired results are the Internal Auditing Department and Operations Evaluation Department. Both Departments have been organized independently of units directly responsible for financial, administrative, lending, and other activities, and both are under a Vice President with no other direct operational responsibilities.
The Bank Group's activities are also reviewed by an international firm of accountants which annually examines the financial statements of the Bank and its affiliates, and reports on the financial position and result of operations of each.
The emphasis of the Internal Auditing Department is on internal controls and related systems and procedures used in conducting and managing operations. In its work, the Department assists all levels of management in the effective discharge of their responsibilities by furnishing them with independent and objec-
tive audits and appraisals of financial, accounting, administrative, and other activities. In carrying out these audits, the Department takes into account several objectives which include: (1) determining the soundness, adequacy, and application of internal controls, and promoting effective control at reasonable cost; (2) determining the extent of compliance with various governing agreements or instruments and related decisions, policies, regulations, or procedures of the Board of Governors, Executive Directors, and Bank Group management; (3) determining the extent to which Bank Group assets are accounted for and safeguarded from losses of all kinds, including, where applicable, the effective utilization of these resources; (4) determining the reliability and validity of significant accounting, financial, and other data used by management; and (5) recommending improvements in order to strengthen internal controls, to improve administrative efficiency, and to eliminate the wasteful use of resources.
The emphasis of the Operations Evaluation Department is on the economic impact of operations and their contribution to development. In addition to seeking to improve performance by identifying possible means of improving the efficiency and effectiveness of operations and of use of resources, much emphasis is also given by the Department to analysis of borrowers' suggestions for strengthening Bank Group performance.
A system for the preparation of "performance audit reports" on all projects assisted by the Bank and IDA about a year after completion of loan/credit disbursement has been brought into full operation. The performance audit, which is carried out as much as possible on the basis of final project reports prepared by the borrower and/or the Bank Group operating staff, focuses on actual project accomplishments compared with plans, reassessment of the project's economics, and appraisal of the usefulness and efficiency of the Bank Group's involvement in the project. The system applies to all loans and credits closed after July 1,1972.
These brief performance audits, as well as giving a simple systematic check on the Bank Group's loan and credit operations, provide a comprehensive background for selection and execution of the other more elaborate studies undertaken by the Operations Evaluation Department to provide more fundamental reassessments of policies and procedures in particular areas.
The Operations Evaluation Department also follows up actively with the Bank's operating departments, and particularly with the Central Projects Staff, the recommendations made in its evaluations and reviews. Written responses are obtained from the relevant departments to the specific recommendations made, and reviews of the overall pattern of actual Bank Group action in relation to the recommendations are undertaken a year or two later.
joint Audit Committee
The Joint Audit Committee was established in 1970. It consists of six Executive Directors, appointed annually in November by the Board of Executive Directors. In 1974-75, C. M. Isbister served a second term as Chairman of the Committee.
Following an amendment to the Committee's terms of reference in November 1973, to include in its responsibility the duty to satisfy itself that the Bank Group's internal audit and operations evaluation are adequate and efficient, the Committee gave high priority during the current year to this aspect of its work. It established a framework for its relationship with the Internal Auditing and Operations Evaluation Departments, and also reviewed the Departments' work programs, work in progress, desirable standards and procedures of reporting, and samples of reports produced.
The Committee's responsibilities under its terms of reference, besides those for the Bank Group's internal audit and operations evaluation activities, are to nominate a firm of private, independent, internationally-established accountants to conduct the Bank Group's annual audits, to discuss with them the scope of their examinations, to review with them the annual audited financial statements and the opinions thereon, and to report to the Executive Directors. Thus, the Committee serves as a focus for consideration of the Bank Group's financial control and operations evaluation procedures. Through its discussions with the relevant officers and with the independent accountants, it helps to provide assurance to the Executive Directors that the Bank Group's financial affairs are properly conducted. It provides a continuing channel by which the internal and external auditors may communicate with the Executive Directors, should the need arise.
Of continuing concern to the Committee is the adequacy of the flow of financial information to the Executive Directors, in order for the Board to discharge properly its responsibilities with respect to the financial policies of the Bank Group. In this respect, following the Committee's recommendation, the system for providing financial information to the Board has been improved, and will continue to be periodically reviewed by the Joint Audit Committee.
Economic Research and Studies
The Executive Directors conducted their second annual review of the Bank's Research Program. While endorsing the broad thrust of the program, they agreed that there should be a continuing effort to ensure the operational relevance of the program; to improve the dissemination of research results, both within the Bank and in developing countries; to further
collaboration with institutions in developing countries; and to favor research for which the Bank has a comparative advantage and avoid duplication.
The present program may, for practical purposes, be considered as having started in fiscal 1972. It now consists of over 100 projects. Their status is as follows:
Projects ended 29 Projects reaching completion 12 Projects continued from fiscal 1974 40 Projects started in fiscal 1975 JA
105
Emphasis continues to be placed on such subjects as income distribution and employment, population, and rural and urban development with particular reference to the lower-income groups. In the past fiscal year, these subjects absorbed more than half the total expenditure of the program. The remainder consisted, on the one hand, of studies in specific sectors such as education, public utilities, industry, and transportation, including in the latter case, a major study of capital-labor substitution in civil construction in general; and on the other hand, of more general studies, such as those with a focus on international comparative analysis, for example, on the comparison of economic aggregates without relying on exchange rates, and analysis of structural changes in industrial production, trade, and employment. Some of the specific sectoral studies are themselves relevant to the problems of rural or urban development-a study of village electrification, for example.
A serious obstacle to any investigation of income distribution has been the absence of a sound data base. Consequently, several research projects have been concerned with improvement of the data base in order to identify more precisely the characteristics of poverty groups. These studies have been undertaken in collaboration with two United Nations organizations, ECLA (Economic Commission for Latin America) and ESCAP (Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific) and also with ECIEL (Estudios Conjuntos sobre Integra-cion Economica Latinoamericana), a group of research institutions in Latin America. Another group of projects aims to achieve a better understanding of the relationship between growth and equity. A variety of approaches characterizes these projects at what may be considered an experimental stage of the work. It would be premature now to predict which is likely to be the most useful. Another related project is concerned with the distributive impact of public expenditures, in order to identify the actual beneficiaries of major government services, and to explore how these services are distributed.
Closely allied to the projects on income distribution are those on employment. Here again,
information on the workings of the urban labor market is not altogether adequate, so that several projects have been undertaken to examine the characteristics of those employed in the modern and so-called informal sectors in greater depth. As with income distribution, there are also studies concerned with the effects of different policy measures on the future growth of employment. In one of them, the Bank is cooperating with the Council of Asian Manpower Studies (CAMS). Another project surveys the characteristics of public works programs in 15 countries in order to draw conclusions from experience on the most promising arrangements for such programs.
The subjects of yet another study are the technical and economic aspects of the substitution of labor for equipment in road and other civil works construction. Earlier phases of the study have concluded that labor-intensive methods, as they are traditionally practiced, are not competitive with modern equipment methods for most conceivable sets of factor prices. Determining economically optimal intermediate technologies is the subject of the current phase of this research. The influence of health and nutrition on labor productivity is being investigated in a number of related studies.
A number of research projects are intended specifically to help in the improvement of the design of future rural development projects. The findings of the study of rural development projects in Africa referred to in the previousAn-nual Report are being published. A more recent project, which has already yielded useful information, is under way in Northeast Brazil. The first phase involved the collection of detailed data on farm size, organization, tenurial systems, technology, and cost; these will be analyzed in the second phase. Another project with similar objectives is based on comparative anthropological studies in eight villages in four countries. A project initiated during the year will attempt to collect information on rural communities from a variety of sources, including a survey conducted in the course of a Bank-assisted project, in order to analyze the effects on rural communities of different policies. A more specific study has also been initiated in conjunction with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) on the potential growth in the productivity of small farmers in Tanzania; this may be regarded as a pilot study, which, if successful, may be repeated in other countries. An earlier project on the agricultural sector, which has been the subject of continuous and close collaboration between the Bank and the Government of Mexico, has, as one of its products, a book entitled Multi-Level Planning: Case Studies in Mexico, edited by Louis Goreux and Alan Manne; this book shared the 1973 Lanchester Prize, which is awarded by the Operations Research Society of America.
In general, analysis of pricing and investment policies has been the major focus of research in public utilities, and the findings have been applied in recent operations. Several current research projects are designed to advance the Bank's understanding of the benefits of public utilities and of appropriate investment criteria in rural areas. At the same time, in urban areas, standards of public utility service, which are often established on the basis of demand in developed countries, are being investigated in order to develop more appropriate criteria for Bank projects. A similar study on the standards for "sites and services" housing projects is also being undertaken.
To facilitate wider dissemination, the results of the Bank's research work are often published as "Staff Working Papers," or journal articles and sometimes as monographs or as books. A complete list of publications is available in the "World Bank Catalog," which is issued annually. More detailed information on the current research program may be found in the "Abstracts of Current Studies," which is also published annually.
international Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
By June 30, 1975, 66 States had ratified the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States, and are thus members of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). Five additional governments had signed but not yet ratified the Convention. The Centre's own Annual Report provides details of its membership and affairs.
Bank and IDA Membership
Barbados became the 125th member of the Bank on September 12,1974, and New Zealand, having signed the Articles of Agreement of IDA on October 1, 1974, became its 114th member on January 17, 1975, the effective date of the Fourth Replenishment.
At the end of the year, action was pending on membership in the Bank and IDA for Papua New Guinea and Grenada.
Borrowings and Finance
Income and Expenditure: Bank
Net income of the Bank was a record $275 million in fiscal 1975, up $59 million, or about 27% over net income in the previous fiscal year. For the first time, the Bank's gross revenue passed the $1,000 million mark. At $1,157 million, gross revenues were $228 million higher than in fiscal 1974.
Income from investments rose $116 million to $383 million. While the average investments held during fiscal year 1975 were $696 million higher than during the previous year, the major part of the increase in income resulted from higher return on investments: average realized investment earnings in fiscal 1975, including net capital gains, were at 8.4%, up from 6.9% in the year before. This incremental return on investments was in part caused by unusually high interest rates in the first half of fiscal 1975 which, in turn, were mainly a result of record high inflation rates in the United States and most other countries. During the latter half of fiscal 1975, however, interest rates were seen to decline substantially from their earlier peaks.
Income on loans amounted to $766 million, a gain of $112 million. Average rate earned on loans outstanding during the year increased to 6.4%, up from 6.2% the year before. Other income at $9 million, was up $1 million over the preceding year.
The Bank's expenditures aggregated $882 million, a rise of $168 million, or 24%. Included in the total was interest on the Bank's borrowings and issuance expenses of $773 million, or $150 million higher.
Administrative expenses of the Bank were up $19 million to $110 million after deducting $48 million received as a management fee charged to IDA, and $1,455 million paid to the Bank by IFC as a service and support fee. The impact of additional personnel in the previous fiscal year and continuing inflationary increases in business costs contributed to the rise in administrative expenses in fiscal 1975.
In October 1974, the Bank's Board of Governors approved a transfer of $100 million from net income for fiscal 1974 as a grant to IDA. The remaining $116 million of the fiscal 1974 income was allocated to the Bank's Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and from Currency Devaluations.
Other Financial Operations: Bank
Loans held by the Bank on |une 30,1975, aggregated $22,322 million, including loans not yet effective, and $1,590 million of exchange adjustments arising principally from changes in currency valuations over the last three fiscal years. Effective loans held by the Bank totaled $19,420 million after excluding $443 million of effective and outstanding loans to IFC, of which $268 million had been disbursed.
Disbursements of loans in fiscal 1975 reached a record of $2,096 million/1) a gain of $487 million over the preceding year. Aggregate disbursements in the four fiscal years 1972-75 were $6,116 million, or more than 88% higher than disbursements in the four previous years 196871. Though the exact reasons are not yet known, the cumulative effect of the greatly expanded program of Bank lending, inaugurated in fiscal 1969, inflation, and the joint effort by the Bank and its borrowers to facilitate disbursements may have contributed to the sharp rise in the level of disbursements. The undisbursed portion of effective and non-effective loans in member countries stood at $9,959 million at year's end.
Repayments by the Bank's borrowers amounted to $648 million in the year: $569 million to the Bank, and $79 million to investors who had purchased portions of loans. Cumulative repayments to June 30, 1975, aggregated $6,564 million: $4,340 million to the Bank, and $2,224 million to purchasers of loans.
Sales of participations in new loans and of maturities from the Bank's loan portfolio, despite the generally unfavorable conditions prevailing in the world financial markets, amounted to S15 million. After cancellations and adjustments for changes in the values of nondollar currencies, the cumulative total of loan sales was $2,521 million on June 30, 1975.
Liquid resources available to the Bank on June 30, 1975 amounted to $5,169 million, an increase of $1,326 million during the year.
The Bank's Borrowings-Fiscal 1975
A new record volume of borrowings was reached by the World Bank in fiscal 1975.
(') Including disbursements on loans to IFC.
Twenty-six issues, amounting to the equivalent of $3,510 million were sold, a gain of $1,657 million, or nearly 89% over placements in the previous year.
The year was marked byacontinuationinthe shift of Bank borrowings toward placements with governments and governmental agencies, and by a further sharp rise in participations by petroleum exporting countries in the financing of the Bank.
Purchases of World Bank issues by central banks, governments, and governmental agencies in fiscal 1975 aggregated $2,654 million equivalent, equal to 76% of total borrowings in the period. Borrowings of $1,984 million from petroleum exporting countries were up $1,419 million over fiscal 1974, and accounted for about 57% of the year's marketings, compared with 31% and 13% respectively, in fiscal years 1974 and 1973.
Long-term borrowings from petroleum exporting countries amounted to $1,816 million in fiscal 1975. Included was the largest single borrowing to date by the Bank: S750 million of 10-Year U.S. dollar bonds sold to the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency in December 1974. The Agency also purchased Saudi Arabian riyals 500 million ($140.8 million equivalent) of 10-Year Bonds earlier in the fiscal year. Arrangements for the riyal issue were made in the previous fiscal year, but settlement was scheduled for after the beginning of fiscal 1975, and the issue is included in borrowings for that period.
The Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela, an agency of the Venezuelan Government, lent the Bank the equivalent of $500 million in fiscal 1975: one loan in bolivares amounted to Bs430 million, the other in U.S. dollars amounted to $400 million. Both loans bear an interest rate of 8%, and have a final maturity of 15 years.
Iran and Nigeria were also major long-term lenders to the Bank in the year. Iran made an 8% loan amounting to $150 million to the Bank, which matures in 1986/87, bringing to $350 million the total of loans granted to the Bank by the Government of Iran in the last two fiscal years. The Government of Nigeria lent the Bank $240 million at a rate of 8% with a final maturity of 15 years. This was the Bank's first long-term borrowing from a sub-Saharan African country. Other long-term borrowings by the Bank in petroleum exporting countries in the period included $30 million from Oman and S5 million from Trinidad and Tobago.
A further $168 million of the Bank's Two-Year U.S. dollar bonds were placed with central banks and governmental agencies in 15 petroleum exporting countries. Altogether, in the two fiscal years 1974 and 1975, petroleum exporting countries purchased the equivalent of $2,549 million of World Bank obligations.
A total of $856 million equivalent of the Bank's obligations were sold in the investment market in the year. After a hiatus of three years, the Bank returned to the market in the United
$tates with a public offering of $500 million of obligations: $300 million of 8% Five-Year Notes, and $200 million of 8.15% 10-Year Notes. A public offering of the Bank's bonds was also made in the Federal Republic of Germany: DM250 million of 814% Eight-Year Bonds. The Deutsche Bank A.G. arranged for placement of DM150 million of World Bank 814% Seven-Year Notes with investors outside Germany, and the Bank placed a further DM150 million of 814% Notes with the Deutsche Genossenschaftskasse.
The Bank also arranged a placement in the market in Switzerland through a group of Swiss banks. The issue consisted of SwF300 million of 814% Seven-Year Notes maturing in 1982.
Further borrowings in the Federal Republic of Germany consisted of the refunding of maturing note issues held by the Deutsche Bundesbank. The five new note issues have maturities of four and five years and all bear interest at 8%% and they aggregated DM678 million.
All borrowings in Japan were limited to the refunding of serial obligations held by The Bank of Japan. Two of the five new serial obligations bear interest at 8.19% and the remaining three at 8.64%. The total involved was ¥35,900 million.
In May 1975, The Bank of Japan and the World Bank entered into a loan agreement by which The Bank of Japan offered to lend an amount of up to ¥42,600 million as a refunding loan. It would replace six serial obligations held by The Bank of Japan that mature between June 1975 and January 1976. By the end of fiscal 1975, the World Bank drew down ¥2,300 million at an interest rate of 8.64%.
The Bank placed Two-Year dollar bond issues with central banks, governments, governmental agencies, and international organizations. Two issues totaling $440 million were
placed, and refunded two maturing issues in an equal amount.
Sales of Bank obligations in fiscal 1975 included $2,671 million equivalent of issues sold to raise new funds, and $839 million equivalent of refunding obligations. In fiscal 1974, new borrowings amounted to $1,237 million, and re-fundings to $616 million.
Outstanding borrowings of the Bank were further increased in the period by the delivery of $291 million equivalent of obligations sold in previous years on a delayed delivery basis.
An aggregate of $959 million of debt matured during the year, with the bulk of the maturities being central bank bond issues, notes held by the Deutsche Bundesbank and serial obligations held by The Bank of Japan. In addition, there matured $25 million of 33/8% 23-Year Bonds sold on the U.S. market in 1952 in an
original amount of $50 million and£2,253,000 of 3V2% 20-Year Stock sold on the London market in 1954 in an original amount of £5 million. A further $68 million equivalent of debt was retired in fiscal 1975 by means of sinking fund and purchase fund operations.
The Bank's borrowing costs in the year, weighted by amount and maturity, averaged 8.21% compared with 7.51% in fiscal 1974. As of June 30, 1975, the average cost of all funds, including paid-in capital and accumulated earnings which are cost-free, was about 5%, compared with 4.6% at the end of the previous fiscal year.
The Bank's lending rate was increased twice during the year—from 7Va% to 8% in August 1974, and to 8%% in January 1975.
Distribution of Bank Debt
Outstanding borrowings of the Bank increased $2,637 million in the fiscal year to a total of $12,287 million on June 30,1975. The estimated distribution of holdings of the Bank's obligations by countries on that date showed about 24% held by investors in Germany, 22% in the United States, 12% in Japan, 8% in Saudi Arabia,6% in Switzerland, and 5% in Venezuela. The remaining 23% was held by investment institutions, including central banks and government agencies in about 70 countries.
Increase in Capital
The Bank's subscribed capitaK') was increased by $323.3 million in fiscal 1975. Included was the original subscription of Barbados, $11.1 million, which became a member during the year. The remaining $312.2 million represented increases in the capital subscriptions of five member countries: Algeria by $30.9 million to $110.9 million; Australia by $34.1 million to $567.1 million; Chile by $1 million to $94.3 million; Italy by $186.5 million to $852.5 million; South Africa by $59.7 million to $273 million.
The increases were received by the Bank under a resolution adopted by the Board of Governors in December 1970, which enables the Bank to accept special increases in the capital stock of 75 member countries. Sixty-two had been accepted by the end of fiscal 1975 for a total of $1,887.5 million. This included increases by 57 members in the preceding four fiscal years. Total subscriptions to the Bank's capital on June 30, 1975 amounted to $25,548.9 million. Four members have advised the Bank that they will not subscribe to the additional shares authorized for them. Other members eligible for special increases are expected to take up additional stock. Authorized capital of the Bank remained unchanged during the year at $27,000 million.
0) Figures in this subsection are based on the United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
Finances: IDA
The operations of IDA were at a new peak in fiscal 1975, with record amounts of new credits and of disbursements. New credits amounted to $1,576 million, an increase of nearly 45% over credits in the previous year. Aggregate commitments on June 30, 1975, were $8,435 million equivalent, excluding $176 million of reactivated credits to Bangladesh and $485 million of exchange adjustments. Effective credits held by IDA on that date amounted to $8,009 million, including undisbursed portions of credits amounting to $3,081 million. Credits approved but not yet effective as of June 30, 1975, were $786 million.
Disbursements for the first time passed $1,000 million, reaching $1,026 million for the year. This amount was $315 million higher than disbursements in fiscal 1974. Aggregate disbursements on June 30, 1975, were $4,953 million, including$485 million of exchange adjustments arising from devaluations of the U.S. dollar in 1972 and 1973.
The resources available to IDA for further commitment increased materially in January 1975, on receipt of official notification from the United States of its participation in the Fourth Replenishment. By this action, the agreement authorizing the replenishment became effective.
The total involved under the agreement is about $4,500 million. To date, notifications of participation have been received from 20 of the 21 Part I countries and from Israel, Spain, and Yugoslavia, the Part II countries participating in the replenishment. Subscriptions and contributions undertaken by these countries amount to the equivalent of $4,254 million, of which $806 million had been pledged in advance of the effective date of the agreement by 13 Part I countries. Of the advance contributions, the equivalent of $164 million was pledged by Canada and Kuwait in fiscal 1974, and $642 million from the 11 other Part I countries in fiscal 1975. Resources received from members in fiscal 1975, expressed at current market rates, totaled $4,037 million equivalent, including $8.6 million from releases by Part II members.
On approval by the Board of Governors in October 1974, the Bank made a grant of $100 million to IDA from net income earned in fiscal 1974. From this sum, IDA is authorized to make grants of up to S5.55 million for agricultural research and for the control of onchocerciasis.
Norway made $12 million available to IDA during fiscal 1975 by purchasing, on a grant basis, participations in IDA credits to Pakistan and Tanzania. These participations were taken under the terms of the aid cooperation agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and the Bank and IDA.
Other funds that became available in fiscal 1975 aggregated $38.8 million from cancellations, repayments, and net income. Altogether,
a total of $4,183 million was added to IDA's resources in the period. In addition, largely as a result of the advance pledges on Fourth Replenishment subscriptions by Canada and Kuwait, the Association had approximately $170 million equivalent of uncommitted funds at the start of fiscal 1975.
Foreign and International Bond Markets -Calendar 1974
Led by a sharp rise in sales of foreign issues, borrowings on the foreign and international bond markets!') reached a new peak of $12,253 million in 1974. This was a gain of $2,339 million, or 24% over the 1973 level.
The most significant development of the year was the emergence of the petroleum exporting
9> The terms ''foreign" and "international" in this context refer to issues sold outside the country of the borrower: foreign if sold in one national market, international if in more than one simultaneously. Non-dollar securities sold in calendar 1974 are expressed in US dollar equivalents based on the exchange rate vis-a-vis the dollar at the time the securities were offered or placed.
countries as a major source of borrowed funds, especially for development purposes through the World Bank.
Altogether, this group of countries provided to the foreign and international markets at least the equivalent of $3,246 million in 1974, almost equal to 27% of those transactions in the year. Included were purchases of foreign obligations amounting to $2,572 million and publicized international bond purchases of $674 million.!2)
Development lending by the petroleum exporting countries, through the medium of the foreign and international bond markets, amounted to $2,451 million in 1974, of which the equivalent of $2,251 million was lent to the World Bank.
Issuers in the industrialized countries borrowed the equivalent of $795 million in the petroleum exporting countries. Among the publicized bond issues, Saudi Arabia lent $200 million to the Credit National of France, and the United Arab Emirates about $51 million to
(2> Final purchasers of most international bonds are unknown. This figure, therefore, is undoubtedly higher.
the Austrian Kontrollbank and Finland. A further $544 million was borrowed internationally by Canadian power authorities, three French issuers, the Austrian Kontrollbank, and the European Investment Bank.
Issuers in the industrialized countries borrowed $5,816 million in all foreign and international markets in 1974, an amount equal to 47% of the year's transactions, and an increase of $245 million over 1973. Borrowings by issuers in the industrialized countries of Europe were down $78 million to $2,746 million. Borrowings by other industrialized countries, on the other hand, were up $323 million to $3,070 million.
Multilateral European institutions borrowed $1,807 million in 1974, a gain of $841 million. More than $1,000 million of this sum was borrowed by the European Investment Bank, principally through sales of obligations on the international market.
The developing countries that had borrowed in excess of $1,000 million in each of the previous two years, reduced their borrowings on the foreign and international markets to $967 million equivalent in 1974. This was a decline of 27% from the previous year's total.
Foreign Bonds
Sales of foreign bonds on all markets increased $2,462 million to $7,776 million in 1974. Included were sales of $6,370 million on the North American and other markets outside Europe, a gain of 140%, and $1,406 million on European markets, a 47% decline.
Foreign Bonds: Europe
For the first time in a decade, Europe was not the principal supplier of long-term funds to external borrowers, being outstripped by the North American and other markets, primarily the petroleum exporting countries and the United States. Foreign issues sold on national European markets amounted to the equivalent of $1,406 million, a decrease of $1,254 million, or 47% below sales in 1973.
Although the amount of funds raised in Switzerland was substantially lower than that raised in 1973, the Swiss market continued to be the most active of the European foreign bond markets. Swiss franc issues totaled the equivalent of $986 million, down $560 million from 1973. Of this amount, $625 million was raised in the form of private placements and $361 million by public offerings. Austrian issuers, principally Government entities, were the largest borrowers in Switzerland with a total of $213 million equivalent. Next were private German corporations with a total of $136 million. Papua New Guinea, with a $17 million issue, was the only developing country to borrow in Switzerland last year. United States and United Kingdom issuers accounted for less than 10% of the total Swiss franc borrowings in 1974, compared with
roughly 45% in the previous year.
Issues in Germany in 1974 aggregated the equivalent of $262 million, a decline of $319 million from the preceding year. Issues in Belgium were off $112 million to $103 million; issues in Italy were off $102 million to $16 million; and issues in Luxembourg were off $8 million to $29 million.
Foreign Bonds: the United States
The increase in foreign bond sales in the U.S. is shown by a steep rise of $2,089 million to a total of $3,577 million for the period. Canadian issuers, Israel, and the World Bank accounted for nearly 84% of these sales in the United States.
Aggregate borrowings in the U.S. by Canadian issuers increased by more than $1,000 million in 1974 to $1,933 million-. $1,150 million of public offerings and $783 million of private placements. Provincial governments, power authorities, and other government entities borrowed $1,318 million. The remaining $615 million was borrowed by a broad spectrum of Canadian corporations, the bulk of it by private placements.
Other borrowings in the U.S. by issuers in the industrialized countries totaled $498 million: $135 million by a British concern, $100 million by the European Coal and Steel Community, $92 million by public agencies in France, $50 million by a Swedish corporation, and the remaining $121 million by Government or private issuers in Finland, Iceland, Japan, and the Netherlands, and by Eurofima, and Scandinavian Airlines.
Borrowings for development in the United States amounted to $1,146 million in 1974, up $618 million from the previous year. The World Bank borrowed $500 million as previously noted; Israel borrowed $560 million in the year; and a total of $86 million was borrowed by the Republic of China, Pemex of Mexico, public enterprises in Nicaragua, Panama, and a private financial entity in Venezuela.
Foreign Bonds: Japan
All yen borrowings in 1974 were limited to issues by the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and the Inter-American Development Bank. The Inter-American Development Bank and the Asian Development Bank each arranged to borrow ¥7,500 million, equal to $27 million.
International Bonds
International bond sales were off again for the second consecutive year, though not as sharply as in 1973. The 1974 total of $4,477 million was $123 million lower than in the previous year. Of special note is the dwindling in the volume of sales by U.S. corporations on the international market to a total of only $105 mi 11 ion in
1974. This compares with a volume of more than $800 million in 1973 and $2,000 million in
1972.
The impact of both recession and interest differentials on this market was also highlighted in 1974 by the precipitous drop in borrowings by issuers in the United Kingdom. International bonds by private and public entities in Britain in the year amounted to the equivalent of $109 -million, off $879 million from similar borrowings in 1973.
The principal borrowers on the international ^market in 1974 were issuers in Austria ($251 million), the Netherlands ($350 million), France ($333 million), and Canada ($440 million).
Borrowings by the developing countries on the international market dwindled to $149 million in 1974, $405 million below the total in
1973. Brazil borrowed $25 million, the National Bank of Hungary $40 million, a private issuer in Hong Kong $50 million, the Philippines KD5 million ($17.2 million equivalent), and Portugal's highway authority borrowed EUA 15 million ($17.2 million equivalent).
In terms of currencies, the U.S. dollar continued to be the one most frequently used as a denomination for international issues. Bonds denominated in dollars were $3,045 million, an increase of 5% from the $2,892 million issued in
1973. Deutsche mark issues in 1974 were $644 million, a decline of $353 million from the preceding year.
Issues denominated in Netherlands guilders increased the equivalent of $191 million in 1974 to a total of $383 million. All were sold as private placements. Of this sum, $322 million was issued by private Dutch corporations. There were no issues denominated in French francs in the year; but there were several issues denominated in currencies not frequently used on the market. These included the Austrian schilling ($15 million), Canadian dollar ($60 million), and Kuwaiti dinar ($58 million).
There were nine public offerings of securities denominated in European Units of Account in
1974. The total EUA 139 million, equal to $168 million, was $69 million higher than in 1973. Issuers included public and private enterprises in France and Governments or agencies of Denmark, Iceland, Ireland, Norway, and Portugal.
• The European Investment Bank sold the only is-«sue denominated in European Composite Units: EURCO 60 million, equal to $68 million. t(For the first time, a borrowing of Arab Currency Related Units appeared on the foreign bond markets when a private Swedish concern borrowed ARCRU 12 million, equal to $12 million.)
Sales of international bonds were sluggish in the first half of 1974, as unsettled economic and market conditions, along with higher competing short-term rates on the Eurocurrency credit market reinforced investor reluctance to tie up funds in long-term, fixed rate securities.
In the last quarter of the year, the pace of
sales of international bonds quickened to a level 29% above the average for the first three quarters. This development reflected the declining short-term rates that increased the attractiveness of yields available on the traditional long-term Eurobond market. The improvement in the international bond market continued into 1975, with transactions in the first quarter being more than double the volume reported for the last quarter of 1974.
Eurocurrency Credits
Volume on the Eurocurrency credit market increased in 1974, but at a much more modest pace than in the previous year when a 157% gain was reported. Total publicized Eurocredits in 1974 were up $6,601 million, or 30%, to $28,624 million. Volume was up sharply in the first half, and about 70% of the year's transactions were reported in that period. In the last half, volume declined rapidly as a result of a disruption of the market which occurred in mid-1974. The decline in Eurocredits continued on into 1975 with first quarter transactions running 18% below the figure reported for the last quarter of 1974. Second quarter estimates show transactions almost double those of the first quarter.
External Public Debt
Continuing analysis of the external debt of 86 developing countries!1) indicates an appreciable increase in 1973, the latest year for which figures are available. During the year, the total outstanding increased from $99,994 million to $118,893 million. The $18,899 million increase was considerably larger than the increase in 1972 of $13,862 million. In percentage terms, the rise of 18.9% was greater than the 16.1% in 1972. Of the increase, $12,838 million was accounted for by oil exporters ($5,124 million) and higher-income developing countries ($7,714 million). These categories of borrowers accounted for 67.9% of the increase in 1973 (compared with 71% in 1972). The share in the increase of the middle- and lower-income developing nations was appreciably higher than in 1972: $6,062 million, or 32.1%, compared with $4,022 million, or 29%.
At the end of 1973, outstanding debt of oil exporting nations ($23,134 million) and higher-income developing countries ($53,267 million) was 64.3% of total debt outstanding, or almost the same percentage as at the end of 1972. Of the combined amount ($76,401 million) owed by these borrowers, $31,443 million, or 41.2% was owed to private lenders. This amount was larger than in 1972 ($25,124 million), but was a smaller percentage, 39.5, of their 1972 debt.
Of the lenders, the category whose debt increased at the highest rate was private banks which were owed $17,824 mill ion, or 15% of total
('! For details, see Ann ex Tables 4 through 10 and the General Notes to Statistical Annexes.
debt outstanding at the end of 1973.
At the end of 1972, it had been $11,487 million and 11.5%; at the end of 1971, $8,062 million and 9.4%. The increase in debt owed private banks in 1973 over 1972 was $6,337 million. This amount was 33.5% of the total increase in debt outstanding. Total debt owed to private banks was heavily concentrated in oil exporters ($4,105 million, or 23%) and higher-income developing countries ($11,554 million or 64.8%). The debt to private banks of all categories of developing countries increased in 1973, but the amounts owed by middle- and lower-income developing countries remained modest (12.2%).
By comparison, debt owed to official bilateral creditors increased $6,876 million over 1972 and was 36.4% of the total increase. In 1972, the increase had been almost as great ($6,013 million), and was a much higher percentage of the total, 43.4%. Debt owed multilateral creditors rose by $4,357 million in 1973, as compared with $3,302 million in 1972. These amounts were 23.1% of the total increase in debt in 1973, as compared with 23.8% in 1972. Debt owed sup-
pliers increased very little during 1973 as in 1972.
The debt of middle- and lower-income countries was $42,493 million, or 35.7% of the total. It increased by $6,062 million during the year, compared with $4,022 million in 1972. Their share of the total increase in debt was 32.1% in 1973, up slightly from 29% in 1972. Of the increased borrowing by middle- and lower-income countries, $4,712 million, or 77.7%, was borrowed from official bilateral and multilateral lenders. This was a slightly larger amount than in 1972 when their borrowing from these sources increased by $3,642 million. The share of official bilateral and multilateral lenders in the increase was lower than in 1972, when it was 90.6%. This lower share is explained by a modest absolute amount of new borrowing by middle- and lower-income countries from private banks ($930 million) which, given the amount by which their total borrowing increased ($6,062 million), brought about the decline in the percentage of the increase borrowed from official bilateral and multilateral lenders.
Executive Directors
In fiscal 1975, the Executive Directors met 65 times in formal session to review Bank and IDA policies and projects. They reviewed and approved 122 loans and 68 IDA credits to member countries, totaling $5,896 million, a transfer of $100 million from the Bank to IDA, a Bank loan of $50 million to IFC, an IDA grant of $2.94 million for international agricultural research, and borrowings totaling the equivalent of $3,510 million. They also approved the Bank Croup's administrative budgets.
The Executive Directors discussed the draft Resolution on the establishment of the Development Committee, which the Bank and Fund Boards of Governors adopted at their 1974 Annual Meetings, approved administrative and budgetary arrangements for the Committee, and participated in its meetings in Washington and Paris.
The effects of increased prices of petroleum and other commodities continued to be kept under close review. The framework of the Bank's financial policies was redefined in the light of the proposed program of Bank and IDA operations through fiscal 1980, and operational policies were developed for rural development, environmental aspects of Bank operations, edu-
cation, health, housing, urban transport, operations evaluation work in the Bank Group, internal and external development research programs, local cost financing, and the use of contingency allowances in projects.
The Executive Directors discussed a staff-prepared paper on the capital requirements of developing countries which suggested ways to maintain economic growth through the remainder of the decade and, in conjunct ion with the Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund, the creation of a "special trust fund" that would provide, for the period immediately ahead, additional highly concessional resources to meet the requirements of the "most seriously affected" countries. They reviewed Bank operations in the population sector in the light of the deliberations of the World Population Conference, held in Bucharest, and received reports of the World Food Conference which took place in Rome.
A list of all Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors, showing their voting power and the countries they represent in the Bank and IDA, with notations of changes since the last regular election of Executive Directors, appears on the following page.