Summary and Background of the Year's Activities
4
In fiscal 1976, the World Bank, including its £wo affiliates, the International Development Association (IDA) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), made lending and investment commitments totaling $6,877.4 million. This was $769 million above the record level of fiscal 1975. A total of 141 Bank loans, 73 IDA credits, and 33 IFC investments were approved during the year. In fiscal 1975, loans totaled 122, there were 68 credits, and investments numbered 31. The Bank's commitments rose by $657 million to $4,977 million. IDA lending expanded by $79 million to $1,655 million. Investments by the IFC during the year rose by some $34 million to $245 million. (For further details, see the IFC's Annual Report.) In addition, the Bank made one loan, of $70 million, to the IFC.
Inflation, however, continued to moderate the growth of lending in real terms.(1) If Bank and IDA commitments in fiscal 1975 were to be expressed in terms of 1976 dollars, Bank lending in fiscal 1976 would be $391 million, or 9%, higher in real terms, as against $657 million, or 15%, higher in nominal terms. IDA commitments would be 1 % down in real terms, although 5% up in nominal value. Total Bank and IDA commitments would be up by 6% if measured in constant 1976 dollars, from $6,259 million in fiscal 1975 to $6,632 million in fiscal 1976.
Net income of the Bank, for fiscal 1976, at $220 million, was down 20% from the previous year. This was mainly due to the increased costs of servicing the Bank's debts and a de-
^ Since the real value of loan commitments by the Bank is eroded to the extent that cost inflation occurs over the period of disbursements, it is the practice of the Bank to make allowance for escalation at the time of commitment. The deflator now used by the Bank to express lending in
* real terms is a weighted average of the price levels assumed to be prevailing over the period of the execution of the project.
(2) Figures exclude disbursements on loans to IFC. <3> Figures are in T976 dollars.
Two Ethiopian villagers dig a trench for a pipeline which will bring water from a spring to their viiiage. This operation is part of the supporting services in a rural development program assisted by a $21 million IDA credit
cline in short-term yields on its investments. The General Reserve Account was debited in fiscal 1976 in the amount of $151 million as a result of currency revaluations and devaluations in the period. (For further details, see the section "Income and Expenditures: Bank" in the chapter "Borrowings and Finance" of this Report.) Borrowings increased from $3,510 million in fiscal 1975 to $3,811 million during the fiscal year just completed. Disbursements by the Bank and IDA reached new highs during the year.'2' Bank disbursements rose by $475 million to $2,470 million, and IDA's by $226 million, to $1,252 million.
The Bank and IDA continued to expand their assistance to the poorest among their member countries. Those countries accounted for 39% of total Bank and IDA commitments, as opposed to 38% in fiscal 1975. In the case of IDA alone, such countries accounted for 92% of commitments, as against 84% in fiscal 1975.
For the second consecutive year, lending for agriculture and rural development was greater than for any other sector. Sixty-five projects were approved, involving commitments of $1,627.6 million. Of the 65, 38 were rural development projects in which the majority of the benefits accrue to the rural poor. Agriculture and rural development lending accounted for about 25% of all Bank and IDA commitments during the year. (For more on agriculture and rural development lending, see the section "Rural Development" which appears elsewhere in this chapter.) Lending in the "traditional" sectors — power, transportation, and telecommunications—totaled about 36%, up somewhat over the 1975 level of about 29%; in fiscal 1974, it was 43%.
Capital Increase
Under the Bank's Articles of Agreement, the Bank's outstanding loans cannot be allowed to exceed the sum of its unimpaired subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus. As of June 30, 1976, outstanding loans amounted to $22,741 million; its unimpaired subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus totaled $32,777 million.(3)
Against this background, discussions were held during the year on the question of an increase in the Bank's subscribed capital. The discussions were based on a comprehensive and wide-ranging review of both the appro-
Note on dollar amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of this Report for capital of the Bank refer to United States dollars of the weight arid fineness in effect on July T, 1944, while those used for subscriptions and contributions to IDA, with the exception of the Fourth Replenishment, refer to United States 'dollars of the- weight and fineriess in effect on January, 1,1960. For all praCticaipurposes, these arethe same. Unless otherwise specified, all other amounts in US dollars refer to= current dol lars. One dollar a-- tNcrl tor Ba;:k capital and IDA •.ulij-aip tions and contcibutiorts equaled approximately 1.20635 c ur ren t do I la re, as of June, 30; 1976. For more detailed discussion, see Sum-ma ry of Signi fi cant Acco a nti n g and Re lated ;Policies and Motes to Financial Statements included In Appendix G for the Bank and in Appendix F;for IDA.
priate volume of future Bank lending and the capital structure needed to sustain future lending. The review indicated that an increase in capital would be necessary.
After considering various alternative proposals, the Executive Directors, in May 1976, transmitted to the Board of Governors for a vote, two resolutions concerning the capitalization of the Bank. One provides that the Bank's authorized capital be increased by 58,444 million (in 1976 dollars) to S41.016 million; the other, that up to $8,340 million of selective increases in subscriptions to capital stock be allotted to 125 members. The remaining $104 million would be unsubscribed capital available to accommodate new members' subscriptions and for future increases in subscribed capital.
The increase is called "selective" in that allotments are made to those individual members which accepted increases in their quotas in the International Monetary Fund (IMF). This selectivity reflects a long-standing policy of the Bank that when increases in IMF quotas are accepted, members are also expected to request increases in their subscriptions to the capital of the Bank. A resolution to increase quotas in the IMF, arising from its sixth general review of member countries' quotas, was approved by the Fund's Board of Governors in March 1976.
Approval of the resolution to increase the Bank's authorized capital will require affirmation by three-fourths of the voting power in the Board of Governors. The resolution allotting selective increases in subscriptions will require a simple majority of the votes cast by the Governors for approval.
If approved and subscribed in full, the Selective Capital Increase would lower the voting strength of the Bank's five biggest shareholders (the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, and Japan) by 2.18% to 42.56%; it
would decrease the voting strength of other developed countries by 0.58% to 18.79%; would reduce the voting strength of the non-oil developing countries by 1.38% to 29.43%; and increase the combined voting strength of petroleum-exporting developing countries from 4.44% to 9.22%, in line with a similar agreement reached on shares of quotas in the IMF. It was agreed that, as part of any further review of the Bank's future role, the question of the voting rights of all developing countries would be included.
It was also decided that the future lending program of the Bank would not be based on the assumption that a further increase in capitalization (General Capital Increase) beyond the Selective Capital Increase would be approved until members agreed on such an increase. Given the amount by which the Bank's subscribed capital would increase as a result of the actions taken during the fiscal year, it was acknowledged that the level of lending programs for fiscal 1977 and beyond of some $5,800 million could be sustained.
Amortization of Loans
It was decided during fiscal 1976 that the method of amortizing Bank loans would be modified for loans approved after June 30, 1976. The modification will result in the loan principal being repaid in equal amounts rather than in gradually ascending amounts over the amortization period. It was also agreed that the Bank would manage repayment terms of future loans so that the weighted average grace period and final maturity do not exceed 3.8 years and 19 years, respectively.
These modifications were designed to help assure that loans outstanding and disbursed would not rise above the statutory limit imposed by the Articles of Agreement.
Lending Rate
The Bank's lending rate was increased, on an interim basis, to 8.85% for the period June 1 to June 30,1976. The rate had been 8.5% since January 1975. It was decided that beginning July 1, 1976, a new lending rate formula would be put into effect. It was approved after an extensive review of the Bank's financial requirements.
The new formula provides that the Bank's lending rate is to be reviewed at the end of each quarterly period and adjusted to the average weighted cost by amount and maturity of funds borrowed by the Bank in the preceding 12 months. To this calculation, a positive spread of 0.5% is to be added to arrive at the interest rate that the Bank will charge borrowers on new loans approved in the ensuing quarter. The formula is to be applied pending consideration by the Executive Directors of a comprehensive review of the Bank's lending
rate policy, including analysis of a proposal calling for "full-cost coverage," and consideration, among other possible alternatives, of a policy in which the lending rate would be adjusted periodically during the disbursement period of a loan.
IDA
In September 1973, an agreement on the fourth replenishment of IDA resources was feached. That agreement among 24 member countries, plus non-member Switzerland, made available to IDA commitment authority of some $4,501 million for the three-year period, ?iscal 1975-77. As of June 30, 1976, however, not all contributions embodied in the agreement, reached in Nairobi, had been confirmed or appropriated.
Moreover, the Fourth Replenishment Agreement, unlike its three predecessors, contained no maintenance of value provision. Since the agreement was reached, most of the currencies of contributing members have depreciated against the United States dollar, and as IDA credits are denominated in dollars, there has been a loss in commitment authority in excess of $300 million as of June 30, 1976. The level of IDA's commitments during fiscal 1977, the final year covered by the Fourth Replenishment Agreement, will have to take account of any loss in Fourth Replenishment resources. Most IDA lending is committed to the very poorest of the developing countries, which cannot borrow on private capital markets, and which cannot afford to borrow all their requirements on conventional Bank terms. (Some 92% of all IDA commitments in fiscal 1976 went to countries with annual per capita incomes of $200 or less.) A decline in IDA commitments would, therefore, hit worst those countries that are the most in need of concessionary resources.
During fiscal 1976, three meetings were held of the deputies appointed by IDA's Board of Governors to negotiate new resources for a period beginning July 1, 1977, for the Bank's affiliate. Participating in these meetings, held in Paris, London, and Helsinki, were potential -new contributors as well as contributors to the Fourth Replenishment Agreement. A major topic of discussion during the year concerned the size of a future replenishment and the extent to which an increase would be necessary to compensate for inflation.
It was also noted that IDA's present commitment authority ends on June 30, 1977, and that if the basis for a new agreement were not reached within the next 12 months, new operations of the Association would be effectively suspended.
Third Window
Another significant development during the year was that a resolution establishing the In-
termediate Financing Facility, more commonly known as the Third Window, was adopted by a vote of the Executive Directors of the Bank on July 29, 1975. On December 23, 1975, this facility, designed to enable the Bank to provide development assistance on terms intermediate between those of the Bank and IDA, became effective; that was when pledges of $100 million in contributions to the Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window had been received.
The resources of the Subsidy Fund are supplied by some of the Bank's members and non-member Switzerland on a voluntary basis. This Subsidy Fund supplements interest payments due to the Bank from borrowers by paying the Bank semiannually an amount equal to 4% a year of the outstanding principal of loans made on Third Window terms. The difference between the 4% paid by the Subsidy Fund and the Bank's standard interest rate is paid by the borrowers.
By the end of the fiscal year, contributions in the amount of $124.9 million had been paid into the Fund. They were from: Canada—$20 million; Denmark—$3 million; Kuwait—$20 million; the Netherlands—$20 million; Norway —$4 million; Qatar—$2 million; Saudi Arabia — $25 million; Switzerland — $5.9 million; United Arab Emirates — $5 million; United Kingdom—$10 million; and Venezuela—$10 million. In addition, by the end of fiscal 1976, Australia had notified the Bank it would contribute $A4 million to the Fund in early fiscal 1977.(4)
As of June 30,1976, contributions and notification of contributions were sufficient to subsidize approximately $600 million of loans. Total lending in fiscal 1976 on Third Window terms was $477.8 million for 20 projects.
Before the first loans on Third Window terms were approved, eligibility criteria for beneficiaries of Third Window loans were established by the Bank. It was agreed that Third Window lending would be normally (but not exclusively) extended to countries with 1972 per capita incomes of under $375; that loans would be extended only to countries which were regarded as making reasonable development efforts in relation to their resource base and development potential; and that potential recipient countries must be judged able to repay the loans, taking account of the deterioration in their terms of trade and other factors affecting their long-run capacity to repay loans in foreign exchange.
Although, as noted earlier, repayment terms for Bank loans are being hardened, those for Third Window operations are to remain unchanged. The purpose is to ensure that all Third Window operations are financed on the
<-4'> Both France and Belgium have affirmed their intention to contribute to the Interest Subsidy Fund, pending parliamentary approval.
same terms. Thus, in such operations, repayment schedules will continue to be of the annuity type—with a standard grace period of seven years, and final maturity of about 25 years.
Economies in Adjustment
Since late 1973, the developing countries have been burdened by a series of events which, when they began, had threatened to leave their economies in disarray. These events are well known. They included accelerated rises in prices of both capital goods and some primary commodities, sudden and substantial increases in petroleum prices, food and fertilizer shortages, and recession in the industrialized countries.
Notwithstanding the problems posed by a combination of recession and inflation, the developing countries have been able to maintain reasonably high rates of growth in 1974 and 1975. During the three-year period, 1973-75, the annual growth of gross domestic product (GDP) of all non-oil developing countries, taken together, has been 5.4%, against 6.0% in the previous five years. But, despite good average figures, the poorest countries—essentially those in South Asia and in Africa south of the Sahara—have not done well; their annual growth rate of only 2.8% has been nearly offset by increases in population. Thus, these countries have seen little real growth in per
capita terms. On the other hand, the more developed among the developing countries recorded a growth rate of 6.4% during the three-year period.
To the extent that growth has taken place in large parts of the developing world, it has strengthened the foundations for future expansion. Many countries have sought to face their new problems resolutely by, for instance, initiating tax reforms, adjusting the domestic prices of petroleum and food, providing incentives to stimulate agricultural production, and by adjusting exchange rates.
Generally, continued growth—albeit at a slower pace—has been helped by two factors. The poorest countries have increased their agricultural production. In the others, development has been sustained by heavy additional borrowing from external sources.
The deterioration in the world economy was not fully felt by most developing countries until 1975. It was then that the effects of measures designed to control inflation in the industrialized nations began to be felt, to a considerable degree, in the developing countries. Thus, demand for imports—even those other than oil— dropped close to 10% in volume terms; with few exceptions, commodity prices, upon which many poor countries depend for foreign exchange earnings, dropped, some of them precipitously. On the other hand, prices of manufactures exported to developing countries rose, as inflation in the industrialized world continued despite the recession.
The poorest countries had fewer policy options open to them than the other developing countries when attempting to deal with this economic situation. Most of the former were unable to attract sufficient capital from external sources to sustain their growth. Events soon forced them to recognize the need for economic and fiscal reforms.
In Kenya, for instance, the Government adopted a wage and price policy to limit growth in private consumption for all but the lowest-income groups. An Action Program adopted in early 1975, has as its aim, the restructuring of the economy by restraining imports in a way that has the least impact on food and by directing more production into exports. Prices paid to farmers for food were raised and export incentives introduced. Project preparation for public investments was improved. The country's currency was devalued.
In Burma, procurement prices for paddy were greatly raised, with the result that the area under rice increased by 6% in 1976. State economic enterprises which, in the past, proved to be a budgetary drain, are being reorganized. A drastic tax reform, which should help mobilize resources, was enacted in April 1976.
In Egypt, consumer price policy for agricultural products was changed; it now aims at more realistic pricing and limits subsidies to the poorest-income groups.
Similar efforts were recently undertaken in Sudan, where many consumer subsidies were abolished, and steps were taken to encourage the production of crops other than the traditional long-staple cotton on which the country has long depended.
The record of reforms initiated by developing countries in recent years abounds with such examples. They include attempts to reduce oil consumption and improve oil and coal production (India), the encouragement of additional private savings (Pakistan), the alignment of domestic prices with international prices through cutbacks in consumer subsidies (Senegal, Brazil), increases in public investment (Morocco), the adoption of conservative monetary and credit policies to reduce inflation (Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines), the adoption of fiscal reforms to improve social equity (Colombia), increasing prices paid to agricultural producers (Zambia), and increasing taxes (Mexico, Costa Rica). Other examples are referred to in the regional chapters of this Annual Report. In almost all cases, implementation of the reforms has posed new problems. The task of moving from an economy in which distortions exist, to one in which there is flexibility and room for maneuver is rarely simple. Countries are, for instance, attempting to devise means to protect the very poor while maintaining the incentives for farmers and without imposing too much of a burden on the budget; they are trying to hold wages more closely in line with productivity, where previously the former had frequently outrun the latter. This is not an easy task.
The good weather of the past 12 months has enabled the poorest developing countries to make economic gains. This is not surprising, given the importance of agriculture in developing countries—especially the poorer ones, where the sector accounts for more than two-thirds of the total labor force. Past growth rates for these countries are, in part, the result of fluctuating climatic conditions, including the effects of widespread droughts in Africa and South Asia, and floods in various parts of the Indian subcontinent at various times.
For the poorest countries, the availability of external resources on concessionary terms has been, and continues to be, a major factor in permitting them to implement their long-term development goals. IDA continues to be the Bank's principal vehicle in the transfer of resources to these countries. Projects designed to raise the productivity of the agriculture sector, to provide the means for diversifying mono-cultural export economies, can help create, in the long run, the savings in foreign exchange and the broadening of the foreign exchange earnings base which can permit the countries to lay the foundations for future growth.
Often, even of more importance to developing countries, however, is the adoption of domestic policies which encourage the effec-
tive mobilization, allocation, and increase the efficiency of allocation of domestic resources. Assistance on concessionary terms is, therefore, only one element among many which are designed to promote economic growth in developing countries. For those countries which are still in the early stages of development, however, concessionary external resources continue to be essential to help finance a major part of their investment expenses.
Capital Flows, DAC and OPEC
Preliminary data from the Development Assistance Committee (DAC)(5) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) indicate that Official Development Assistance (ODA) of $13,606 million by DAC members rose by 20% in dollar terms, and increased by an estimated 10% in real terms in calendar year 1975, thereby recovering from the fall in "real" aid in 1972 and 1973. Sixteen of the 17 DAC member governments increased their outflow of ODA in dollars during the year, and 13 countries'6' also raised it as a share of their gross national product (GNP). As a percentage of their combined CNP, ODA from members of the DAC rose from 0.33% in 1974 to 0.36% in 1975.
In 1974, Sweden became the first DAC country to provide the equivalent of 0.7% of its GNP in the form of ODA. In 1975, both Sweden and the Netherlands exceeded that percentage; ODA, as a percent of GNP, was 0.82% and 0.75%, respectively, in the two countries.
Total flows of resources, which include export credits extended by official and private institutions, and direct and portfolio investments, to developing countries by DAC members, rose 40% in the year to a record $37,461 million. According to DAC estimates, that figure was equivalent to 0.99% of DAC members' combined GNP. If grants by private agencies of $1,371 million are included, the total net flow of $38,832 million was equal to 1.02% of DAC members' combined GNP. This is the first time the 1% target for all flows, official and private, has been reached. While it is still too early to give figures for individual countries, it is clear that practically all increased their total outflow in dollar terms, sometimes very sharply, and that for at least seven countries—Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, and the United States—the flows, as a share of GNP, were well above 1%. These
<5> Includes Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States, and the Commission of the European Communities.
<e) Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States. (The United Kingdom maintained its percentage at the 1974 level of 0.38%.)
figures exclude significant amounts in Eurocurrency borrowing by developing countries (which are discussed in the chapter, "Borrowings and Finance" in this Annua/ Report). Although most Euromarkets are located in DAC countries, the funds in any one loan do not necessarily originate in the country issuing it.
Although the statistics on the aid flows from members of the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC)(7) are much less firm than those for the DAC countries, reports indicate that total commitments by OPEC members rose from $1,469 million in 1973 to $8,575 million in 1974, and to $9,033 million in 1975. Reported net disbursements also rose rapidly, from about $922 million, to $4,647 million, and to $5,589 million over the same three-year period. These figures include both concessionary and non-concessionary resources. In 1975, approximately 46% of net disbursements were on concessionary terms. The non-concessionary disbursements included the purchase
of Bank bonds and notes ($849 million). In addition, OPEC also provided most of the resources to the International Monetary Fund's oil facility.
(Ways of increasing Official Development Assistance, as well as the problems of external indebtedness, were discussed at the Fourth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, recently held in Nairobi. For added details, see the section "Inter-Agency Cooperation" in the chapter, "Other Activities.")
Multilateral institutions such as the World Bank have increased their lending commitments and disbursements in the wake of the worldwide economic malaise. In order to encourage assistance from other sources, the Bank has also increased the scope of its co-financing activities with other bilateral and multilateral agencies and with private financial institutions. Details of this cooperation are provided in the regional chapters and in the "Aid Coordination" section on page 76.
The events of the past several years have, in many cases, brought about changes in the development policies and goals of developing countries. The use of petroleum as a source of energy and of some petrochemical products has obviously become more expensive, for example. Reliance on imported food has also become less attractive. The case for promoting new exports or new import substitution, where it is possible, has generally become stronger. It must be expected that these adjustments will take time—perhaps a decade or more, in some cases, before their fruits are seen. The quality of economic management will be of crucial importance in ensuring that they are smooth and speedy.
tT> Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libyan Arab Republic, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela.
The impact of the recession in the industrialized world was different for the developing countries with per capita incomes above $200 than it was for the poorest ones below that level. Many of the latter countries, whose export volume expanded slowly at an average of 2.4% a year between 1967 and 1973, were little affected; indeed, between 1973 and 1975, their exports increased slightly. The better-off developing countries, whose exports are more sensitive to changes in demand, enjoyed a rapid growth of their export volume at a rate of 8.1% a year between 1967 and 1973. This rate was reduced to only 1.3% a year for the years 1973 to 1975.
When the impact of the recession was felt, however, these better-off countries had access to commercial capital which, in 1974 and 1975, increasingly became the main support for the maintenance or further increase of imports.
These developments entailed—and still do— costs and risks as well as advantages, however. Private lending is on terms set by the market, and interest rates were high during 1974 (they declined in 1975 and early in 1976). Maturities were relatively short (five to seven years). Highly skilled debt management on the part of the borrowers is required, as well as the discipline not to borrow excessively, and a willingness to carry out adjustments which may be painful when the balance of payments situation requires it. But borrowing does provide resources to the borrower, and the increases in outstanding debt, which are discussed in the next section, are a measure of these increased resources.
It was the access to international capital markets which made substantial balance of payments deficits possible for developing countries other than the poorest ones. An increasing number of developing countries found themselves considered sufficiently creditworthy to obtain loans from private financial institutions. In 1974 and 1975, a growing number of developing countries borrowed substantial sums from the international capital market. (For added details, see "Foreign and Internationa! Bond Markets" in the "Borrowings and Finance" chapter of this Report.)
There were several reasons for such countries wanting to borrow heavily. Producers of minerals, for instance, had high fixed costs which could not be reduced quickly at the onset of recession. Commercial agricultural producers tended to adjust spending to income only gradually; in many cases, the lag was increased by governmental price guarantee programs, which dampened the impact of world prices on the incomes of producers. There were also strong pressures for growth within developing countries, which led governments to try to maintain the momentum of investment even though their external payments position had worsened.
Much of the new debt has been taken up by industrializing developing countries in order to use industrial capacity as fully as possible and maintain levels of investment in order to avoid the economic and social losses that would otherwise have occurred. Such countries acted in a manner similar to the more industrialized countries. Though growth suffered and remains slower than before, investment has been maintained. Thus, after a period of adjustment, it is reasonable to expect a return to growth rates close to, although perhaps not quite so high as, those of former years.
Because the process of developing a sound, long-term relationship between a borrowing country and private financial institutions active in a particular part of the international financial market is a gradual one, it is not surprising that recent lending by major private financial institutions has concentrated mainly on higher-income developing nations.
Improving access by developing nations as a whole to capital markets is a topic that has received extensive consideration over the years and in various fora. The issue was the subject of discussion several times during the fiscal year by a working group established by the Development Committee/3'
It was generally agreed by the group that a determined effort through international action to activate, promote, and support the gradual process of making developing countries eventually full and equal participants in the international financial markets would involve:
—measures by governments of developing nations (with assistance by international development institutions, where appropriate), to create economic conditions conducive to increased external mobilization of private loan capital including bonds;
—cooperation between international lending institutions and private parties in the international financial community in improving the conditions under which borrowing by developing countries in foreign and international markets can be arranged; and
—measures by industrialized nations and others with existing and potential capital surpluses, to promote and increase the flow of private loan capital to eligible developing countries and measures to increase the access to national and international capital markets.
External Public Debt
Continuing analysis of the external debt of 86 developing countries"" indicates an appreciable increase in external public debt in 1974, the latest year for which reliable figures are available. During that year, total debt outstanding increased from $121,868 million to $151,399 million. The S29,531 million increase was considerably larger than that recorded in 1973 ($20,640 million) or in 1972 ($14,180 million). In percentage terms, the rise of 24.2% in 1974 can be compared with increases of 20.4% in 1973, and of 16.3% in 1972.
The increase in external debt during 1974, of course, reflects increased current account deficits due to worsening terms of trade and reduced demand for exports and an increase in the general level of prices. Consequently, large
fs> Formally, the Joint Ministerial Committee of the Boards of Governors of the World Bank and the international Monetary Fund (IMF) on the Transfer of Real Resources to Developing Countries. The Committee, for the past two years, has consisted of 20 members, generally Ministers of Finance, appointed by one of the countries or groups of countries designating a member of the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. For more on the Development Committee, see page 14 of the Bank's 1975 Annual Report.
(«) For details, see General Notes to Annex Tables and Statistical Annex Tables 4 through 9.
changes from year to year must be interpreted with care. Where the increase in debt in current dollars is compared with other relevant magnitudes, for example, changes in imports or exports, the increase, while large, is a good deal less alarming. Although the account of these increases which follows is in terms of groups of countries, the incidence of external debt and debt service on borrowers is carefully examined on a country-by-country basis in the Bank's continuing work. To some extent, debt service on debt incurred in earlier years (which does not change when prices increase) is less costly to the debtor if exports command higher prices. This is revealed by the very modest increases or declines in the ratio of service payments to exports in 1974 for very many countries/10' The recession of 1974-75 and declining terms of trade aggravated the deterioration as it made imports more costly in terms of exports, and imposed difficult adjustments on borrowers in 1975. These difficulties are only beginning to be mitigated somewhat by the upturn in economic activity in some industrialized countries in 1975 and during the first months of 1976.
Another phenomenon in 1974 was that there was an unusually large increase in the undisbursed balances of loans outstanding to developing countries. These undisbursed balances increased during the year by a total of $11,322 million to $45,871 million. In 1973, the increase had only been $5,909 million. To some extent, the increase seems to have been a result of borrowing in anticipation of immediate needs, the proceeds of which were available to meet the continuing deficits of 1975.
Another development during 1974 was the reduced rate of borrowing by oil-exporting countries. This group of countries had increased its borrowing and external debt at a rapid rate in the first three years of the 1970s. In 1974, borrowings increased by only $2,329 million, or 7.9% of the total increase in debt, compared with $5,510 million in 1973, or 26.7% of the increase in that year.
This modest increase in the debt of the oil-exporting countries in 1974 included a more-than-modest increase (totaling $3,002 million) by three of the countries, headed by Indonesia ($1,831 million). The two other countries whose debts rose were Algeria and Gabon. Offsetting these increases were decreases in debt registered by four others (Ecuador, Iran, Iraq, and Venezuela), totaling $672 million. Judging by less complete information from creditor sources, the oil-exporting countries, as a group, had borrowed heavily in the Eurocurrency market during 1973. In 1974, they borrowed relatively small amounts in that market.
<«°> See Annex Table 6.
This group of countries is reported to have once again borrowed in that market in appreciable amounts in 1975 and the first months of 1976. This seems to have been as a result of greatly increased imports, financing for new projects executed by foreign firms, and some decline in the worldwide demand for petroleum, it has become clear that the situations with respect to external debt of individual oil-exporting countries differ considerably.
At the end of 1974, outstanding debt of oil-exporting nations ($25,916 million) and higher-income developing countries ($70,764 million) was 63.9% of total debt outstanding, or almost the same percentage as at the end of 1973 and
1972. Of the combined amount ($96,680 million) owed to all creditors by these borrowers, $44,385 million, or 45.9%, was owed to private lenders. This amount was larger than in 1973 ($33,131 million) and represented a larger percentage (42.0%) than in 1973.
Of the lenders, those whose outstanding loans increased at the highest rate were, as in
1973, private banks and other private financial institutions (a large part of the "other" lenders in Annex Table 4). They were owed $38,167 million, or 25.2%, of total debt outstanding at the end of 1974.
At the end of 1973, the figure had been $26,871 million and 22.1%; at the end of 1972, $18,961 million and 18.7%. The increase in debt owed these private financial institutions in 1974 over 1973 was $11,296 million. This figure amounted to 38.3% of the total increase in debt outstanding. Total debt owed them was heavily concentrated in oil-exporting countries ($4,935 million, or 12.9%) and higher-income developing countries ($27,767 million or 72.8%). The debt to private financial institutions of all categories of developing countries increased in 1974, but the amounts owed them by middle-income and lower-income developing countries remained modest ($5,464 million).
By comparison, debt owed to official bilateral creditors increased $9,290 million over 1973 and was 31.5% of the total increase. In 1973, the increase in debt to official bilateral creditors had been less ($7,682 million), and was a much higher percentage of the total (37.2%). Debt owed multilateral creditors rose by $6,062 million in 1974, as compared with $4,515 million in 1973. These amounts were 20.5% of the total increase in debt in 1974, as compared with 21.9% in 1973. Debt owed suppliers increased appreciably during 1974 over 1973 (by $2,884 million). The increase was largely due to increased use of credits by oil-exporting countries and higher-income developing countries.
The debt in 1974 of middle-income and lower-income countries was $54,719 million, or 36.1% of the total. This represented an increase of $11,653 million during the year, compared with $6,458 million in 1973. The share of the total increase in debt by these groups of countries was 39.5% in 1974, up con-
siderably from 31.3% in 1973. Of the increased borrowing by middle-income and lower-income countries, $8,728 million, or 74.9%, was borrowed from official bilateral and multilateral lenders. This was a much larger amount than in 1973, when their borrowing from these same sources increased by only $5,276 million. The share of official bilateral and multilateral lenders in the increase was lower than in 1973, when it was 81.7%. This lower share is explained by a larger, absolute amount (compared with the previous year) of new borrowing by middle-income and lower-income countries from private financial institutions ($2,341 million); given the amount by which total borrowing by these countries increased ($11,653 million), a decline in the percentage of the increase borrowed from official bilateral and multilateral lenders was registered.
The flow of resources to developing countries from the Bank and IDA also rose greatly during the past three years. Bank and IDA lending to these countries for the period fiscal 1974-76 totaled almost $17,000 million, compared with slightly less than $9,000 million for the preceding three years. Disbursements totaled $8,987 million for the period 1974-76, as against $4,266 million in fiscal 1971-73. The Bank was thus an important source of long-term assistance for development projects which are designed to help meet the long-term goals of the countries. Those goals include expansion and diversification of exports, both of which are of particular importance as economic recovery begins in the industrialized world. The Bank's activities also facilitated private lending to these countries by strengthening the productivity and creditworthiness of their economies.
Rural Development
(In fiscal 1976, the Executive Directors of the Bank approved more than 200 Bank and IDA projects in 14 sectors, and involving more than $6,600 million in commitments. In the regional chapters which follow, the breadth of Bank activities during the year is detailed. In the following sections of this chapter, discussion is limited to a handful of topics upon which particular attention was directed during the year.)
A recent study of lending for agriculture and rural development indicates that some 2.7 million farm families—or about 16 million people —are expected to benefit directly from Bank-assisted projects for which commitments were made in fiscal 1976. The number of farm families likely to be direct beneficiaries of Bank-supported agriculture and rural development projects approved in fiscal 1975 was virtually identical. Preliminary estimates are that about 80% of these32 million people are from among the "absolute poor"; they belong to that target population group which includes almost 800 million poor people who live in rural areas.
Though the total number of beneficiaries remained approximately the same in fiscal 1976, total project costs dropped by about 7%. Project costs per benefiting farm family fell from about $1,550 to $1,400.
Estimates indicate that the agriculture and rural development projects approved in fiscal 1976 will increase output by about $1,600 million after the projects are completed. Of this, two-thirds will be accounted for by food production; the volume of food crops might total as much as 6.7 million tons.
By 1985, however, the Bank's staff has estimated that the gap between domestic production of foodgrains and demand in the developing countries might be on the order of 77 million tons. And, unless domestic output of food increases more rapidly in the next decade, it is possible that many food-deficit developing countries in South Asia and Africa may have to spend up to 30% of their projected export earnings on food imports. This compares with an average of 10% during the recent period of food crisis.
Increased production in food-deficit countries is the most rational way of meeting the bulk of future food requirements. In general, a development effort on smaller farms is to be preferred for reasons of both equity and efficiency. Small farm agriculture typically involves those who produce inadequate supplies of food. It tends to be more labor-intensive. And there is increasing evidence that small farms with adequate supporting services produce higher yields than do large holdings.
There is little scope for increasing the cultivated acreage in countries which are short of food. The main reliance has to be on increasing yields. Relatively small gains are required to increase dramatically food production; an increase in grain yield of only 0.1 ton per hectare in the developing countries would generate an additional 30 million tons yearly, or more than a third of the projected food gap.
In fiscal 1976, the emphasis in the Bank's agriculture and rural development lending was on raising agricultural productivity through the provision of agricultural inputs. Nonetheless, health, water supply, and other nonagricultural investments within agriculture and rural development projects remained high, though below fiscal 1975 levels. Some 185,000 families will benefit from water supply facilities; 70,000 families will be aided by the provision of health services; 15,000 persons are to be provided educational opportunities; and electric power benefits will be extended to some 345,000 families.
One point of interest — and of increasing concern to the Bank—is that relatively few of the benefits from Bank-assisted projects have so far been directed at nonfarm rural labor. In developing countries, the landless often account for a third of the rural population. Their numbers are growing. In fact, the growth of the nonfarm rural sector in general is reflected in
the fact that villages and towns in several cases appear to be expanding as rapidly as the major cities.
That the proportion of rural people not directly employed in agriculture should be increasing is not wholly unexpected. The normal path of economic development involves the release of people from the pursuit of subsistence, and their movement out of agriculture into other, often related, economic activities. In less favorable circumstances, on the other hand, it reflects the growth of population which, in relation to a fixed land base, makes it necessary for an increasing proportion of people to seek their livelihood in pursuits other than farming.
The forced movement of people out of farming need not hamper development if agricultural productivity increases sufficiently to provide a supply of food at affordable prices, and if other sectors of the economy experience sufficient growth to provide productive employment.
Infrastructure investments (roads, electric power, the establishment of credit and input supply services and social services) associated with rural development programs usually support nonfarm activities peripheral to agriculture more directly than they do farming itself. Nonetheless, more can be done to promote the growth of the sector than mere provision of infrastructure or direct investment in rural services as part of rural development projects aimed at raising farm production.
Studies are currently under way in the Bank on the subject of employment creation and income generation for nonfarm rural people. Issues under review include the scope for expanding employment in this area and the types of activities involved, including agricultural linkages, both forward (processing, transport) and backward (manufacture of tools, input supply); mining and forestry development; small-scale rural industries; decentralized large-scale industries; and rural public works and infrastructure programs.
Urban Poverty
In his September 1975 address to the Boards of Governors of the Bank and the International Monetary Fund, Bank President Robert S. McNamara stated that the Bank would help its member governments "in every feasible way" to come to grips with the problem of urban poverty.
Some two months earlier, in July 1975, an interdepartmental task group was established to develop an Urban Poverty Action Program. The work of the task group continues. But considerable progress has been made in defining the nature and extent of urban poverty and in tentatively estimating what the Bank's broad strategy and goals might be over a reasonable period of time.
The task group has emphasized that the problems of rural and urban poverty are clearly linked, and that if there is to be any improvement in the lot of the poor, rural and urban, the towns and cities must, in the future, absorb and employ most of the increase in the labor force.
There are, at present, some 150 million urban dwellers with incomes insufficient to cover the local cost of minimum nutritional and nonfood basic requirements. Almost half of these absolute urban poor live in South Asia; a quarter live in Latin America. Urban dwellers lacking access to basic needs—adequate nutritional intake, safe water supply, and human waste disposal — exceed the number having incomes less than that which theoretically could meet basic needs. In effect, the failure of urban delivery systems to keep pace with the growth of urban populations is currently "impoverishing" an additional 40 million to 50 million people. In the absence of any clear employment-based definition of the urban poor (there is no urban equivalent of the small farmer), the target population for the Urban Poverty Action Program has been established as the approximately 190 million people who lack access to basic human requirements. This group is currently growing at the rate of about 11 million people a year.
The fact that the target group is defined in terms of access to basic services does not mean that the appropriate attack on the problem of urban poverty can be launched solely, or even primarily, by increasing this access through direct action.
Accelerated creation of productive employment opportunities in nonfarm production will clearly be central to the progress in reducing
both rural and urban poverty. But there is substantial evidence indicating that modern large-scale enterprise will not provide employment opportunities for more than a small fraction of the growing labor force. Thus, growth in incomes of a large part of the nonfarm work force will depend on growth of earnings opportunities in the small-scale industrial, construction, trade, transport, and other service industries.
The Bank's contribution to raising the productivity of the urban poor can, at best, be limited, considering the magnitude of the task. The number of new jobs, both directly and indirectly associated with projects and sub-projects supported by the Bank in the industrial enterprise sector, could amount to as many as 700,000 yearly by 1980; this compares, however, with an annual increase in the urban labor force of over 8 million—on top of a huge backlog of underemployed people seeking higher productivity employment.
Thus, the success of any strategy to increase opportunities for productive employment will depend as much on an appropriate policy environment as it will on levels of investment. The main elements of such policies might include the removal of capital market imperfections (such as artificially controlled interest rates) which limit the capital available to small-scale, labor-intensive industries and skew technological choices toward capital-intensity; modification of legislation that discourages labor use; and the introduction of realistic prices for the major market variables in the economy — from foreign exchange to farm products. In addition, increases in the absorptive capacity of urban areas and the productivity and welfare of the urban poor can be only
effective if governments encourage self-help activities; accept low-standard, low-cost solutions to water supply, sanitation, shelter, transportation, and health care; adopt positive land-use policies; and rationalize the pricing of urban services.
General lines of a possible global strategy to attack urban poverty have thus emerged during the year. They include:
—emphasis in industrial development on the use of policies and technologies which will increase direct and indirect employment in relation to capital requirements and which will generate increased aggregate demand for agriculture and service sector outputs;
—increased productivity and employment in the service and informal sectors, which will have to absorb the mass of the increase in the labor force; —efficient delivery of basic urban services to a large and growing population at standards and costs that can be afforded by the majority of the population; —increased efficiency of urban centers in creating employment and in accommodating massive migrations of poor people through the development and application of improved policies and management. The emphasis within such a strategy for any country will naturally vary, however, according to such factors as national income levels, present degree of urbanization, availability of productive land, and human resource development.
(Interest in man's urban habitat quickened during the year as a result of the focus of attention on the UN Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat), in Vancouver. The Bank's role in the Conference is described in the section "Inter-Agency Cooperation" in the chapter, "Other Activities.")
Development Finance Companies
One key sector in Bank programs to alleviate urban poverty will be that occupied by development finance companies (DFCs).
The financing of DFCs has been the Bank's major mechanism for assisting medium-scale productive enterprises in its member countries. Indeed, some $3,000 million in financing has been provided to DFCs in almost four dozen countries, and a five-year (fiscal 1976-80) lending program by the Bank foresees commitments
<"> See pages 19-20 in the Bank's Annual Report for fiscal 1975.
<12) Including mixed commercial and development banks, "apex" banks that pass funds on to a network of intermediaries, large government banks that undertake a sizable range of programs on behalf of the government, banks that specialize in financing state enterprises, and multisector institutions that perform not only a banking but also a promoter/holding company function.
of some $3,400 million—or 9% of total Bank and IDA lending. As with other sectors, Bank approaches to lending through DFCs have evolved over the years. Initially, assistance was directed only to privately controlled DFCs, but now a wide variety of public, private, and mixed institutions are being supported.(12) The objectives of employment generation and support for small-scale enterprise are now given much greater importance. It is also likely that the Bank's future lending to DFCs will increasingly assist sectors other than manufacturing and tourism, and will make use of large multi-sector and multipurpose intermediaries.
Certain common themes in DFC lending have persisted through the years, however. To secure Bank assistance, the sectors served by the DFC must be important to the development process of the country; the DFC must have a need for funds which can only be supplied by the Bank; the DFCs policies, procedures, management, financial structure, and programs must be soundly based and effective; and— an increasing concern—the DFC should contribute to innovative activity in the sectors in which it operates.
The Bank believes that it should be flexible in its lending to DFCs. It must be, for given the variety in types of DFCs now assisted, and in their environments, which range from centralized planning to highly market-oriented economies, the appropriate financial or policy guidelines will naturally differ. Moreover, notions as to developmental priorities have changed over time, requiring, as a result, new responses and new ways of looking at and dealing with DFCs. Certain issues, however, repeatedly arise in the Bank's DFC lending activities, and these were faced during the fiscal year to help further define and clarify the Bank's current approach in the field.
It was generally agreed that a major problem facing the Bank is to find ways to assist the development of small-scale enterprise. Small-scale enterprises are common in most economies; they afford opportunities and experience for entrepreneurs and provide balance to the ownership distribution of productive assets; and being usually relatively unskilled-labor-intensive, they can generate substantial employment. Action to accelerate their growth and improve the efficiency of their operations could directly increase the productivity of the urban poor. DFC lending provides the most rational use of Bank funds and manpower for this purpose. Unfortunately, few Bank-assisted DFCs were ever expected to tackle the problems of the smallest entrepreneurs.
In addition, the problems and potential of financing small enterprises should be addressed more systematically than hitherto — either through special programs developed under the auspices of Bank-assisted DFCs, or, through approaches involving more diffuse institutional patterns, specialized focus and resources, and
extensive technical assistance. The Bank is currently undertaking studies of the marginal impact and cost of assisting small enterprises, of how assistance should be put together to make its impact great, and of the importance of the sector in generating growth in the developing countries.
Studies have also been undertaken on another issue that will be of importance in future Bank assistance to DFCs—the effect on employment of DFC lending to large as well as small enterprises. The data from the studies have been somewhat inconclusive — indirect employment effects are often hard to ascertain, and sometimes run counter to the direct effects —leading the Bank to believe that there is not yet any easy indicator emphasizing employment that can guide the selection of industrial projects by DFCs. The Bank does believe, however, that the pragmatic way of dealing with employment-creation through DFC lending is to: (a) ensure that factor pricing in the economic rate of return analysis done by DFCs captures the employment aspect by giving labor, capital, and foreign exchange their proper values in the context of the supply/scarcity situation of the economy; (b) ensure that DFCs weigh the use of alternative technologies or designs, when options exist, for improving a project's employment impact; and (c) support studies in borrowing countries aimed at adjusting technologies to make them more appropriate to local conditions.
The Bank has also found that if DFCs charge unduly low rates of interest on their subloans, it usually restricts the amount of their resources; and that the limited funds available may often flow to preferred ("safe") subbor-rowers to the disadvantage of "risky" borrowers whose enterprises may, in fact, have greater developmental impact. Generally, the Bank believes that borrowers of DFC funds should pay a positive interest rate (in real terms) which reflects the cost of capital in the country. Such rates facilitate the mobilization of capital and its efficient allocation; they also permit adequate earnings to DFCs, enhancing their ability to attract equity capital and to bear the costs and risks of an active, promotional role. In the final analysis, however, interest rate policies must be judged in terms of a country's overall financial strategy and against the background of the Bank's major objectives in lending through DFCs in the country.
Population Planning
It has been recognized for some time that high rates of population growth are partially offsetting or, in a few cases, completely negating the development efforts of many developing countries. Over the past decade, no clearly effective and uniformly applicable means have been developed to enable overpopulated developing countries to cope with problems of
excessive population growth. Debate continues concerning the relative effectiveness of various strategies, policies, and programs to reduce fertility.
In the late 1960s, the Bank created a staff capacity to assist its developing member countries in dealing with their population problems. Since 1970, the Bank has financed 12 population projects; these projects are in different stages of implementation; none has yet been completed. Most of these projects are both long-term and comprehensive. They include, if assistance is not available from others, a wide range of activities relevant to an effective population program. Unlike many other agencies, the Bank does not provide funds for a "training only" program, a "research only" project, or an individual clinic or training center. The Bank wants to help build effective national programs. Bank-assisted projects may also involve several entities in the course of their implementation—not only the national family planning board (where it may exist) and the ministry of health, but often the ministries of education, social welfare, information, and agriculture. Nongovernmental organizations may also be involved. The multiplicity of these entities often requires that a suitable coordinating and implementing mechanism be set up by the government to centralize responsibility for project execution.
The Bank's approach to its population work has evolved and broadened over the past six years, but the basic questions concerning how the Bank can be most effective in assisting the developing world with its population problems are still open for discussion. In December 1975, the Bank organized an external advisory panel to look at these questions afresh in the light of the Bank's experience to date and recent developments on the world population scene. The five-member panel is chaired by Bernard Berelson, President Emeritus of the Population Council.
During the year, the panel examined the Bank's strategies, policies, and programs in the population field to determine what additional actions the Bank might take to utilize its resources more effectively. In doing so, it has considered among others, the Bank's role in the international community and its relationship with other agencies, its overall analytical and programming capacities, the strengths and weaknesses of its traditional project approach, and the political, socioeconomic, and operational conditions in the developing countries.
While the panel will be in existence for some three years, its immediate major task will be to publish a first report which will address itself to these questions. In fiscal 1976, the panel met three times. The panel held a two-day organizational meeting which was followed by three to four months of part-time work of interviewing and field visits to four countries in which the Bank has committed funds for population
projects. The panel has also had discussions with Bank staff, borrowers, and other donors in the population field. The panel is expected to produce its first report early in fiscal 1977.
Increasing Efficiency
The effectiveness of the Bank's lending operations rests, to a great degree, upon the measures it takes, both before and after committing funds for projects, to ensure that its funds are used in a timely and efficient manner. In fiscal 1976, ways were studied by which such measures might benefit the economic development of the Bank's member countries even more than in the past.
Project preparation is an essential element in the design of effective projects. Though It was originally expected that the Bank would not be actively involved in project preparation, events soon overcame such expectations. In recent years, these events included the growth in Bank membership of poorer and less developed countries which have limited capabilities for project preparation, and the increasing difficulty in preparing and implementing the many "new-style" Bank projects concerned with institutional and policy change—especially in the agriculture, education, population, tourism, and urban sectors.
Though the Bank—and others—responded to these new developments by creating a number of institutions and techniques to help prepare projects in a satisfactory way, it became apparent that the new systems were, in some cases, deficient, and that additional resources, available under simple and flexible administrative procedures, were needed to assist in project preparation. Two activities in particular, needed strengthening: (a) small, distinct tasks in engineering specified by the Bank and related to gaps in project preparation (e.g., inadequate economic analysis, or unexpected soil conditions) which have to be filled before the appraisal can be completed; and (b) additional support for the entity in the borrowing country responsible for preparing the project or for implementing it. This need is particularly acute in education, population, rural and urban development, and other "less traditional" projects, where consulting firms are often not in a position to play the critical role in implementation that they play in the traditional sectors. In order to help correct the deficiencies in project preparation, a Special Project Preparation Facility was created during the year. In authorizing $5 million for the facility, it was agreed that: (a) the facility would be available only when alternatives for financing the activities in question were not at hand; (b) it would normally be employed in poor countries which could not reasonably be expected to finance the activities out of their own resources pending reimbursement out of the eventual loan or credit; (c) it would be expected that the facility's greatest
use would be in the new sectors and activities, including education, population, and rural and urban development; and (d) though it would be used primarily to cover foreign exchange costs, there would also be cases in which the provision for local currency financing would be essential to the achievement of the facility's objectives.
It was also agreed that advances of up to $500,000 would be permitted, and that the provision of interim financing did not commit the Bank to the subsequent financing of the project.
Project preparation (pre-lending) and supervision (post-lending) activities are highly dependent on the same factor: the degree to which the borrower is committed to the objectives of the project. Borrowers' active participation, in both project preparation and supervision, is essentia! to ensure the success of a project.
In discussing ways to make the supervision process more efficient, the Bank emphasized that any improvements made sense only if they were designed and implemented on the understanding that a project is the country's project, designed to achieve the country's objectives, and that the end product of the Bank's participation is to help the country concerned increase its capacity to tackle development problems.
Supervision is an essential element in the Bank's project work. No project has ever been entirely free of implementation problems. The recent expansion of the Bank's lending program has dramatically increased the size of its supervision effort. In fiscal 1976, more than 1,000 projects, representing total investments of about $50,000 million were supervised. This supervision effort consumed more than 200 man-years of time. By fiscal 1980, the number of projects supervised may have doubled.
Both the borrowing country and the Bank have an important stake in the successful completion of a project. But the Bank realizes that room for improvement in the utilization of resources devoted to project supervision exists, and several measures designed to improve the supervision function are now either being tested on an experimental basis, or are being planned.
Some of the measures require a "fine tuning" of the supervision process—helping the borrower improve its reporting techniques, changing slightly the composition of supervision missions to permit a more thorough analysis of issues relating to institutional matters and project benefits, expanding the role of some resident missions, and providing for the increased dissemination of accumulated experience. Others are more wide ranging.
As an example of the latter, the Bank is planning, in some instances, to deal collectively with all the projects in a particular country, as it has been found that a large proportion of the
main factors in influencing project implementation may occasionally apply to all projects. For example, most of the reasons for financial difficulties may, to a large extent and at least in the short run, be matters of national policy outside the control of individual agencies or projects. Similarly, a large proportion of the so-called managerial problems may also be general to a country. Thus, problems found to be countrywide could be tackled through special missions composed of experts in macro-economic or institutional problems, while missions for supervising individual projects could concentrate on project-specific issues. In short, the supervision strategy to be followed in the country would be composed of several kinds of supervision missions, and would be based on the types of problems to be tackled.
Major changes have also taken place in the structure of the Bank's economic reporting— the analytical bedrock of Bank activities—in order to focus more closely on operational requirements. These changes will provide more time and flexibility for the Bank's regional economists to use their professional skills in the analysis of specific issues of policy relevant to a member country or to the Bank's lending strategy. The former system of regular, large,
comprehensive, and self-contained economic surveys has been replaced by a dual system comprising brief updating documents — the Country Economic Memorandum—and a Basic Economic Work Program, a series of special economic reports or sector studies which culminate in the production of a Basic Economic Report once every five or six years. During the past year, in addition to 52 brief updating reports and six Basic Economic Reports, 31 "special reports" were produced, including several concerned with the spatial aspects of development—a relatively new field for the Bank which dovetails well with the emphasis on rural-urban relationships and on attempts to reach the urban poor. Other major topics of "special reports" included employment, income distribution, planning, and financial management.
Particular attention was also directed to a review of the function of the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department. The Department reports on the efficacy of the Bank's operations evaluation system, and conducts independent reviews, on a selective basis, of Bank operations and activities. Full details of the Department's function are included in the section "Operations Evaluation" in the chapter, "Other Activities."
Eastern Africa
As in the past few years, the economic fortunes of the countries of the Eastern Africa region continued to be dominated by changes, mostly adverse, in the conditions in international markets for primary exports, and by fiscal adjustments necessitated by higher import costs. This was true even though the rate of general price advances in the industrialized countries tended to level off during the year— at least as compared with the dramatic price increases in 1974 and the first half of 1975. Generally, however, all the countries of the region are still in the process of adapting to the higher costs of imported goods. In many cases, adaptation can be measured by the forced reduction in the volume of imports, and by its consequence—slower economic growth.
The delayed recovery from recession in the industrialized countries caused any recovery in prices for some major primary commodities to be slower than might otherwise have been expected. In particular, the price of copper only hesitatingly moved forward from its record low, reached during 1975 (about 56 cents a
pound as compared with $1.20 a pound in 1974). As a consequence, those countries largely dependent on copper, Zaire and Zambia, continued to be severely limited in their capacity to import goods.
Conversely, Mauritius and Swaziland, both of which heavily depend on sugar for their foreign exchange earnings, continued to benefit from high prices. In the case of Mauritius, those prices partly offset production losses caused by the cyclone which swept across the island in the spring of 1975. Among the countries whose exports are diverse, those exporting coffee managed either to improve slightly the!'" foreign exchange earnings or to counterba, ance, in part, price falls in other commodities (Ethiopia, Kenya, and Madagascar, for instance). On the other hand, Tanzania's foreign exchange earnings fell somewhat with the drop in sisal prices.
In countries showing little improvement, or even a further deterioration in their terms of trade (Tanzania, Zaire, and Zambia), per capita real incomes declined for the second year in a
row. These countries had to take drastic measures to reduce their imports and limit government expenditures. Other countries, like Malawi or Kenya, continued to implement programs of financial austerity which were prompted by the consequences of large, unfavorable movements in commodity prices for the past two years. The effect of these programs,  combined with production-oriented
.agricultural price policies, was to reduce income disparities between rural and urban consumers.
On the whole, climatic conditions in the
^region were more favorable than in fiscal 1975, and agricultural production improved considerably in the previously drought-affected areas of Ethiopia, Somalia, and Tanzania. In Somalia, a good harvest in the summer of 1975, combined with a spring crop only slightly below average, allowed the production of maize and sorghum to approach average levels once again, following the almost total failure of the 1974/75 harvests.
The Partner States of the East African Community (Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda) continued their negotiations on a restructuring of their relations, and a high-level commission is expected to complete its review of the 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation before the end of 1976. Meanwhile, the Bank approved a $15 million loan in February 1976 to the East African Development Bank to support the efforts of the Community to promote balanced industrial development in the region. As regards the Community common services, such as the railways, harbors, and posts and telecommunications, problems of inter-regional transfer of funds required to meet the obligations of the corporations, including those for their external debt, and the operation and maintenance of assets of some of the corporations, have created difficult situations from time to time. Pending the outcome of the Treaty Review Commission, the Bank continued to provide technical assistance to, and mediation between, the Partner States in order to assist them in meeting the short-run financial and operational problems of the Com-
'munity corporations. In May 1976, the Partner States agreed to support the services and to meet their external obligations in an orderly
»and timely manner.
Lending Operations
The level of Bank lending to the region in fiscal 1975—some $656 million—was exceptionally high. In fiscal 1976, the level dropped to $440 million, though the number of projects assisted declined by only four—from 35 to 31. A major factor in the decline in Bank lending was due to delays—only overcome late in fiscal 1976—in lending to members of the East African Community (normal lending resumed to the members early in fiscal 1977). In addi-
tion, the lower level also reflected a sector and country composition of lending(1) different from that which prevailed in the previous year.
In fiscal 1976, the amount of concessionary funds provided through IDA and through the Bank's Third Window ($257.3 million) exceeded conventional Bank lending by 40%. Within this total, agriculture and rural development were given particular emphasis, with more projects in support of this sector than in any other. Substantial amounts of assistance were also directed to infrastructure, development finance companies, education, and technical assistance.
Co-financing
The scope and need for project co-financing have increased in recent years; while more projects are being prepared, their costs are steadily rising. In the Eastern Africa region, the problem of cost increases is especially burdensome, since many of the countries are among the poorest in the world. In an effort to mobilize additional resources, the Bank has worked closely with recipient countries and other aid donors to arrange for the co-financing of priority development projects.
In fiscal 1976, co-financing amounted to about $148 million for 13 projects for which Bank assistance totaled $254 million. The greatest part of this was provided by Arab oil-exporting countries, which are becoming increasingly active in project lending, and are making use of Bank project identification and appraisals as they expand their institutional capabilities for development assistance. Bank appraisals were used, for instance, by the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA), which provided $20 million of co-financing for three projects in the region. Co-financing for projects in the region was also provided by such traditional donor sources as Germany, the United Kingdom, the African Development Bank, and the United Nations Development Programme. Major recipients of co-financing were Somalia ($48.9 million), Kenya ($36 million), and Zaire ($17.7 million). In addition, co-financing also complemented Bank assistance for two projects in Burundi and Sudan, and one each in Ethiopia, Lesotho, Madagascar, Rwanda, and Tanzania.
Technical Assistance Increased
With the mounting need for additional aid flows and the severe shortage of skilled manpower for the preparation and execution of projects, the Bank increased its assistance in economic planning and project preparation
In fiscal 1975, for instance, one project in Zaire, for $100 million, in the industry sector, accounted for 15% of total Bank and IDA lending to the region, in fiscal 1976, three projects in the technical assistance sector, totaling $11.5 million, accounted for only 3% of total lending.
from its own resources. It also coordinated and executed technical assistance projects initiated by others.
Planning in Sudan, for instance, will be facilitated by a $4 million IDA credit designed especially to finance a program of project preparation studies and expand the capacity of local institutions to execute preinvestment work.
A $1.5 million technical assistance credit to Burundi will help the Government's technical planning agency integrate the work of existing advisory teams and give it a more effective orientation to investment planning. Most important, however, the assistance will help build up a pipeline of well-prepared projects. A $6 million credit to Tanzania for a similar purpose was designed to alleviate critical manpower bottlenecks. The project will provide for preinvestment and feasibility studies in industry, mining, transport, and communications, and will create a "project unit" within the Tanzania Investment Bank to assume overall responsibility for the project. Overseas training of Tanzanians in project preparation and evaluation will also be made available.
Agriculture and Rural Development
The number and the total amount of loans and credits for agricultural development in Eastern Africa, for the first time, were larger than those in any other sector. Assistance totaling $93.4 million was provided for eight projects. Some projects were aimed at directly saving or earning foreign exchange, e.g., by increasing the production of coffee in Burundi, and dairy products and maize in Tanzania. Other projects went into newer directions.
For the first time, a fisheries project—in Burundi — was assisted. The project, co-
financed in the amount of $1 million by the Abu Dhabi Fund, should, over six years, double fish production in the Burundi waters of Lake Tanganyika. The project, for which $6 million in IDA resources was committed, is a comprehensive fisheries development program designed to: (a) provide the technical assistance and training, the fishing equipment (including catamaran boats), materials, and basic services necessary to increase significantly the productivity and incomes of approximately 3,000 low-income traditional fishermen (about 1,500 are now employed and another 1,500 will be trained as fishermen) and their families; (b) expand and improve fish preservation facilities; and (c) improve marketing facilities and extend them throughout Burundi.
The Bank is also increasingly supporting broad-based rural development programs which benefit large numbers of people at relatively low cost, and which strike a balance between food and cash crop production.
This strategy has been adopted in Malawi, where it is known as the National Rural Development Program (NRDP). Following a Bank mission in 1973, the Government decided to extend, over the next 20 years, its integrated agricultural schemes to cover all rural areas in the country. A $9.2 million Bank loan on Third Window terms was made during the year to Malawi to help finance the preliminary activities of the NRDP. In addition, the loan will help provide agricultural services to farmers in the Karonga area in the relatively intensive fashion which has been the past pattern in Malawi. With Bank assistance to the Karonga project, extension and training services will be expanded, as will animal husbandry and veterinary services. Rural roads will be constructed. Government services responsible for preparing and
A Bank loan of $20 million is being used to help finance the cost of upgrading squatter areas in Lusaka, the capital of Zambia. In some cases, home owners are building new houses around their old ones.
implementing the NRDP will be strengthened with additional staff and, if necessary, by short-term consultants for specialized studies on the organization of national credit facilities. Through such a broad approach, this program not only aims at raising agricultural productivity, but also at redistributing incomes in ,favor of the rural poor.
Two projects, where the focus is narrower, demonstrate that narrow focus does not necessarily imply narrow impact. * Tanzania's National Maize Project seeks to end the country's dependence on grain imports through self-sufficiency in maize production by 1982. Self-sufficiency would save Tanzania $10 million yearly in foreign exchange. Taking part in the project, for which an $18 million IDA credit was extended (BADEA is lending $5 million towards the project's cost), will be almost 1,000 villages in high-potential, maize-growing areas. Seeds, fertilizer, insecticides, and herbicides will be distributed to 380,000 participating families in the villages, and essential storage and transportation facilities will be provided.
The responsibility for implementing the project will rest, to a great extent, upon regional authorities who were closely involved in the preparation of the project. Annual cash incomes of the participating families are expected to increase by about 20%, or $42.
The focus of the Rangelands Development Project in Ethiopia is on cattle, but the scope of the project is vast. The project, aided by a $27 million IDA credit (with co-financing of about $5.5 million by the African Development Fund), is attempting to restructure Ethiopia's traditional system of livestock production, in which animals are held as a source of subsistence, prestige, and as a hedge against uncertainty. That restructuring is possible at all at this time is due partly to the fact that losses of about 15% have occurred in cattle herds as a result of recent droughts:-
Three areas in different parts of the country (about 500,000 square kilometers, in all) will be provided with an integrated program of range management and veterinary services, along with improved roads and water facilities. It is
estimated that family incomes of affected herders might increase by about 40%, that the diet of 100,000 families will be improved through increased milk production, and that the program will lay the foundation for a sound development of the country's livestock economy.
Other Activities, Projects
Much of the assistance provided by the Bank and IDA during the year was designed to help the governments of the region diversify their economies or expand exports. The development of development finance companies (DFCs) is one way for a country to build up the export potential of its local industries and, at the same time, overcome its dependence on one or a few commodities for its foreign exchange earnings. This was one of the objectives of loans and credits made during the year for DFCs in Kenya, Mauritius, Sudan, Tanzania, and Zambia. As an example, the Government of Zambia, anxious to diversify its copper-dependent economy, has recently established a development bank (DBZ) to play an important role in the promotion of medium-scale enterprises and the appraisal of industrial projects. (The DBZ is essentially the only local source of medium-term and long-term finance to the private sector.) With a $15 million loan made during the year, the Bank will be assisting this new institution and the country's efforts to broaden its economic base.
A major increase in lending for education in the region took place in fiscal 1975, and Bank involvement in the sector continued through fiscal 1976 in the form of support for five education projects (in Botswana, Kenya, Malawi, Tanzania, and Zaire). Activities assisted through Bank financing ranged from the construction of a new Education Broadcasting and Multimedia Station (in Kenya) to the on-the-job skill training of primary school leavers through the Botswana Youth Brigade Program, and the training of managers for 7,500 ujamaa villages (in Tanzania).
The increase in fuel prices in 1974 made generation of electricity from hydroelectric schemes more attractive; a $63 million loan was made to Kenya to help finance the construction of a third hydroelectric power station on the upper Tana River. This third station, which will complete the planned Seven Forks hydro development on the Tana, is expected to go into commercial operation by 1979. A diversion dam with an integral spillway will be built, together with an underground power station, designed for three 67 Mw generating sets. Substations and associated transmission lines will also be constructed.
In Sudan, a $20 million loan on Third Window terms and an IDA credit of $9 million will help finance a major domestic aviation project,
the first such Bank activity in Africa. In addition to providing cheaper and more reliable air services in a vast country with poor surface transportation facilities, the project will help promote, among the regions of the country, greater administrative and social cohesiveness, which is essential to integrated economic and political development.
In Lesotho, a $5.5 million credit (together with $1.5 million in co-financing from the United Kingdom) will help improve and reconstruct the road between Maseru, the capital and commercial center of the country, and Thaba Tseka in the central mountain region. An unusual feature of the credit is that it also provides finance for the establishment of a labor-intensive construction unit. With its large migrant labor force, Lesotho is highly vulnerable to conditions in South Africa. In early 1974, Lesotho was faced with the sudden return of large numbers of migrant workers. Most of these workers eventually returned to South Africa, but the risk of similar occurrences, which may be of longer duration, remains real.
In order to be prepared for these eventualities, the Government wants to develop a capability to use labor-intensive techniques in the execution of civil works. The labor-intensive construction unit to be financed by the project will train supervisory staff in labor-intensive techniques and labor management, formulate procedures for large-scale adoption of labor-intensive techniques, and develop an inventory of suitable projects.
An $8 million emergency allocation of IDA resources to Somalia—with co-financing from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development ($22.4 million), and the African Development Fund ($5.5 million)—will help prepare 15,000 hectares of land for emergency settlement by destitute nomadic refugees from the drought of 1973 and 1974. Three resettlement schemes will be located in the riverine southern part of the country. It is believed that maize and sorghum production could provide food for about 35,000 settlers after the areas are cleared of bush. In addition, the Kuwait Fund is providing $21 million to finance the rehabilitation of the country's northern rangeland area as part of Somalia's national drought rehabilitation program.
Zaire's urban population has tripled since the country's independence in 1960, but few investments have been made in the water supply sector since that time. In 1973, the World Health Organization recommended a substantial development program for Zaire's major cities; an IDA credit of $21.5 million, together with co-financers, will help finance a major water production, storage, and distribution project for six of Zaire's principal cities (other than Kinshasa). The project will provide water to about 1.5 million people, of whom about 1 million are now without access to piped water.
Western Africa
Developments in the region during fiscal 1976 were marked by generally good harvests on the one hand and sharp deteriorations in terms of trade on the other. The latter development, together with a slow growth in ex-'ports, eroded the region's capacity to import, reduced public revenues and savings and, with the major exception of Nigeria, cut down investments in real terms.
Favorable weather and, in some instances, higher producer prices, contributed to good harvests during the year in most countries, and food import requirements, largely financed through grant aid, were not as high as in preceding years. Several Sahelian countries experienced bumper crops, and filled their storage bins to the rim for the first time in many years. Rice production elsewhere in the region expanded so rapidly that several countries reached, or were approaching, self-sufficiency. A notable exception to this general pattern of
increased agricultural production was Niger. There, the premature end of the rains, along with plant diseases, substantially reduced groundnut production and kept production below normal. Internal transportation problems, high marketing costs, and insufficient storage facilities continued to hamper distribution of food within many countries, however, and livestock production in the Sahelian countries continued to reflect the heavy losses caused by the drought of earlier years.
While the overall short-term food supply situation has much improved since the critical drought-stricken years of 1972 and 1973, the medium-term economic outlook of many oil-importing countries in the region was clouded by serious increases in pressures on their limited resources, resulting from adverse international price developments and slow export growth. The impact of increases in oil prices in 1973 and 1974, as well as of accelerated gen-
eral price inflation of imports that followed, has now made itself fully felt. At the same time, partly as a result of the recession in the industrialized countries, the prices of many key exports (cocoa and groundnuts, for instance) have stagnated or declined. Indeed, the import capacity of the region as a whole, including Nigeria, fell by an estimated 10% to 15% during the year, as compared with fiscal 1975. The spectacular rise of Nigeria's external reserves during 1973 and 1974 appears to have leveled off since mid-1975; external reserves in the oil-importing countries have generally fallen or have become negative; and the budgetary situation of several governments has become critical.
Few countries in the region were able to resist increased pressures for higher wages and salaries resulting from the strong import-induced domestic price inflation that became a prominent feature of their economies for the first time since the early 1960s. Significant general wage increases for public sector employees and organized labor shielded these groups from the worst effects of inflation; but others, with little or no protection—in particular, farm laborers, unorganized urban workers, and the unemployed—saw their already marginal living standards decline. While benefiting from greater crop production, peasant farmers in most countries had to be content with 1974/75 prices for their produce. In general, however, their situation improved.
Investment programs in Western African countries have been adversely affected by the rising costs of capital equipment and construction. This rise has been due both to increased costs of goods exported by industrialized countries, and to the rise in construction demand in the oil-producing countries with which other countries must compete internationally for construction contracts and services.
For example, the dollar costs per hectare of irrigation projects in Chad and Niger have about doubled within the past two years, as have the costs for road projects already under way in Benin, Cameroon, and Mali. The increases are also reflected in new or revised medium-term investment programs prepared during fiscal 1976 in many countries in the region, including Cameroon, The Gambia, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta.
While costs rose, the capacity of many governments to contribute domestic resources to investment finance—though there were substantial differences among them—was eroded. Good harvests reduced food import requirements in the poorer, landlocked countries. But, at the same time, there was little scope to raise government revenues (which depend mainly on foreign trade), as the prices of their principal agricultural exports, groundnuts and cotton, began to decline. In the better off and more diversified agricultural coastal countries, the output of cash crops expanded and export prices were somewhat better, especially for coffee. Prices of cocoa and timber, on the other hand, were lower than last year, and the servicing of debts on public borrowing from private sources began to claim a higher share of available revenues. The revenue positions of the Western African mineral producers were, on the whole, much stronger than in the early 1970s, but prices for bauxite and phosphate weakened during 1975, and production in some countries, including the petroleum producers, was less than had been expected at the beginning of the year.
During the course of the year, a number of steps were taken to adjust economic policies and the allocation of resources to the changing economic environment. Thus, as part of a general reform of the monetary systems in Franc
A farmer's wife in Upper Volta pounds sorghum. AboutlOO,000 families living on small farms are benefiting from three IDA credits totaling $23.6 million for rural development in Upper Volta.
Area countries, the basic central bank discount rate was raised in July 1975 to 8%, bringing the structure of interest rates throughout the area more closely in line with world capital market conditions. The reform also helped stem the pressure for capital outflows associated with previous interest rate differentials. At the same time, to encourage small national
'enterprises, special facilities were authorized at lower rediscount rates. Central government borrowings expanded in most countries (in
jome cases, to authorized limits); and some countries, having access to foreign capital markets, borrowed quite heavily abroad. Despite the weakness in agricultural commodity markets, efforts were made to maintain the incomes of cash crop farmers, and producer prices increased in some areas.
To help alleviate the resource squeeze currently affecting many countries in the region, the Bank increased its lending, particularly to the poorest among them, i.e., those in the Sahel. Moreover, this increased lending was generally on concessionary terms through greater use of IDA resources and Bank loans on Third Win-
dow— instead of conventional — terms. In addition, the Bank provided supplementary financing for unusually large cost overruns resulting from the rise in import prices and/or currency realignments. The Bank's overall program continued to meet the needs for long-term structural changes, with particular emphasis on helping the poor, both urban and rural.
The Bank's economic work in fiscal 1976 concentrated on newly prepared development plans in seven countries. In many cases, this work was in response to government requests for an independent view of their sectoral priorities and development policies. The work also helped the Bank shape future lending and technical assistance programs in the nations concerned. Though the emergence of severe financial constraints in the public sector and in the balance of payments provided the focus for much of the Bank's economic work, some special studies were also initiated on migration and urban unemployment as a first step towards tackling the complex task of determining the possibilities for, and dimensions of,
Bank approaches to these issues in Western Africa.
Bank and IDA Activities
In fiscal 1976, Bank and IDA lending in the region continued its upward trend, supported by substantially increased IDA credits and four loans under the Third Window facility. Bank lending, on the other hand, declined somewhat. At $450.1 million, the year's overall lending exceeded last year's total, itself a record, by 5.8%. Compared with the fiscal 1969-73 annual average, the year's achievement represented an increase of 154%. Significantly, IDA lending in fiscal 1976 increased even faster, by 165% over the fiscal 1969-73 annual average, and by 31% over fiscal 1975 amounts, reaching a record high of $158.3 million. On an exceptional basis, IDA granted supplementary credits totaling $24 million to help finance the heavy cost overruns on previously approved road projects in Benin and Cameroon. Loans on Third Window terms amounted to $48.6 million, or 12% of the aggregate Bank and IDA total. Because there was no lending to Nigeria during the year, Bank lending on conventional terms, of $243.2 million, was down 20% from its peak of fiscal 1975. The number of projects rose from 30 in 1975 to 34. There were again several innovative approaches in lending.
Features of the year's activities included: continued emphasis on rural development; promotion of local industry and small-scale enterprise; two large projects of regional importance; and increased co-financing activities. In addition, the program for the control of riverblindness went ahead. Rural development was advanced through projects not only in the agricultural sector per se, but also in other sectors, such as education and, especially, transportation. In fact, virtually all transportation improvements benefit crop, livestock, and timber production, so important for the livelihood of most of the people in most of the countries of the region. Lending for agriculture and transportation, taken together, accounted for two-thirds of the number of projects, and 72% of the volume of lending. While this percentage is somewhat lower than the average for fiscal years 1974 and 1975 (83%), it exceeded substantially the corresponding fiscal 1969-73 annual average of 56%. The remainder of the year's activities was concentrated mostly in the industrial sector, which accounted for 19.2% of aggregate lending, due mainly to one large regional project.
Promoting Rural Development
Projects of particular interest approved during the year included, first of all, the Maradi Integrated Rural Development Project in Niger, assisted by an IDA credit of $10.7 million. Designed to increase the incomes of some of the
poorest people in Western Africa, the project features production packages—extension, applied research, credit, and input supply—aimed at improving groundnut, millet, and cowpea production, and at livestock development by pastoralists whose herds were thinned during the Sahelian drought. It also includes expansion of educational and training programs, a study for developing the irrigation potential of the Goulbi River in Maradi Province, a pilot irrigation project, the construction of 80 kilometers of feeder roads, and the planting of 500 hectares in fuelwood plantations. As many as 37,500 farm families and 14,000 pastoral families will directly benefit.
Initiating the development of one of Western Africa's major natural resources, the Lake Chad Polders Project in Chad, supported with $5 million in IDA resources, consists of the rehabilitation and completion of the irrigation and drainage networks of Guini polder and the construction of the same for Berim polder. (A polder is a tract of low land, which, reclaimed from the water, is protected from water by dikes.) The project holds out the promise of drought protection and high yields of food crops, in addition to cotton. It will eventually benefit 1,200 farm families, raising per capita income from $35 to about $145. A livestock project in Senegal, aided by an IDA credit of $4.2 million, represents a significant step towards the rationalization of livestock production through the settlement of nomadic pastoralists. The project will assist about 30,000 rural families in eastern Senegal—75% of whom fall within the categories of absolute and relative poverty—to increase their incomes and raise nutritional standards. A controlled grazing scheme will be developed, and effective veterinary, extension, and credit services will be provided. Each of the 6,500 herder families benefiting from the grazing scheme is expected to nearly double (to $670) its annual average cash income from livestock production; some 24,000 other rural families, benefiting only from the improved animal health services, are expected to increase their incomes from $250 to $310.
An education project in Cameroon, assisted by a Bank loan of $17 million on Third Window terms, emphasizes development of agricultural and rural health education through appropriately designed programs in new or expanded institutions. The project will help improve the management of agricultural education, increase the number and quality of extension personnel, start a new program for higher agricultural technicians, and support rural health training. Supporting agriculture in its own right, the Second Highway Project in Ghana also features an innovative approach to promoting the domestic construction industry. About one-quarter of the funds from the $18 million Bank loan and $10 million in IDA resources will be provided to the Bank for Hous-
ing and Construction (BHC) for on-lending to qualified domestic road contractors and quarry operators engaged in road improvement and maintenance operations. This channeling of funds through the BHC for equipment purchases and provision of technical assistance is expected to strengthen also the BHC as an institution, and ultimately, aid long-term efforts to stimulate domestic construction enterprises. The project involves the effective maintenance "of about 22,000 kilometers of main and feeder roads.
The year also saw the approval of two large ^projects with regional impact. A Bank loan of $60miliion will help finance the CIMAO Clinker Project, jointly sponsored by the Governments of Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo. Based on abundant limestone deposits 80 kilometers northeast of Lome in Togo, a newly established clinker plant will provide two-thirds of the three countries' requirements for cement manufacture in the early 1980s. CIMAO will also assist the three Governments in arranging imports of clinker, thus making it a unique regional venture serving both anglophone and francophone countries. Seven bilateral and multilateral agencies are participating in the project under the leadership of the Bank. The Second Railway Project in Congo, aided by a Bank loan of $38 million, is, in fact, the 1974-78 investment plan of the Agence Transcongo-laise des Communications which aims at, among other things, financing investments to satisfy traffic demands originating in a large area of central Africa, including the People's Republic of Congo, the Central African Republic, southeastern Cameroon, southern Gabon and, to a lesser extent, southern Chad. Eight bilateral and multilateral aid agencies have joined the Bank in helping finance this important project, the total cost of which exceeds $200 million.
Developing Traditional Enterprises
The approach to urban problems in Western Africa has so far largely been guided by studies of urban unemployment and the "informal" 'sector. In the Bank's first project of the kind in Africa, an IDA credit of $3 million was approved to help develop traditional enterprises Jn Cameroon. The credit will enable the Banque Camerounaise de Developpement to finance the establishment and expansion of small-scale and medium-scale manufacturing, and artisan, service, transport, repair, and construction firms. About 80 such enterprises will be assisted, representing total investments of about $11 million, and employment will be created for about 1,000 skilled workers. The experimental project will explore the full potential of the "informal" sector, in which entrepreneurs normally rely on traditional technologies and operate independently of institutions. Similarly, a Bank loan of $5.6 million will assist
the development of small-scale industries in Ivory Coast. Three activities—woodworking, car repair workshops, and bakeries—have already been identified as suitable for project assistance. The loan will generate an estimated total investment of about $9.4 million, thus permitting the establishment or extension of some 130 small-scale enterprises and the creation of about 1,600 jobs, especially in urban areas.
Co-financing Expanded
The Bank also increased its efforts to mobilize external resources through co-financing schemes. In fiscal 1976, official co-financers included Canada, France, Germany, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, the African Development Bank (AfDB), the African Development Fund (the soft loan affiliate of the AfDB), the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa , the European Development Fund, and the European Investment Bank. Co-financing from these and private sources involved 16 of the year's 34 projects and totaled $407 million, or one and one-half times (155%) Bank and IDA assistance ($260.6 million) for the projects concerned. By comparison, co-financing in fiscal 1975 involved 11 of 30 projects, and added $53.5 million to the $85.7 million of Bank and IDA assistance.
The program for the control of riverblindness (onchocerciasis) in the Volta River basin entered its second phase during the year. The disease, which is transmitted by a species of black fly and ultimately causes partial or total blindness, has forced thousands of people to move away from some of the most fertile river valleys in Benin, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta. Of the 10 million people living in the affected areas, about 1 million have the disease, and at least 70,000 of them are blind or have serious sight impairment. The primary objective of the control program is to eliminate the breeding of the fly in specific target zones. Aerial application of larvicides to kill the vector started in 1974 in parts of Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali, and Upper Volta. During the current second phase of the program, aerial application of the larvicides has been extended into additional areas of these four countries.
The Joint Coordinating Committee, which oversees the program, and is composed of representatives of governments and international agencies, held its second meeting in Paris in December 1975 under the chairmanship of M.C. Candau, former Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO). The program, jointly sponsored by the World Bank, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), WHO, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), is designed to clear the way for eventual resettlement and economic development of the potentially productive areas affected by the disease.
East Asia and Pacific
The past year was again a difficult one for most countries in the East Asia and Pacific region. Nonetheless, their economic prospects at the end of the year were not as gloomy as they had been 12 months earlier. The economic difficulties which began in 1974 persisted, but in less acute form. Among those difficulties, especially pronounced was the deterioration in the terms of trade which, for most countries in the region, started during 1974; the full impact of the deterioration was felt through the whole of 1975.
The combination of a slackening demand for the region's exports (due to the international recession), and a worsening in the terms of trade, led to an abrupt rise in current account balance of payments deficits for the larger countries in 1975. The exception was the Republic of Korea, where the terms of trade deterioration had occurred early and had already led to a deficit of $2,000 million in 1974. This was reduced slightly in 1975.
The most dramatic change was in Indonesia's current account deficit, which increased from $80 million in 1974 to $1,200 million in 1975, reflecting lower-than-expected oil revenues, a
sharp drop in the prices of its other major commodity exports, and a rapid increase in imports of investment goods. Thailand's balance of payments changed from rough balance in 1974 to a current account deficit of about $550 million in 1975, as the country's volume of exports remained unchanged and its terms of trade deteriorated by 10% compared with 1974.
The Philippines experienced a fourfold increase in its current account deficit, from $207 million in 1974 to $860 million in 1975, as the prices of most of its major exports (sugar, copper, and copra) fell drastically. The high prices of the Philippines' commodity exports had earlier cushioned the effect of the substantial rise in the prices of petroleum and other imports. Thus, in 1974, the Philippines' terms of trade actually improved by nearly 12%, but, a year later, they deteriorated by an unprecedented 33%.
Large balance of payments deficits posed considerable financing problems for the countries of the region. Short-term borrowings increased as the inflows of medium-term and long-term capital failed to keep pace with requirements, and net international reserves
dropped particularly sharply in Indonesia and the Philippines. In the Republic of Korea, net international reserves, already greatly reduced in 1974, showed some recovery.
Fortunately, the international reserves for most of these countries had improved during 1973 and 1974, and the initial level of short-term debt was relatively modest. Also, partly as a result of recent international inflation, the real burden of servicing medium-term and long-
,term debt was not very heavy, as measured by the ratio of debt service to export receipts.
The foreign exchange difficulties experienced by most countries have had inevitable effects
* on economic growth rates. On the whole, however, growth rates held up well, notwithstanding the existence of balance of payments problems and a slowdown of investment growth. Korea had a growth rate of about 7.5% during 1975, as compared with 8.6% in 1974; it was able to continue growth partly as a result of successful efforts in finding new markets for its exports (its major trading partners, the United States and Japan, were both in the throes of recession).
Similarly, in the Philippines and Indonesia, growth rate declines were moderate in 1975, in part because of higher agricultural production. In Thailand, the growth rate rose from 4% to 6% as agricultural output rebounded from the drought-affected 1974 level. The growth in Malaysia's gross national product (GNP), on the other hand, was only about 2%, as the demand for its major exports, rubber and forestry products, was affected by the international recession. Agricultural output in Malaysia remained at the previous year's level.
As a whole, the region benefited from higher agricultural output and improved food supply; harvests were generally good everywhere as a result of better weather conditions and increased supplies of fertilizer at lower prices.
Despite the relatively favorable trends in agricultural production, incomes and employment for the mass of the people tended to deteriorate during 1975. This deterioration was due to some slackening in economic activity and unfavorable price movements. Adjusted for changes in the terms of trade, per capita real in* comes failed to grow in most countries. Though a large part of the impact of the worsening terms of trade was borne by the rural population (which earned less even though agricultural output increased), it was the urban population which suffered most because of rising unemployment. The loss in agricultural incomes through deteriorating terms of trade partially offset gains made during the earlier commodity boom, and agricultural terms of trade during 1975 often were only marginally, if at all, better than in 1972.
The slower rise in import prices, the improved supply of foodgrains, and the reduction in major commodity prices helped reduce inflationary pressures in most countries. Prices
rose rapidly in some countries, however, although not as rapidly as in previous years.
In Indonesia, inflation was 20%, compared with 40% in 1974; in the Republic of Korea, 26%, compared with 42%. Philippines, Malaysia, and Thailand experienced more marked declines. In the Philippines, the rate fell from 33% to 10%; in Malaysia, from 17% to 5%; and in Thailand, from 24% to 4%. In all cases, price increases slowed as governments, in their attempts to curb inflation, adopted more conservative monetary and credit policies.
Agricultural Development
Although food supplies increased in the region, the need for accelerated agricultural production continued to present a challenge to the countries. To help meet this challenge, the Bank devoted 32.2% of its lending in the region in fiscal 1976 to agriculture and rural development. In fiscal 1975, only 20% of Bank lending was devoted to the sector.
Lending for projects in the region during fiscal 1976—no IDA resources were committed— totaled $1,458.5 million, or $482 million above the previous year's record total. Of that amount, $101 million was on Third Window terms. More projects (35) were financed than ever before. (In fiscal 1975, assistance was provided to 24 projects.) Agricultural lending increased two and a half times ($470 million as against $193 million) and there was a similar increase in the transportation sector ($342 million as opposed to $124.4 million).
In the agricultural sector, the Bank has aided ongoing government development programs, especially those which affect smallholders.
An example of such an approach is a rubber replanting project in Thailand. After rice, rubber—which is cultivated in the country's southern region—is Thailand's most important export, accounting for almost 10% of export earnings. Many of the rubber trees are low-yielding varieties and are overdue for replacement. The Government is encouraging smallholders to replant by giving them financial help through a Rubber Replanting Aid Fund, set up in 1960. More than 160,000 hectares have been replanted with rubber trees. A Bank loan of $50 million will help speed up the process so that all rubber trees can be replaced before the end of their economic life. Cultivation, processing, and marketing practices will also be improved.
One noteworthy feature of the project involves the strengthening and expansion of group marketing organizations. Through joint action, small groups of neighboring producers may expect to improve the quality of their rubber, thereby obtaining a better price. The project will largely benefit smallholders. A typical producer, working on a 2.4-hectare plot, may expect a fivefold increase in income, from $350 at present to $1,750 a year, when the
newly planted trees mature. About 30,000 jobs will also be created annually beginning in 1978/79.
In the Republic of Korea, the Government's national rural development program aims at helping rural dwellers earn more from their labor and at improving their living conditions, largely through self-help efforts. The program, which also aims at creating more jobs, became all the more important in the past two years, during which time the country's economy, which depends on exporting finished products to industrialized countries, was beset by the effects of higher petroleum prices and the world recession.
To aid the program's infrastructure, the Bank approved a $60 million loan to help finance the construction of small irrigation schemes benefiting about 400 villages, improve farming methods in 35 upland areas, and establish 11,000 fuelwood plantations. In addition, 850 kilometers of farm and village roads and some 2,700 rural electrification schemes will be financed; about 2,000 villages will be provided with dependable water supplies. Communal labor will keep the cost of the project low, and promote the self-reliance and the local enthusiasm necessary to the success of the program. The project will help to increase food production, rural incomes, and employment opportunities. As many as 4 million people in 15,000 villages—about 30% of the rural population— will benefit. The benefits will result from the intensification of agricultural production, opening up of new farmland, expansion of fuelwood production, reduction in transport costs, and an improvement in the quality of rural life.
In Fiji, sugar contributes 10% to the country's GNP and 70% of merchandise export earnings. A recent project forms a major part of
the Government effort to reverse the recent decline in production through improved drainage and by preventing salt water intrusion in low-lying coastal areas.
Production of raw sugar has declined by 80,000 tons since 1970. The project, assisted by a Bank loan of $12 million, will increase production of sugar cane by some 330,000 tons by 1985. This amount would result in raw sugar exports of 41,000 tons, and should earn the country about $13 million in foreign exchange yearly.
The larger part of the project involves the reconstruction of seawalls and the improvement of drainage on some 10,700 hectares of low-lying coastal land. Drainage promises to yield quick returns and to increase sugar cane production by some 200,000 tons. About 2,600 farm families will benefit. The second part of the project involves the production of about 130,000 tons of sugar cane in a settlement scheme on Vanua Levu Island. About 3,200 hectares of land will be cleared for planting in sugar cane. Settlers will be provided first-year subsistence loans, "sites and services" will be provided for a new township, and almost 200 kilometers of farm access roads will be built.
In Indonesia, the increasing concern for more effective utilization of the country's physical resources was reflected in a $46 million National Resource Survey and Mapping Program, supported by parallel financing from the Canadian International Development Agency ($19 million) and the Bank ($13 million).
As the lack of suitable maps and resource data has hampered project identification and preparation in Indonesia, several earlier IDA credits have included funds for aerial photo mapping and surveys in specific project areas.
An Indonesian midwife describes family planning methods and the use of an intra-uterine loop device to village women in Bali. An IDA credit of $13.2 million is helping the Indonesian Government carry out a major expansion in its family planning program.
This project, however, provides the first coordinated assistance in resource survey and mapping activities, and is a first step toward systematic ecological management of the major and relatively undeveloped resources of Indonesia.
Improved management of forestry, fisheries, and mineral resources is expected to resultfrom {he project, which also calls for processing and evaluation of data collected by the Earth Resources and Technology Satellite (ERTS).
Improving the Urban Habitat
Concern for conditions in rapidly expanding urban areas is reflected in the assistance for two_projects in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. A Bank loan of $26 million will support Government measures to make more efficient use of existing and planned transport facilities in the metropolitan area. The loan will help pay for the construction of 11 kilometers of new roads and the improvement of 16 kilometers of existing
roads. These roads will form part of a network of routes on which buses and other high-occupancy vehicles will be given priority or even exclusive use. Other measures, such as increased parking charges and minibus services, are expected to increase the efficiency of the transport system. In addition, by providing over 2,000 squatter households with improved infrastructure services on, and tenure of, their present lots, the project will help to improve urban housing conditions.
A $21.5 million loan, benefiting the Kuala Lumpur area, will help finance the first stage of a 30-year master plan to extend sewerage facilities and improve standards of health and sanitation. Eighty-four kilometers of lateral sewers and 26 kilometers of trunk sewers will be constructed; in addition, three new sewage treatment facilities will be built. By 1981, some 400,000 people (or 45% of the city's present population) will have sewerage service; this is double the number now served.
Bank assistance for the Philippines Government's ambitious program for upgrading Manila slums points to a newer area of interest. Coming up with inexpensive solutions to urban squatter problems is complex and difficult, particularly when it involves the upgrading of conditions in situ rather than investing in resettlement.
With a Bank loan of $32 million ($10 million is on Third Window terms), Manila's Tondo foreshore area will be improved with the provision of water supply, sewers, surface drainage, roads, and footpaths for 180,000 people living on 180 hectares. One thousand serviced lots will be constructed on vacant land, and school and health facilities will be provided; health programs will deal with malnutrition and endemic diseases. A total of 2,000 serviced lots, together with community health and education facilities, and a small, first stage of an industrial estate for labor-intensive businesses, will be established in the neighboring area of Dagat-Dagatan.
In order to revitalize public transport services (upon which low-income and moderate-income families depend), the project will also support low-cost improvements in Manila's transport services and a better road network to divert port traffic away from congested urban areas.
Transport and Industry
In recent years, the Bank has given increasing attention to the needs of both the rural and urban poor. It has not, however, neglected infrastructure and public utilities projects, which continue to be essential to economic development. Bank loans in these sectors accounted for nearly 40% of the year's lending in the region.
A notable infrastructure project approved in fiscal 1976 is for highways in Indonesia. The Bank's fourth highway project in the country, it is a part of a program covering about 12,000 kilometers of high priority road links (slightly less than one-third of the national and provincial road networks). The project requires the decentralization of road maintenance and administration, and the development of local consultants and contractors. Previous highway projects assisted by the Bank in Indonesia included both construction and feasibility studies for future work. This project goes much further in that it aims at assisting the Directorate-General of Highways to plan and execute sys-
tematically this massive road improvement program.
Thus, the project, for which the Bank loaned $130 million, will not only finance the rehabilitation of 1,100 kilometers of priority roads in Java, Sumatera, Bali, and north Sulawesi, but will also assist the Directorate-General of Highways to assess the extent of road improvements required in the most important traffic corridors and also to develop systems for detailed feasibility studies. Improved rehabilitation methods will make frequent repaving unnecessary and will release resources for work on secondary and tertiary roads.
In the past year, the Bank continued to support industrial development through loans to development finance companies in the Philippines and the Republic of Korea. In the latter, small and medium-sized industries accounted in 1974 for almost half the industrial employment, over one-third of the country's merchandise exports, and about 28% of industrial value added. They look mainly to the Medium Industry Bank (MIB) as their most important source of term finance, especially of foreign exchange.
At the end of 1974, 70% of the sector's enterprises were MIB borrowers. A Bank loan of $30 million—the first to this institution—will finance about half of MIB's foreign currency commitments during the period 1976-77. About 50% of MIB's lending will be outside the two major cities of Seoul and Pusan, reflecting the need for improved regional balance in industrial development.
Education
Among developing countries, the Philippines has some of the highest enrollment rates in primary and secondary schools. However, the supply of textbooks falls short of demand; public primary schools have an average of only one book per subject for every 10 pupils. A $25 million Bank loan will assist the Government in improving its capacity for continuous development and supply of textbooks. The project will support curriculum development centers and establish staff development centers and selected high schools for testing new books, and training teachers in their use. It will also help finance the production and distribution of 27 million textbooks. Thus, the project will improve educational opportunities, particularly for students from low-income families.
South Asia
Economic conditions in South Asia were considerably better in the year ending June 1976 than in the preceding three years—the severe blow dealt by the jump in the prices of oil, food, fertilizer, and other essential imports in fiscal 1974 notwithstanding.
There were several reasons for improved economic conditions. The most important was the good monsoon, which resulted in ample harvests in most countries of the region. Thus, after several poor agricultural years, food supplies increased substantially.
Larger food supplies, together with strong financial stabilization efforts initiated by most governments, were effective in stopping or slowing inflation for the first time in several years. Increased foreign financial support to the region from both multilateral and bilateral sources, including OPEC (Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries) funds for some countries in the region, also helped efforts to tackle terms of trade problems.
It was possible, therefore, for the region to avoid the really severe reductions in essential imports that would otherwise have been necessary. Considerable efforts by the countries
themselves to conserve energy and to use substitute fuels, such as coal for oil, also helped to soften the impact of adverse terms of trade.
Development Problems Remain
The improved economic conditions of the past year should not, however, obscure the fundamental development problems of the region. Nor should they be allowed to distract attention from world price changes, which aggravated investment problems by causing large deficits and by increasing the already heavy debt burden in the region. (The effects of the price changes can be measured by the sudden and marked increase in the region's aggregate trade deficit in fiscal 1975 to some $4,500 million, a fivefold increase over fiscal 1973.)
The world's most populous region, South Asia faces enormous development problems. The population has been increasing at 2% to 3% a year, and close to half the "absolute poverty"'1' among the Bank's member coun-
<J> "Absolute poverty," defined as the condition of some 900 million people in the developing world who live on incomes of less than S75 a year.
tries is concentrated there. Productivity is particularly low and years of effort have shown only modest growth in productivity. Few gains have reached the very poor.
India's foodgrain harvest, thanks to favorable weather conditions, reached an estimated 116 million tons, 7% above the record reached in fiscal 1971. This was a welcome change from the years since 1973, which had been among the most difficult the country had faced since independence. They were plagued with a succession of poor crops, a dramatic, adverse shift in the terms of trade, and inflation. The bumper foodgrain harvest in the year created some stress on the available foodgrain storage facilities in India. (The problem also exists in Bangladesh and, to a lesser degree, Pakistan and Burma.)
Other agricultural commodities also reached new production peaks. In addition, more fuel, cement, coal, steel, and other basic commodities became available; transport problems also eased. The increased supplies, together with controls on demand, enabled the Government to score a major success in controlling inflation.
Improvement in the industrial sector, however, was not matched to the same extent. To stimulate the sector, the Government increased public investment and placed greater emphasis on export promotion. Its investment, which had fallen in the previous two years, rose by about 16% during the year.
While India seems to have weathered its short-term problems, it continues to face major, long-term challenges. Population growth remains high, and the task of implementing programs to raise the productivity of millions living in poverty continues to be difficult. In response to these challenges, the Government substantially increased its development expen-
ditures (90% of its total capital formation, or about $12,000 million, is financed through its internal resources). Particular emphasis was placed on agriculture and energy. Population control continues to be a special concern of policy, as reflected in India's large family planning program.
The economic situation in Pakistan was also better in fiscal 1976, and overall growth is expected to be around 4%, compared with 2.6% in the previous year. Agricultural growth is projected to be around 3.5%, with record or near-record harvests expected in wheat, rice, sugar cane, and maize as a result of improved weather and, especially, the availability of more water. Agricultural performance would have been even better but for the poor cotton crop, which could be 20% to 25% lower than in fiscal 1975, due to flood damage and weevil attack. Value added in industry was estimated to have risen by 4.8% compared with 3% in the previous year, as a result of improved agricultural conditions (so great is the weight of agriculture on the economy) and an improved investment climate and credit availability.
Pakistan has succeeded in maintaining a rising trend of real investment, in spite of adverse terms of trade and balance of payments problems, and domestic resource constraints, which reflect a marked decline in the rate of saving. Fixed investment increased by 20% in real terms in fiscal 1975 and may have increased by 18% in fiscal 1976. Much of the increase is taking place in the public sector, but private investment is also expected to rise with the Government's clarification of its position on compensation to be paid to nationalized industries and assurances that no further nationalization is being planned. Growth in investment in the past two years has been made possible
by large inflows of foreign capital, mainly from OPEC members, Pakistan consortium sources, the International Monetary Fund, and the Bank.
There are, however, major areas of concern in Pakistan's economic outlook. The attainment of satisfactory long-run growth and a favorable balance of payments requires a marked rise in agricultural and industrial production, combined with a substantial increase in domestic savings, so that exports can be expanded and reliance on foreign capital decreased.
Pakistan has ample potential for meeting these requirements, but the task is a demanding one. A revival of more rapid agricultural development is particularly crucial along the promising lines of increasing the area and productivity of high-yielding foodgrain varieties, expanding and arranging for more effective management of the irrigation system, and promoting better use of water at the farm level. Agricultural programs along these lines, together with expansion and improved efficiency in the industrial sector, are expected to be included in a medium-term Pakistan development plan now in preparation. Meanwhile, steps have been taken for the near future to increase the share of domestic resources available for development, to raise the share of development outlays on agriculture, to improve incentives for agricultural production, and to promote the expansion of exports.
Harvests Good in Bangladesh
Good news also came from Bangladesh. The Government of Bangladesh estimates that gross domestic product (GDP) increased in real terms by about 12% in fiscal 1976 and that per capita GDP rose by 9%. In fiscal 1975, the GDP increase in real terms was about 2%, and per capita GDP fell by 1%. The success in fiscal 1976 resulted from an increase of 17% in food-grain production (reducing imports from 2.26 million tons to 1.5 million tons) and an estimated 5% increase in industrial output. Here also, good weather played its part in the rise in agricultural production. A substantial decline in import prices (from their high levels of 1974 and 1975) and a larger supply of raw materials and spare parts contributed to higher industrial output. Inflation was brought under control, and measures were taken to improve Bangladesh's competitive position in the international jute market.
The country's tax revenues are still very low and only about 12% of total revenues goes into development expenditure. Public enterprises are in need of reform and their pricing policies need to be brought into line with capital needs. The Government is taking steps, within the limits of its resources, to deal with these problems. Recent measures to liberalize economic activity and mobilize domestic resources are efforts in the right direction. A greater role of the private sector, both in production and dis-
A skilled worker in a Bangalore watch factory tends a modern machine purchased with foreign exchange made available to state financial corporations by the Industrial Development Bank of India, which has received $65 million through a Bank loan and an IDA credit.
tribution systems and encouraging foreign private investments, is a welcome sign.
Economic conditions continued to be difficult in Burma, partly due to the problems of mobilizing adequate resources to maintain investment. The budget deficit remained high, mainly because of the financial difficulties of public enterprises. Meanwhile, inflation, which began in 1972, continued unabated.
Important changes have, however, recently taken place. Paddy production increased substantially in fiscal 1976, due not only to the improved weather, but also to the attractive prices offered to farmers. The export picture for the year was improved as a result of increased procurement of paddy, which accounts for more than half the total value of exports.
In a noteworthy change, Burma decided to allocate a large share of capital investment to agricultural development. Also, new production taxes are expected to alleviate somewhat the resource mobilization problem that has 41
plagued the Burmese economy for several years.
Sri Lanka was the only South Asian country not favored by the weather during the past year. A severe drought during the growing period in the dry zone districts reduced paddy production by 30%. On the other hand, the production of tree crops increased sharply, as weather was favorable in the major tree crop-growing areas of the southwest.
A continuing drop in Sri Lanka's birth rate since the mid-1960s—due partly to an extensive family planning program assisted by the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, and to the country's extensive health care services and its high literacy rate—has been one of the most impressive achievements in population control among developing countries. Success in population control has had an immediate impact by reducing the country's dependency rate; such a reduction, if continued, should have favorable longer-run effects on general living and employment conditions.
Fiscal 1976 heralded the beginning of Nepal's Fifth Plan, aimed at "people-oriented production on the one hand, and the maximum utilization of manpower on the other." The implementation of the plan is likely to be difficult in the face of a shortage of technical manpower and construction materials, as well as finance. Areas requiring special attention are: maintenance of the transportation network, foodgrain production, nutrition support, provision of technical assistance for rural development, irrigation, transport, and local development administration.
The country did not experience any real improvement in living standards in fiscal 1976. Food production and population grew at about the same rate—2%. Nevertheless, increases in domestic savings and higher revenue collections, combined with a bumper rice harvest and price stability in India, the country's major trading partner, helped ease inflationary pressures. Nepal is making determined efforts to improve public management and to expedite investment.
Bank and IDA lending to the region reached a record $1,349.2 million in fiscal 1976, up almost $160 million (and 13%) over fiscal 1975 amounts. The number of projects rose to 27, up three over fiscal 1975. Project assistance was greatest for agriculture and rural development ($345.5 million), reflecting the crucial need to make the region increasingly self-reliant in food supplies. Lending for power totaled $283 million, far surpassing the high of $91 million set in fiscal 1973. (One $150 million IDA credit was approved to help India finance a program of investment in high voltage transmission.) Industry ($170 million, including an IDA credit of $105 million to help increase fertilizer production in India), and transportation ($114.6 million, $110 million of which was in support of railway operations in India)  also com-
manded a large share of Bank and IDA lending. Nonproject lending to Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan totaled $350 million. Of total lending, some $1,089.2 million, or 81%, was on IDA terms.
The Bank and Food Production
The Bank's objective, through its lending to the agricultural sector, was not only to help South Asia keep food production ahead of population growth, but also, to help smaller farmers and farm laborers achieve greater productivity and thereby increase their incomes. Progress toward the latter objective continues to be limited because of a variety of institutional and other problems. Nevertheless, the development of some projects with particular emphasis on the rural poor has been possible, and economic and sector studies of South Asian agriculture have been concerned with efforts to identify projects benefiting the small farmer and the landless farm laborer.
The Bank's assistance for programs in South Asia which will perhaps most help the region's longer-run agricultural development are: those in India to help develop irrigation from both the large groundwater potential and surface water from a large number of river development works already under way; programs in Pakistan to utilize the vast irrigation possibilities of the Indus River and other water resources; and several irrigation projects in Bangladesh.
In India, programs in fiscal 1976 included: (a) an agricultural operation of record size involving $145 million in Bank resources (on Third Window terms) to help finance the improved use of irrigation capacity in the state of Andhra Pradesh; (b) a project designed to increase high-yielding seed production and distribution in four states; and (c) extensive agricultural programs and studies by the Bank in the eastern region to complement Indian efforts to develop regional agriculture development capabilities.
The project in Andhra Pradesh will help complete an extensive irrigation system begun in 1955. The project is expected to increase the irrigated area from the present 540,000 hectares to 870,000 hectares, to improve water availability and management in four command areas covering 72,000 hectares, eventually to nearly triple present grain production (now about 1 million tons), and to increase the incomes of 120,000 farm families, more than half of whom operate farms of less than two hectares.
Other operations relating to agriculture included those which aimed at increasing efficiency in the fertilizer industry and in rural electrification. An IDA credit of $105 million to aid the fertilizer industry will help meet part of the financing necessary to make better use of existing capacity in 10 fertilizer plants. The rural
electrification project, aided by a $57 million IDA credit, will benefit about 55,000 smallholder farms by making power available for irrigation pumping. In addition, power for small industries will be forthcoming, and streets in some 6,000 villages will be lit.
In Bangladesh, the transition, in the early years of independence, toward a manageable economic situation has been difficult indeed, with the provision of adequate food among the country's foremost problems. Two of the IDA operations in the past year were designed to help Bangladesh increase domestic food production. The first was for training programs to raise the quality of agricultural extension and rural development services; the second will help revitalize rural development institutions, including cooperatives in seven selected locations (thanas) in two districts. In addition, IDA resources have been provided for raw materials and intermediate goods necessary to make better use of the existing productive capacity in Bangladesh.
In Nepal, an $8 million IDA project is also aimed at raising food production by assisting the country's rural development efforts in the hill regions. In Burma, the focus of IDA was on livestock improvement, with a $7.5 million credit for development of pasture and water supplies, better field services, milk processing facilities, and research and training.
The emphasis on food and agriculture in Sri Lanka was reflected in a $25 million IDA credit for equipment and technical assistance to increase food supplies, and to improve the facilities necessary to maintain quality and employment in the important tree crop industries. Bank involvement continues in the large Maha-weli Ganga project for diversion of irrigation water into the dry zone of north central Sri Lanka. Completed in early 1976, the first stage will provide supplemental water to smallholders on 50,600 hectares of riceland to enable them to plant a second crop. The Bank helped finance the first stage of this project, and project preparation for the second stage is nearing completion.
Exploiting the Indus Basin
Among the largest of Pakistan's potential for additional food production, as well as power generation, will be the development of
the Indus basin, including completion of the large Tarbela Dam.(2) This dam is expected to provide an assured continuous supply of water for irrigation to help increase wheat production by about 1 million tons yearly. In addition, the hydro facilities of the dam will constitute about a third of the total installed electric power capacity of the country. In fiscal 1976, the Bank contributed $8 million to help finance (along with co-financing in the amount of $41.6 million from six countries) the cost of repairs and additional works at the dam, which was seriously damaged in 1974 following the collapse of a power tunnel. Owing to additional damage in 1976 to the outlet to one of the irrigation tunnels, further repairs are still required before the full potential of Tarbela can be realized. A further involvement of the Bank with development of the Indus potential has been a $50 million Bank loan this past year to help finance a 500 kv transmission system for eventual interconnection of the Indus hydroelectric capacity with the thermal power facilities in the center and south of Pakistan.
For the longer term, the Bank, as executing agency for the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), is responsible for a comprehensive study to guide the allocation of further investments in the potential of the Indus basin for irrigated farming and land reclamation. Expected to take three years to complete, the program is being carried out by the Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority. Along complementary lines, the Bank also completed, in February 1976, a sector review of agriculture, which considered policies and programs for improvement of agricultural supporting services and water management in both the medium term and longer term.
Emphasis on higher food productivity in Pakistan has also involved the Bank in a $56.5 million project, to which IDA committed $23 million, to upgrade the quality of seeds in Punjab and Sind by establishing a modern commercial seed industry. Insufficient supplies of quality seed have contributed to the slowdown in Pakistan's agricultural development in recent years.
<2> Since the beginning of construction, the Bank has provided $33 million directly (and additional funds indirectly, through the financing of the Indus basin works) to the $1,200 million dam.
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
Trend in Lending, 1964-76
iUSS millions. Fiscal years.) Annual Averages (00) Number of Operations
During the past year, the countries of the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa region continued to adjust to the major economic events of 1973 and 1974. Developments in the region in fiscal 1976 were influenced by three principal factors: major increases in financial resources available to several countries in the region; the return home of migrant workers from Europe; and the dialogue on commercial, labor, and aid questions between some countries in the region and the European Communities. These three factors, in combination, have greatly accelerated economic activity and industrial expansion, and increased movement of labor and capital among the countries in the region.
The rises in prices of petroleum products and phosphates in 1973 and 1974 resulted in very large increases in the foreign exchange earn-
ings of several regional countries exporting the two commodities. However, for three principal reasons, the foreign exchange reserves of these countries rose less than had been initially estimated. Demand for petroleum and phosphates was lower than expected as a result of the economic recession in industrial countries; expenditures by the countries increased greatly; and the prices of imports continued to rise throughout the fiscal year.
The terms of trade effects and the amount of reserves accumulated have naturally differed among countries. Though Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates had capital surpluses, some of them are now resorting to external borrowings. The Maghreb countries — Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia—as well as Oman, continued to have substantial external borrowing require-
merits. Nevertheless, in all these countries a major expansion of investments has taken place, particularly in infrastructure and industries utilizing domestic natural resources.
Other countries in the region, and including Egypt, Greece, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Yugoslavia, were severely and adversely affected by recent economic events. The difficult economic situation of the seven countries was alleviated, to some extent, by the availability of external capital from multilateral and bilateral sources and from commercial sources. .The pace at which the required economic adjustments are undertaken depends to a considerable extent on the availability to them of increased amounts of external financing.
International Labor Migration
Economic recession was the proximate cause for the severe restrictions placed by the labor-importing countries of the European Communities on the employment of migrant workers. The restrictions reduced the prospective growth of workers' remittances, an important component of the total foreign exchange earnings of such countries as Greece, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. (All five countries also experienced significant deteriorations in their terms of trade.) The closing off of the "safety valve" of migration is adding, in these countries, and others, similarly situated (Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia), impetus to their ongoing efforts to create additional jobs, initially through rapid industrialization.
The restrictions on migration by European countries coincided with a growing demand for labor by the Gulf countries. There are indications that migration of labor from such countries as Egypt, Jordan, Syria, and the Yemen Arab Republic has accelerated, and that receipts of workers' remittances by the labor-exporting countries have increased. The blessings have not been unmixed, however. The emigration of workers, and particularly of skilled workers, may affect the development of certain sectors in the labor-exporting countries. The fulfillment of the expanded development programs financed, in part, by capital flows from the Gulf countries, might thus suffer with jhe emigration of skilled manpower.
Some of the countries in the region, in particular Greece, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, and Yugoslavia, have had significant economic links with the European Communities for a number of years. In fiscal 1976, particularly noteworthy was the opening of negotiations on Greece's accession to full membership in the Communities, and the provision, for the first time, of financial assistance to Portugal. In addition, as part of the Communities' so-called "Mediterranean policy," agreements were concluded with the three Maghreb countries, and discussions are under way with Egypt, Jordan, and
Syria. The accords with the Maghreb countries included provision of financial assistance, guarantees of access to European markets for industrial products, and measures for normalizing the social status of migrant workers. The continuing Euro-Arab dialogue, initiated earlier in the year by the Communities and the members of the Arab League, is designed to establish a basis for future economic relations between the two groups.
Economic Trends
The region is, of course, influenced economically both by external factors and by measures taken by the countries themselves. Because of the strong economic links between the countries in the region and the industrialized countries of Europe, the pace of economic recovery and the nature of economic adjustments undertaken in the latter group of countries will have a strong influence on future economic developments in the former. Specifically, a quick recovery from recession in Europe would affect the prospects of exports (in particular, of manufactured goods) from many countries in the region, and the availability to them of external financing.
The nature and scope of World Bank activities are changing in response to economic developments in the region. Bank-assisted industrial and agricultural projects are increasingly emphasizing the provision of job opportunities and improvements in the living conditions of lower-income groups. In the past two years, the Bank has also expanded its co-financing and technical cooperation activities to help make more efficient use of available financial resources.
Among the major sources of co-financing for projects in the region during fiscal 1976 were the European Investment Bank, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany), Japan, the Norwegian Agency for International Development, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, Kuwait, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, the Saudi Fund for Development, the United States Agency for International Development, and the United Nations Development Programme. More than a quarter of all Bank projects in the region during the year involved co-financing with other lenders. Additional resources and contributions from co-financers, which amounted to about $718 million dollars, were distributed among 10 borrowing countries.
Examples of the Bank's co-financing activities include a $21.8 million grain storage project in the Yemen Arab Republic, which is being assisted through IDA resources ($5.2 million) and the Saudi Fund ($11 million). A Bank loan of $52 million, along with $35 million from
the Arab Fund, will help finance the modernization and expansion program of two textile manufacturing complexes in Egypt. A Bank loan of $49 million to Yugoslavia acted as a catalyst in securing co-financing of $245 million from agencies in Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Kuwait, and Libya for a major oil pipeline project costing $377 million.
Bank Activities, Fiscal 1976
The Bank and IDA helped finance 45 projects in 16 countries in fiscal 1976; total lending amounted to $1,485.6 million, or about the same as the previous year's figure of $1,434.2 million. The number of projects assisted by the Bank and IDA increased by two. In keeping with the Bank's policy on lending to higher-income countries, there was no further lending to Finland and Israel during the year.
Lending for industrial and agricultural development accounted for 23.4% (11 loans) and 27.1% (11 loans or credits), respectively, of the total for the region. As in the recent past, the region remained one of the major recipients (25%) of Bank lending to industry and development finance companies (DFCs).
Help for Industries
The Bank's assistance to the industrial sector is increasingly focusing on the development of small and medium-scale industries.
A $4 million IDA credit to the Industrial Development Bank of Jordan (IDB) is providing support to the only institutional source in Jordan for medium-term and long-term finance
for privately owned small-scale and medium-scale industrial and tourism projects. The project will help upgrade some of the 7,000 small-scale industries and handicraft shops, the great majority of which are in urban areas. IDB has only recently established an experimental program—the first institutional one of its kind in Jordan—of financial and other assistance to this subsector which employs 11,000 people. Assistance through the IDA credit will also be provided to the medium-scale industry sub-sector, which consists of some 475 units employing about 6,000 persons. The importance of medium-scale industries in Jordan is measured by their export-earning ability and potential, as well as by their role in upgrading the incomes and entrepreneurial skill of the people involved.
A second credit to Egypt's Bank of Alexandria is designed to stimulate the expansion of small-scale and medium-scale private enterprise and of medium-scale enterprises in the public sector. A minimum of 65% of the $25 million credit will be used for private sector financing. Under the first IDA credit, 50% of the amount, and 80% of the number of loans, were made to the private sector.
Least Developed Countries
Lending to the three "least developed" countries of the region—Afghanistan, Yemen Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen—increased substantially during fiscal 1976. IDA operations in these three countries emphasized the development of the agriculture sector. Of the $68.7 million
Some 2,750,000 Egyptians are benefiting from three Bank/IDA operations in support of the country's national land drainage program. Here, a tile laying machine, which also digs trenches, operates in the Nile delta.
provided the three countries through IDA credits, $47.5 million, or 69%, was devoted to agricultural development.
—In Afghanistan, the Khanabad Irrigation Project, for which a supplementary credit of $10 million was provided, will benefit about 54,000 people in the northeastern part of the country by creating the irrigation infrastructure to serve about 30,000 hectares of land.
—Also in Afghanistan, a second livestock project, for which an IDA credit of $15 million was made, will improve veterinary services, provide livestock credit to farmers, and establish some 14 sheep improvement centers in the western region of the country, and bring direct benefits to 10,000 persons. In addition to the two credits, IDA carried out an agricultural sector survey which was designed to help the Afghan Government in focusing on the problems of the sector and preparing a strategy to cope with them.
—In the Yemen Arab Republic, the Tihama Development Project, for which a supplemental $10.3 million IDA credit was made, with financ-
ing also being provided by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, will help generate significant increases in agricultural production (mostly cotton, grain, and vegetables), and will result in higher incomes and more jobs for 3,700 farm families and 2,500 farm laborers in the Wadi Zabid area east of the Red Sea coast. The Wadi Mawr feasibility study under the project is expected to lay the foundation for the development of about 60,000 hectares with a major agricultural potential.
—Again, in the Yemen Arab Republic, a $5.2 million IDA credit, together with a loan from the Saudi Fund for Development, will help finance a grain storage and processing project which includes the construction of a 20,000 metric ton silo in the port city of Hodeida, regional warehouses, bakeries, and a credit component for bakers operating in the private sector.
—In the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, as many as 30,000 people are expected to benefit directly from a $7 million IDA credit for a project in the Wadi Hadramawt designed
to increase agricultural production on some 9,000 hectares of land, or about 10% of the total cultivable land in the country. Another 40,000 rural inhabitants will benefit from an assured supply of potable water.
Other projects—all assisted through IDA resources—in the three countries included those in the power (Afghanistan), transportation (modernizing the port of Aden in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen), and education sectors (Yemen Arab Republic).
Three years ago, IDA provided its first education credit to the Yemen Arab Republic. Another project, now assisted with an $8 million credit, is designed to complement, strengthen, and expand the reform measures begun three years earlier.
Teacher training programs—for both young men and women—and vocational training will be provided. The project's unique feature involves a "basic training" program which is intended to have a major impact in extending nonformal basic training and literacy programs into villages (especially) and small towns. The success of the program depends heavily on local enthusiasm and grassroots involvement. Initial community reaction to education and training in areas where development projects are being implemented has been favorable. Local interest and involvement in setting up simple village training facilities will be ensured through village contributions in kind (such as rudimentary furniture, mostly benches, and the simple structures required to house the furniture and equipment).
Other Countries, Projects
In fiscal 1976, lending to Egypt totaled $222 million. The lending program included one IDA credit (for on-lending by the Bank of Alexandria), one Bank loan (designed to help increase production and exports of fruits and vegetables) on Third Window terms, two Bank loans (to assist in the upgrading of the port of Alexandria and to help rehabilitate and modernize two textile enterprises) on conventional terms, and an IDA credit of $40 million combined with a Bank loan of $10 million to support the country's nationaJ land drainage program.
The drainage project (with co-financing being provided by USAID)(1) is the third operation in support of the country's national land drainage program, the aim of which is to increase agricultural production by reversing the process of salinization and waterlogging of the soil. The three projects will help increase the incomes of about 2,750,000 people—some 485,000 farm families, most of whom are small landholders. This third project also contains a provision, similar to that incorporated in the
w United States Agency for International Development.
second credit, for support of a program to control bilharzia through chemotherapy and the application of molluscicides. About 3 million people in the project area of Upper Egypt are currently exposed to this endemic, debilitating disease.
Though bilharzia control is also a component in the Douakkala Irrigation Project in Morocco, the major purpose of the $94.4 million scheme (the Bank is assisting with a $30 million loan) is to provide for a rational development of irrigation in the area and, thereby, to increase agricultural production (mainly sugar beets, tomatoes, maize, wheat, cotton, beef, and milk). The project has been designed so that a substantial share of the increased benefits from increased production will go to the poorest people living in the area. Incomes of about 3,300 farm families are expected to more than triple by 1989. As large numbers of people will have to be relocated in order to implement the project, seven village centers will be built, each with a treated public water supply, paved roads, public lighting, and a primary school.
Two loans, totaling $83 million, will help reduce air and water pollution in the Yugoslavian city of Sarajevo. The loans, together, represent the first comprehensive, urban antipollution program ever assisted with Bank funds. Natural gas will replace lignite as the principal source of heating fuel, thus cleansing the air of sulfur oxide. A gas pipeline will be built, and 300 central heating plants will be converted from coal to gas. In addition, some 10,000 individual service connections (for gas) will be installed. To abate the city's water pollution problems, Sarajevo's water and sewage systems will be rehabilitated and expanded. Water mains and distribution pipes will be installed or replaced, collectors and main sewers constructed, and new sewage treatment facilities installed.
Over 1 million residents of Damascus — one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities of the world—will be provided an improved water supply system as a result of a project, assisted by a $35 million Bank loan, with co-financing of $40 million from the Arab Fund. With its population of 1.2 million growing by about 5% a year, demand for water in Damascus has outstripped the supply, which has traditionally come from the Figeh spring in the neighboring hills high above the city.
The Bank-assisted project constitutes the first major expansion of the city's water supply and distribution system in more than 40 years. The supply of water from Figeh spring will be increased, and the population of Dasmascus will be adequately served for the next 11 years.
Two Bank loans (totaling $60 million) will help Romania rebuild economic infrastructure and productive capacity in the areas damaged by the floods of July 1975. Credit will be extended to cooperatives and state farms severely damaged by the floods, industrial equipment
and spare parts will be replaced, 120 kilometers of roads and 270 kilometers of rail lines will be reconstructed, flood protection, irrigation, and drainage works will be repaired, and the national flood monitoring and warning systems will be improved.
A $36 million loan for power marked the resumption of lending to Portugal after a gap of 10 years. The loan will assist the. investment program of the recently established national power entity, whose creation culminated a long process of consolidation that had been supported by the Bank through earlier loans.
Technical Cooperation
Agreement was reached with Iran and Saudi Arabia on the nature, and scope of the Bank's
technical cooperation programs to be carried out during the year. The costs of the programs will be paid for by the two countries.
In Iran, the Bank's Agricultural and Rural Development Advisory Mission in Tehran assisted in the formulation and evaluation of development programs and projects of high economic and social priority in the agriculture sector.
In Saudi Arabia, assistance is being provided in a number of fields, including manpower development and the evaluation of industrial projects. A Resident Mission was established in Riyadh during the year.
In the United Arab Emirates, assistance is being extended in the fields of manpower planning and macroeconomic analysis.
Latin America and the Caribbean
Trend in Lending, 1964-76
tuSSmlions Fiscal years.)
Annual Averages 100) Number of Operations
The economic growth of the countries of the Latin America and the Caribbean region slowed considerably during the fiscal year, as increases in exports and output were much smaller than in the previous three years. In some countries, exports and output actually declined. The recession in the industrial countries of Europe and North America was the main cause of economic deceleration in the region. Declining demand in the industrial countries reduced growth of export volumes, and caused the prices of several important agricultural commodities—beef, sugar, soybeans, and cotton— to decline. Mineral prices also fell sharply, led by copper, which dropped 40%. While in nominal (current dollar) terms, export prices were not, on average, below their 1973 levels, the continued rise in import prices caused a further deterioration in the terms of trade in
calendar 1975 following that in 1974. The terms of trade in 1975 were 18% below the 1973-74 average for Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Peru, taken as a group.
The slowdown in export growth was especially marked in manufactured products. Colombia, Mexico, and Peru were the major countries experiencing declines in the current dollar value of their industrial exports. Though Brazil's manufactured exports significantly increased in volume, they rose by only 14% in value, compared with increases of 40% to 50% in the years 1971-73. The Caribbean countries and Mexico were particularly hard hit by the fall in tourism earnings. And the major copper producers, Chile and Peru, suffered net declines in their total export earnings.
While the recession in industrial countries made the environment more difficult for the
development of the region, the adjustments to the new environment also brought out the strength and resiliency of several economies. A number of countries managed to avoid even sharper falls in their export earnings through effective economic and financial policies. Others benefited from increases in the prices of selected commodities and improvements in agricultural output and exports. Thus, the increase in the price of coffee in late 1975 (the frost in Brazil sharply reduced prospective supplies) and price rises in bananas were important to Central America and Colombia. The strong "growth of regional trade, fueled, in part, by the continuing high demand for imports by Venezuela, was also a positive factor. Mexico's external position benefited from an increase in petroleum exports. In the Caribbean, marketing agreements caused the impact of higher sugar prices to be delayed until 1975, and the terms of trade for Barbados, Guyana, and Trinidad and Tobago improved for the second consecutive year.
Impact of the Recession
The impact of the recession in the industrial world was offset to some extent by increased external borrowing, and by the fact that all the larger countries, except Colombia, Mexico, and Venezuela, dipped into their external reserves. The flow of external capital, which already had risen considerably in 1974, increased further during 1975. Net capital flows from private sources continued to supply a high proportion — some 80%—of the total; the terms on private credits continued to be hard. On net balance, total external credit from both private and official sources increased by some 10% in 1975. The region also benefited from the IMF oil facility, and the countries of Central America and Panama were helped by the credits extended to them by Venezuela through its special oil facilities, designed to compensate for part of the increased cost of petroleum. Interest payments on external debt imposed a rising burden, however, and were an important factor in the increases in current account payments deficits; for 22 countries in the region, excluding Venezuela, the aggregate deficit rose from $12,600 million in 1974 4o over $16,000 million in 1975.
The slower pace of economic growth was most marked in the copper-exporting countries, in the larger countries which had to import petroleum, and in those countries, whose economies, by diversifying and expanding industrial exports, had become progressively interdependent with those of the industrial countries. Brazil's rate of economic growth was down from 9.6% in calendar 1974 to about 4.2% in 1975; Colombia's from 5.9% to about 4%; and Peru's, from 6.6% to 3.9%. Growth was also particularly slow in most of the countries of the Caribbean. Nonetheless, several
countries — including Bolivia, the Dominican Republic, and Paraguay — were able to maintain growth rates of 5% or more. The economies of all the petroleum-exporting countries of the region continued to expand rapidly, led by Venezuela, which saw its non-petroleum output grow by 8%; Trinidad and Tobago recorded an increase of 5% in gross domestic product (GDP).
The general deterioration in the external economic environment necessitated cutbacks in spendable resources for investment and development. The range and speed of the adjustment measures taken, of course, differed. Measures included cuts in public and private consumption, partly through the removal of price subsidies and through increases in taxes and in prices for public services. Colombia implemented far-reaching fiscal reforms intended to improve social equity and to strengthen the country's stabilization efforts. Several other countries increased their tax revenues. Mexico achieved an increase in public revenues by almost 2% of GDP in 1975, and Costa Rica, by the equivalent 3.4% of GDP between 1972 and
1975. In Brazil and other petroleum-importing countries, domestic petroleum prices were brought in line with international prices. Investments were made to expand new, or add to, existing sources of energy, including those in major projects designed to exploit the region's considerable hydroelectric potential. Several countries continued, or intensified, their policies to encourage exports, and to contain import demand. Such adjustments, combined with the deceleration in international inflation, contributed to a reduction in inflation in most countries in the region. Exceptions, however, were found in Argentina and Peru.
As the depth of the decline in the demand for exports from the region was greater than originally anticipated, several countries made correspondingly more difficult adjustments in their development expenditures and investment programs. For those countries, a continuing inflow of external capital on suitable terms will be needed if they are to avoid a prolonged and excessive slowdown in their rates of economic growth. In addition to causing overall growth to slacken, the squeeze on resources for development has made it more difficult for countries to make income distribution more equitable and to increase productivity among the poorest population groups. Given its strong resource base, however, the region has, as a whole, a solid longer-term potential, and the measures the countries have so far taken have laid the basis for a resumption of growth.
Level and Composition of Lending
World Bank lending in the region substantially increased to $1,448.4 million in fiscal
1976, or 19.2% over fiscal 1975 totals. The number of projects financed rose from 34 to 42. 51
In most of its operations, the Bank continued to give greater emphasis to the improvement of employment opportunities for, and productivity of, the poorest groups. Agriculture, transportation, and industry were the leading sectors in Bank lending to the region. Projects in those sectors were frequently adapted to the special needs of target groups in urban and rural economies.
Of total lending, some $25.5 million in loans was approved on Third Window terms; IDA credits amounted to $39.5 million. Of special interest among the latter was a credit of $5.5 million to Haiti for the development of education. The project was designed to meet the basic education needs of the communities in three important geographic regions of Haiti: the Plaine du Nord and the Artibonite (two rural areas where substantial complementary development efforts are under way) and the capital city of Port-au-Prince. In addition to expanding access to education and more closely integrating that activity into the normal socioeconomic life of the communities, the project seeks to introduce important qualitative improvements in the content of primary education and teacher training—particularly in rural areas where primary education, in the past, was ill-adapted to the functional needs of students and their families.
Increasing Lending for Industry
The Bank continued to increase its efforts to assist the countries of the region in diversifying their economies through the continued expansion of industrial output and exports. The most marked change in the composition of Bank
lending to the region during the year was the increase in loans for industry.
Development finance companies (DFCs), which can help meet several priority objectives of industrialization programs, proved to be important channels for Bank assistance in the sector. In fiscal 1976, DFC lending by the Bank to Latin American and Caribbean countries increased to $280 million, from only $10.5 million in the previous year. Virtually each of the six loans made during the year had some novel features.
Export expansion was a main feature of a $35 million Bank loan designed to help the Government of Uruguay reactivate industrial output. The first objective of the loan is to support the Government's economic liberalization program by providing working capital and medium-term and long-term credits to selected export-oriented enterprises to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and other components entering into the manufacture of non-traditional exports. To implement the program, the Bank helped establish a financial mechanism—involving the Central Bank and selected commercial banks — that would finance the cost of importing raw materials and provide medium-term and long-term credit to finance plant renovation, modernization, and expansion. By doing so, the Bank intended to contribute to the reactivation of the financial market by introducing interest rates similar to those prevailing in international financial centers.
Rapid population growth and continued migration to many of the larger Latin American cities continue to create severe problems of unemployment, urban poverty, and pollution, and to put severe pressures on infrastructural
capacity. To support the Colombian Government's policy of industrial decentralization, important features of a project, to which the Bank loaned $80 million (to be relent to industrial companies), included explicit support for the creation of new firms, for the financing of existing firms sponsoring decentralization projects, and for giving increasing importance to environmental impact considerations in the appraisal of investment projects. In addition to promoting the growth of manufacturers' exports, another important objective of the loan was to assist firms to undertake technology jmprovement programs so as to become more competitive through production efficiency and product quality.
The main objective of a loan totaling $20 million ($3 million of which was on Third Window terms) to the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) was to strengthen that important regional institution and thereby assist in the economic development and integration of the 12 English-speaking countries and territories of the Caribbean region. A distinguishing feature of the loan included the financing of a wide range of public and private sector projects in agriculture, agro-industry, manufacturing, tourism, transportation, public utilities, "sites and services," and technical and vocational education training in CDB member countries. The World Bank is increasingly looking to the CDB as a channel for funds to support national and regional projects. The fact that the CDB can handle project preparation, appraisal, and implementation, will give the Bank greater flexibility in allocating its funds and manpower throughout the region served by the CDB.
An Ecuadorian cattle farmer and his son on a farm near Quito. In the past three years, nearly $1,000 million has been approved by the Bank for agricultural development in Latin America and the Caribbean.
The Urban Sector
Latin America is already among the most urbanized of the developing regions, and the rapid increase in the urban population has put severe pressures on housing, transportation, and other services. The influx of poor, rural workers has made the needs greatest in the poorest neighborhoods of both large and small cities. The Bank is seeking to meet those needs through various types of loans for urban infrastructure and "sites and services" projects.
One of the most urgent needs of the urban poor is for better water and sewerage facilities. Mexico, assisted by a $40 million Bank loan, will now be able to construct or extend water facilities in eight, and sewerage services in six, medium-sized cities. Whereas less than half the urban poor in the selected cities are today reached by such services, more than half (of a total population of more than 1 million people) will have access to them when the project is completed in 1980. Operating and other costs will be met from tariff revenues, and the present practice of de facto grant financing will be phased out.
In Peru, through a $36 million loan, the Bank is helping finance the expansion of the electric power distribution system in Lima. It is thus being instrumental in helping make electricity available to households in several of the poorer areas (pueblos jovenes) around the city. In 1974, only 40% of the households in these poorer districts had electric power, far below the 81% average for the entire metropolitan area. It is expected that by the end of the project construction period, mid-1979, about 182,000 households (approximately 1 million people) in the pueblos jovenes will be receiving public-service electricity.
Agricultural and Rural Development
In its lending to the rural sector, the Bank seeks to improve agricultural output and productivity as well as to increase the incomes and living conditions of small farmers and the poorest rural groups. An example is provided by the Ingavi Rural Development Project in the northern, Altiplano region of Bolivia. The project area covers 800 square kilometers and has
a population of 60,000. The majority of the beneficiaries of the $9.5 million loan (on Third Window terms) have cash incomes placing them among the poorest 20% of the population of the country. The main objective of the project is to increase agricultural and livestock production among 4,000 farmers through the provision of production inputs, deep well irrigation systems, tractors, livestock investments, and storage facilities. The project also seeks to foster the cooperative movement as a means of forming more efficient economic units and utilizing more effectively scarce technical assistance and credit resources. The supply of basic foods to the La Paz market will be increased, and the project is expected to serve as a model for development efforts elsewhere in the Altiplano.
In Mexico, a $125 million loan, the fifth in a series of Bank loans to the Fondo de Carantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderfa y Avicultura, will finance a credit project helping to complement the multifaceted Government program aimed at restoring dynamism to Mexican agriculture. Growth rates in the sector have slowed down in recent years and production has not kept up with domestic demand. In tune with the distributional objectives of the Government, 60% of the Bank loan for on-farm investment purposes will be allocated to ejidatarios(1) and other low-income producers. The loan will also help fund applied research and demonstration farms for the adoption of improved technology by small farmers and for the training of staff of participating agriculture investment banks. The scope of the project is national, and will help finance on-farm investment in crops and livestock as well as agro-industries.
A $12 million loan for a rural development project in the northeastern state of Rio Grande do Norte in Brazil is intended, in particular, to help increase small farmer productivity in this drought-prone area. The project is one of the first under the Government's new POLO-NORDESTE (Special Development Fund for the Northeast) program. It includes expanding credit and extension services, field testing new production techniques, and developing improved health services. Production of perennial cotton among participants is expected to double and a marketable surplus of food crops will
(1> Villagers who work a common area owned jointly by them.
be generated. Institutional credit will be extended to some 8,000 farm families and technical assistance to some 15,000 families. Community health services will be made available to roughly 42,000 rural families, and about 2,200 new agricultural jobs will be created.
Again in Brazil, a $19 million loan marked the Bank's first involvement in a project designed primarily to improve nutritional conditions. Protein-calorie malnutrition is an important factor in over three-quarters of the deaths of children under the age of five in Brazil. There is also increasingly strong evidence that the benefits of nutrition can be quantified, as reflected in higher returns on education investments and improved productive capacity. One facet of the Brazilian project will be to improve the information base on malnutrition problems and on the relationship of the problems and potential solutions to socioeconomic policies. The project will also test the effectiveness of alternative delivery systems designed to improve the nutritional status of target groups— preschool children and pregnant and lactating women. In addition, the project will provide for a research and development program for low-cost processed foods, engineering and marketing feasibility studies for industrial-scale production of such foods, and investment financing necessary to begin production on a large scale. A training and technical assistance component will contribute significantly to the development of a cadre of trained officials and strengthened institutions equipped to utilize the groundwork set by this project in planning and implementing a broader national nutrition program in the future.
A $3 million loan to Ecuador marked the first Bank-assisted project in Latin America to make improved seed varieties more widely available to local farmers. So far, only the most progressive farmers and rice producer cooperatives have profited from the use of indigenously produced certified seed, and only for a limited number of crops. As a consequence, most farmers use their own seed, which is generally of low quality. Under the project, certified seed will be available for the first time for virtually all major food crops. The project will supply certified seed for crops largely harvested in the poorest rural areas and those usually planted by small farmers. By the fifth year of the project, there should be enough seed produced and sold to sow twice as much land—about 152,000 hectares—as is now sown with improved seed.
Projects Approved for Bank and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1976, by Sector
Agriculture
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$15 million. Fourteen sheep improvement centers will be established; wells and access roads built; credit, technical assistance, and training provided; two range improvement field stations set up; and veterinary services improved and extended. More than 1,000 sheep herders will directly benefit from this second livestock project, designed to raise export earnings from meat and livestock by-products, and improve the flocks and incomes of nomadic and semi-nomadic flock owners. Total cost: $18 million.
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$10 million. Supplementary financing will be made available to cover the increased costs of a project limited to the first phase of an irrigation modernization program for the Khanabad valley. Some $5 million in IDA funds were committed for the project in fiscal 1971.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$22 million. An 18,600-hectare irrigation project in southeastern Bangladesh will increase rice production from 93,000 tons of paddy to 141,000 tons by 1983, and is expected to increase the per capita annual incomes of some 20,000 farm families from $90 to $120. Additional jobs will also be created for landless laborers and "marginal" farmers. Total cost: $30.3 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA —$16 million. More than 900,000 people in seven counties in two districts will be aided by a project aimed at strengthening the Government's rural development programs in the areas. Improved working procedures for rural development will be pro-¦vided, which, it is hoped, will serve as a model for a series of similar future projects in other areas of Bangladesh. Rural works will be undertaken, the areas' irrigation systems expanded 'and improved, agricultural credit provided, and rural services and institutions strengthened. Rural jobs will increase by 25%, and rice production could rise by as much as 75,000 tons. Total cost: $24.7 million.
BOLIVIA: Bank—$9.5 million. The standard of living of 10,000 rural families of the Altiplano will be improved through a rural development project involving the provision of agricultural inputs, infrastructure, and social services. Production by 4,000 project farmers will increase (vegetables, milk, cereals, and meat), and employment opportunities will be enhanced. The
loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $12.8 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$40 million. The Government-owned agricultural research corporation, Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria, will carry out a project designed to strengthen agricultural research aimed at accelerating production of rice, maize, sorghum, cassava, cotton, beans, rubber, dairy cattle, beef cattle, sheep, and goats, and at improving the efficiency of farming systems in the northeast, north, and center-west of Brazil. The overall project objective is to develop new technology suitable for adoption by large numbers of farmers. Total cost: $189 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$12 million. A rural development project in the northeast part of the country is designed to strengthen the institutional capability of the Government's new POLO-NORDESTE program to conceive, plan, and implement in a coordinated manner a variety of actions to increase the income and welfare of poor farmers at low levels of cost. Farmers' cotton income will double over a nine-year period, institutional credit will be made available to 8,000 farm families and technical assistance to 15,000 families. Health service will be made available to more than 40,000 families. Total cost: $30 million.
BURMA: IDA—$30 million. Largely by protecting 50,000 hectares of land from flooding and salt water intrusion on which rice and jute are grown, and by reclaiming some 25,000 hectares of abandoned paddy land in the southern Irrawaddy delta, the incomes of about 18,000 poor or landless farm families will be more than doubled. Agricultural exports resulting from the project may yield foreign exchange earnings of $28 million annually by 1988. Total cost: $54 million.
BURMA: IDA—$7.5 million. The incomes of about 250,000 small-scale farmers will be increased through quantitative and qualitative improvements to livestock in agricultural areas of central Burma. Increased milk and beef production will result in a yearly foreign exchange savings of about $4 million. Veterinary and livestock extension services will be developed, communal pasturelands improved, water points and a milk processing plant constructed, and livestock development centers built. Total cost: $12.8 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$6 million. Fish production from Lake Tanganyika will increase by about 10,000 tons and about 3,000 fishermen (half of them new to the trade) will earn between $300 and $600 yearly as a result of this project, co-financed with the help ($1 million) of a loan from the Abu Dhabi Fund. Total cost: $8.6 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$5.2 million. More than 100,000 smallholder farmers of Ngozi Province will be provided with instruction in better coffee cultivation practices and with inputs such as fertilizers, insecticides, and tools. Extension work directed at food crops will also be initiated in the province and technical assistance will be provided. The project is co-financed with a $1.2 million loan from the Kuwait Fund. Total cost: $7.5 million.
CHAD: IDA — $5 million. Irrigation and drainage networks on two polders—land reclaimed from Lake Chad and protected from the water by dikes—will be constructed or rehabilitated, and a package of services—resettlement assistance, training, extension, credit, and marketing—will be provided to those who work the land. The yearly incomes of the 1,200 families expected to benefit from the project could rise from S35 to about S145. Three co-financers are contributing $8 million towards the project costs. Total cost: $13 million.
ECUADOR: Bank—$4 million. Technical assistance will be made available to improve planning, preinvestment, and project preparation in the agriculture and rural development sector. Total cost: $5.6 million.
ECUADOR: Bank—$3 million. Government activities in the production and distribution of improved seeds will be better integrated through the installation of three seed processing plants, the expansion of seed storage facilities, the construction and improvement of seed warehouses, the training of additional personnel, and the provision of equipment. Total cost: $5 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$50 million. Fruit and vegetable production will be developed for home use and export, especially through improvement of vegetable seed and seed potato inputs, and through packing and marketing facilities. The project will help build institutions related to horticultural production and marketing; drainage works will be undertaken to reduce waterlogging and salinity in the vegetable seed component area; and between 10,000 and 15,000 jobs will be created. Total cost: $108.1 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$10 million; IDA—$40 million. Some 880,000 people, most of whom live on smail farms, will benefit from this third Bank-assisted project designed to arrest the decline in agricultural yields due to waterlogging and salinity. Covered drains will be installed in about 200,000 hectares of farmland in Upper Egypt, and bilharzia control measures will be provided. The United States
Agency for International Development is expected to participate in the project's financing. Total cost: $282 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$27 million. Assistance in developing the country's vast rangelands region (500,000 square kilometers) will be made available. Each of the three subprojects in different areas of the country will be provided an integrated program of range management and veterinary services along with improved roads and water facilities. The subprojects will lay the foundation for a sound development of the country's livestock economy, hit hard by recent droughts. The African Development Fund will participate in the financing in an amount of about $5.5 million. Total cost: $43 million.
Fiji: Bank—$12 million. At full development, this sugar development project is expected to generate $13 million yearly in additional foreign exchange earnings, benefit some 3,500 farming families, and provide 3,500 new jobs during the crushing season. Total cost: $26 million.
THE GAMBIA: IDA—$4.1 million. The per capita incomes of about 48,000 poor farmers living in 65 villages in the western part of the country will be doubled as a result of a project designed to increase cereal (rice, sorghum) and cash crop (peanuts) production through "package" programs, and boost cattle production through better husbandry practices, and marketing. The Overseas Development Ministry 'United Kingdom) is granting $4.1 million and the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa is lending $3.3 million to help finance the project. Total cost: $11.7 million.
GHANA: Bank—$21 million. Through better support services and the provision of farm inputs and facilities, some 125,000 farm families living in the Upper Region will be able to increase agricultural production, and thus, their incomes. In addition, an Onchocerciasis Survey Unit will be established to prepare a 10-year development plan and feasibility studies for areas freed from the disease in the Upper and Northern regions. The United Kingdom is helping finance the project with a concessionary loan of about $11 million. The Bank loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $54.6 million.
GHANA: Bank—$14 million. The main components of this first phase of a program to revitalize the cocoa industry include provision of credit to smallholder cocoa farmers, farmer training in modern production techniques, and equipment for feeder road maintenance. Cocoa production is expected to increase by 10,000 tons annually, and about 10,000families (70,000 people) will benefit. The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa is providing co-financing of some $5 million. Total cost: $21.9 million.
GREECE: Bank—$40 million. Irrigation facilities in the fruit-producing area of central Macedonia will be expanded and upgraded. The project will help increase fruit production by
40% and will double the harvest of vegetables and alfalfa. Per capita incomes of farmers are expected to rise an average of about $400 a year to about $700 in 1987. Dependable irrigation will help reduce annual fluctuations in farm incomes caused by adverse weather conditions. Total cost: $90 million.
HONDURAS: IDA—$14 million. Settlements formed as a result of a recent agrarian reform Jaw, as well as private commercial agriculture, will be aided by a project designed to help finance investments for dual purpose beef/dairy farmers, livestock fattening operations, and for 'the production of annual and perennial crops. Two rice mills and four food processing industries also will be financed and technical assistance to strengthen Government supporting services for the agrarian reform will be provided. Total cost: $20 million.
INDIA: Bank—$145 million. Production of rice and other crops on 72,000 hectares of land in Andhra Pradesh will increase about fivefold, 100,000 farms will be supplied with reliable irrigation, and as many as 1 million people will be provided employment and wages from a project which will complete the construction of irrigation and drainage canals in the Nagar-junasagar irrigation system and provide the first phase of command area development for four irrigation systems in the state. The loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $297 million.
INDIA: Bank-—$25 million. This second Bank-assisted project in support of seed production in India will focus on the development of quality cereal seeds (wheat, rice, maize, sorghum, and pearl millet)—and lesser amounts of cotton and vegetable seeds—in four states. Investments will be made in seed technology research, quality control, and production and storage facilities. Total cost: $52.7 million.
INDIA: IDA—$18 million. About 120,000 farm families and 200,000 landless laborers are expected to benefit from this project, designed to pioneer key improvements in three representative cotton-growing areas in Haryana, Maharashtra, and Punjab states. Higher cotton productivity could add about 800,000 tons of higher quality lint and 1.5 million tons of cottonseed over a 20-year period in the three areas. Total cost: $36 million. • INDIA: IDA—$4 million. Technical assistance is being provided to help develop and prepare the basis and resources for wood processing schemes in Madhya Pradesh. While ways to develop fast-growing trees on plantations are explored, a sound resource base for pulp, paper, and related industries will be identified. Total cost: $8.2 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$33 million. As many as 1 million people will benefit from an irrigation project designed to increase paddy yields on about 100,000 hectares in Java and Sulawesi. The main and secondary canals serving the project areas have already been rehabili-
tated under past IDA credits; the present project will, through better water control and distribution, help rehabilitate tertiary canal systems serving areas as small as 150 hectares each. Total cost: $60 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$22 million. A national food crops extension project, covering nine provinces in Java, Sumatera, Sulawesi, and Kalimantan, and benefiting some 12.8 million farm families cultivating more than 7 million hectares of paddy land, will be implemented. Additional extension staff will be hired, rural extension centers will be renovated and built, and training provided. Total cost: $44.2 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$60 million. As many as 4 million people, or about 30% of the country's rural population, will benefit from this rural development project, designed to serve 15,000 rural villages with minor irrigation works, land reclamation, roads and bridges, water supply, electricity, and fuelwood plantations. Forty million dollars of the loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $143.5 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$15 million. About 450 new dairy farms will be established and 400 existing farms improved and expanded; nearly 850 farm households will benefit (and will be afforded year 'round employment), and on-farm employment will be created for as many as 1,000 permanent workers and 3,500 casual laborers. Total cost: $24.5 million.
LIBERIA: IDA—$6 million. Average net farm family incomes are expected to increase from $313 a year to $913 by 1987 as a result of this project centered in Voinjama in northwest Liberia. The project aims at raising the incomes and improving the quality of life of some 8,000 of the country's poorest farm families by introducing improved cultivation practices and better transportation facilities, and by providing reliable water supplies and disease control. Total cost: $17 million.
MALAWI: Bank—$9.2 million. This second phase of a rural development project in Karonga continues support, for a four-year period, of the Government's rural development program designed to raise agricultural productivity and accelerate nationwide rural development. Some 10,000 farmers will double their incomes through a package of services. In addition, freight services on Lake Malawi will be improved. The loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $12.1 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$21 million. Smallholder farmers in the north Kelantan region (East Coast) will benefit from flood control, irrigation, and drainage works and the construction of access works (all in the Lemal area); elsewhere in the region, 190 kilometers of roads will be built, 25 farmers' development centers will be constructed or expanded, and an intensified program of agricultural extension covering the state of Kelantan will be instituted. Total cost: $48 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$125 million. A fifth loan for agricultural and livestock credit will help raise the productivity of Mexico's small farmers as well as medium-income farmers, and will help increase their incomes and integrate them into the market economy. As many as 250,000 people stand to benefit from the credit which will be made available. Most of the beneficiaries are of the lowest-income strata and many will be receiving institutional investment credit for the first time.
MOROCCO: Bank—$30 million. About3,300 farm families will benefit from a project designed to provide a rational use of the Oum-er-Rbia waters for irrigation development on 15,400 hectares of land in El Jadida Province, increase agricultural production, and ensure that a substantial share of the benefits from increased production go to the poorest members of the population. Fragmentation of land will be curbed through a land consolidation component, and a bilharzia control program will be implemented. Total cost: $94.4 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$8 million. A rural development project in two districts north of Kath-mandu seeks to arrest the decline in agricultural yields and per capita production and to provide basic health services and infrastructure support. About 25,000 farm families will be able to meet their full yearly family subsistence requirements; today, production is sufficient to meet only eight or nine months' needs. Total cost: $10.9 million.
NIGER: IDA—$10.7 million. As many as 50,000 farm and pastoral families will benefit from a rural development project designed mainly to increase peanut, millet, and cowpea production on 15 cooperatives. A host of project components will be provided—including credit for the purchase of livestock, roads, educational facilities, evaluation of means to develop irrigation potential, planting of trees for fuelwood production, among others—and by 1982, future average yields in the cooperatives may be close to those obtained in periods of favorable rainfall. Total cost: $13.2 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$23 million. Help in financing the first phase of the development of a seeds industry (capable of producing 100,000 tons annually of quality seeds at full production), including research, variety release, seed multiplication, processing, certification, storage, and marketing will be provided. The project will cover cotton, wheat, rice, maize, and, to a lesser extent, pulses, oilseeds, and fodder. Total cost: $56.5 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$14 million. Farmers tending more than 14,500 hectares of land fed by irrigation waters from the Indus River in Sind will be able to restore and maintain the productivity of their land through a project designed to control waterlogging and soil sali-nization through installation of buried tile drainage. Existing canals will also be enlarged and remodeled to provide additional water for
irrigation and for reclamation of saline soils through leaching. Agricultural extension services will be strengthened, and credit provided to farmers and contractors for land leveling in the project area. Total cost: $28.3 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—S8 million. Help in financing the cost of repairs and additional works at the Tarbela Dam, seriously damaged in 1974, will be given. Contributions totaling $41.6 million from Australia, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, and the United States are also forthcoming. Total cost: $67 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$50 million. Irrigation works by the Chico River in the potentially rich rice-growing Cagayan valley in northern Luzon will be both upgraded and expanded, and provincial roads in the area will be improved. (The Magat multipurpose project—see immediately below—will also benefit from the roads component.) Some 8,000 farm families and 2,000 landless families will benefit from the tripling of land under dry season irrigation, and increases in paddy production to 147,000 tons a year will provide enough rice to feed 600,000 persons. Total cost: $84 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$42 million. At full development in 1982, the part of Stage I of the Magat River multipurpose project assisted by the Bank will produce enough rice to feed about 825,000 people, and some 12,000 paddy farmers will directly benefit. More than 12,000 hectares of existing irrigation systems in northern Luzon will be rehabilitated, and 23,000 more will be included in the expansion of the system. Total cost: $84 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—S20.5 million. Money will be provided to the Development Bank of the Philippines for on-lending to livestock producers, particularly for smallholder pig and poultry operations. Technical assistance will be supplied to subborrowers, and municipal abattoirs will be upgraded. About 18,000 persons will directly benefit, and 5,800 full-time jobs will be created. Total cost: $41.3 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$12 million. The Development Bank of the Philippines will provide long-term loans and technical assistance to the private sector for construction of fishing and carrier vessels, fish pond rehabilitation and construction, ice plants, and a marine slipway. Fish production will increase by 26,000 tons (value: $11 million) and 1,750 permanent jobs will be created. Total cost: $23.5 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$11.5 million. Yearly post-harvest grain losses of about 17,000 tons will be eliminated and $11 million annually in foreign exchange will be saved as a result of a project providing milling, drying, storage, and transport facilities needed to support increased rice and corn production. About 135 rice mills (producing more than 200,000 tons of rice a year) and 20 corn mills (72,000 tons of milled corn) will be financed. Total cost: $28.5 million.
= ROMANIA: Bank—$60 million. Through a combination, of irrigation, on-farm development, and agrori rid us trial investments, this project will increase and stabilize production on about 65,4007 hectares in a relatively undeveloped part of southeastern Romania. It would also provide water supply facilities to 17 rural xommunities and increase the incomes of some 6,000 members of cpbpe rat i ve f a rms with in the project area,:Total: cost: $141.3i rnillion; /.
^cre4H-''wj-rt--'\)j'e"'exiert6fed>'t6 cooperatives and state farms which suffered serious losses in the-floods of Inly 1975: flood^protection, irrigation. , anrf dra triage¦ works ¦ wiII be :tepaired. Total cost7 $124s rhil lioh; ¦ "SfNE
farm families iflo.OOO people livim; in the southern part of the country will be abje to adopt improved crop and livestock production techniques through the provision of inputs, credit, and technical /assistance. This second: rural development project in the area will also help strengthen'cbqperatives through management training and, by promoting the organization of cooperative unions. Total cost: $14.9 million.
;SENEGAL: IDA - $4.2 million. Some 30,000 livestock owners, will increase their incomes through a project in eastern Senegal (where the potential for crop production is low) which wilt increase livestock production through animal health and husbandry improvements. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development and the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa are providing $5.7 million towards the project's costs. Total cost: $13 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$2 million. This resettlement project will benefit 6,000 people; 450 families will be resettled in nine new villages and 150 families installed in existing villages. Construction and rehabilitation of village wells, staff houses, village stores and classrooms, and about 100 kilometers of village access tracks and secondary roads are included. Technical assistance will be provided to prepare a plan for the integrated agricultural development of eastern Senegal. Total cost: $3.9 million.
• SOMALIA: IDA—$10 million. Food production in the arid North-West Region will increase as a result of a project covering about 160,000
( hectares, on part of which agricultural production, based on earthen embankments designed to maximize the use of rainfall, will be developed. Embankments, or bunds, will be constructed or rehabilitated, 50 small irrigated farms will be developed, and extension services upgraded. Some 2,500 farm families will benefit. Total cost: $13.2 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$8 million. About 100,000 resettled nomads, victims of the 1973-74 drought, are expected to produce their basic food requirements as a result of the first emergency projects under the Government's drought rehabilitation program. In settlement areas in
the south, land will be cleared for food (corn, sorghum, rice, vegetables, and technical assistance provided. )ri rangelands to the north, livestock development will be initiated/with various inputs and technical assistance provided. The rangeland development will be supported by the Kuwait Fund ($21 million), while the resettlement areas scheme will be co-financed by the Arab Fund ($22.4 million), IDA ($8 million); Aitf^m^ ($5,5 million). Total cost: $62.3 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$25 million. The credit vyiit help increase f0oci grpp ancj stfgar production and maintain employment and quality in the tree^cropisector. Annual prdduction of rice, pulses, other cereals, and suj'di is expected to go tin bv Wb^OTO; tbns \fcy: 1982. Total cost: $.6 0.5 m ft Ho n ".¦'
;"TANZANIA-;:l;DA^-$T8; million. Through a National Maize Project. Tanzania hopes to become self-sufficient in its staple grain by 1982, and thus achieve annual foreign exchange savings of about $10 million. Almost 1,000 villages in higb-poteritfal!, mai/v-growim?, areas of the country are expected to take part In the program. Seed, fertilizers,, insecticides, herbicides, and essential, storage and transport facilities w i II be p rpvi d ed to 380,000 parti rip at; rig families. Iota! cost: $'.8 million.
TANZANIA: IDA -S10 million. Annual output of milk on commercial dairy farms will be more than doubled by 1987, imports of dairy products will be reduced, and dairy units will be established in villages. Commercial dairy farms in five regions will be rehabilitated and expanded; milk collection, processing, arid distribution facilities will be improved; a pilot program will develop dairy units in 50 u/amaa villages; a breeding unit will be established; technical assistance will be provided; and research will be carried out. Total cost: $15.3 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$95 million. Improved rice yields, double cropping, and crop diversification through irrigation, on-farm development, and supporting agricultural services near Phitsanulok in the north of the country will result from an irrigation project providing year 'round water for 97,000 hectares on the Nan River. A fisheries development scheme, annual surveys of water-associated diseases, and water resources studies are also included. Total cost: $210 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$50 million. Overaged or low-yielding rubber trees on 160,000 hectares will be replaced with new, high-yielding varieties, thus helping to maintain and improve the incomes of rubber growers — mostly smallholders—in southern Thailand. The project comprises the Government's rubber replanting program for the period 1976-80. Total cost: $148 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$21 million. As many as 400,000 farm families—some 2,500,000 people •—will be provided either village access roads
(about 1,300 kilometers of such roads will be built), water (4,000 tubewells will be constructed), or electricity (rural electrification extended to 346 villages). Improved agricultural techniques for upland farming will also be developed in northeast Thailand. The loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: S45 million.
THAILAND: Bank—55 million. Some 170,000 farm families—over 1 million people—in 640 villages of northeast Thailand will benefit from a livestock development project designed to increase the quality and productivity of livestock through the improvement of village pastures, animal husbandry practices, and disease control methods, and through the expansion of cross-breeding programs, vaccine production, and livestock research. The loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $11.48 million.
TOCO: IDA — $9.5 million. Some 20,000 farm families will benefit from a rural development project which will help improve and diversify crop production in both upland and lowland areas of the country's coastal region. Roads, village stores and markets, dispensaries, tube wells, and small earth dams will be built, and consultant services, to carry out an irrigation study and prepare investment proposals for areas cleared of riverblindness, will be provided. The Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation is expected to provide a co-financing grant of some $2.2 million. Total cost: $15.7 million.
TURKEY: Bank—S63 million. This first Bank loan for institutional agricultural credit to the country will affect about 120,000 people, most of whom are poor, rural dwellers. Some 18,400 farmers will be provided supervised investment and short-term input credit by the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB); in addition, the TCZB, which will receive technical assistance, will channel loan funds to support agro-industries. The loan will also enable the Turkish Cargo Lines to buy a ferryboat to help establish an integrated road-sea transportation system across the Mediterranean to Italy and Yugoslavia. Total cost: $172.8 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$21.5 million. A five-year lending program by the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), coordinated with technical assistance by the Livestock Directorate of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture, and Livestock, for on-farm dairy investments will be financed. About 10,500 purebred cattle for breeding purposes will be imported, and farm machinery and technical assistance will be provided. Annual milk production will increase by 45 million liters and some 10,000 quality cattle will be calved yearly. Total cost: $34.7 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$9.4 million. The living standards of some 120,000 people in 600 villages will be boosted by a project to increase crop production and improve water supplies through the development of 2,700 hectares of low-lying alluvial land, the establishment of erosion control works, construction of wells, village grain warehouses and teaching centers,
and credit for agricultural equipment. Studies on the development of areas rid of riverblindness will also be prepared. The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa is contributing some $4.5 million of co-financing. Total cost: $16.2 million.
URUGUAY: Bank—$17 million. Pasture and other ranch improvements and technical assistance (for a credit program and for the training of technicians) will be provided by this project, designed to increase beef and dairy production and exports. More intensive use of pastures will free land for crop production, thus helping to diversify agricultural production and exports. Total cost: $32.7 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$10.3 million. A supplement to the Tihama Development Project, approved in May 1973, and for which an IDA credit of $10.9 million was made. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is providing co-financing of about $9.6 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$5.2 million. The construction of a 20,000-ton grain silo at Hodeida, six grain warehouses, and two Government-run bakeries, and provision of credit to private bakers (combined with a nutrition component which includes vitamins and minerals for bread fortification) represent the beginnings of a long-term program designed to improve the handling, storage, and processing of grain. The Saudi Fund is expected to participate in the financing of the project with about $11 million. Total cost: $21.8 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$7 million. Some 5,000 farm families (30,000 people) in the Wadi Hadramawt are expected to benefit from a project aimed at increasing agricultural production through the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, the construction of feeder roads, and the establishment of extension services. About 40,000 rural inhabitants will benefit from an assured supply of safe water. Total cost: $7.74 mil lion.
Development Finance Companies
BANGLADESH: IDA—$25 million. Foreign exchange will be made available to the country's industrial sector through the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB), an important source of medium-term and long-term financing for industry. BSB will give priority to financing investment in export industries and industries based on domestic raw materials.
BOLIVIA: Bank—$10 million. The Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA), Bolivia's largest private development institution, will be assisted in its financing of private mining and industrial enterprises—especially to medium-sized enterprises. The IFC is making a simultaneous investment of up to $550,000 equivalent in BISA's share capital.
BRAZIL: Bank—$85 million. The National Bank for Economic Development (BNDE) will
relend the proceeds of this Bank loan to 22 state and regional development banks which, in turn, will sanction loans to small and medium-scale privately owned industrial enterprises. As many as 40,000 new jobs might be created and job skills of countless others will be upgraded through the various subprojects. Technical assistance is also being provided to BNDE to strengthen its capability to deal with state and regional development banks.
CAMEROON: IDA — $3 million. This first Bank-assisted project in Africa designed to benefit relatively small enterprises will help about 80 small businesses, create employment for about 1,000 skilled workers, and increase the present 15% level of local ownership among total enterprises in the modern sector. Money provided by the credit will be relent by the Banque Camerounaise de Developpe-ment. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Eco-nomique is lending $3 million to finance sub-project costs.
CARIBBEAN REGION: Bank—$20 million. Development of several important economic sectors in the Caribbean Commonwealth will be supported by two loans to the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB). The loans will assist the CDB in financing public and private sector projects in eligible CDB and World Bank member countries for agriculture, agro-industry, manufacturing, tourism, transportation, public utilities, "sites and services," and vocational education and training. The proceeds of the loans (one of $3 million, is on Third Window terms) extended to the CDB will be relent in borrowing countries with the guarantee of the Bahamas, Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, and the United Kingdom, as relevant.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$80 million. The proceeds of this sixth Bank loan to the country's various development finance companies (finan-cieras) through the intermediation of the Central Bank, will be invested in productive private enterprises, mainly in the industrial sector. Preference will be given those enterprises which are export-oriented or have total assets under $3 million, and for projects involving industrial decentralization. The Inter-American Development Bank is making a parallel loan of $30 million toward the project's cost.
CYPRUS: Bank—$6 million. About 60% of the foreign exchange requirements of the Cyprus Development Bank over the next 30 months will be met, permitting it to finance about 50 medium-sized industrial and service sector projects, including tourism; the loan is expected to assist in creating more than 1,500 jobs and increase exports. An initial amount of $750,000 will be utilized from the loan for the development of small-scale industries, a traditional subsector in an economy in which about 80% of existing manufacturing enterprises are small and family-operated.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY: Bank—$15
million. This second Bank loan to the East African Development Bank will help meet the institution's foreign exchange requirements for the financing of import components for industrial projects in the three Community countries of Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$25 million. This second credit to the Bank of Alexandria will help expand and diversify its development finance operations in support of small and medium-sized enterprises in the private sector and some public sector industrial enterprises as well.
GHANA: Bank—S10 million. The National Investment Bank (NIB), which gives major support to Governmental efforts to encourage Ghanaian initiative in the economy, will be provided foreign exchange to help it finance small and medium-scale enterprises in the industrial, agro-industrial, and tourism sectors. The institutional growth of the NIB is also to be assisted through the improvement of its project appraisal capabilities and continued staff training.
INDIA: Bank—$40 million. Foreign exchange will be made available to the country's 18 state financial corporations (SFCs) for on-lending to small and medium-scale industries. The SFCs will receive the funds, which will cover their foreign exchange requirements for two years, through the Industrial Development Bank of India.
IRELAND: Bank—$30 million. The Industrial Credit Company, Limited, will help provide industrial credit in the poorer regions outside County Dublin, where industrial enterprises are generally small. Accordingly, about 40% of the loan is to be used to help finance small industries. The project will, therefore, support the Government's efforts to reduce regional imbalance and unemployment.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$8 million. This first loan to the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpe-ment Industrie! will help provide foreign exchange for industrial projects and create over 5,000 new jobs.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$5.6 million. As many as 130 small enterprises will be established or enlarged, and about 1,600 jobs created as a result of this loan to the Credit de la Cote d'lvoire (CCD. Three areas in which lending is suitable—woodworking, garages, and bakeries —have already been identified.
JORDAN: IDA—$4 million. Part of the foreign exchange requirements of the Industrial Development Bank of Jordan for investment in medium-scale and small-scale industrial enterprises will be met. A study of small-scale industries and handicrafts will also be financed.
KENYA: Bank—$10 million. This second loan to the Industrial Development Bank (IDB) will help finance a portion of its foreign exchange requirements through 1978. IDB financing concentrates mainly on agricultural processing, including food and industrial raw materials, forestry, and textiles. IDB loans are made in
accordance with the Government's policy of industrial decentralization.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$55 million. The Korea Development Finance Corporation will have part of its foreign exchange requirements through 1977 covered under this fifth loan, which will be used to finance imports of machinery and equipment and the foreign exchange component of domestically produced capital goods and civil works.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$30 million. Help in covering the foreign exchange requirements of the Medium Industry Bank (MIB), Korea's most important source of term finance and technical assistance to small and medium-sized industries, will be forthcoming. MIB plans to increase its lending in areas outside the Seoul/Pusan industrial complex, thus contributing to a more equitable regional distribution of jobs and income.
MAURITIUS: Bank—$7.5 million. This second loan (there has been one IDA credit) to the Development Bank of Mauritius will help the country reduce its dependency on sugar by creating new production and jobs in export-based, labor-intensive small and medium-scale industries and tourism.
MEXICO: Bank—$50 million. Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI) is a trust fund managed by the Bank of Mexico. It provides term finance to industrial enterprises through commercial investment banks. This second Bank loan will provide resources to FONEI which will be on-lent to enterprises to finance their equipment needs. The enterprises selected will have a favorable impact on the balance of payments by increasing exports and substituting imports efficiently.
MOROCCO: Bank—$25 million. Foreign exchange sufficient to finance the import component of most hotel development projects to be undertaken in the country through mid-1978 will be provided through a Government-controlled DFC specializing in housing and hotel lending. Technical assistance aiming at the rationalization of development policies in the tourism sector will also be provided. Total cost: $75 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$75 million. Proceeds from this loan, made to the Government, will be relent to the Government-owned Development Bank of the Philippines. Finance will help cover foreign exchange costs of capital goods imports for medium-scale and relatively large industrial subprojects. Enterprises eligible for subloans will include those engaged in manufacturing, agro-industries, mining, ocean shipping, and tourism.
SUDAN: IDA—$7 million. This credit, to the Industrial Bank of Sudan (IBS), will help provide medium-term and long-term credit for the country's industrial sector. The IBS will be able to help the Government meet its objective of diversifying exports and promoting import substitution.
TANZANIA: Bank—$15 million. Resources will be provided to the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) for investment in industry, agribusinesses, and tourism. The loan will meet the TIB's remaining foreign exchange needs through 1977.
TUNISIA: Bank—$20 million. This sixth loan to the Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) will provide part of the funds needed to help finance industrial development projects in the country. BDET's main function is to stimulate industrialization and tourism development through the financing of sound and productive investment projects.
URUGUAY: Bank—$35 million. This first Bank-supported operation in the country's industrial sector will help support a lending program to industrial export enterprises through the newly established Industrial Export Promotion Fund (IEPF). The IEPF will relend the money to commercial banks which, in turn, will relend to enterprises for imported working capital items and capital goods. The project also provides funds for technical assistance to Government institutions in the industrial sector.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$50 million. The loan will finance the foreign exchange costs of small and medium-sized industrial projects (excluding agro-industries) in the country's four lessde-veloped regions. The loan is being made to the largest bank in each region, each of which is a mixed commercial and investment bank.
ZAMBIA: Bank—$15 million. This loan to the Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) will help industrial development and diversify the copper-dependent economy. The loan will amount to more than 40% of DBZ's foreign exchange requirements, and by filling in the remaining resource gap, will enable it to cover its operations through March 1978. The IFC is investing $550,000 in the share capital of DBZ, established with World Bank assistance in 1974.
Education
ALGERIA: Bank—$47 million. This follow-up to the first Bank-assisted education project in the country will help Algeria meet its growing demand for trained manpower in priority areas —basic education, vocational training, and genera! secondary and university education. Total cost: $78 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$12 million. The quality of services provided to farmers will be improved through the construction of and the provision of equipment for seven agricultural training institutes, a graduate in-service training unit at the Bangladesh Agricultural University, the Regional Academy of Rural Development at Bogra, experimental field facilities for extension, in-service training of extension workers, technical assistance, and a number of studies of the extension system. Total cost: $16.5 million.
BOTSWANA: Bank—$10.5 million. The country's education program, designed to meet
the manpower needs of the economy in the early 1980s, will be supported. Secondary school places, as well as the numbers of trained secondary school teachers, will be increased; additional formal and nonformal educational opportunities for out-of-school youths and adults will be provided; a training program for primary school leavers will be expanded; and a rural education development center will be constructed. Some $3.5 million of the loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $15 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$17 million. This third education project will assist the Government in the creation or expansion and improvement of agricultural, rural health, and technical education facilities, which include three lower and three upper secondary agricultural schools, a higher agricultural and livestock technician training institute, and two lower secondary technical schools. These investments will support the Government's rural development program and plans for technical education. The loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $24.9 million.
GUATEMALA: Bank—$14.5 million. As many as 3,000 students annually—at the secondary, teacher training, and agricultural technical levels—will be graduated after having been provided a more practical education, thus equipping them with skills for further on-the-job training. Total cost: $22.14 million.
HAITI: IDA—$5.5 million. Designed mainly to increase educational opportunities in rural areas and to upgrade the qualifications of primary school teachers, the project includes site development, construction, furniture, and equipment for 65 new rural community learning centers, 10 new urban community learning Centers, extension of one and construction of two hew primary teacher training colleges, and technical assistance to undertake special studies and to help develop new curricula. Total cost: $6.5 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$37 million. About 3,600 skilled workers, or 10% of estimated country needs, and about 11,600 semi-skilled workers, or more than double the existing annual training potential of the country, will be trained annually in new education institutions built under the project. Total cost: $65 million.
KENYA: Bank—$10 million. A third Bank-assisted education project will provide facilities for 6,000 primary school teachers a year to attend the Kenya Institute of Education and 17 primary teacher colleges. A new Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia Service Station will benefit nearly 3 million primary pupils and 77,000 teachers. Total cost: $18 million.
LIBERIA: Bank—S4 million. Agricultural development will be aided by a project designed to improve rural education. Primary school buildings in about 50 villages in counties with low enrollment ratios will either be replaced, expanded, or constructed. A rural teacher training institute will also be improved and ex-
panded, and specialized services (particularly curricula development, adult education, testing, textbook production, and education planning) of the Ministry of Education will be strengthened. Total cost: $5.4 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$11.6 million. Twenty-two primary schools will be built as well as a like number of rural education centers, and one teacher training college. Equipment is also included. The project aims at assisting the Government's education strategy which gives priority to the growth of primary education, the improvement of rural, secondary schools, and the strengthening of nonformal schemes. Total cost: $14.5 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$25 million. Morocco's comprehensive strategy for rural education will be enhanced through the expansion and reorganization of the country's general, rural health, and agriculture extension education. Technical assistance in preparing a national program for technical education and vocational training will be provided. Total cost: $59.54 million.
NICARAGUA: Bank—$11 million. Supporting the Government's rural education and training development strategy is this project to expand and improve educational and training opportunities through the establishment of basic schools and community learning centers. By 1981, almost 50,000 students will be enrolled in formal education courses, 7,000 youths and adults will receive nonformal training, and lower secondary schools to be established will be able to enroll some 8,600 students. Total cost: $19.8 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank—$4 million. The training program of the National Vocational Training Service will be expanded so that the urgent needs of the economy for skilled and managerial workers might be met. Accelerated training for rural youth, and in-plant training and management training will be emphasized. The loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $5.7 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$25 million. Technical assistance, equipment, and facilities designed to increase the institutional capacity for the continuous development of relevant textbooks will be provided. About 27 million textbooks will be produced and distributed as a first phase of a program to introduce 98 million new texts into public primary and secondary schools by 1984. The project will help improve educational quality and redress imbalances in educational opportunities between urban and rural areas. The loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $51.6 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$7.25 million. This second IDA-supported education project in the country will continue efforts begun under the first project to diversify educational programs at the secondary level. It will also support rural and nonformal training and help improve educational planning, management, and man-
agement training. An Institute of Public Administration and Management will also be established. Total cost: $11 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$11 million. Training for 1,500 managers of u/'amaa villages will be provided through a Village Management Technician Training Program, the first comprehensive program for in-service training in village development in the country. The managers—each will be responsible for about five villages—will help villagers assess priorities, prepare development plans, and will train village officials in administrative skills. The project includes provision for the improvement of 15 secondary schools. Technical assistance has also been provided bv the aid agencies of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden. Total cost: $15 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$31 million. A project assisting two key areas of Thailand's educational system — secondary schools and adult education—in support of the Government's wide-ranging educational reforms program will be assisted. Diversified curricula will be introduced in 50 provincial secondary schools, and existing facilities will be equipped and expanded. The foundations of a nationwide adult education network will be set up through a national coordinating unit in Bangkok, four regional adult education centers, 24 provincial "Lifelong Education Centers," and 8,400 village reading centers. Total cost: $78 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$8.9 million. The project will help introduce a more relevant primary school curriculum and to increase the efficiency of the primary school system. Tunisia's pre-vocational training program, which provides employment-oriented education in agriculture and industry, will be expanded. Also, each year, about 1,600 primary school leavers who cannot find jobs will be trained and provided non-formal education in two regional training centers. Total cost: $27.6 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$8 million. Four new district training centers will provide courses in literacy, basic occupational skills, and agriculture; in addition, women will receive instruction in health, hygiene, nutrition, child care, and domestic crafts. As many as 20,000 rural inhabitants yearly will receive training. The project will also strengthen and expand reform measures initiated through a previous (fiscal 1974) IDA-assisted project by introducing more relevant training programs in primary teacher training institutes, while expanding provisions for the training of women teachers. The UNDP will participate with about $2.24 million in the financing of the project. Total cost: $11.9 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$21 million. The quality and efficiency of education in rural areas will be aided by a project comprising the construction, rehabilitation, and equipping of educational facilities located in rural communities throughout the country. Those facilities include primary
teacher training institutes, training institutes for agricultural technicians, and the Higher Institute of Agricultural Studies. Total cost: $48.5 million.
Electric Power
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$10 million. The purchase and installation of a 40 Mw gas turbine power station in the Kabul area will help avoid power shortages for the city's 50,000 electricity users; the project will also provide for the training of operation and maintenance personnel. Total cost: $11 million.
ALGERIA: Bank—$57.5 million. A loan to the Societe Nationale de I'Electricite et du Gaz (SONELGAZ) will form part of SONELGAZ's 1976-80 construction program. The project consists of the transmission component, and studies designed to improve the company's organization and to further its development. Total cost: $575 million.
BOLIVIA: Bank—$25 million. Help in financing a part of the five-year (1976/77-1980/81) expansion program of the Empresa Nacional de Electricidad, S.A. (ENDE) will be forthcoming. The program consists of a series of investments to expand electric power generation and transmission in the ENDE operating area. Total cost: $28.8 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$52 million. The growing requirements for electric power in the state of Parana will be met as a result of a project which includes needed investments in subtransmis-sion and distribution facilities. As many as 141,000 new consumers, including 20,000 low-income households in the state's main cities, will be connected to the statewide system. Total cost: $188 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$50 million. The project will help three state power distribution companies in northeast Brazil meet demand for electric energy resulting from the recent rapid growth of the industrial sector and the concomitant expansion of commercial and residential power demand. The project includes a pilot program to provide electric service to low-income urban households. Total cost: $145.4 million.
EL SALVADOR: Bank—$39 million. Help in financing the foreign exchange costs (including interest during construction) of the expansion of the Ahuachapan Geothermal Power Plant will be provided. Studies will also be made of other geothermal fields in the country. Some $9 million of the loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $43.8 million.
HAITI: IDA —$16 million. This first IDA-financed power project in the country, which includes the construction of a power station, related transmission and distribution facilities, a training center, and technical assistance, is designed to increase the supply of electric power in the Port-au-Prince area and help the Government-owned power company become more efficient and financially independent. Total cost: $18 million.
INDIA: IDA —$150 million. This fifteenth Bank/I DA-assisted operation for power development in the country will help finance a program of investment in high voltage transmission during the period 1976-79 in four states as well as in load dispatch facilities to be installed by two regional electricity boards. Total cost: $207.3 million.
INDIA: IDA—$57 million. A rural electrification project will benefit about 55,000 smallholder farmers; power will be made available for irrigation pumping, small industries, and for houses and street lighting in over 6,000 villages. Total cost: $114 million.
INDONESIA: Bank —$90 million. Electric power distribution facilities will be expanded and voltage levels standardized in Jakarta and neighboring cities in west Java. The project will provide part of the high priority requirements in this area from 1977 to 1980 to market the increased generation becoming available. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development may provide about $40 million. Total cost: $164 million.
KENYA: Bank—$63 million. This loan will help finance the construction of the Gitaru hydroelectric power station on the upper Tana River, thus completing the planned Seven Forks hydroelectric development of the river. The project will help meet Kenya's increasing need for electricity which, in the past decade, has grown by 8% yearly. Total cost: $135.9 million.
LIBERIA: Bank—$1.8 million. About 43 man-years of technical assistance will be provided the Liberia Electricity Corporation to help it prepare for increased demand for power over the remaining years of the decade. Management will be strengthened, long-range plans developed, and ways will be sought for the Corporation to earn a satisfactory return on investments.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$35 million. This seventh loan to the National Electricity Board (NEB) will help finance an increase of 360 Mw in generating capacity and associated transmission-distribution lines. The project consists of the
• final extension of the Prai thermal power station, installation of a 132 kv transmission line, extension of the 11 kv distribution system to two rural areas, and consulting services. Total
* cost: $171.3 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$49 million. Through the construction of a dam and associated power facilities, electric power availability will increase, and water will be provided to irrigate 17,000 hectares of land and to meet the growth of demand for potable and industrial water in the Atlantic coastal zone to the year 2000. Total cost: $167.1 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$26 million. A hydroelectric project 30 kilometers southwest of Kathmandu, will replace use of energy equivalent to about 65,000 tons of oil a year, saving about $8 million in foreign exchange. The Overseas Eco-
nomic Cooperation Fund of Japan, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, and the United Nations Development Programme are providing a total of $30.5 million towards the cost of the project. Total cost: $68 million.
PAKISTAN: Bank—$50 million. This project, which forms part of the country's 500 kv transmission system eventually interconnecting the large hydro facilities in the north with other thermal facilities, includes the equipment for and construction of more than 500 kilometers of transmission lines, the installation of a 220 kv switching station, and consulting services for engineering and accounting, including training in 500 kv operations. Total cost: $113.8 million.
PERU: Bank—$36 million. Assistance will be made available to help the state-owned power company expand its transmission and distribution systems, and technical assistance to and training for state enterprises in the power sector will be made available. By mid-1979, the number of households in poor suburbs of Lima with public service electricity will triple. Total cost: $137.4 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$36 million. This sixth loan to the power sector in the country (but the first Bank operation in 10 years), will help finance a project consisting of the 1976-78 tranche of a 10-year investment program in the sector designed to improve and increase generation capacity and transmission and distribution facilities. Total cost: $1,124 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$50 million. A hydroelectric power project on the Riul Mare and Strei Rivers (including the construction of a reservoir, a tunnel to convey its waters to a power station, an underground power plant and an above-ground powerhouse) will help the country meet its growing demand for power. Total cost: $250 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$56 million. This loan will help finance the Turkish Electricity Authority's (TEK) transmission facilities and training needs for the years 1976-79. Substations will be built, TEK engineers will be trained in transmission system design and operation, a manpower study will be conducted of TEK's professional staff needs for the years 1977-81, and a nationwide power tariff study will be undertaken. Total cost: $146 million.
Industry
ALGERIA: Bank—$46 million. This loan to a state-owned construction materials enterprise will assist in financing the construction of a cement plant capable of producing a half million tons a year. The distribution system of the enterprise—Societe Nationale de Materiaux de Construction—will be expanded through the acquisition of 260 silo-railway cars and 190 trucks and reorganized through the execution of a program of studies. Technical assistance will be provided to the state auditing and accounting enterprise. Total cost: $214 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$60 million. This fifth loan for steel expansion in the country will help the Companhia Siderurgica Paulista (COSIPA) finance its Stage III expansion of steel-making capacity. The project will expand COSIPA's raw steel production capacity from 2.3 million tons at the completion of Stage II to 3.5 million tons yearly. About 6,500 workers will be added to the mill's labor force of 7,600 when Stage III attains full production in 1982. Other external lenders are the Inter-American Development Bank ($40 million) and bilateral sources. Total cost: $1,446.4 million.
BRAZIL: Bank — $50 million. Assistance in financing a fertilizer plant with a capacity of 1,200 metric tons per day of ammonia (most of which will be converted to urea) will be forthcoming. The project will substantially improve the availability of low-cost fertilizer to Brazil's agricultural sector, and reduce Brazil's current heavy reliance on costly imported fertilizer. Total cost: $272 million.
CHILE: Bank—$33 million. Investment sub-projects undertaken by two Government agencies, the Chilean Copper Corporation and the National Mining Enterprise, will be supported. The subprojects aim at maintaining, rendering more efficient, and, in a few cases, slightly expanding existing capacity to process copper ore and by-products. The project should result in an increase in foreign exchange earnings to more than $100 million a year by 1980. Total cost: $76.8 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank —$52 million. The production capacity of two textile mills near Alexandria will be expanded and rehabilitated, and training and technical assistance to the textile sector, which accounts for about 50% of employment in the industrial sector and 52% of the value of output, will be provided to meet growing domestic and export demand. Parallel financing will come from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development. Total cost: $153.2 million.
INDIA: IDA—$105 million. The project will help increase fertilizer production in the country's existing plants from about 60% of capacity to about 90% by 1979. It will assist in removing production bottlenecks, improving pollution control, and increasing the production of industrial chemicals. An additional 253,000 tons a year of nutrients is expected. Total cost: $239 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$70 million. The country's largest fertilizer company (PUSRl) will expand its present annual capacity to produce an additional 570,000 tons of urea. Single-train ammonia and urea units with capacities of 1,000 metric tons and 1,725 metric tons a day respectively will be built. Parallel financing in the amount of $70 million from the Saudi Fund for Development will be forthcoming. After this expansion, PUSRI's annual capacity will reach about 1.6 million tons of urea. Total cost: $186 million.
PERU: Bank—$40 million. Mining activities in the central Andean region of the country are to be improved through the replacement of obsolete facilities, expansion of production, increased processing, and a reduction of environmental pollution. The fourfold expansion of output at one copper mine and the construction of a mine water treatment plant at another will also be financed. Total cost: $146.5 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$20 million. Investments in 223 enterprises to replace equipment and spare parts damaged by the serious floods of July 1975 will be made. About 120 kilometers of the national road system and 270 kilometers of the rail system will be reconstructed. Total cost: $221 million.
TOGO, IVORY COAST, and GHANA: Bank —$60 million. A regional industrial complex, though located in Togo, will be owned jointly by the three Governments, and will supply high-quality clinker required for cement production in the three countries. The project will help reduce their dependence on clinker imports, and the plant will provide 600 jobs when in operation. A total of eight co-financers are helping finance the project. Total cost: $284 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$70 million. Turkey's large but underutilized forest resources will be tapped by a newsprint project, designed to meet the country's growing need for newsprint. Integrated sawmill and newsprint manufacturing facilities will be built near the town of Balikesir in western Turkey, a town site with housing for 1,000 people will be provided, and technical assistance furnished. Total cost: $185 million.
Nonproject
BANGLADESH: IDA—$100 million. Foreign exchange will be made available for the importation of industrial components, chemicals, raw materials, spare parts, and packing materials to enable selected industries, with particular emphasis on jute and textiles, to maintain or expand production.
INDIA: IDA—$200 million.'1* Some 800 medium- and large-scale industries in key sectors of the economy will be able to maintain production and expand exports. The credit will meet part of the foreign exchange requirements during 1976-77 for imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts, and will provide $5 million for the foreign exchange costs of technical know-how and "balancing equipment" needed to modernize selected industries.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$75 million. Funds will be made available to help meet the foreign exchange requirements of Korea's private sectorforthe importation of selected essential capital and intermediate goods. The goods
(1) Categorized as "Maintenance imports" elsewhere.
to be bought with the proceeds of the loan are intended primarily for export industries.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$50 million. The credit will help meet the country's foreign exchange requirements for the importation of essential capital and intermediate goods needed for agricultural and industrial development. Most of the goods will be directly imported by private firms through normal commercial channels.
PARAGUAY: IDA—$4 million. The credit will help finance a preinvestment project consisting of various studies to be carried out mainly in the transportation, agriculture, tourism, and education sectors. The project is expected to improve budgeting and resource allocation, increase the number of high priority public sector projects, and contribute to a more effective coordination of external financial assistance. Total cost: $6.15 million.
Population and Nutrition
BRAZIL: Bank—$19 million. This first ever Bank-assisted nutrition project, designed to strengthen Brazil's capability to upgrade the nutritional standards of the population, may improve, over the next four years, the health and performance of more than 100,000 children. Others benefiting will include pregnant and lactating women from low-income families. Studies will be undertaken to determine the magnitude of the malnutrition problems in the country; the effectiveness of different nutrition "delivery systems" will be tested; food forti-ficarits and low^cost nutritious food will be developed:, tested, and produced; and technical assistance will be provided. Total cost: $71.9 million.;
: JAMAICA: Bank—$6.8 million. By supporting the National Family; Planning Program, primarily through the construction and equipping of health centers, provision of technical assistance, and; the purchase of vehicles, this second Bank-supported population project aims to reduce fertility rate (from 102 births per 1,000 women in *1974' to 150 per 1.000 women in I960)(by further developrnent of health and family:planning services, a reduction of malnutrition amons: pregnant and lactating women •and ^mafLchildrgn, arid technical assistance to the Ministry of Wealth arid Environmental Con' trpl: Total cost: $13.2 millipn.; „¦
•Technical Assistance
assistance Subprojects¦ willbe financed; The funds are expected to be used primarily for feasibility and engineering studies and other investigations required; to prepare projects*for external;financing, with emphasis;on; the agricultural and water developriient sec tors. Some of the proceeds will also/be, used to (strengthen the, institutions responsible lor project preparation and implementation through staff training or management assistance.
BURUNDI: IDA—$1.5 million. Key personnel will be recruited in the planning ministries and the Bureau Technique d'Etudes (10 man-years of long-term advisory services and 150 man-months of short- and medium-term consultant services). Improvements will take place in preinvestment and feasibility studies needed for project preparation. Total cost: $1.7 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$13 million. A reliable natural resource data base, as well as a permanent institutional capability for updating and analyzing resource information required for planning agriculture, transmigration and land settlement, timber and mineral extraction, and related transportation investment, will be established through a national resource survey and mapping project. Base mapping, navigational charting, and resource evaluation will be substantially accelerated and improved through provision of aerial photography, geodetic control, remote sensor imagery, acquisition of equipment, construction of facilities, and training and technical assistance. Total cost: $46 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$4 million. A three-year program of project preparation studies (involving as many as 130 man-years of consultants' services) will be financed. After expanding the capacity of local institutions to execute preinvestment work, projects will be selected for study from among various high priority sectors and subSectors, including railways, feeder roads, rural;and livestock development, irrigation, arid water Supply. The Kuwait Fund is lending $3 million towards the project's cost. Total cost: $8.5 million,
TANZANIA: IDA—$6 million. To help the Government meet demands for skilled manpower, ¦ this, technical assistance project includes consulting services for preparing pre-inveslmen! and feasibility studies in the industrial, mining, transport, and communications sectors, and tor special studies designed to increase the utilization of existing investments. Overseas training for Tanzanians in project preparation, evaluation, implementation; and related skills will.also be provided.
Telecommunications
FIJI: Bank—$5 million. International telecommunications, telex, and local and longdistance telephone services will be improved,, and automatic switching equipment for 5,400 additional lines will be provided. Total cost: $14 million.
NIGER: IDA—$5.2 million. Designed to improve the quality of Niger's telecommunications facilities, especially its long-distance network, the project includes provision of trunk switching equipment, 3,800 lines of automatic; switching equipment, overhead line and carrier equipment, three VHF links and one HF radio link, and, in addition, engineering and financial consultant services/Tatal^ million.
SYRIA: Bank—$28 million. The Syrian Telecommunications Establishment will be able to modernize and improve services to existing subscribers, connect over 80,000 new subscribers, and provide increased traffic capacity as a result of a project which also includes the establishment of a new telecommunications training center in Damascus. Total cost: $145.6 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$26 million. The local network capacity of the country's telecommunications system in both the Bangkok area and the hinterland will be expanded; as many as 50,000 new connections will be made; the number of towns and villages with telephone service will increase by 40%; and, in rural areas, 42 small towns and villages will be provided telephone service for the first time. Total cost: $94.13 million.
Tourism
THE GAMBIA: IDA—$4 million. Help will be provided in financing infrastructure for tourism development. The Gambia hopes that its foreign exchange earnings, now heavily dependent on groundnut production, can be increased, and that additional employment will be created during periods of low agricultural employment. In addition to basic infrastructure (roads, sewerage system, telecommunications facilities, etc.), a hotel training school will be built, and a food storage and marketing program to encourage local production of foodstuffs will be implemented. The African Development Bank and the Kreditanstalt fur Wieder-aufbau (Germany) are also helping to finance the project. Total cost: $11.3 million.
JORDAN: IDA—$6 million. Tourism facilities and supporting infrastructure at the ancient sites of Petra and Jerash (on the East Bank) will be upgraded. At the same time, the archaeological assets of those sites will be preserved, representing the first involvement of the Bank in a project designed to realize the earnings potential of historical monuments. Increased tourist flows and entrance fees will generate substantial foreign exchange benefits and create 1,200 new jobs. Total cost: $12.1 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$21 million. Infrastructure works and public facilities for the development of a new tourism complex on the Bay of Agadir will be constructed. When all planned accommodations have become fully operational in 1989, foreign exchange earnings of about $37 million yearly wilt be generated and as many as 4,400 people will be directly employed, with an estimated additional 7,200 jobs provided through indirect employment. The project also includes funds for road construction and the elimination of harbor pollution, which would enhance Agadir's tourism assets and alleviate some of the city's problems caused by its rapid growth following the 1960 earthquake. Total cost: $44 million.
Transportation
BANGLADESH: IDA—$4.6 million. A supplement to the original credit (August 1973) for $4.1 million which included funds for the repair of the offshore oil terminal at Chittagong. Later studies revealed that damage to the terminal was more extensive than had been thought. This supplement will help finance a modified oil transfer system as recommended by consultants. Total (additional) cost: $7.2 million.
BENIN, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF: IDA—S9 million. A supplement to the $11.8 million IDA credit of July 1973 for a second highway project.
BOTSWANA: Bank—$5.8 million. This third road project will help finance the construction of the 52-kilometer Gaborone-Molepolole road, which serves about 60,000 people, most of whom are small farmers engaged in cattle raising and crop cultivation. Engineering for future road construction and technical assistance are also included. Total cost: $7.4 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$75 million. Improvements to the Sao Paulo State Railway Company will be made. Especially affected by the project will be low-income residents of the city's suburbs who must ride on the line's obsolete and crowded commuter trains. Track will be rehabilitated, and locomotives and rolling stock purchased. The loan is seen as complementing recent Bank assistance to the federal railways system. Total cost: $762.4 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$55 million. About 10,000 kilometers of secondary and feeder roads, linking existing agricultural areas to federal and state primary highway networks, will be constructed, rehabilitated, or improved. Agricultural development will be fostered, transport of essential farm inputs facilitated, and isolated communities opened up to economic opportunities. Total cost: $237 million.
CAMEROON: IDA—$15 million. A supplement to the $24 million credit of September 1973 for a second highway project.
CAMEROON: Bank—$2.3 million. A feasibility study will seek to determine the capacity demand for railway terminal facilities in the area of the country's major economic center, Douala; the project also includes final engineering studies of the new Douala railway station and marshalling yard. Consulting services will cover railway operation, commercial activities, and management; capacity restraints on the Douala-Yaounde corridor will be studied. Total cost: $2.9 million.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE: Bank —$38 million. Through technical assistance provided to the Agence Transcongolaise de Communications, the agency responsible for the development of rail transport in the country, the Congo's role as a major transit country for exports from landlocked Central African Republic, southeastern Cameroon, southern Gabon, and southern Chad to the port of
Pointe Noire on the Atlantic Ocean will be strengthened. Nine sources of co-financing will provide grants and loans totaling about $155 million. Total cost: $233.8 million.
COSTA RICA: Bank—$39 million. With the construction of two new main highways, the first all-weather road from the capital, San Jose, to the Caribbean will be completed, helping to bring some previously isolated areas into the mainstream of the country's economic life. 'Total cost: $74 million.
ECUADOR: Bank—$33.5 million. The institutional and operating conditions of the port 4of Guayaquil will be improved. Additional berths and facilities—including the country's first bulk cargo terminal—will relieve the congestion caused by faster-than-anticipated traffic growth, and will permit handling increases in cargo traffic forecast through the mid-1980s. Total cost: $83.6 million.
ECUADOR: Bank—$10.5 million. About 49 kilometers of road through a rich, agricultural region will be improved. A road maintenance program will be set up, a program to improve the capabilities of the country's road construction industry launched, agricultural studies undertaken for the area affected by the project, and a program designed to improve planning and coordination in the transport sector. Total cost: $21 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$45 million. The port of Alexandria will be rehabilitated and modernized through dredging, construction of a new berth, the purchase of needed equipment, the opening of a new channel, establishment of a new cargo area, and other related activities. Technical assistance will also be provided to the Alexandria Port Authority. Co-financing is expected from USAID and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan. Total cost: $151 million.
GHANA: Bank—$18 million; IDA—$10 million. This two-fold project is designed to improve existing roads by implementing the first four-year phase of the Ghana Highway Authority's eight-year road maintenance program; and to help the domestic contracting industry through the Bank for Housing and Construc-•tion. The United Nations Development Programme, the United Kingdom, and Canada are contributing about $700,000 as technical assistance grants. Total cost: $35.8 million.
GREECE: Bank —$30 million. The Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia highway will be reconstructed, and institutional reforms in the transport sector will be initiated so that benefits the country derives from its highway system can be maximized. Total cost: $64.7 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$14 million. This project, designed indirectly to enhance the Government's revitalization efforts in the agriculture sector, includes rehabilitation and initiates proper maintenance of almost 2,500 kilometers of roads, repair of equipment, purchase of highway equipment and spare parts, technical as-
sistance to the implementing agency — the Ministry of Public Works, Mining, and Geology —and training of mechanics and equipment operators. Total cost: $18.6 million.
HONDURAS: Bank—$3 million. A supplement to the Bank's $6 million second port loan, made in June 1971.
INDIA: IDA—$110 million. This thirteenth railways project to be supported by IDA will include the manufacture of 350 locomotives, about 300 electric multiple units, 1,500 coaches, and 20,000 freight cars. Electrical, track, and other works, as well as procurement of spare parts are also included. Total cost: $1,010 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$130 million. More than 1,000 kilometers of roads in Java, Sumatera, and Bali will be improved, detailed engineering made on more than 4,000 additional kilometers of roadways, and studies undertaken of the feasibility of future improvements to 7,000 kilometers of highways. Technical assistance to help strengthen the country's highway authorities in planning, budgeting, construction management, training, and mobilization of consulting and construction industries will also be provided. Total cost: $234 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$68 million. PUSRI, the Government-owned fertilizer company, will establish an integrated distribution system so it can effectively distribute its increasing fertilizer production from the south Sumatera plants to Java, north and west Sumatera, and other islands. Total cost: $130 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$54 million. Part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-Island Fleet Development Program for the period 1974-79, the project is designed to modernize, expand, and improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Ninety-four new and used ships, representing about 10% of the present Indonesian shipping fleet, will be acquired under the project. The project is being co-financed by Norway ($99.7 million) and the Japanese Overseas Cooperation Fund ($25 million). Total cost: $195.2 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$43 million. Pavement on about 200 kilometers of road will be strengthened, 27 kilometers on one road will be realigned, and 45 kilometers of highways will be constructed. Equipment for traffic counting, vehicle weight control, and pavement surveys will be bought, and technical assistance provided. Total cost: $69 million,
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$90 million. This third Bank-assisted highway project includes the construction and paving of about 195 kilometers on four national highways, paving and improvements on a total of about 600 kilometers on nine national highways, and feasibility studies of about 1,200 additional kilometers of roads, to be followed by detailed engineering if found to be. justified. The project is designed to reduce frefght and passenger transport costs, and to provide easier access to
some isolated areas with high economic potential. Total cost: $220 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$5.5 million. Two road sections strengthening the link between Thaba Tseka, the commercial focus of the central mountain section, and Maseru, the capital, will be improved and reconstructed. A labor-intensive construction unit will be formed. This unit will gain experience with labor-intensive methods for coping with future employment emergencies and providing a basis for a long-term employment strategy. The hope is that job opportunities might be created at home which will attract would-be emigrant workers. (About 60% of the country's labor force now works in South Africa.) Financing for the project is also to be provided by the Overseas Development Ministry of the United Kingdom. Total cost: $8.61 million.
LIBERIA: Bank—S27.5 million. The agricultural heartland of the country will be opened up by the realignment of one principal road and the building of almost 250 kilometers of feeder roads, and access to the port of Monrovia will be aided by the construction of a highway bridge and the upgrading of a major thoroughfare in the capital. Additionally, technical assistance will be provided the Planning Division of the Ministry of Public Works, and a study of Monrovia's urban development and transport system will be made. Total cost: $46.4 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$22 million. An all-weather direct land connection between Tananarive and the western part of the country will be built and part of a major arterial highway reconstructed. An area with substantial agricultural potential will be opened up and transportation costs will be reduced. The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa is providing co-financing of $5 million. Total cost: $31.8 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA —$5.6 million. An amendment to the Bank loan and IDA credit ($15 million each) made in January 1973 in support of the Government's road construction program.
MALI: IDA—$10 million. The third IDA operation in the country's highway sector, the project will continue to help the Government's program for improvement of road maintenance and of agricultural feeder roads. It will help increase agricultural production, improve efficiency of the road transport industry, and reduce vehicle operating costs. Total cost: $13.4 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$8 million. The port of Nouadhibou will be improved through the construction of fishing and commercial berths, a sewerage scheme, various buildings, and the purchase of a harbor master's launch and navigation aids maintenance equipment. Technical assistance will also be provided. Co-financing will be obtained from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development and the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation. Total cost: $27.55 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$100 million. The operating efficiency of Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico will be improved, track rehabilitated, telecommunications modernized, and urgently needed rolling stock and machinery purchased. The project forms a part of Nacionales' $1,401 million five-year (1975-79) plan. Total cost: $576 million.
NICARAGUA: Bank—$5 million. An amendment to a loan (increasing it from $11 million to $16 million) to the Corinto Port Authority for a port project approved in January 1973.
NIGER: IDA—$15.6 million. This third lDA-assisted highway development project in the country aims at consolidating and expanding highway maintenance efforts and improving major trunk roads in the south which support agricultural development. The project is also designed to provide better transport connections for export-import traffic flowing via Nigeria. The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa and the African Development Bank are providing $10.6 million toward the project's costs. Total cost: $28.7 million.
PERU: Bank—$76.5 million. Help in financing a transport corridor linking the Pacific coast and the Peruvian hinterland will be made available. About 375 kilometers of roads will be improved, resurfaced, or paved, and 110 kilometers of feeder roads will either be improved or built. In addition, two new ports on the Amazon River will be constructed, and another improved. Total cost: $128.7 million.
RWANDA: IDA —$9.5 million. A supplementary credit made in December 1975 in support of the country's road construction and highway maintenance program, with co-financing of $5 million by the Saudi Fund for Development.
SENEGAL: Bank —$15 million. This third Bank-assisted highway project aims at protecting past investments through the consolidation and expansion of maintenance of the existing highway network. The provision of technical assistance will help build up the Government's planning capacity in the transport sector and establish a program designed to improve the capacity of the domestic construction industry to participate in major road works. Total cost: $24 million.
SENEGAL: Bank—$6.6 million. About 1,250 kilometers of feeder roads will be improved and maintained. Technical assistance will also be provided for project implementation and monitoring. The loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $8.5 million.
SOMALIA: IDA-$5.2 million. The port facilities at Mogadiscio will be expanded by the extension of the breakwater and the addition of a berth. When completed, the new port is expected to handle about two-thirds of the country's imports, and about one-third of all exports. Total cost: $6.45 million.
SUDAN: Bank—$20 million; IDA—$9 million. Two new airports (at Port Sudan and Wau) will be built, the runway and terminal building of another (at Malakal) reconstructed, and a new terminal at yet another (at Juba) will be built, thus helping bridge the considerable distances between potential areas of production and consumption in Africa's largest country. The Bank loan is on Third Window terms. Total 'cost: $86.2 million.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: Bank—$7 million. Severe traffic congestion along the East-,West Corridor, the main artery between Port-of-Spain, the manufacturing and commercial center, and the rest of the country will be alleviated. Almost 100 kilometers of paved rural roads will be strengthened, and technical assistance will be provided to the Government's Highway Division and the domestic contracting industry. Total cost: $28.5 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$28 million. The Bank's second highway project in the country will improve about 225 kilometers of primary and secondary roads and thus reduce transport costs. Also, technical assistance will be provided for updating the 1968 Transport Survey and for preparing a rural roads program in less developed regions. Total cost: $52.3 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$3.2 million. The port of Aden at the southern entrance to the Red Sea, underutilized during the closure of the Suez Canal, will be rehabilitated. The project will enable the port to resume safe and adequate servicing for the initial increase in shipping traffic through the now-opened Canal. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development is lending $13.6 million toward the rehabilitation costs. Total cost: $17.6 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$49 million. A 736-kilometer-long oil pipeline, capable of transporting up to 400,000 barrels of petroleum a day by 1979, will be built from the port of Omisalj on the Adriatic Sea to the town of Pancevo, near Belgrade, with a branch line to the Hungarian border, making possible the transit of oil to Hungary and Czechoslovakia. Storage tanks, pump stations, a control system, associated equipment, and engineering services are also included. The pipeline will serve five refineries in Yugoslavia. Co-financing is being provided by agencies in Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Kuwait, and Libya. Total cost: $377 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$40 million. Construction of highway sections totaling about 90 kilometers in three republics will relieve congestion on two highways of international importance and will help meet the heavy traffic generated by the country's growing manufacturing and tourism industries, and international traffic. Total cost: $117.4 million.
Urbanization
MALAYSIA: Bank—$26 million. Government measures to make more efficient use of existing
and planned transport facilities in the Kuala Lumpur area will be supported. In addition, 2,100 squatter households, some of which were displaced by highway development, will be provided with infrastructure services near their old homes, and other households and businesses wilt be provided residential and business "sites and services." Technical assistance will be provided for the preparation of a national "sites and services" program, emphasizing integrated development of small-scale industries and low-cost housing. Total cost: $72 million.
PERU: Bank —$21.6 million. As many as 200,000 slum residents in Lima and Arequipa will benefit through provision of infrastructure for water supply, sewer, and electricity connections; the construction of access roads (in Lima); and health and nutrition centers (in Arequipa). Industrial "sites and services" will be included in both communities, while in Lima, core housing and commercial "sites and services" will be provided. Technical assistance for project components is also included. Total cost: $43.2 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank —$32 million. About 180,000 residents of Tondo, one of Manila's worst slums, will benefit from an urban development project in which health, nutrition, and other social services improvements will be integrated with improvements in water supply, sewerage, and drainage facilities. In neighboring Dagat-Dagatan, the first phase of a "sites and services" settlement will be developed. Technical assistance will also be provided the new National Housing Authority and the Manila Metropolitan Commission to help them develop urban programs. Some $10 million of the loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $65 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
INDIA: IDA—$40 million. The quality of water supply and sewerage systems in five of the largest towns in the state of Uttar Pradesh will be raised, and the supply of water for 2,000 villages improved. About 5 million city dwellers and 1.2 million villagers will benefit. Total cost: $75 million.
KENYA: Bank—$35 million. An additional 300,000 people will be serviced with a reliable supply of water in Mombasa and nearby coastal areas, and existing services will be improved. Technical assistance to the Water Department of the Ministry of Water Development will be provided for improving the operation and management of the Coast Province water organization and for preparation of a countrywide rural water supply project. Total cost: $75 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$21.5 million. The population in the Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur with sewerage service by 1981 will double to 400,000 as a result of this project, the first stage of a 30-year plan to extend sewerage facilities
throughout the Territory. Total cost: $60.5 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$40 million. This loan will cover part of the financial needs of a new program to improve water supply and sewerage services in medium-sized cities throughout Mexico. Eight cities have been selected to start the program; the cost of improving services for them is estimated at $100 million. About 580,000 people will benefit from improved water services and 642,000 from sewerage facilities. Technical assistance is also being provided. Total cost: $100 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$26.6 million. More than 2 million people living in Lahore will benefit from an improvement and expansion of the city's water supply, and an additional 250,000 people will benefit from a 20% expansion of the city's sewer system. Total cost: $47.9 million.
PANAMA: Bank —$12 million. The water supply systems in the cities of Panama, Colon, Arraijan, and Chorrera will be improved. Water will be supplied to the new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte, and both the water supply and sewerage systems of El Chorrillo, a low-income Panama City suburb, will be rehabilitated. Total cost: $20.5 million.
SYRIA: Bank—$35 million. The residents of Damascus will benefit, either through house connections or through public taps, from the first major expansion of the city's water supply and distribution system in more than 40 years. Supplies of water will be increased, and water shortages and related health hazards curtailed. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development is providing $40 million in co-financing. Total cost: $137 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$45 million. Sarajevo's old water and sewerage systems will be rehabilitated and expanded. Existing pumping stations and reservoirs will be expanded and new
ones built; water mains and distribution pipes will be installed or replaced; collectors and main sewers will be constructed; and new sewage treatment facilities installed. Implementation of the project is to be coordinated with the simultaneously approved air pollution control project. Total cost: $95.7 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$38 million. The use of low-grade lignite as fuel, which has resulted in Sarajevo's being one of the most polluted (with sulfur oxide) cities of its size (300,000) in the world, will be reduced through a project which will convert central heating plants and new household connections to natural gas. A natural gas transmission line will be built from near Belgrade to Sarajevo and a distribution ring and service connections constructed. Total cost: $74.9 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$20 million. Planning and management of water resources within the Morava River basin (in the Republic of Serbia) will be improved so that water-related problems can be overcome and economic development in the least developed areas of the region accelerated. Water and sewerage systems will be provided for the towns of Titovo Uzice and Cacak, two pilot irrigation projects will be undertaken, and studies on regional economic development, water quality, and flood hazards will be carried out. Total cost: $51.4 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$21.5 million. The water supply systems of six major cities with an aggregate population of 1.5 million, only a third of which today have ready access to water, will be improved. The project, expected to reduce the high incidence of waterborne diseases among the urban poor, is being co-financed by the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa, the African Development Bank, and the United Nations Development Programme. Total cost: $70.4 million.
Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance
a
The provision of technical assistance to member countries has become a major component of the Bank's activities. Many of the Bank's borrowers look to the Bank for assistance in identifying, preparing, designing, and carrying out projects, and in strengthening national institutions with economic development responsibilities.
The economic, sector, and project analysis undertaken by the Bank in the normal course of its operations is the vehicle for considerable technical assistance. In addition, project loans and credits may include funds earmarked specifically for feasibility studies, resource surveys, management or planning advice, and training. During the year, 152 lending operations made specific provision for technical assistance, for a total of approximately $218 million, as compared with $160 million for 139 operations in fiscal 1975; a number of loans and credits were also made exclusively for technical assistance. Many of these operations are described in the regional sections of the Annual Report.
Reimbursable technical assistance was extended during the year to some oil-exporting developing countries which do not now borrow from the Bank. Most of this assistance—provision of advice, especially, and, in a few cases, secondment of staff to regional and national institutions—was related to investment decisions contemplated by the countries in the fields of industry, education, agriculture, and manpower planning. The assistance was comparable to the services the Bank provides its borrowers in the course of its lending operations.
During the year, the Yemen Arab Republic, One of the world's poorest countries, received a Bank grant of $120,000 for economic planning assistance, the third grant to the country for that purpose.
The Bank provides technical assistance on a grant basis only in limited amounts, and in rare cases. It encourages its member governments to seek grant financing elsewhere, most particularly from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the major source of grants for technical assistance within the United Nations system. The Bank explores the possibility of UNDP financing before consideration is
given to Bank financial support on a grant or a loan basis.
The Bank often serves as executing agency for UNDP-financed projects. During the year, the UNDP was faced with a temporary financial situation that would have required a significant reduction in the level of its assistance in many developing countries. In order to facilitate the continued execution of many UNDP preinvestment and technical assistance projects, critical or important to Bank lending, the Bank agreed to defer calling on the UNDP for funds to cover its disbursements as executing agency, up to a ceiling of $15 million; the UNDP undertook to pay in 1977 the amounts deferred.
In fiscal 1976, the Bank agreed to serve as executing agency for 29 new projects for which the UNDP committed $15.9 million. These included a $3 million feasibility study and engineering for an electric power project in Nepal, which will meet the country's power demands and will substitute for other imported energy sources, mainly oil; a three-year, $2.5 million preinvestment assistance project in Burma to help the Government identify priority projects for investment, undertake feasibility and engineering studies, and carry out project preparation; a three-year, $3 million Indus basin planning project in Pakistan, designed to raise the capability of the Water and Power Development Authority through on-the-job training of its staff; and a $1 million power sector survey in Egypt.
In a traditional sector, transport, approximately $1.5 million was committed by the UNDP for the execution of studies in Ghana, Guyana, Mali, Nepal, and Uruguay. Aggregate commitments for projects in other sectors amounted to approximately $2.9 million, and were executed in the sectors of agriculture ($125,000); industry ($927,000); public utilities ($997,000); tourism ($72,000); and education ($225,000), among others.
The need for improved planning institutions continues to be a priority requirement in many developing countries. Acting as executing agency, the Bank completed two planning projects during the year, in Ethiopia and Jordan, and embarked on two new ones, in Korea and the Philippines. Five other projects were in progress: in Indonesia, Liberia, Sudan, Swaziland, and Zaire. The planning projects normally
Children play in front of their whitewashed schoolhouse in rural Ecuador. Over $1,500 million has been approved by the Bank since 1963 for education in developing countries.
provide long-term advisers and short-term consultants, as well as a variety of training and fellowship programs.
Work carried out with UNDP financing led to an estimated $1,400 million of Bank lending during the year. This brought to $5,400 million the cumulative total of such follow-up investment.
Economic Development Institute
Almost 5,000 participants have attended Economic Development Institute (EDI) courses in Washington and overseas since EDI's establishment 20 years ago, and of these, no less than 852, or 17% of the total, participated during the past year. The overseas training program has now become the major element, with almost twice as many participants in EDI-spon-sored or EDI-supported courses overseas as in Washington (562 in 20 overseas courses, compared with 290 in 11 Washington courses). This increase in the number of courses overseas is in accordance with the recommendations approved in 1974 by the Executive Directors in a review of EDI's policies.
In addition to the project analysis courses repeated in fiscal 1976—rural development, agro-industry, agriculture, development banking, water supply and waste disposal, transportation, and urban growth—EDI added two new courses in its Washington program, one on rural credit, and the other on preparation, evaluation, and management of highway projects. As in previous years, one course on national economic managementwas held atthe Institute.
Of the year's 20 overseas courses, seven were regional courses open to nationals of a number of countries. EDI again cooperated with the African Development Bank, the Economic Commission for Africa, and the African Institute for Economic Development and Planning in sponsoring a course on agriculture and agro-industrial projects in Ivory Coast for French-speaking African countries. EDI and the Center for Development Planning of the Brazilian Planning Ministry continued with their joint program of two annual courses for the countries of Latin America, with a course on agro-industrial projects and another on transportation projects. EDI and the Arab Institute
for Economic Development co-sponsored a second course for countries of the Middle East; this year's course was on agricultural development projects. In Peru, EDI and the Escuela de Administracion de Negocios para Craduados co-sponsored a Spanish-language industrial projects course for the Andean Pact countries. A general projects course was held for countries of Southeast Asia at the Bank Negara Malaysia Staff Training Centre in collaboration with the governments of the Southeast Asian Conference of Central Bank Governors. Also in Malaysia, EDI assisted an agro-based industrial sdevelopment projects course, co-sponsored by the Research Institute for Management Science, Delft, the Netherlands, and the National Institute of Public Administration, Kuala Lumpur.
Thirteen national courses were given overseas during fiscal 1976, each for participants from a single country. In Pakistan, EDI and the Planning Division of the Ministry of Finance, Planning, and Development co-sponsored an agricultural projects course at the Pakistan Academy for Rural Development. Two courses, on industrial and transportation projects, were given in Romania in cooperation with the Romanian Management Training Center. EDI assisted the International Development Center of Japan with teaching support for its development economics course. The third in an annual series of agricultural projects courses was conducted in Bangladesh in collaboration with the Bangladesh Institute for Development Studies.
Two courses were given in Bahasa Indonesia by the National Planning Program in Indonesia —a general projects course and an agricultural projects course—entirely by Indonesian teachers trained in EDI courses. An industrial projects course was co-sponsored by the Government of Algeria. At the request of the Government of Egypt, the Institute of National Planning and EDI co-sponsored an agricultural projects course. Special training programs financed under United Nations Development Programme planning projects and co-sponsored by the Governments concerned were conducted in Sudan (a transportation course and an agro-industry course) and in Zaire (a general projects course).
Over the past 12 years, there have been periodic reviews of the Institute and its activities, but in fiscal 1976, a program of evaluation of the effects of EDI training was established as a routine activity. Evaluation is conducted by contacting samples of EDI Fellows (former participants) through questionnaires, and by evaluation missions carried out by those who, while familiar with the Institute, are not staff members. Missions of this kind have interviewed a representative sampling of Fellows in 10 member countries, and their subsequent reports are already influencing the design of EDI courses. Courses, for example, are now giving greater emphasis to techniques of both project implementation and analysis of markets and demand for agricultural and industrial products.
Other Activities
Aid Coordination
At the request of both donor and recipient governments, the Bank has continued to take the lead in organizing various aid coordination mechanisms for a number of developing countries which receive assistance from multiple bilateral and multilateral sources. In fiscal 1976, formal meetings of seven of the aid coordinating groups sponsored by the Bank were held. These were the groups for Bangladesh, India, Korea, Pakistan, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Thailand. The Bank also participated in two meetings of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia, for which the Government of the Netherlands served as chairman, and in a meeting of a consortium for Turkey, chaired by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
An indication of the close cooperation among the various development assistance agencies is the large number of projects which the Bank and IDA helped finance jointly or in parallel with other bilateral or multilateral agencies. Projects were co-financed with the United Nations Development Programme and various regional financing institutions, as well as with aid agencies in Abu Dhabi, Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Kuwait, Libya, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the European Economic Community (EEC). In addition, projects were financed, for the first time, with the newly organized Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA). The Bank also renewed its efforts to stimulate private investment in Bank-sponsored projects, and during the year, one project was co-financed by private commercial banks. Much interest has been expressed by the banking community in this type of cooperation, which is expected to become more frequent in the future.
On a regional basis, the Bank concluded a cooperation agreement with the Venezuelan Investment Fund, which sets out the general scope for future co-financing with that Fund. It also continued its active participation in the country reviews sponsored by the Permanent Executive Committee of the Inter-American Economic and Social Council. The Bank continued to maintain close working relations with
regional financing institutions (the African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and the Inter-American Development Bank), which helped assure coordination of development assistance activities between them and the Bank.
Formal consultations were held during the year with Japanese agencies (the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan and the Export-Import Bank of Japan) regarding their respective lending programs; with the Federal Republic of Germany, the Commonwealth Development Corporation, and the Development Cooperation Directorate of the EEC to review questions of common interest and to discuss country and project matters; and with the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, BADEA, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Islamic Development Bank, and the Saudi Fund for Development to determine possibilities for cooperation on specific projects.
Inter-Agency Cooperation
In 1975, the UN Administrative Committee on Coordination (ACC) set in motion an experimental inter-agency planning exercise in rural development. The Bank, at the invitation of the ACC, agreed to serve as lead agency in the first stage of the exercise—an assessment of the UN system's activities in the field of rural development. This assessment was carried out by an independent consultant, whose report was reviewed by an inter-agency task force composed of the United Nations and 11 organizations of the United Nations family. The Bank served as chairman of the task force, and submitted the task force's report, adopted unanimously by the participants, to the ACC. The principal recommendation, which has been accepted by the ACC and which will be put before the UN Economic and Social Council, was that organizations of the UN system should be asked to orient—or reorient—their rural development programs to ensure that benefits accrue primarily to the rural poor. From this recommendation a number of others followed, including a proposal for an inter-agency effort at the national level, beginning with a small number of countries- The ACC decided to continue the
inter-agency task force and accepted the offer of the International Labour Office (ILO) to be lead agency for at least the next year.
The Consultative Group on Food Production and Investment in Developing Countries (CGFPI) organized by the Bank, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), in response to a resolution of the 1974 World Food Conference, met twice during the year. Participants included bilateral and multilateral donor governments, and agencies and representatives of developing "countries. The CGFPl's main functions are to encourage larger external resource flows for food production, coordinate activities of donors, and ensure more effective use of available resources. It serves as a forum for the exchange of views on investment in food production.
Eleven years ago, the Bank entered into its first formal "cooperative program" relationships with organizations in the UN system. There are now four such programs, with Unesco, FAO, WHO, and UNIDO.(1) Under these programs, governments are assisted in identifying and preparing projects suitable for Bank financing, and support is provided for Bank country economic and sector studies, and for various kinds of Bank missions. The Bank meets 75% of the cost of the agreed work program in each case; the partner agency meets 25%.
For the fiscal year, the Bank's share of the total cost of the four programs was $5,535,000, or about 2.4 times the fiscal 1964-75 annual average of $2,323,000.
The FAO/Bank Cooperative Program helped to prepare about one-third of the agricultural projects approved by the Executive Directors for Bank financing, and participated in 157 missions to 52 countries. The Unesco/Bank Cooperative Program carried out 37 missions, and assisted in the identification and/or preparation of 15 education projects financed by the Bank in 15 countries. The WHO/Bank Cooperative Program, which is confined to the field of water supply and wastes disposal, continued to focus on sector studies, with particular attention to rural development problems. Six reconnaissance missions and sector studies "were carried out under the program during the year, and four countries received project preparation or other project-related assistance. The UNIDO/Bank Cooperative Program, which became formally effective in January 1974, helped to prepare two industrial projects financed by the Bank, and participated in five project identi-
(1> The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, respectively. Unesco and FAO are the two organizations whose formal ties with the Bank go back 11 years.
fication, preparation, or appraisal missions, and two sector missions. In addition, the program carried out, on its own, two project identification or preparation missions.
Cooperation between the Bank and these and other agencies is also carried out under less formal arrangements.
The Bank and WHO, which, several years ago, jointly adopted guidelines for their respective staffs carrying out activities in the population field, reached agreement during the year on cooperation in the field of health. The agreement contemplates joint missions, exchange of information, and annual sector reviews.
Arrangements were instituted between the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the Bank, which were designed to increase the potential for collaboration between the two institutions in project work, primarily through increasing the knowledge of each concerning current activities of the other.
The Bank continued to distribute to other international organizations a variety of documentation — country economic reports, debt surveys, commodity studies, appraisal reports, project evaluation reports, and other material.
An Ad Hoc Working Group on Rural Potable Water Supply and Sanitation, sponsored by the Bank, UNDP, WHO, and the International Development Research Centre of Canada (IDRC) held its third meeting. It decided upon a series of operational activities to be carried out in calendar 1976. WHO is to be the lead agency for a regional workshop and for certain country activities; IDRC is to take the lead for a project in the field of information science; the Bank is to take the lead in a review of experience in the rural water supply and sanitation field.
In the population sector, the Bank continued to review planned operations with the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) and WHO; staff of the UN, UNDP, UNFPA, Unesco, and WHO participated in Bank missions which developed population projects. The Bank and the Development Center of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) initiated a joint study to identify and evaluate possible changes in attitudes, following the 1974 World Population Conference, towards the appropriateness of external assistance for the solution of population problems.
Consultations were held during the year with the ILO on the employment and income distribution effects of projects, country manpower requirements, and labor-intensive production technologies.
Following completion of a preliminary joint study by the UNDP and the Rockefeller Foundation, the Bank is joining with those organizations in an international program of research and development for cotton. Cotton is a crop of unique importance to the developing countries; its production, processing, and manufacture now provide at least part of the livelihood
of about 150 million people. The next stage of the undertaking will involve preparation of detailed proposals for a work program, as well as proposals for organizational, constitutional, and financial arrangements which can be considered by potential participating governments and by financial contributors.
The year also saw publication of the results of the International Comparison Project (ICP), which compares country economic data. The project was begun in 1968 by the United Nations Statistical Office, the University of Pennsylvania, and the Bank. ICP, now in its final phase, is expected to provide a major contribution to the analysis of comparative incomes.
The Bank was involved in the preparation of, and participated in, several major conferences during the year. It has had permanent observer status in three of the commissions of the Conference for International Economic Cooperation (CIEC)—those on development, finance, and raw materials. The Bank's staff took part in the discussions and provided considerable documentation on economic prospects of developing countries, international capital flows, commodity price stabilization, energy, and problems of development financing.
The Bank was represented at the Fourth UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), held in Nairobi. A senior Bank staff member was seconded to the UNCTAD secretariat to assist in the preparation for the Conference. The Bank participated also in the UN Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat) in Vancouver. For Habitat, the Bank supplied documentation and three films: on traffic constraints, urban construction, and "sites and services" packages for housing development. It contributed research material and seconded staff for preparatory work on the ILO-spon-sored World Employment Conference, and participated in the Conference. The Bank was represented at the Third United Nations Con-
ference on the Law of the Sea, and contributed to the preparatory work for the World Water Conference, to be held in 1977.
International Agricultural Research
Despite good harvests during 1975/76, the fundamental problem posed by the threat of a shortage of food in many of the developing countries in the longer term emphasizes the importance of increasing agricultural productivity. A key factor is research. The Bank continues to serve as chairman and, with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), as co-sponsor of the Consultative Croup on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). The programs and activities supported by the CGIAR continue to expand. Iran and Italy joined the Group, bringing to 26 the number of members contributing funds in calendar 1976 to the 12 international research centers and programs which comprise the CGIAR system. Contributions in calendar year 1976 are expected to total about $65 million, compared with $47 million in 1975.
Included in this total is an amount of up to $6.8 million in grants contributed by the World Bank from IDA resources, and made in two tranches—one in March and another planned for September. The March tranche totaled $4,735,000 and went to:
—the International Center of Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), based in Colombia: $250,000;
—the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), based in Mexico: $110,000;
—the International Potato Center (CIP), based in Peru: $400,000;
—the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), based in Nigeria: $1,000,000;
—the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), based in the Philippines: $1,000,000;
—the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA), based in Ethiopia: $600,000;
—the International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases (ILRAD), based in Kenya: $1,200,000;
—the Current Agricultural Research Information System (CARIS), administered by the FAO: $100,000; and
—the International Center for Agricultural * Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), $75,000.
ICARDA is in the process of being established to serve the needs of countries of low precipitation (which occurs mainly in the winter) in the area from Morocco to Afghanistan. With its establishment, the CGIAR network of international agricultural research and training now embraces the major food crops and ecological zones of the developing world. In addition to those already named, the members of CGIAR are supporting the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (fCRISAT) in India, the field trials system of the West African Rice Development Association (WARDA), with its secretariat in Monrovia, Liberia, and the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources, whose secretariat is in Rome.
The Group has 35 members: 23 countries (including those named to represent the five FAO regional conferences of developing countries), eight international development organizations, a national (Canadian) research center for international development, and three private foundations.
Economic Research and Studies
The Executive Directors conducted the third annual review of the Bank's research activities. They agreed that procedures established during the year for evaluating completed research should be part of a continuing effort to spread results more widely; to foster collaboration with research institutions in developing and developed countries; to coordinate Bank research with that of other agencies; and to generalize results into practical benefits for Bank operations and policy.
Still less than five years old, Bank research, 4S now organized, is maturing into a program of mutually supportive studies in all major development fields. Some of these are in specific sectors such as education, health, public utilities, and industry, and include major new research on family planning, export incentives, and industrial growth; others, for example, a comparison of national aggregates based on purchasing power, are more concerned with the improvement of tools for development strategy and planning. At the same time, importance continues to be placed on employment and income distribution, rural development, population and nutrition, and urban-
ization in support of Bank efforts to improve the living conditions of the poor.
Projects in the research program are normally carried out with a combination of internal manpower and funds approved by the Research Committee, for consultants, travel, and other external expenditures. Over 40 of these projects have now been completed and another 16 are nearing completion, while 15 projects were added in fiscal 1976:
Projects completed 42 Projects nearing completion 16 Projects continued from fiscal 1975 47 Projects started in fiscal 1976 _Jj>
120
Policies to reduce income disparities and promote employment must make the best use of available information while aiming to improve the data base and clarify theoretical relations. For this reason, the earliest project on income distribution, completed this year, presented the available data, with measures of inequality, for 81 countries. More recent studies use special data sets to determine the income and consumption profiles of poverty groups in Asia and Latin America. As part of this effort, income differences among population groups and regions in Thailand are being identified to improve the basis of the next development plan. A project concerned with the distributive impact of public expenditures is exploring how education, health, and other services are distributed among households of different income levels.
Findings from these and other projects suggest that increases in labor productivity can improve the distribution of income. To help learn more about how urban labor markets operate, a group of closely related projects has as its aim the investigation of characteristics of those employed in the modern and "informal" sectors. First stage results from one project have proved useful in studies to carry out the urban poverty strategy outlined at the 1975 Annual Meetings. Country economic models that more fully incorporate employment and income distribution features are being developed in the "prototype" project, supported by research on social accounting frameworks, in which data on poverty and inequality will be more rigorously integrated into national income accounts.
In the current phase of a study of the technical and economic aspects of labor/equipment substitution in road and other civil works construction, labor productivity is measured from field experiments at road and canal sites. Technical assistance provided under the project is intended to improve the recruitment and supervision of the labor and the training of local staff. Since low labor productivity is aggravated by disease and poor nutrition, a number of related studies are evaluating the impact of health and nutrition on productivity.
Several research projects are intended to help improve the design of rural development projects. Extensive surveys of an irrigation project in Malaysia, carried out in conjunction with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), are yielding results of the effects of changes in farmer behavior on regional income and employment. An earlier project in northeast Brazil has tabulated an extensive data set that has proved valuable for several Bank projects in areas where research is under way. In a more recent study, information is being compiled on the management and organization of irrigation projects. Other continuing research examines ways to improve the productivity and incomes of small farmers and methods of evaluating foodgrain storage policies.
Understanding urban growth and the nature of poverty in cities has been the focus of recent research on urbanization. Standards of public utility service and of "sites and services" housing projects are being studied to develop more appropriate criteria for project design. More specific studies of urban public finance, land, and transportation are also being undertaken. In addition, an evaluation of three Bank housing projects, supported by the Bank and the International Development Research Centre (Canada), seeks to determine how families, over time, benefit from opportunities to improve their living conditions.
A significant amount of the research completed to date has been of value in Bank policy or issues papers. Some, particularly the policy studies on education and rural development, have drawn on results from several research projects.
To facilitate wider dissemination, the results of Bank research are often published as "Staff Working Papers," and sometimes as monographs or as books. Journal articles by Bank staff are circulated internally as reprints. A complete list of publications is available in the World Bank Catalog, issued annually. More detailed information on the current research program may be found in the Abstracts of Current Studies, which is also published annually.
Operations Evaluation
A separate Operations Evaluation unit was first established in the Bank in late 1970 to generate independent reports to the shareholders and the management on the actual results of operations, in terms of contributions to development, and to identify practical ways in which policies and procedures can be improved in the light of experience. Since then, the evolution of this function and its place in the organization structure have been reviewed. After the last such review, the Executive Directors decided to establish a new post of Director-General, Operations Evaluation, of rank
equivalent to Vice President, and selected the first incumbent to this office in fiscal 1976. The Director-General is responsible, with the assistance of the Operations Evaluation Department, for assessing and reporting to the Executive Directors on the efficacy of the Bank's operations evaluation system and conducting independent reviews, on a selective basis, of Bank operations and activities. The reviews seek to determine whether objectives are being realized and how operations might be made more effective, efficient, and responsive to the needs and concerns of member governments. The main components of the Bank's operations evaluation system, and the standards and procedures for the conduct of operations evaluation work, are described in a statement approved by the Executive Directors in April 1976. That statement was published by the Bank in pamphlet form in June 1976.
Most of the Bank's operations evaluation activities are of a decentralized and self-evaluative nature. The main component of the system relates to the Bank's project work. In addition to regular review and reporting on project implementation by the Bank's project staff, reports which briefly assess achievements against the original objectives of each project and the value and effect of the Bank's participation in that project are normally produced by the Bank's operating departments within six months of the completion of disbursements on the project. Monitoring and evaluation are, increasingly, being built into Bank projects to make these processes more effective and more useful to borrowers. The Operations Evaluation Department reviews each of these reports, thoroughly in selected cases and briefly in the others, solicits borrowers' comments on them, and then transmits them, along with its own independent assessment of each particular operational experience, to the Bank's Executive Directors. These reports on actual experience with each project provide the best-founded, broad indication of the results of Bank policies and operations, and also valuable case material for deeper studies of special problems. About 80 to 90 Bank-assisted and iDA-assisted projects are currently being completed each year. The Operations Evaluation Department reviews the findings of these reports, highlights overall patterns, and draws attention to particular issues that recur with sufficient frequency to warrant deeper scrutiny.
The deeper studies undertaken by the Operations Evaluation Department itself in recent years have generally been of two types. One type has focused on a particular sector or aspect of development, the Bank's assistance for it in a number of countries, and any major questions of development and assistance policy which may arise. The second type has concentrated on a particular procedure or set of procedures of the Bank, analyzed the broad pattern of their application, and scrutinized a
few selected cases which have given rise to difficulties in project execution and borrower response. Of the first type is a report published during fiscal 1976 on the "demonstration" effect of Bank projects; of the second type is a report on project preparation problems. Studies of these types are generally aimed at identifying possible specific ways of improving Bank performance. The Operations Evaluation Department follows up on its findings with the tesponsible operating departments and the central staff departments in charge of formulating relevant policy in the Bank.
The Department is also beginning to review with individual member countries how best they might establish an evaluation function in their countries to review the effectiveness of their governments' principal sector development programs or, at a minimum, of the externally supported portions of these programs, where this function does not already exist.
Internal Auditing
The Internal Auditing Department, which was made responsible to the Vice President, Finance, effective January 1976, similarly helps the Bank give assurance to its creditors and stockholders that the resources supplied by them are adequately protected and are achieving the desired results. The emphasis of internal auditing, however, is on the maintenance of an effective system of internal controls and on the adequacy of related systems and procedures used in the conduct and management of Bank operations. The Department's overall objective is to assist all levels of management in the effective discharge of their responsibilities by furnishing them with periodic, independent audits and appraisals of activities within their respective areas of responsibility. Based on the results of the examination of these activities, the Department presents its recommendations, as appropriate, on possible specific means of improving the efficiency and economy of operations and the effective use of resources; on strengthening management controls; and on other areas meriting further attention. This is achieved by a program of audit assignments covering a wide range of financial, accounting, administrative, and other activities. In carrying out these assignments, the Director and, as appropriate, members of his staff have unrestricted access to all Bank records, documents, and personnel relevant to the subject under review.
The principal responsibilities of the Department are to: (a) review and determine the soundness, adequacy, and application of systems, procedures, and related internal controls, and to promote effective control at reasonable cost; (b) review and determine the extent of compliance with various governing agreements or instruments and related decisions, regulations, policies, plans, and procedures of the Board of Governors, Executive
Directors, and Bank management; (c) review and determine the extent to which assets are accounted for and safeguarded from losses of all kinds, including, where applicable, the effective utilization of these resources; (d) review and determine the reliability and validity of significant accounting, financial, and other data used by management; and (e) recommend improvements in order to strengthen internal control, improve administrative efficiency, and eliminate any uneconomical use of resources.
In order to maintain its independence and objectivity, the Department has no direct responsibility for developing and installing changes in systems, procedures, and controls which it normally would be expected to review and appraise. Where relevant, the Department coordinates its work with the Bank's external auditors in order to avoid duplication of effort and to provide maximum coverage of the Bank's activities. The Department's work programs, reports, and working papers are made available to the external auditors to assist them in planning and conducting their examinations of the annual financial statements of the Bank.
The results of all examinations undertaken by the Internal Auditing Department, including opinions or conclusions derived and recommendations formulated, are reported to the relevant department Directors; the Vice President to whom the department Director reports; the Vice President, Finance; the external auditors; and to others as considered appropriate. The Internal Auditing Department undertakes periodic follow-ups on its findings and recommendations to determine that appropriate action has been taken by management on the conditions reported as needing attention.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
By June 30, 1976, 67 States had ratified the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States, and are thus members of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). Five additional governments had signed but not yet ratified the Convention. The Centre's own Annual Report provides details of its membership and affairs.
Bank and IDA Membership
Grenada and Papua New Guinea joined the Bank and IDA on August 27 and October 9, 1975, respectively, bringing total membership in the Bank to 127 and in IDA to 116.
At the end of the year, action was pending on membership in the Bank and IDA for Comoro Islands, Guinea-Bissau, and Maldives. Action was pending on membership only in the Bank of Surinam.
Borrowings and Finance
Income and Expenditures: Bank
Net income of the Bank was $220 million in fiscal 1976, a decline of $55 million, or 20%, from net income reported in the preceding year.
As a result of net translation adjustments arising from currency revaluations and devaluations, the Bank's General Reserve was debited in an amount of $151 million in fiscal 1976. This resulted from changes in the valuation of various currencies in relation to the United States dollar, in which the Bank's accounts are expressed. During the fiscal year, most other currencies, and especially the pound sterling, the Italian lira, and the French franc, declined in value in respect to the US dollar.
The Bank does not speculate in the currencies of its member countries. Under its present policies, adjustments arising from the translation of currencies to the US dollar equivalent, would not now, or in the future, result in realized gains or losses such as would result from the conversion of currencies into US dollars. Accordingly, translation adjustments, with the exception of those relating to capital subscriptions, are charged or credited to the General Reserve rather than to income. The Financial Accounting Standards Board in the United States requires that foreign currency translation adjustments be included in the determination of net income for the period in which they occur; in view of the character of the Bank as an international institution and its related policies, the Bank does not deem this Statement to be applicable to it. On June 30, 1976, the General Reserve of the Bank amounted to $1,624 million.
Gross revenues, on the other hand, were up $173 million to a record $1,330 million. Since fiscal 1968, gross revenues have risen nearly fourfold, as earning assets have increased as a result of the Bank's greatly expanded lending and investment programs.
Income from the Bank's investments increased $42 million to $425 million for the period. Average realized return on investment, including net capital gains, was 7.3% compared with 8.4% in fiscal 1975. The decline reflected a generally lower level of short-term yields in 1976, as the rate of inflation in the United States and other countries abated. Average investment holdings of the Bank increased $1,276
million in the year, and served to offset the lower level of yields.
Income on loans increased $131 million to $897 million. The average return on outstanding loans in the year was 7.1% compared with 6.4% in fiscal 1975. Other income, at $8 million, was down $1 million.
Expenditures of the Bank totaled $1,110 million, an increase of $228 million, or 26%. Virtually all the increase was accounted for by a rise of $214 million in interest and issuance costs on the Bank's borrowings to a total of $987 million. The increase in fixed charges was due largely to the heavy marketing program of the Bank which, in the last two fiscal years, had added $4,997 million to outstanding borrowings.
Administrative expenses at $122 million for the year were up $12 million, after deducting $62.8 million received as a management fee charged to the International Development Association and $1.5 million paid to the Bank by the International Finance Corporation for service and support. The rise in administrative expenses in fiscal 1976 was at a substantially lower rate than in fiscal 1975, as a result of the diminution in the rate of inflation and a stabilizing of numbers of the Bank's staff.
Of fiscal 1975 net income, $165 million was allocated to the Bank's Supplemental Reserve against Losses on Loans and from Currency Devaluations, which has since been designated as the Bank's "General Reserve." In September 1975, the Bank's Board of Governors approved a transfer of $110 million from net income for fiscal 1975 as a grant to IDA.
Other Financial Operations: Bank
Loans held by the Bank on June 30, 1976 aggregated $26,091 million, including loans not yet effective and $1,047 million of exchange adjustments arising principally from changes in currency valuations over the last five years. Effective loans held by the Bank amounted to $22,239 million after excluding $502 million of effective and outstanding loans to the International Finance Corporation of which $322 million had been disbursed.
Loan disbursements were at a record $2,535 million/1' up $439 million over disbursements
(]> Including $66 million in disbursements on loans to 1FC
in fiscal 1975. The increase brought aggregate disbursements since the start of loan operations to nearly $20,000 million. Disbursements for the five fiscal years ended |une 30, 1976 were more than double the volume for the five preceding fiscal years, and the rate of increase continues to accelerate. The Bank's expanded loan program starting in fiscal 1969, inflation, and the development of more effective techniques in administering loans and projects have all contributed to the rising level of disbursements.
During the year, the Bank's borrowers repaid $,677 million: $609 million to the Bank and $68 million to investors who had purchased portions of loans. Cumulative repayments on the Bank's loans amounted to $7,241 million by June 30, 1976: $4,949 million repaid to the Bank and $2,292 million to purchasers of loans.
Sales of participations in new loans and of maturities from the Bank's loan portfolio amounted to $42 million in fiscal 1976, including an aid participation by Norway, compared with $15 million the previous year. After cancellations and adjustments for changes in values of non-dollar currencies, the cumulative total of loans sales was $2,563 million at the end of the year.
The Bank's liquidity position rose $1,226 million in the year to a total of $6,395 million on June 30, 1976.
The Bank's Borrowings—Fiscal 1976
The volume of borrowings by the Bank in fiscal 1976 reached a new record level for the third consecutive year. Forty-one issues, totaling $3,811 million, were sold by the Bank, an increase of $301 million over fiscal 1975.
Gross borrowings by the Bank in the five fiscal years 1972-76 aggregated $12,641 million, equal to more than 2.6 times the volume of such borrowings in the previous five-year period. This was a further reflection of the sharp growth in the Bank's lending operations and of the necessity to finance a large proportion of it through borrowings in the capital markets.
The sources of borrowed funds to the Bank changed substantially in the year. In the preceding three years, governments and central banks were the major sources, supplying 59% of total borrowed funds in fiscal 1973, 80% in 1974, and 76% in 1975. The trend reversed sharply in 1976. Governments and central banks supplied $1,351 million, or 35% of borrowed funds, while the investment markets supplied $2,331 million, or 61% of the total. Moreover, government and central bank purchases of World Bank issues were $1,303 million lower than in fiscal 1975.
Official purchases of World Bank obligations in the petroleum-exporting countries declined sharply to $445 million equivalent from $1,984 million reported in fiscal 1975. Included in such purchases in fiscal 1976 were $192 million
equivalent of intermediate- and long-term bonds denominated in Swiss francs and Deutsche mark by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency and the Central Bank of Libya. A further $253 million of two-year US dollar bonds were purchased by governments or official agencies in 14 petroleum-exporting countries. Other purchases of World Bank issues by governments and central banks totaled $906 million equivalent, including: Germany—DM550 million of four and one-half- and five-year notes by the Deutsche Bundesbank to refinance an equal amount of maturing notes; Japan— ¥56,700 million of six and one-half- and seven-year serial obligations by The Bank of Japan to refinance an equal amount of maturing serial obligations; Yugoslavia—$50 million of US dollar notes due 1978/82; and $447 million of two-year US dollar bonds by governments and official agencies in 65 countries and by regional and international organizations.
Of the $2,331 million equivalent of issues sold by the Bank in the investments markets in fiscal 1976, $1,635 million was distributed by means of public offerings in Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and the United States; and the remainder by private placements in those same markets and in Kuwait.
The US investment market was the largest source of borrowed funds to the Bank in the year. Altogether, the Bank sold a record $1,275 million of its obligations in the US, equal to more than one-third of total obligations sold in the period.
Two public offerings accounted for $1,250 million of these sales: (a) $500 million of notes divided into $300 million of 8.30% five-year notes and $200 million of 8.60% 10-year notes; and (b) the largest public offering undertaken by the Bank—$750 million of obligations divided into three $250 million tranches consisting of 8.35% five-year notes, 8.85% 10-year notes, and 9.35% 25-year bonds. The latter tranche was the first long-term issue to be offered by the Bank in the US market in more than four years.
There were two private placements, totaling $25 million, in the US. One, amounting to $20 million, was placed as an 8% loan with the New York branch of a German bank; the other, amounting to $5 million, also an 8% loan, was placed with the New York branch of a Japanese bank.
In the German market, the Bank sold issues aggregating DM1,150 million (about $450 million). Included were three public offerings: DM250 million of 8% seven-year bonds, DM250 million of 8% eight-year bonds, and DM300 million of 7.5% seven-year bonds. By private placement, the Bank borrowed DM150 million at 6.10% and DM200 million at 5.75%. Both placements were made with a consortium of members of the German Savings Banks Association represented by the Deutsche Girozen-trale-Deutsche Kommunalbank.
By arrangement with the Kuwait Investment Company (SAK) and the Dresdner Bank A/C, the World Bank placed a DM400 million ($155 million) issue in Kuwait. It consisted of 8% 10-year notes. This was the first sale of the Bank's obligations in the Kuwaiti market since "fiscal 1974. All previous marketings in that country were denominated in Kuwaiti dinars.
After a lapse of three years, the Bank returned to the Netherlands and sold a record amount of its obligations in that market. In all, five issues were sold in the Netherlands in fiscal 1976 and they aggregated f.450 million ($167 million). Included was a public offering of f.100 million of 8% 10-year bonds, and four private placements: f.100 million of 8% seven-year notes with a group headed by Algemene Bank Nederland N.V.; a f.50 million 8.25% loan due 1982-86 with Cooperatieve Raiffeisen-Boeren-
leenbank C.A.; a f.150 million 8.25% loan due 1982-86 with Algemene Bank Nederland N.V., Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank N.V., and Bank Mees & Hope NV; and a f.50 million 8.20% loan due 1982-86 with Pierson, Heldring & Pierson N.V.
A record amount of issues was also sold in Switzerland in the fiscal year. Altogether five issues, aggregating SwF750 million ($288 million), were sold, including a public offering of SwF100 million 7.75% 15-year bonds, and two private placements: SwF200 million 7.50% five-year notes with Union Bank, Swiss Credit Bank, and Swiss Bank Corporation; and SwF250 million 7% notes, due 1982/83, with Swiss Credit Bank, Swiss Bank Corporation, and Union Bank.
A further $129 million was borrowed by the Bank from the Interest Subsidy Fund, provided by contributions of various members to finance the differential between the Bank's standard lending rate and a lower rate charged certain borrowers on so-called "Third Window" loans. The borrowing consisted of an 8.50% US dollar loan, due 1977-2001, from the Interest Subsidy Fund to the World Bank.
Sales of Bank obligations in the period included $2,906 million equivalent of issues sold to raise new funds and $905 million equivalent of refunding issues. In fiscal 1975, issues sold to raise new funds amounted to $2,671 million and refundings to $839 million.
Outstanding obligations were further increased by the delivery of $256 million equivalent of issues sold in previous years on a delayed delivery basis.
Debt maturities in fiscal 1976 aggregated $1,214 million equivalent, with the bulk of them being central bank bond issues, notes held by the Deutsche Bundesbank, serial obligations held by The Bank of Japan, and bonds held by the Central Bank of Libya. Eight market issues, however, reached final maturity in the period in an amount of about $315 million equivalent. Included were $225 million in bonds and notes previously sold on the US investment market; DM108 million of bonds and notes previously placed with Cirozentralen in Germany; f.63 million of bonds and notes previously offered in the Netherlands market; and SwF65 million of bonds previously offered in the Swiss market.
A further $64 million equivalent of debt was retired in the year by means of sinking fund and purchase fund operations.
The total of outstanding borrowings of the Bank increased $2,360 million in the year to $14,647 million as of June 30, 1976. On that date, estimates indicated that 25% of the Bank's obligations were held by investors in the United States, 21% in Germany, 10% in Japan, 8% in Saudi Arabia, and 7% in Switzerland. The remaining 29% of outstanding borrowings were held by investment institutions, including central banks and government agencies in more than 80 countries.
Borrowing Costs: Bank
Finances: IDA
The Bank's borrowing costs in the fiscal year, weighted by amount and maturity, averaged 8.48% compared with 8.21% in the preceding year. The average cost of all funds to the Bank, including paid-in capital and accumulated earnings, which are cost-free, was about 5.6% compared with 5.2% at the end of fiscal year 1975.
Increase in Capital
The Bank's subscribed capital'2' was increased by $32.9 million in the fiscal year. Included were the original subscriptions of Grenada ($1.7 million) and Papua New Guinea ($17.1 million), which became members during the year. The remaining $14.1 million represented increases in the capital subscriptions of three member countries: the Syrian Arab Republic, by $2.1 million, to $42.1 million; Panama, by $0.5 million, to $18.1 million; and Zambia, by $11.5 million, to $64.8 million.
The increases were received by the Bank under a resolution adopted by the Board of Governors in December 1970, which enables the Bank to accept special increases in subscriptions to its capital stock by 75 member countries. Sixty-five had been accepted by the end of fiscal 1976 for a total of $1,901.6 million. This included increases by 62 members in the preceding five years. Total subscriptions to the Bank'scapital on June 30,1976 amounted to $25,581.8 million. Three members have advised the Bank that they will not subscribe to the additional shares authorized for them. Other members eligible for special increases in subscriptions are expected to take up additional stock. Authorized capital of the Bank remained unchanged during the year at $27,000 million.
Selective Capital Increase
Under the proposed resolution authorizing special increases to capital stock/2'the 125 members would have the right to subscribe to an additional 69,134 shares at a price of $100,000 a share. If all special increases are taken up, the Bank's subscribed capital would stand at $32,495 million, of which some $3,250 million would be paid in and about $29,245 million would remain subject to call only to meet obligations of the Bank to investors in its securities.
The Board of Governors has been requested to register its votes within six months. Action by individual members in subscribing to additional capital may be taken up to October 1, 1980, but the subscription period may be extended by the Bank's Executive Directors. Voting on the resolutions was in progress at the end of the fiscal year. (A detailed discussion of the proposed capital increase appears in the first chapter, "Summary and Background of the Year's Activities," pages 5 and 6.)
Credits held by IDA on June 30,1976 aggregated $10,424 million, including credits not yet effective and exchange adjustments of $485 million. Effective credits on the above-mentioned date were $9,726 million, including undisbursed portions of credits amounting to $3,567 million. Credits approved, but not yet effective, at the end of fiscal 1976 were $698 million.
Disbursements in fiscal 1976 were also at a new peak, reaching $1,252 million, a gain of $226 million. Aggregate disbursements as of June 30, 1976 were $6,205 million, including the exchange adjustments noted above.
The resources available to IDA decreased $86.1 million in the year after taking into consideration a net decrease of $213.5 million in the value of resources made available by the members of the Association under the Fourth Replenishment. The World Bank granted $110 million to IDA from its fiscal 1975 net income. The grant was approved by the Board of Governors in September 1975. From this grant, IDA is authorized to make grants of up to $7.8 million for agricultural research and for control of onchocerciasis.
Norway made $5.4 million available to IDA in fiscal 1976 by purchasing, on a grant basis, a participation in a credit to Sudan. The participation was taken under the terms of the aid cooperation agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and the Bank and IDA. To date, the total of participations by Norway under the agreement amounts to $17.6 million.
Other resources that became available to IDA amounted to $17.9 million, derived from releases by Part II members and cancellation of and repayments on credits, after taking into account a net loss of $5.5 million in resources provided by operations.
Foreign and International Bond Markets —Calendar 1975
Volume of both foreign and international issues'3' were up sharply in 1975, as borrowings on the foreign and international bond markets rose to a record $22,083 million; this amount represented an increase of $9,782 million, or 80%, over borrowings in the previous year.
A considerable shift in the sources of borrowed funds occurred during the year. Volume of foreign issues in the European markets was more than 200% above the 1974 level, but foreign bonds issued in North American and other markets were 16% higher.
<2> Figures in this section are expressed in Iterms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
(s> The terms "foreign" and "international" in this context refer to issues sold outside the country of the borrower: foreign if sold in one national market, international if in more than one.
The petroleum-exporting countries supplied a total of about $1,081 million during the year. Included were purchases of $186 million of foreign issues and $895 million of international issues, of which $188 million consisted of purchases of World Bank two-year US dollar bonds.
Eight public offerings in the international bond market were denominated in Kuwaiti dinars. These issues were offered by the Algerian National Bank, two Finnish public enterprises, the Republic of Iceland, PEMEX of Mexico, two public enterprises in Spain, and Sudan Airways. They aggregated KD47.5 million, equal to $165 million, and were listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. These issues are of particular interest in that they indicate increasing acceptance of the Kuwaiti dinar as $n international currency.
Borrowings by issuers in the industrialized countries in the foreign and international markets in 1975 were $15,496 million, equal to 70% of total transactions during the year and an increase of $9,646 million, or 165%, over volume reported in 1974. Borrowings by issuers in the industrialized countries of Europe rose $4,506 million to $7,286 million; issuers in other industrialized countries borrowed $8,210 million, a gain of $5,140 million over borrowings the year before.
A total of $1,819 million was borrowed by the multilateral European institutions, virtually the same amount as they borrowed the previous year. The European Coal and Steel Community, with issues amounting to $831 million,
and the European Investment Bank, with $757 million in issues, accounted for most of the borrowing by these institutions.
Borrowings for development in 1975 aggregated $4,768 million, equal to 22% of total transactions, and a rise of $124 million over the previous year. International development institutions borrowed $3,648 million, down $25 million from 1974. World Bank borrowings of $2,947 million were $566 million lower than in 1974. Offsetting the decline in World Bank issues were borrowings by the Asian Development Bank, of $303 million, and by the Inter-American Development Bank, of $365 million, for a combined increase of $518 million over 1974 borrowings. The Central American Bank for Economic Integration borrowed $10 million, the same amount as in 1974, and the Andean Development Corporation made its first placement in these markets in an amount of $23 million.
Foreign Bonds
Sales of foreign bonds in all markets in 1975 increased $4,127 million to $11,913 million. Sales on European markets rose $3,092 million to $4,498 million, and on North American and other markets, they increased $1,034 million to $7,415 million.
Foreign Bonds: Europe
Switzerland was, by far, the largest,and most active market for foreign bonds issued in Eu-
rope. Foreign issues in the Swiss market in 1975 totaled $3,372 million and accounted for nearly three-fourths of all foreign bonds sold in Europe during the year. Moreover, volume on the Swiss market was $2,386 million higher than in
1974. Some $2,362 million of bonds were privately placed and $1,010 million were sold by public offering.
More than 90 issuers representing 19 countries, four multilateral institutions and three international development institutions, placed or offered obligations in the Swiss market in
1975. Swedish issuers, the majority private enterprises, were the largest borrowers with $377 million. Next were 18 Japanese issuers, all but one a private enterprise, with a total of $370 million. Other major borrowers on the Swiss market were issuers from France ($309 million), Canada ($277 million), Austria ($249 million), and the Netherlands ($229 million). The level of bonds issued by United States and United Kingdom borrowers in the Swiss market has declined considerably. In 1975, two US corporations borrowed $42 million, the only foreign bonds issued by US borrowers in Europe. Two British enterprises borrowed a total of $40 million.
Borrowing for development in Switzerland amounted to $338 million: $271 million by the World Bank, $22 million by the Asian Development Bank, $22 million by the Inter-American Development Bank, and $23 million by PEMEX of Mexico.
Foreign issues sold in Germany in 1975 totaled $600 million, a gain of $338 million over 1974. With the exception of a $23 million issue by the European Coal and Steel Community, all other issues, amounting to $577 million, were by the World Bank. Included were four placements of notes aggregating $248 million with the Deutsche Bundesbank to refinance an equal amount of maturing notes. Issues on the Netherlands market were $209 million, up $205 million above 1974, when only $4.1 million was issued. Issues in Belgium declined $2 million, to $101 million; in Italy, up $65 million, to $81 million; and, in Luxembourg, up $17 million, to $46 million. A total of $58 million and $32 million, respectively, were sold on the French and British markets, neither of which had foreign issues in 1974.
Foreign Bonds: the United States
Sales of foreign issues in the United States market rose 91% to a record $6,838 million, of which $5,699 million were sold by public offering and $1,139 million by private placement. Canadian issuers and the World Bank were the principal borrowers in the US in 1975, accounting for 64% of total transactions.
In 1975, Canadian issuers increased their borrowings in the US by $1,171 million, to a total of $3,105 million, including $2,497 million of public offerings and $608 million of private
placements. Provincial and local governments and public enterprises again accounted for most of the Canadian borrowings, with issues aggregating $2,554 million. The remaining $551 million was borrowed by Canadian corporations, mostly through private placements.
Borrowings by international development institutions in the US totaled $1,575 million, or 23% of total foreign bonds sold in that market during 1975, and an increase of $1,065 million over 1974. World Bank borrowings in the US amounted to $1,275 million, of which $1,250 million was sold by public offerings and $25 million by private placement. Other borrowings in the US by international development institutions were: $225 million by the Inter-American Development Bank and $75 million by the Asian Development Bank.
Israel borrowed $243 million in the US during the year, a sharp reduction from the $560 million borrowed the year before. A further $295 million was borrowed by issuers in developing countries: $173 million by Mexican borrowers; $53 million by the Chilean Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion; $35 million by the Federal Treasury of Brazil; $18 million by P. T. Semen Cibinong in Indonesia; and $16 million by the Republic of Argentina.
Foreign Bonds: Japan
All borrowings in Japan in 1975 were limited to governments and to international development institutions. By public offerings, Finland and New Zealand borrowed ¥10,000 million each, for a total of about $67 million. The World Bank refinanced ¥42,600 million of serial obligations held by The Bank of Japan; and The Bank of Japan lent the Asian Development Bank ¥30,000 million and the Inter-American Development Bank ¥7,500 million. Altogether, borrowings of yen by these three development institutions in the year equaled $274 million.
International Bonds
Volume of international bonds in 1975 turned upward, after declining in the two preceding years. The total, $10,171 million, a new peak, was $5,656 million, or 125%, higher than in 1974. Public offerings amounted to $6,754 million and private placements to $3,417 million.
Large increases in borrowings by issuers in the industrialized countries more than accounted for the rise in volume. As a group, they borrowed $8,128 million internationally in 1975, accounting for 80% of total international transactions, and a gain of $5,841 million over volume reported in 1974. Issuers in the industrialized countries of Europe increased their borrowings on the international markets by $3,040 million to $4,449 million, and issuers in other industrialized countries by $2,801 million to $3,679 million.
The expansion in international borrowings by issuers from the industrialized countries in 1975 proved, in part, the increased importance of this market as a supplier of funds. The reasons for increased borrowings by individual issuers differed from country to country, and ranged from balance of payments considerations to the financing of quickening economic activity.
» In Europe, issuers in France expanded the volume of their international borrowings by $925 million to $1,258 million: $1,123 million by public offerings and $135 million by private placements. Public enterprises in France, including services, financial institutions, and regional entities, borrowed $927 million; state and local governments, $15 million; and private companies, $316 million.
Other major borrowers among the industrialized countries in Europe were issuers in Austria ($560 million, up $309 million); Sweden ($559 million, up $522 million); Norway ($528 million, up $479 million); the Netherlands ($438 million, up $88 million); and the United Kingdom ($374 million, up $231 million).
Issuers in Japan and Canada accounted for more than 60% of international borrowings by the other industrialized countries. Japanese borrowings, 93% by private enterprises, were $1,146 million in 1975, a gain of $992 million over 1974 volume. Canadian issuers borrowed the equivalent of $1,145 million, which was $706 million higher than the 1974 level. Included in these borrowings by state and local governments, public enterprises, and private enterprises were $503 million of publicly offered obligations denominated in Canadian dollars.
Sales of international obligations by United States issuers were up $209 million to $314 million, still far below the levels reported prior to 1974, when US corporations, or their financial subsidiaries, were major borrowers in the international market. The low level of borrowings by US concerns reflects the ready availability of funds and generally lower costs of money in the domestic market.
As a group, the multilateral European institutions reduced their borrowings internationally in 1975 by $827 million to a total of $749 million. The European Investment Bank borrowed $383 million internationally, down $588 million from 1974 borrowings; and the European Coal and Steel Community borrowed $264 million, down $305 million. International borrowing by the Council of Europe was $29 million in 1975; and by Eurofima, $73 million.
International bond issues by international development institutions and developing countries totaled $1,293 million, approximately 13% of total international issues in 1975, and $642 million higher than in 1974. The international development agencies increased their borrowings in this market by $237 million to $735 million. The World Bank increased the
principal amount of its two-year US dollar issues—placed with governments, central banks, and international institutions—by $132 million, to $590 million. The Asian Development Bank borrowed $89 million internationally, and the Inter-American Development Bank borrowed $56 million in the period.
United States dollars and Deutsche mark continued to be the most sought after currencies in the international bond market, and three-quarters of the issues sold in that market in 1975 were denominated in them. Issues denominated in US dollars totaled $4,807 million, up $1,724 million over 1974. Issues denominated in Deutsche mark rose steeply in the year, amounting to $2,893 million, an increase of $2,248 million over the year before.
Netherlands guilder issues were up $269 million to the equivalent of $651 million. Canadian dollar issues rose $507 million to $566 million, of which $503 million, as noted before, was borrowed by Canadian issuers, and $63 million by a US company. French franc borrowings amounted to $286 million — there were none in 1974—of which $255 million went to French issuers, and $31 million to the European Coal and Steel Community. There were no international issues denominated in pounds sterling in 1975. Sales by public offerings of Kuwaiti dinar issues in the international market are discussed on page 87.
There were several issues denominated in currencies infrequently seen in the international market. Of particular interest was the first appearance of obligations denominated in Saudi Arabian riyals. Four issues were privately placed, one by a private Australian concern, another by an American company, another by the Economic Development Bank of Morocco, and a fourth by an autopista in Spain. They totaled SRls 252 million, equal to $72 million.
During 1975, international bonds were also denominated in Hong Kong dollars ($25 million), Japanese yen ($10 million), Lebanese pounds ($5 million), Norwegian kroner ($45 million), and Swedish kronor ($7 million).
The Special Drawing Right (SDR) also appeared for the first time as a denominator of international bonds. The issues, all sold by public offerings, included borrowings by Elec-tricite de France, Sveriges Investeringsbank A/B of Sweden, and Alusuisse International NV of Switzerland. These issues totaled SDR 140 million, equal to $173 million. In 1975, there were 16 international issues denominated in European Units of Account totaling EUA 304 million, equivalent to $391 million. The borrowers included issuers in Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Ireland, Norway, and Sweden.
Only one international borrowing was denominated in European Monetary Units during the year. It amounted to EMU 30 million, equal to $37 million, and was publicly offered by the South African Iron and Steel Industrial Corporation.
Bond Markets—1976
The upward surge in borrowings on the foreign and international bond markets continued into the first half of calendar 1976. Estimates indicate that total issues on these markets in the period were equivalent to $17,845 million, an increase of more than 75% over volume in the first half of 1975 and equal to more than 80% of total borrowings in the full year of 1975. Of these borrowings, some $10,200 million were undertaken in the first quarter of 1976 and $7,600 million in the second quarter.
The higher level of activity reflected a huge increase in borrowings by Canadian issuers, continued heavy borrowings by French and Japanese issuers and by the World Bank, and the entry of the European Economic Community as a major issuer on the international bond market.
Canadian issuers sold more than $5,325 million in obligations in the first half of 1976, which was about $800 million more than they sold in all of 1975. Contributing to this increase were two issues totaling $1,650 million that were privately placed in the US market by two provincial power authorities—$1,000 million by Hydro-Quebec and $650 million by Ontario-Hydro.
The European Economic Community, by private placement and public offerings, borrowed Deutsche mark and dollars on the international market in an amount equivalent to more than $995 million. The proceeds of the issues, along with $300 million borrowed on the Eurocurrency market, are helping to finance the balance of payments deficits of Italy and Ireland arising from the increased costs of petroleum imports.
Syndicated Eurocurrency Credits
A form of finance which has grown in importance in recent years, and which is closely related to foreign and international bond issues, is the syndicated Eurocurrency credit. Information about publicized Eurocurrency credits is compiled by the World Bank and published regularly along with its quarterly reports on foreign and international bond issues.
Borrowings in the form of Eurocurrency credits amounted to $20,575 million in 1975, a decrease of $7,957 million, or 28%, from the record level of the previous year. This decrease was more than accounted for by a reduction of $12,153 million in borrowings by industrialized countries to $5,090 million, a reflection, in large part, of reduced use of this form of borrowing for balance of payments financing by these countries in 1975.
Developing countries borrowed $12,429 million in publicized Eurocurrency credits, an increase of $2,687 million, or 28%, over 1974. Almost all of this increase was accounted for by oil-exporting countries, which borrowed $3,144 million in 1975, compared with $775 million during 1974. Other developing countries borrowed $9,285 million, an increase of only 4% over the level of 1974.
Other borrowings in 1975 included $2,692 million for socialist countries (up $1,575 million over 1974), $65 million for international organizations (up $51 million), all of which was by the African Development Bank, and $299 million by corporate borrowers whose international activities could not be allocated by country.
Executive Directors
Executive Directors
With the exception of certain powers specifically reserved to them by the Articles of Agreement, the Governors have delegated their powers to a Board of Executive Directors, which performs its duties on a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters.
The Executive Directors consider and decide on the loan/credit proposals made by the President. Policy is broadly decided by the Directors within the framework of the Bank's Articles of Agreement. The Executive Directors are also responsible for presentation to the Board of Governors at its Annual Meetings of an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and an Annual Report discussing the operations and policies of the World Bank, and any other matter that, in their judgment, requires submission to the Board of Governors at the Annual Meetings or otherwise.
There are 20 Executive Directors: as provided in the Articles of Agreement, five are appointed by the five members having the largest number of shares, and the rest are elected by the other members.
In fiscal 1976, pursuant to the Development Committee's endorsement of their report on the establishment of an intermediate financing facility (or Third Window), the Executive Directors adopted a resolution establishing the operation of the new facility, and approved criteria for eligibility for Third Window loans. During fiscal 1976, the Executive Directors met 59 times in formal session. They reviewed and approved 141 Bank loans, including 15 on Third Window terms, and 73 IDA credits, plus 11 grants for international agricultural research, 41 borrowing transactions in Germany, Japan, Kuwait, Libya, the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, the United States, and Yugoslavia, as well as two central bank issues and the borrowing from the Interest Subsidy Fund (Third Window). Also approved were the Bank/IDA operating programs and administrative budgets for fiscal 1977.
In a major decision, they approved the submission of proposals to the Board of Governors for an increase in the Bank's authorized capital from $27,000 million to $34,000 million (both in terms of 1944 US dollars), and the offer
of additional shares to existing members in approximately the same proportions as the increases in their IMF quotas under the Sixth General Review. As of June 30, 1976, draft resolutions on the proposals were being voted upon by the Board of Governors; the period for receiving votes expires on November 10,1976, but may be extended by the Executive Directors, if necessary. The Executive Directors also approved a new lending rate formula—providing that the Bank's lending rate be reviewed at the end of each quarterly period, and adjusted to the average weighted cost by amount and maturity of funds borrowed by the Bank in the preceding 12 months — which was put into effect on July 1, 1976.
The Executive Directors dealt with policy matters on development finance companies, project supervision, and nutrition projects, and approved changes in the format and contents of documents on proposed loans and credits. They gave particular attention to operations evaluation in the Bank; in July 1975, they approved the appointment of a Director-General, Operations Evaluation, with effect from October 1, 1975, to be responsible to the Executive Directors and be independent of the staff structure of the Bank. In April 1976, they endorsed the standards and procedures for operations evaluation which he prepared. The Directors also considered means to expedite project preparation and loan/credit effectiveness so as to accelerate the presentation and implementation of projects financed by the Bank and IDA.
The Executive Directors approved an agreement on technical cooperation with Saudi Arabia, certain arrangements with the United Nations Development Programme concerning projects for which the Bank is executing agency, a technical assistance grant to the Yemen Arab Republic for economic planning and administration, and a new facility (with an initial ceiling of $5 million) to assist, primarily, least developed countries in the preparation of projects for Bank and IDA financing, and re-endorsed a policy, under which technical and financial assistance would be provided for the promotion of domestic construction industries in developing countries.
They received progress reports on the negotiations regarding the Fifth Replenishment of IDA resources, and on the proposed establish-
ment of an international fund for agricultural development.
The Executive Directors participated in meetings of the Development Committee in Jamaica and Washington. In February 1976, a group of three Directors visited India and Nepal.
A list of all Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors, showing their voting power and the countries they represent, with notations of changes during the year, appears on page 157.
joint Audit Committee
The Joint Audit Committee was established in 1970. It consists of six Executive Directors appointed by the Board for a term of two years after each regular election of Executive Directors. In December 1975, Jacques Henri Wahl succeeded Choi Siew Hong as chairman of the Committee.
Following an amendment to the Committee's terms of reference in November 1973 to include in its responsibility the duty to satisfy itself that the Bank's internal audit and operations evaluation are adequate and efficient, the Committee continued to give high priority during fiscal 1976 to this aspect of its work. Pursuant to the Committee's established framework for its relationship with the Internal Auditing and Operations Evaluation Departments, it reviewed the Departments' work programs, work in progress, desirable standards and procedures of reporting, and samples of reports produced. For this purpose, it maintained close liaison with the Director, Internal Auditing Department, and the newly appointed Director-General, Operations Evaluation. Following the
Board's approval of a revised statement of stan: dards and procedures for operations evaluation, the Committee's terms of reference were again amended in April 1976 to enable it to review papers produced by the Operations Evaluation Department to identify problems or policy issues for consideration by the Executive Directors.
The Committee's responsibility under its terms of reference, besides those for the Bank's internal audit and operations evaluation activities, is to nominate a firm of private, independent, internationally established accountants to conduct the Bank's annual audits, to discuss with them the scope of their examinations, to review with them the annual audited financial statements and the opinions thereon, and to report to the Executive Directors. Thus, the Committee serves as a focus for consideration of the Bank's financial control and operations evaluation procedures. Through its discussions with the relevant officers and with the independent accountants, it helps to provide assurance to the Executive Directors that the Bank's financial and operational affairs are properly conducted. It provides a continuing channel through which the internal and external auditors may communicate with the Executive Directors, should the need arise.
Of continuing concern to the Committee is the adequacy of the flow of financial information to the Executive Directors, in order for the Board to discharge properly its responsibilities with respect to the financial policies of the Bank. In this respect, following the Committee's recommendation, the system for providing financial information to the Board was reviewed, and will continue to be reviewed periodically by the Joint Audit Committee.