Summary and Background of the Year's Activities
In fiscal 1977, the World Bank, together with jts affiliates, the International Development Association (IDA) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), made lending and investment commitments totaling $7,273.5 million. This was an increase of some $396.1 million over fiscal 1976.
The Bank made 161 loans amounting to $5,759 million to 54 countries. In nominal terms, the commitment figure represents an increase of $782 million over fiscal 1976.
IDA's commitments totaled $1,308 million. The 67 projects for which IDA approved assistance during the year were in 36 countries. Approximately 87% of the commitments were in countries with annual per capita incomes of less than $265.'D In fiscal 1976, 92% of IDA commitments were to this group of "the poorest countries." IDA commitments in fiscal 1977 dropped $347.8 million from the previous year.
By lune 30, 1977, IDA had committed practically all the funds available to it for the Fourth Replenishment period. Mainly because of exchange rate changes, the total available was substantially less in US dollar terms than it had been when the Fourth Replenishment agreement was negotiated in Nairobi in September 1973. Thus, instead of the $4,501 million originally visualized, the amount actually available for the three-year period, fiscal 1975-77, was only $4,151 million.
Continued inflation either moderated effects of commitment increases in real terms or aggravated declines during the fiscal year.<2) If 1977 Bank and IDA commitments were to be expressed in terms of 1976 dollars, they would be $6,586 million, or 0.7% lower in real terms, tor the Bank alone, growth in lending in fiscal 1977 in real terms amounted to $391 million, or 7.8% over fiscal 1976. For IDA, lending decreased in real terms in fiscal 1977 by $437 million, or 26.4% below fiscal 1976 amounts.
Net income of the Bank in fiscal 1977 amounted to $209 million, down $11 million, or 5 %, from the previous year's figure. Gross revenues, on the other hand, increased $287 million to $1,617 million, a new record. The decrease in net income was due largely to a steep rise of $298 million in expenditures, most of which was caused by a $279 million increase in interest and issuance costs on the Bank's borrowings. (For further details, see the section, "Income and Ex-
penditures: Bank" in the chapter, "Borrowings and Finance" of the Annual Report.)
Borrowings by the Bank, at $4,721 million, established a new high for the fourth consecutive year.(3) Bank disbursements for fiscal 1977 were at record levels — $2,636 million/4' or $166 million above fiscal 1976. IDA disbursements, too, reached a new high, $1,298 million, up $41 million over the previous year.
In fiscal 1977, as in the two previous years, the sector receiving the most Bank and IDA assistance was agriculture and rural development. It accounted for 33% of Bank and IDA commitments for the year. Some 84 projects, for a total lending volume of $2,308 million, were approved in the sector. Estimates indicate that a total of 5 million families, or about 30 million people, will directly benefit from these projects. The 84 projects represented 37% of total Bank and IDA operations. Lending in what are known as the "traditional" sectors—power, transportation, and telecommunications — amounted to $2,139 million, or 30% of aggregate lending, and 23% of total operations. In fiscal 1976, lending to these sectors totaled $2,384 million, or 36% of total lending.
The Bank also expanded its technical assistance activities in the year. In fiscal 1977, 162 lending operations included specific provision for technical assistance for a total of $189 million, as compared with $218 million and 152 operations in fiscal 1976. The Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI) increased its sponsorship or support of overseas courses by four (from 20 to 24). (For additional information on technical assistance and the EDI, see the chapter, "Technical Assistance," elsewhere in this Report.) Co-financing of Bank-approved and IDA-approved projects also expanded during the year. In fiscal 1977, 69 projects were co-financed
"> In 1975 dollars.
<2> Since the real value of loan commitments by the Bank and IDA is eroded to the extent that cost inflation occurs over the period of disbursements, it is the practice of the Bank to make allowance for escalation at the time of commitment. The deflator now used by the Bank to express lending in real terms is a weighted average of the price levels assumed to be prevailing over the period of the execution of the project.
w A $600 million offering of bonds and notes, made in April 1977, has been credited to the Bank's borrowing program for fiscal 1978.
<4> Figures exclude disbursements on loans to IFC.
Note on dollar amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of this Report for capital of the Bank refer to United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944, while those used for subscriptions and contributions to IDA, with the exception of the Fourth and Fifth Replenishments, refer to United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960. For all practical purposes, these are the same. Unless otherwise specified, all other amounts in US dollars refer to current dollars. One dollar as used for Bank capital and IDA subscriptions and contributions equaled approximately 1.20635 current dollars, as of June 30, 1977. For more detailed discussion, see Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Notes to Financial Statements included in Appendix G for the Bank and in Appendix F for IDA.
in the amount of $2,110 million. (For more on co-financing, see the section "Aid Coordination" in the "Other Activities" chapter.)
The IFC—its essential function is to assist the economic development of its less developed member countries by promoting the growth of the private sector of their economies — made loan and equity investments totaling $258.9 million in 34 enterprises in 20 countries in fiscal 1977, of which $206.7 million has already been committed to 33 enterprises. The comparable figure of approved investments in fiscal 1976 was $235.8 million in 33 enterprises. A separate Annual Report, detailing IFC's operations for the year, is published by the Corporation.
IDA: The Fifth Replenishment
After more than a year of discussions, representatives of 26 donor countries agreed, in March 1977, to arrangements—subject to legislative approval in the states concerned—to increase IDA's resources in a Fifth Replenishment of its funds.
The replenishment level provides for total commitments of $7,638 million for the three-year period beginning July 1, 1977. This amount represents an increase of $3,487 million in nominal terms, or 84%, over the funds available in the Fourth Replenishment, which totaled $4,151 million after adjustments for exchange rate changes and the defeat by Swiss voters in a referendum in June 1976 on a Government proposal to lend IDA some $66.2 million equivalent.
The representatives of the member countries who contributed to the Fourth Replenishment recognized that the needs of the poorest countries for external assistance on concessionary terms had grown since the Fourth Replenishment, and that the purchasing power of such
assistance through price increases of goods and services bought through official aid had declined in recent years. These factors, combined with other considerations, led to the agreement by the "traditional" donors that a substantial increase in IDA resources—compared with the level they had contributed to the Fourth Replenishment— was in order. The total amount agreed to by these donors was $7,200 million. That amount, together with a special contribution from Kuwait and with contributions from the Republic of Korea, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates brought the Fifth Replenishment total to the $7,638 million mark.
It became clear during the negotiations, however, that the Fifth Replenishment could not become effective until after fiscal 1978 had begun. Most contributors, therefore, expressed their willingness to provide commitment authority to IDA by making funds available in advance of the Fifth Replenishment becoming effective, but only on the condition that (a) there be a collective undertaking to do so involving the participation of most donors and (b) the "bridging" arrangement would become operative only when governments had given the Association formal notification that such contributions in an amount equivalent to $1,200 million had been made.
Increase in Capital; the Bank's Future Role
The Bank's Articles of Agreement state that its outstanding loans cannot exceed 100% of subscribed capital and reserves. At June 30, 1976, that percentage was only 41%. Because, in time, disbursements must eventually catch up with previous commitments, this ratio was projected to increase rapidly in subsequent years even if the Bank were not to increase new loan commitments from the level achieved in fiscal 1976. Given the long lead times required in obtaining legislative approval for a capital increase, it was decided to initiate action well before the Bank's loans would actually reach the legal limit.
In May 1976, the Executive Directors of the Bank transmitted to the Board of Governors, for a vote, two resolutions concerning the Bank's capitalization. One provided that the Bank's authorized capital be increased by $8,444 million (in current dollars) to $41,016 million; the other authorized an allotment to 125 members of up to $8,340 million of selective increases in subscriptions to capital stock. (The remaining $104 million would be added to unsubscribed capital available to accommodate new members' subscriptions and for future increases in subscribed capital.) The increase was called "selective" in that allotments are made to those individual members which accepted increases in their quotas in the International Monetary Fund (IMF). It is a long-standing policy of the Bank that when increases in IMF quotas are accepted, members are also expected to request increases
in their subscriptions to the capital of the Bank. A resolution to increase IMF quotas was approved in March 1976.
These resolutions were formally approved by the Board of Governors in May 1977. If the Selective increases in subscriptions were made, the Bank would be able to sustain a level of lending of about $5,800 million for the indefinite future. However, if the Bank is to continue to mcrease its commitments in real terms, additional capital in the form of a General Capital Increase, over and above that provided by the Selective Increase, would be needed.
During discussions among the Executive Directors in fiscal 1976 on the Selective Increase in capitalization, it was acknowledged that further talks would be necessary on a General Capital Increase.
From discussions held in fiscal 1977, two decisions were reached. First, it was agreed that the Bank would set its level of lending for fiscal
1978 at $6,100 million. Second, the Executive Directors agreed that they would make their best efforts to reach an agreement by June 30, 1978 for concluding their negotiations regarding a General Capital Increase.
Further discussions among Board members on the matter of a General Capital Increase will be held during fiscal 1978. Several shareholders of the Bank — the institution's member governments—have already made reference to the Bank's future in different fora.
Requests for increases in the Bank's resources to permit lending to rise in real terms were made by the heads of seven industrialized states and the Chairman of the Council and the President of the Commission of the European Communities, who met in London in May 1977 to discuss issues of economic importance; in June 1977, by the 27 member states from both the developed and developing world, participating in the Conference on International Economic 7
Cooperation in Paris; and by the 33 countries represented at the Commonwealth meeting in London in June.
Discussions during fiscal 1978 within the Bank on the matter of a General Capital Increase will initially concentrate on the future role of the Bank and on the range of financial options which may be needed to support that role.
The discussions will be set against the background of significant changes in the size, regional distribution, sectoral composition, and character of the Bank's operations—changes which reflect recent thinking within the international community on development priorities.
Changes in the regional distribution and sectoral composition do not reveal fully the reorientation which has taken place to make the Bank's operations more responsive to the development objectives of member countries. This can be illustrated at the level of general development strategy as well as specific project design. Notably, the Bank has found that the benefits of growth cannot be assumed to "trickle down" automatically; to ensure that development benefits the poorest, it must deliberately be directed to the poorest. The focus now, therefore, is increasingly on identifying the poorest sections of society and on improving their productivity and income levels directly. In designing specific projects, these concerns have led the Bank not only into new sectors of lending, but also into a reorientation of projects in "traditional" sectors. These "new style" projects are subjected to the same rigorous tests of financial and economic soundness, however, and rates of return estimates show them to be no less high than projects approved by the Bank in the past. Financing for industrial development is shifting toward small-scale enterprises. Infrastructure projects frequently include rural feeder roads, or electricity, or water supply for poor urban communities. More generally, there is an increasing tendency for loans and credits to incorporate subcomponents from other sectors, sometimes experimental and modest in size, so that new techniques can be tried and the benefits of a multi-sectoral approach tested. It is also true that lending for "traditional" projects remains an important factor in Bank operations. Depending on country circumstances, these projects are often those which best respond to the needs of many Bank borrowers.
It is against this background that the future role of the Bank—the challenge and the promise ahead—will be examined.
In fiscal 1977, the Executive Directors devoted attention to several matters of policy which will affect the direction of Bank lending in the future. These matters included a review—now, an annual examination—of the direction and focus of the Bank research program; a review of operations in the population sector through a discussion of the report of the External Advisory Panel on Population (the so-called "Berelson Report"); a policy review of nonproject or program lend-
ing; and a discussion of the progress made and lessons learned from the Bank's experience in rural development. The Board also adopted a strategy for Bank action to promote employment through the development of small-scale enterprises.
Population Policy
The Bank's experience in lending for population projects is now more than six years old. Over a somewhat longer period, it has tried to make population objectives a more central part of its development strategy. Though rapid results were hardly to be expected with the Bank's entry into this sector, the Bank has become increasingly concerned whether the pace and direction of its activities were entirely adequate. In fiscal 1976, a distinguished five-member panel of external experts, chaired by Bernard Berelson, President Emeritus of The Population Council, was appointed to examine all aspects of the Bank's population work and to advise what additional actions the Bank might take to maximize its efforts. The panel's report was submitted in August 1976.
The panel found grounds for cautious optimism with respect to what it calls an historic movement of great consequence, namely, that fertility may have started to decline generally throughout the developing world. Because it is easier for governments to strengthen and assist fertility declines that have already started than it is to get them started in the first place, evidence of widespread fertility reduction provides hope that government intervention can become increasingly effective in this field.
It was less easy to speak with confidence as to what specific interventions can be most effective in a given situation, the report added. The problem of identifying specific actions that governments might take is especially acute in rural-dominated, low-income societies, where the social setting favors high fertility.
Perhaps the most effective action a government can take, the panel reported, is to mount a successful development program that will raise living standards generally. A practical problem, however, is to identify, within general development efforts, those specific policies and programs which appear to have a critical influence on the number of children that families want. In this area, the panel referred to a number of critical variables that influence fertility—lower mortality, especially infant mortality, improved education, employment, and status of women, as well as an increase in social equity through better income distribution.
Among its recommendations to the Bank, two were overriding. First, the Bank should give much more attention to influencing fertility demand than it has in the past. This attention could be provided in two ways: by making governments more aware of the penalties they pay for higher fertility, and by paying more atten-
Selected New Aspects of Project Work
In fiscal 1974, 18 out of 51 agriculture projects had research components; in fiscal 1976, 33 out of 64.
The sensitivity of the rate of return to different assumptions about uncertain costs and benefits is regularly examined.
Between fiscal 1972 and fiscal 1976, the number of projects with a training component more than doubled; the amount of Bank financing for this purpose more than quadrupled.
Every project is now routinely examined for its environmental implications (including health), and any protective measures, identified as necessary, are incorporated into its design and execution.
Distribution of benefits and the impact of the project on different income groups are examined and taken into account wherever possible.
Increasing attention is given to cost recovery arrangements, which balance the needs for efficient use of services provided against financial, fiscal, and income distribution considerations.
Increased efforts in this area have been under way for some years, in particular, to provide technical and limited financial assistance to develop local contracting industries through projects.
The range of options, the standards, the low-cost solutions appropriate to developing countries, and especially to the poverty target groups, are being more critically examined and given more attention in project design.
Increasing attention is being given to designing projects to have a positive impact on employment, for example, through labor-intensive construction methods and the encouragement of small-scale enterprises.
Project selection and design have been increasingly based on a broad analysis of sector problems and priorities.
Built-in monitoring and evaluation of their progress and impact have gradually become a regular feature of most projects.
These techniques were applied to project and sector work in 11 countries in fiscal 1977.
The Bank has always been concerned with the financial adequacy of utility tariffs, but has only recentiy focused on tariff structure and its impact on income distribution. Review of the equity and economic aspects of tariff structure and policy is now an element of virtually every power and water project.
This element is critical in many newer-style projects and is beginning to be introduced as a regular part of project work.
In the first 18 months after introduction of health components, staff provided advice on 122 projects and provided direct operational support to 33 of these.
In addition to projects in these sectors, increasing attention is being given to including nutrition and population components in projects in other sectors, particularly rural and urban development.
Return calculations taking into account the distributional impact of projects are still in the experimental stage.
A new advisory position was created and filled in 1977. Involvement of women is now being explicitly considered in projects, especially in education and rural development.
Lending to development finance companies and industrial estates is increasingly oriented toward small-scale enterprises which generate employment.
Traditional water and power projects in urban areas are being redesigned to incorporate distribution elements to service poorest segments of the community.
tion—through project design, research, and the composition of its lending program—to factors that influence fertility demand at the family level.
The second overriding message was that the Bank should do more to exploit the comparative advantage inherent in its work in the general development field. The accomplishment of this objective could best be carried out through the wide diffusion of concern for population problems throughout Bank activities and hence throughout its staff, the panel reported.
The panel also recommended that senior Bank management speak out more frequently on population issues, that there be more systematic treatment of population in the Bank's economic work and in its country program analyses, and that population components be included in many of the Bank's social sector projects. The panel also urged the Bank to continue its project lending as the principal means by which it helps governments extend their family planning services.
The report has already had a significant impact on Bank thinking and activity.
—In April, 1977, the President of the Bank made a major address on ways to further accelerate current rates of fertility reduction so as to reach a net reproduction rate of 1.0—replacement-level fertility—some 20 years in advance of current predictions.
—The Population Projects Department has prepared a new lending program designed to increase the number of population projects brought to the Executive Directors for consideration.
—A program has been launched to include population components in selected urban, rural development, and education projects, and family planning activities in health components.
—A new internal research program is under preparation. In addition, the Bank has joined other donor agencies in support of the International Review Group on Social Science Research in Population and Development, which will recommend priority areas for future research.
—Efforts are being made to improve the coverage of population matters in the Bank's economic work and to ensure that the various social sectors that help to influence fertility decline are taken into consideration in its country programming.
Program Lending
The Bank has sought to clarify and review its policy on program lending from time to time, since the Articles of Agreement state that "loans made or guaranteed by the Bank shall, except in special circumstances, be for the purpose of specific projects of reconstruction or development."
In fiscal 1977, the policy on program lending was again reviewed. The need for a clarification of policy—the first since 1971—was mainly created by the general movement in recent years of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the direction of increasing the access of its members
to its resources, either through the expansion of old facilities or the creation of new ones, for balance of payments financing.
The Bank has tried to maintain flexibility in its approach towards program lending, as the "special circumstances" mentioned in the Articles of Agreement cannot always be foreseen. When the question was reviewed in 1971, it was agreed in principle, subject to specific demonstration in each case when a program loan is recommended, that special circumstances may arise when:
—A borrowing country has an acceptable medium-term or long-term development program, with supporting economic and financial policies, which is judged to provide a satisfactory basis for external assistance in a given amount.
—The needed transfer of resources from external lending in support of the development program cannot be achieved effectively and expeditiously by the financing of investment projects, including justifiable local currency expenditures in connection therewith.
During their latest review of program lending, conducted in April 1977, the Executive Directors considered four types of "special circumstances" for such lending: (a) reconstruction or rehabilitation of the economy after war or severe national calamity, where an expeditious transfer of external resources is needed to restore the process of normal development activity; (b) the need to supply industrial raw materials or equipment to raise the use of existing industrial capacity; (c) a sudden fall in export earnings, where the economy is critically dependent on a single export item; and (d) a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade as a result of a rapid rise in import prices.
From fiscal 1947 through fiscal 1970, the Bank and IDA made 26 program loans, amounting to $1,708 million in commitments, and accounting for about 10% of total Bank and IDA commitments for the period. During the period fiscal 1971-76, 23 program loans were approved for a total of $1,695 million. The proportion of program lending to Bank and IDA commitments was in the range of 4% to 7% up to fiscal 1974; it increased to nearly 9% in fiscal 1975, but declined to 6% in fiscal 1976. During the past year, only four program loans, totaling $165 million, and accounting for but 2.3% of total Bank and IDA lending, were approved.
The rise in program lending in fiscal 1975 was due to those "special circumstances" which arose for the Bank's borrowing countries as a result of the events of 1974-75. Since then, however, other sources of finance have become more readily available to countries facing temporary economic difficulties.
In response to the economic upheavals of recent years, the IMF has established the enlarged Compensatory Financing Facility, the Extended Fund Facility, and the Trust Fund; these are additional sources of finance for countries fac-
ing balance of payments problems. There are important differences, however, between the Bank's program lending and the operations of the IMF facilities. The basic distinction is their time horizon. The IMF essentially provides additional foreign exchange resources to meet short-term balance of payments crises, while the Bank provides long-term development assistance in support of structural adjustments in development programs. The roles of the Bank and the "IMF are, therefore, basically complementary.
Following the latest policy review of program lending, it was generally agreed that:
1. With the expansion of IMF facilities, the 'need to coordinate action on program loan requests with the IMF has increased considerably. It may often be useful to arrange a mutually supportive Bank-Fund policy package which would help alleviate short-term or medium-term balance of payments problems within the context of a long-term development strategy best suited to the country.
2. The improved availability of compensatory financing from the Fund with relatively few conditions should enable countries with short-term payments difficulties, arising mainly from fluctuations in world prices of their traditional exports, to finance their needs from this source. The Bank should consider cases of export shortfall for program loans only where dependence on weak commodities requires basic structural adjustments in the economy which should be financed at long term, or the shortfall is so large that the need for assistance is substantially in excess of the compensatory financing available on suitable terms.
3. Some developing countries may benefit from continuing program lending over a period of years because of the inherent structural features of their economies. Program lending in such cases should be employed as an instrument in assisting a country to obtain specific development objectives.
The Executive Directors noted an estimate that future Bank and IDA program lending of about 7% to 10% of total lending would not be an unreasonable expectation. It was pointed out, however, that this could not be regarded as a prediction as the occurrence of "special circumstances" is always difficult to foresee. The Bank also decided that, in the future, a clearer statement of conditions attached to any particular program loan should be made, and that such *a statement should be drafted in terms that permit the monitoring of performance against those conditions.
It was agreed, furthermore, that the basic assumptions of program lending would, once again, be reexamined as the review of the future role of the Bank is continued in fiscal 1978.
Rural Development
In the three years since the World Bank's policy on rural development was set forth in
the paper entitled Rural Development, many lessons have been learned about that crucial but difficult sector of development. These lessons derive from the 128 rural development projects assisted with Bank finance during the fiscal 1975-77 period and from the more than 400 agriculture and rural development projects currently being implemented in the field, some 200 of which are rural development projects.
Two conclusions stand out. First, it is possible to design projects that will assist large numbers of the rural poor to expand production and increase their incomes. But, second, rural development is no easy task.
Rural development projects which the Bank has helped to shape incorporate four elements. First, they are designed so that large numbers of low-income producers are reached. Second, they are financially viable and are able to raise the incomes of the rural poor substantially. Third, they are relatively low cost and, therefore, are replicable within the limited budgets of developing countries. Fourth, they are comprehensive in scope, where it is clear that the nonagricultural components (improved health, education, and nutrition, for instance) are consistent with national, regional, and sectoral goals.
But even the most well-thought-out plans of the Bank must inevitably be less than successful if the local environment is not conducive to success. Unless, for instance, a country is committed to a policy of making the rural sector productive and, especially, of involving small farmers in development, assistance can be- of little help. Recent evidence points to the fact that, over the past few years, developing countries have, in fact, increased their commitments to such a policy.
The lesson—that a country's commitment to project objectives is an essential precondition to success, and that, without commitment, most efforts are futile—is one that is not confined to the rural development sector.
Progress in rural development must, of course, be ultimately measured by its developmental impact. Can, in fact, the Bank's strategy develop low-cost and replicable approaches designed to improve the productivity and incomes of large numbers of low-income families on a sustainable basis?
Figures available for 84 agriculture and rural development projects approved in fiscal 1977 indicate that the direct beneficiaries may number some 5 million farm families, or about 30 million people. Thus, over the period, fiscal 1975-77, some 60 million people stand to benefit directly from Bank-assisted projects in the sector. Moreover, within the total for agriculture and rural development, there has been a sharp rise in the share of lending for rural development—that is, for projects in which more than half the direct benefits are expected to accrue to the rural poor. In fiscal 1977, the share has risen to 61 %, compared with 50% in fiscal 1976 and 53% in fiscal 1975. 11
But these figures for the number of beneficiaries, as well as those for the increments in annual agricultural production (9 million metric tons in fiscal 1977 alone, over half of which is accounted for by cereals) are estimates only. Most of the new-style rural development projects assisted by the Bank are in their infancy —two to three years old, at best. In most cases, increases in output are expected to be very small during the early project years; only by the fifth or sixth year can one see whether earlier estimates will prove correct. It is, therefore, still too early to assess, with finality, the impact on farm production and farmer incomes flowing from the Bank's rural development strategy.
It has been noticed, however, that in a number of countries, the Bank, working closely with governments, has helped establish or strengthen the institutional framework for project implementation. This has subsequently formed the basis for a wider approach, with substantial impact beyond the confines of the project areas themselves, or beyond the set of activities directly supported by the project. In addition, the large number of project proposals that extend or replicate first-phase activities, and which are now being prepared, indicates a considerable interest in the approach among the Bank's member governments.
Some 50 rural development projects have been under implementation for three years or more. Problems surrounding a number of aspects—institutional development, the focus on target groups, local management, and lower-level training—have been identified, and several useful lessons have been learned.
Institutional development: Strengthening the delivery of effective services for low-income rural producers often offers the most promising way of dealing with the problems of rural poverty—and at a relatively modest incremental cost. But many agencies charged with project implementation, particularly at local levels, lack experience. It is important, therefore, that issues of project implementation be discussed thoroughly and in detail with operating staff at lower levels of government, as well as with government staff at the center.
Target groups: Greater understanding is needed of the social and cultural constraints affecting the rural poor. Often, the chronically poor have fallen into behavioral patterns and attitudes which tend to prevent them from taking full advantage of their own development potential. To gain a better understanding of the pathology of poverty, the Bank, in several cases, is now including sociological and anthropological assessments as part of project design and appraisal.
Local management: Many rural development projects are necessarily complex, and matching the design of the project to the capability of those who are to manage it calls for careful judgment. Building comprehensive management training systems into first-phase rural
development projects may help generate the capability necessary so that "repeater" or second-stage projects can cover larger areas and reach greater numbers of beneficiaries. Management problems may be addressed through a separate education project—as in Tanzania. Or, as has been done in the case of Nigeria, local leaders and administrators may be sent to nearby countries to study successful ongoing projects similar to those proposed for Bank assistance.
Lower-level training: It is not only management which, is often in need of training. Technical training is also important for those who are responsible for implementing the project— the extension workers, the agricultural credit supervisors, and the machinery operators for roads and other construction work. And, increasingly, the point is being recognized that the farmers themselves can often benefit from direct training schemes. In addition to the training of technicians, attention must also be given to providing incentives—hardship allowances, transportation (motor bikes), and housing, for instance—which will help make it easier to retain capable staff in areas considered to be unattractive to live in.
The conclusions reached from the Bank's experience in implementing its rural development strategy may be summarized briefly. The start made is promising but the problems of reaching the rural poor with effective solutions are formidable. Both the design of appropriate technical and administrative solutions to deal with these problems, and the response of the small farmers to the opportunities made available to them, call for careful monitoring and evaluation by the Bank, and the ability to adapt projects to deal with any problems which may arise. The Bank, therefore, has still much to learn— both from its problems as well as its successes.
Small-scale Enterprise
The Bank's experience in attempting to alleviate the problems of the urban sector is more limited than its experience with rural development. Only in fiscal 1976, for instance, was a systematic beginning made to assess the nature and extent of urban poverty. Only tentatively have the Bank's broad strategy and goals in the sector been defined.
The Executive Directors have in recent years discussed the Bank's proper role in such crucial sectors of urban development as housing, urban transport, and development finance companies (DFCs). In fiscal 1977, they gave special attention to the Bank's role in the subsector of small-scale enterprise (SSE) development.<5) The point was underlined that the creation of employment
<5> The definition of small-scale enterprise varies widely from country to country; in its rough categorization, the Bank uses the respective country definitions, subject to an upper limit of $250,000 (in 1976 prices) for fixed assets, excluding land.
through assistance to SSEs is critically important to both rural and urban development.
Most developing countries are characterized by a rapidly growing population and labor force. Though much of this labor force will continue to be employed in agricultural pursuits, most of the increment will have to be absorbed in non-farm occupations—in villages and towns or large urban centers. Where can the new jobs be found?
• The main possibilities lie in the industrial sector—broadly defined as the production of non-farm goods—and in service activities associated with industrialization. But the industrial pattern
'typical in advanced countries requires a capital investment per job that exceeds, many times over, the resources potentially available in most developing countries. Historically, the industrialization policies of many governments in the developing world have followed the advanced-country model. For some, this model has proved to be appropriate. Others, however, have adopted technologies that are more capital-intensive than are appropriate to their factor endowments. Price and incentive policies have often favored capital-intensive technology, usually used by larger firms. Such firms may also have access to institutional credit at artificially low interest rates; and public services, used much more by large than by small enterprises, are also often subsidized. In general, typical industrial development incentives—customs exemptions, tax holidays, etc.—are more advantageous to larger than to smaller businesses.
The advantages to developing countries of giving more encouragement to SSEs are not inconsiderable, however. SSEs—whether they be in the "modern" manufacturing, nonmanufac-turing (construction, services, etc.) or "informal" subsectors—can often generate more jobs per unit of investment than do large firms; and they create more unskilled jobs, thus benefiting the urban and nonfarm rural poor. There is strong evidence, also, that small firms do more for indirect employment than larger businesses (because larger firms usually have a higher propensity to import raw materials and capital goods, while small firms buy more domestically). Other benefits are less quantifiable, though
• well-known. They include the role of SSEs in nurturing entrepreneurship, in training and improving technical skills, as generators of savings, as sources of stability and coherence to communities, as means for reducing inequities of
income distribution between regions and economic groups, and as production systems generally involving less adverse environmental impact.
SSEs are also crucially important in rural development. In most developing countries, a major problem of the rural economy is underemployment, which depresses rural incomes and increases migration to cities in the slack agricultural season. Development of agricultural processing industries is only part of the answer,
for their peak labor demand is likely to coincide with, and not complement, the peak labor demand in agriculture. Hence, other types of small-scale production for the rural community— blacksmithing, brickmaking, lime kilns, tailoring, carpentry, furniture making, etc.—are major supports to any rural development effort.
The specific problems of SSE development— and the possible solutions to these problems— must be distinguished as between modern, organized small industries and services, and the artisanal/informal sector.
The former typically fit into market niches and channels, and have a fairly solid management and levels of technology well adapted to their clientele. Their needs for investment and working capital are met largely through internal cash generation and personal savings rather than institutional sources; their savings, or propensity to save, are high, but lack of technical know-how and access to supply and credit facilities handicaps them in obtaining a wider market.
In the long run, the Bank believes, it is important to create or strengthen agencies in developing countries that can inform industrial entrepreneurs and financial institutions about the technological alternatives available for production and product design, and that can develop and adapt such technology domestically. Trade associations, institutions of technology, universities, and productivity centers can all play a part—as can Bank assistance, where such institutions are inadequate.
Bank assistance for the provision of credit to SSEs, by necessity, will be channeled through intermediaries in the recipient countries. And in the choice of intermediaries the Bank will have to look to a wider range of institutional patterns than the traditional development finance companies. Many DFCs, by their very nature, are not equipped to lend to small-scale enterprises, as they lack extensive contacts or experience with small business; moreover, their appraisal techniques are usually too elaborate for small projects. Some DFCs, however, are establishing special units with simplified procedures for SSE financing—if governments or central banks give them adequate inducement to brave its risks and difficulties. Commercial banks, on the other hand, usually have a branch network and widespread local contacts. Other intermediaries may include investment companies, mass-oriented institutions (workers' banks, savings and loan institutions, credit unions, etc.), and cooperatives.
Assistance for the development of SSEs of an artisanal type, or in the "informal" subsector (which accounts for a major share of nonagri-cultural employment), is made difficult by the typically fragmented, dispersed character of these activities. Artisanal or informal enterprises generally depend on middlemen for credit, raw materials supply, and marketing services. Effective assistance to them requires devising an institutional delivery system (private, coopera-
tive, or governmental) that will simulate the positive aspects of the middleman/moneylender system—its "full service package," its operational flexibility, and "leanness"—while reducing its exploitative features.
Among the many problems typically confronting the more modern SSEs, two stand out: marketing and finance.
Marketing, the major problem of most small manufacturers, can also be the starting point for project intervention. Small firms often lack direct access to broader, lucrative markets. Distance, poor quality and design, limited production capacity, and lack of information about potential markets impede their gestation and growth. Firms at a distance from markets, in rural areas or small towns, need institutional support to get information on growth markets and related design, price, and quality requirements. They may also be helped through the establishment of joint collection points with quality control and through common transportation schemes.
Very small enterprises are usually short of cash; they are hesitant to borrow; and they have little access to institutional credit. Many of them could advantageously use local currency loans for raw materials and upgraded equipment, for their foreign exchange requirements usually represent but a small percentage of their total credit needs. Because they are labor-intensive and raw material-intensive, SSEs need credit mostly for working capital rather than for fixed assets. But because they often keep sketchy accounting records and cater to volatile markets, commercial banks and other financing institutions hesitate to provide them the assistance they need.
Effective provision of finance to SSEs, through whatever channels, will require greatly simplified criteria and procedures, compared with those normally used by DFCs, or even by most commercial banks. Paperwork should be reduced to a minimum. Standard loan packages, defining the objects of expenditure and indicating the amounts needed for different economic activities, could be prepared for quick reference by loan officers.
Government commitment to policies of encouraging small-scale enterprise development is essential if national programs are to be successful. Price and incentive distortions, which tend to favor capital-intensive technology, need to be remedied. Solid research on alternatives should be undertaken and disseminated.
For its part, the Bank is committed to giving greatly increased emphasis to assisting small-scale enterprises in its future operations. This does not mean denying support to larger enterprises as well; depending on circumstances in the country, they may offer greater potential for industrial and service linkages, labor productivity, and employment objectives.
In its future operations in this field, the Bank will give close attention to specific needs for working capital and for local currency financ-
ing—particularly for SSEs in the informal sector. Project design will necessarily be flexible, and will be based on careful preparatory work, for there is much to be learned in assisting small enterprises. The Bank's experience, to date, is limited; during the five-year period, fiscal 197276, out of $2,200 million in assistance provided through DFCs, only about $100 million has been explicitly directed to SSE development. Future projects will be carefully monitored to enable subsequent operations to benefit from experience.
In the meantime, the Bank, in its country economic and industrial sector work, and in its dialogue with governments on development policy, will continue to urge that policy and regulatory measures which encourage inappropriate capital-intensity and inhibit the effective functioning of small-scale industries be corrected. It is also calling to the attention of those DFCs with whom it presently has relations, the important potential role of small enterprise development, and the desirability of examining possible labor-intensive options in their sub-project appraisals.
In addition, the Bank is exploring the potential of intermediaries, other than DFCs, which might be effective channels of assistance to SSEs. But because many of the factors affecting the growth of small enterprise and informal sector activity are still imperfectly known, the Bank's approach is to be one of practical experimentation for some time to come. As it gains knowledge and understanding of the problems involved, it hopes to be able increasingly to help devise delivery systems that will offer good prospects for successful replication.
Poverty Amid Growth
For the past three years, the Annual Report of the World Bank has noted the dramatic changes in the world's economy and has reflected on how those changes have affected the developing countries.
The events point to a number of conclusions which are of significance to future developments in the nonindustrialized world.
Four may be briefly summarized.
First, extreme poverty in the developing countries is the most pressing problem of development. Almost a billion people are today living in poverty, and growth rates in the poorest developing countries are insufficient to make a dent in alleviating, much less eradicating, poverty.
Second, the higher-income developing countries appear to have been less affected in terms of rates of growth by the economic fluctuations of the mid-1970s than the developed countries. The poorest have, in general, been set back.
Third, policy adjustments launched in response to the mid-decade recession may well prove, for many countries, to be a springboard for continued growth in the future—if com-
bined with further improvements in economic management.
Fourth, greater efforts, by both the industrialized and developing countries, are needed if future growth is to be accompanied by a substantial alleviation of poverty. These efforts include increases in transfers of real resources by the industrialized countries and measures by the developing world to make more productive use of such transfers.
Why was it that many of the developing countries were less affected by the recent recession than the developed countries? t In the poorest developing countries, recent economic setbacks were prevented from being sharper than they were by increases in domestic agricultural production. In 1974, sub-Saharan Africa was just recovering from four years of severe drought, and the monsoon had been poor in South Asia. The subsequent improvement in harvests due to better weather and to productive investments made in the agricultural sector was the overriding factor in helping many of the poorest countries ride out the recession years of 1975 and 1976.
The economic events of the mid-1970s affected higher-income developing countries in ways different from the poorest. Because most depend more heavily than the poorest on oil imports and on international trade, they were acutely affected by higher petroleum prices and the worldwide recession. Most of the countries in this group adjusted to the new economic situation quickly, however; many made necessary internal adjustments in their fiscal, monetary, or price policies; most were able to borrow heavily from private sources to maintain their investment, and thus they avoided too sharp a decline in growth rates.
The events of the mid-1970s did not seriously interrupt the growth trend many developing countries have maintained now for a quarter of a century. Indeed, growth over this period has been accelerating—except in the poorest countries of South Asia and Africa.
Per capita growth rates of developing countries, in the period 1950-75, have not only been historically unprecedented; they were also quite unexpected. In the 1950s, most developing nations were barely emerging from colonial dependency; many were enmeshed in political difficulties; and the vicious circle of poverty ^seemed to be all but inescapable.
Nevertheless, for a quarter of a century in the developing world, the output of food has more than kept pace with the rapid growth of population. Nonfood agricultural production has expanded even more rapidly—even in some of the least developed countries. All but the least developed countries have established manufacturing sectors employing a variety of complex techniques, and producing a wide range of consumption and intermediate goods. The more industrialized developing countries also manufacture capital goods, and a widening range of
manufactured products from these nations is becoming competitive internationally. The social and physical infrastructure of developing countries has been transformed. Hundreds of thousands of schools have been built; ports, roads, railways, and power stations have been constructed.
Developing countries, already at widely different levels of development in the 1950s, have found that different growth rates have accentuated the differences among them. The average long-term rate of growth for developing countries conceals wide differences between countries which stood still (or even declined in terms of real per capita income) and those which grew at more than 5% yearly. Nonetheless, while not all developing countries shared equally in the worldwide economic expansion of the past quarter century, most were able, in varying degrees, to strengthen the foundations for further growth. Those foundations were strong enough to help most adjust to an economic crisis that simultaneously affected all the countries of the world.
For the developing countries, the principal and most promising effect of the recent economic shocks is likely to lie in the policy improvements and adjustments they engendered.
The adjustments had several components. Countries recognized that their export earnings during the "boom" years of 1972 and 1973 were exceptionally high, and that demand management, and investment and budgetary policies
should be based on expectations of long-run export earnings. Some countries have taken steps to skim off unusually high export earnings in "boom" times, and hold them in reserve for leaner periods.
Developing countries—like much of the rest of the world—also learned to adjust to the sharp increases in the prices of petroleum products and capital goods. In many, domestic prices of oil and power were raised to the international level despite the adverse impact on the living standards of the bulk of the population through increased prices of transport, agricultural inputs, and cooking and lighting fuels. As the recession was ending, oil-importing countries were able to increase their exports to help meet the additional cost of imports.
These adjustments, if linked with improvements needed in such matters as price, investment, monetary, and fiscal policies, should help the developing countries—especially those already well advanced and growing rapidly—to face the years ahead with sound prospects for continued growth. For the poorer countries, however, particularly those still caught in the "downward spiral" of poverty, past adjustments and improved economic management are insufficient to meet the challenge of alleviating poverty... High levels of external assistance will continue to be needed if growth rates are to accelerate.
But growth per se has never been the sole objective of development. As the developing countries achieved political independence, they sought to improve the living standards of the mass of their populations. Breaking through the circle of poverty was so difficult, however, that many countries felt that only through rapid growth could they begin to close the economic gap between them and the industrialized world. Welfare considerations could even detract from growth, it was argued; benefits of growth would, somehow, "trickle down" to the poor.
By the end of the 1960s, however, mass poverty was still much in evidence despite marked improvements in living standards in many countries. Concern over ways to alleviate poverty has again come to the forefront in much of the developing world. The challenge these countries face is to combine growth with equity so as to accelerate and mutually reinforce the gains from both.
To meet this challenge, efforts are called for by both the developing and developed worlds.
Agriculture is clearly the key to improving the living standards of the bulk of the poor of the developing world. Where biases against agriculture exist, they have to be removed to increase productivity and incomes in subsistence and cash crop farming, whether by landholders, tenants, or agricultural laborers. In some countries, improvement in rural incomes also requires an acceleration of changes in land tenure and social structure.
Industrialization and urban development are complementary to agriculture in a development strategy that has to take account of the rapid growth in population. As rural productivity increases and urban incomes rise in developing countries, rapid migration to urban centers often occurs. This is due to the fact that higher agricultural productivity reduces the need for additional rural labor; increasing urban incomes, of course, act as a magnet for the poor, rural labor force.
It is unlikely that this flow can be stemmed, and major policy adjustments are required to absorb the migrants productively. Appropriate technology must be encouraged to accelerate employment creation and to increase urban incomes, particularly in the informal sector. *Urban population growth requires extensive social and infrastructure investments which must be undertaken to provide public goods at costs and standards appropriate to the level of *the country's income in order that they may be supplied to the bulk of the population.
Development policies for the exploitation of minerals and energy resources are also needed, as are continued efforts by developing countries to expand their exports to the markets of industrialized countries.
For their part, the countries of the industrialized world can be productive partners in helping meet development's challenge. Their economic management is critical to the growth of the international economy. Access to their markets
is essential to the growth of developing countries' exports. Aid flows on concessional terms are required, most particularly for the growth of the poorer countries. Access to capital markets in the industrialized world is an important factor in the development of many higher-income developing nations. In an increasingly interdependent world, the industrialized countries have a strong moral and economic interest in the accelerated development of the poor.
Late in fiscal 1977, the Bank, in the light of the many discussions about international economic issues during the past year, decided to undertake immediately an analysis of major development issues in order to promote their better understanding in both the industrialized and developing countries. The analysis will, it is hoped, enable policymakers to appreciate better the interaction of developed and developing economies, and thus strengthen the political ability to deal effectively with development problems.
The analysis is to be done in close consultation with the International Monetary Fund and with other interested parties. Care will be exercised to make sure that the work neither duplicates nor encroaches on any similar studies under way in other international organizations. It is hoped that a draft report might be prepared in time for consideration by the Development Committee early in fiscal 1979.
Capital Flows, DAC and OPEC
Preliminary data from the Development Assistance Committee (DAC)(6> of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) indicate that Official Development Assistance (ODA) of $13,741 million by DAC members rose by only 1 % in dollar terms, and declined in real terms in calendar year 1976. Ten of the 17 DAC member governments increased their outflow of ODA in dollars during the year, and five countries'7' also raised it as a share of their gross national product (GNP). As a percentage of their combined GNP, ODA from members of the DAC fell back from 0.36% in 1975 to 0.33% in 1976.
In 1976, Norway became the third DAC country to reach the target of providing the
equivalent of 0.7% of its GNP in the form of ODA. Sweden, which in 1974 became the first DAC country to meet this target, provided 0.82% in 1976. The Netherlands increased its ODA/GNP ratio to 0.82% from 0.75% in 1975.
Very preliminary data indicate that total flows of financial resources, which include export credits extended by official and private institutions, direct and portfolio investments, and grants by private voluntary organizations to de-
'6> Includes Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States, and the Commission of the European Communities. Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland! and the United Kingdom. (Finland, France, Sweden, and the United States maintained their percentages at 1975 levels.)
veloping countries by DAC members, were $39,614 million in 1976, compared with a record $39,941 million in 1975. According to DAC estimates, total flows in 1976 were equivalent to 0.96% of DAC members' combined GNP, compared with 1.05% in 1975. These figures exclude significant amounts in Eurocurrency borrowing by developing countries (which are discussed in the chapter, "Borrowings and Finance" in this Annual Report). Although most Euromarkets are located in DAC countries, the funds in any one loan do not necessarily originate in the country issuing it.
Although the statistics on the aid flows from members of the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC)(s) are much less firm than those for the DAC countries, reports indicate that total net disbursements by OPEC members, which rose rapidly from $1,722 million in 1973 to $5,809 million in 1974, and to $8,072 million in 1975, appear to have fallen slightly in 1976 to $7,492 million. These figures include both concessionary and nonconcession-ary resources and include a substantial upward revision for 1975 (from $5,589 million to $8,072 million) from what had been previously reported. In 1976, approximately 68% of net disbursements were on concessionary terms.
External Public Debt
The continuing analysis of the external public debt'9' of 84 developing countries reveals an increase in such debt during calendar 1975 at about the same annual rate as in 1974. (See table on page 26.) At year's end, the total of debt outstanding and disbursed was $120,982 million. This total represented an increase of $20,777 million—or 21%— over 1974. The 1975 total, including undisbursed balances, increased by $26,168 million to $173,912 million. This amounted to an increase of some 18%
over 1974. These undisbursed balances, representing agreements to lend not yet made effective by disbursements, stood at $52,930 million, or about 30% of total debt outstanding—slightly less than at the end of 1974, and somewhat higher than in earlier years. As in 1974, some part of these balances represented an assurance of the continuity of financing for ongoing projects or anticipated needs.
Net borrowing in 1975 was $23,705 million, higher by $8,470 million than in 1974. As in 1974, the increase reflected a rise in the borrowing countries' balance of payments deficit on current account, as well as inflation.
(s> Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela.
<"> This section on external public debt incorporates some of the improvements which are progressively being made in the Bank's Debt Reporting System (DRS), and to the continuing analysis of problems of external debt which the DRS and related information from the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) make possible. Although detailed, consistent statistics of long-term external debt are still limited to public borrowing, defined as borrowing by public entities or with their guarantee, steps are being taken to incorporate information about borrowing by the private sector in developing countries without guarantee by the debtor country. A review early in 1977 of information about unguaranteed private borrowing by developing countries indicated that the amount outstanding at the end of 1976 was on the order of one-fifth of total long-term external debt and was concentrated in a relatively few countries. The review has been followed by an active effort to obtain more detailed information from the countries where unguaranteed private sector borrowing abroad is believed to be significant.
Improved information about balance of payments developments, resulting from cooperation with IMF staff, has made possible a better understanding of the increasingly complex patterns of external finance of many developing countries. In brief, the analysis of external debt is now part of a broader analysis of external finance and balance of payments problems involving both institutions.
There have been improvements in the quality and coverage of data on external public debt (partly as a result of assistance to member governments) and on borrowing in international capital markets. The first of the Supplements to the World Debt Tables for individual countries was published in September 1976. The Supplements contained information through the end of 1975. In 1977 and subsequent years, these Supplements will be produced for a larger number of countries and they will be published earlier.
The Development Committee and its Working Party on Access to Capital Markets have been kept fully informed by the staff of the Bank and Fund about these activities and have strongly supported them.
The 84 countries include nine<10) oil-exporting countries, whose net borrowings in 1975, while higher than the very low levels of 1974, were still relatively small, $3,628 million. These countries, taken together, had a large current account surplus in 1974, but it declined sharply in 1975 and, according to preliminary data, continued at about the 1975 level in 1976. However, by the end of 1975, it was evident that some of these countries, particularly the larger and poorer of them, for example, Indonesia, would not be, in the near future, in a position radically different from many other developing countries.
The balance of payments deficit on current account(11) of the 75 other developing countries increased in 1975 from about $33,000 million in 1974 to about $42,000 million. However, as indicated in the Bank's Annual Report for 1976, there was evidence, during the latter part of 1975, that the difficulties of 1974 and early 1975 were being mitigated by adjustments initiated by the developing countries themselves, as well as by an upturn in economic activity in some industrialized countries. Late in 1975 and throughout 1976, the exports of these developing countries increased markedly. This increase contributed to a decline in their current account deficit from $42,000 million in 1975 to about $31,000 million in 1976. Net medium-term and long-term public borrowing by these countries increased from $13,699 million in 1974 to $20,076 million in 1975; debt outstanding and disbursed rose to $100,043 million from $82,332 million in 1974. Preliminary estimates of net borrowing in 1976 by these countries indicate that it was on the same order as in 1975. This, in conjunction with the reduced current account deficit, made possible a large addition to official foreign exchange reserves in 1976. In 1974 and 1975, reserves, along with external capital, had
been used by many countries to facilitate the adjustments which were made during those years. In 1976, reserves increased by about $10,000 million.
These 75 developing countries which do not export oil are so diverse that statements about their combined external borrowing and public debt are likely to be misleading. It is possible, however, to generalize about regional groupings which, to a considerable extent, coincide with categories based on average per capita national income. Broadly, the developing countries in the Mediterranean'12' region of Europe are among those with per capita incomes a good deal higher than most developing countries. Their external public debt is also a good deal smaller, relative to their national income. The combined external public debt of these countries, expressed as a percentage of gross national product (GNP) was only 6% in 1975. At the end of 1975, their total disbursed debt was $12,101 million. The increase in net public borrowings was relatively modest, both in 1974 ($1,556 million) and in 1975 ($2,042 million). The amounts were also modest compared with a balance of payments deficit on current account which was more than $7,000 million in 1974 and $8,000 million in 1975. It is evident that, in these countries, other forms of external finance, including borrowings by the private sector, are more important than public long-term borrowing. Only one country in the region, Yugoslavia, shared in the widespread improvement in the current account position of developing countries in 1976.
<I0> Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Nigeria, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela.
(n> Current account is defined as the balance between imports and exports of merchandise and services and private receipts of transfers from abroad.
<u> Cyprus, Greece, Malta, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, and Yugoslavia.
In the developing countries of the Middle East and North Africa/13' other than the oil-exporting countries, outstanding public debt was smaller—$7,298 million at the end of 1975— than that of the Mediterranean countries. Public debt increased very little in the past years, up to and including 1974. But in 1975, an increase of $2,614 million, or 56%, brought the total to $7,298 million. This was almost 25% of the combined national income of the five relatively poor countries of the region. Most of this debt and borrowing was from official sources—83% of the debt outstanding at the end of 1975 and 87% of net borrowings during that year. Egypt was, by far, the largest borrower, in a net amount of $1,963 million, or 69% of the net borrowing of the region. A large part, estimated at about three-quarters, of the current account deficit of these countries was financed in 1975 by public borrowings and grant aid from official sources. In 1976, the current account deficit increased somewhat, and official sources continued to be a major source of financing.
The external borrowing and debt position of sub-Saharan African countries and those of South Asia have a number of characteristics in common despite the diversity of the 32 countries in the African region.'14' Because most countries in both regions have very low per capita incomes, they have been able to borrow on concessionary terms from national and international a*id agencies. Although there are exceptions among the countries of Africa south of the Sahara, most countries in both regions have not been able to borrow large sums from private lenders. The total public debt outstanding at the end of 1975 of sub-Saharan countries was $10,584 million. Two-thirds of this debt, or $7,028 million, was owed to official creditors. Net borrowing was $2,313 million in that year, 65% of it from official sources. The debt outstanding to private sources at the end of 1975 was $3,556 million. Of that amount, 75% was owed by four countries—Ivory Coast, Sudan, Zaire, and Zambia. Of 1975 net public borrowing ($822 million) from private sources, these four countries accounted for more than 90%.
After deteriorating sharply in 1974 and in 1975, the current account position of many of the countries of the region showed an improvement in 1976. In all three years, public borrowing and grant aid from official sources were the main sources of finance, except for the four countries mentioned previously. One of them, Zaire, encountered severe difficulties in servicing external debt in 1975 and 1976. The Government was able to alleviate them, however, by reaching agreement separately with official and private creditors.
South Asia'15' resembles sub-Saharan Africa in that a large proportion of external public debt is owed to official creditors and that a high proportion of new borrowing is from official lenders. The countries of the region owed a total of $19,922 million at the end of 1975, of which 96% was to official creditors. This amount was on the order of 17% of the regional GNP. This regional figure does not reveal, however, the wide range among the countries—from 9% in Burma, which, over many years, avoided borrowing abroad, to more than 50% in Pakistan, which followed the opposite course. During 1975, almost all net borrowing of $2,320 million was from official sources. Most of it was on highly concessional terms, either originally or as a result of successive rearrangements of the service payments on earlier loans. Net borrowing from private sources was very small. The reasons seem to have been that, as in sub-Saharan Africa, there was little lending by financial institutions, suppliers did not maintain even the relatively low levels of activity of previous years, and the amortization of earlier lending continued. The year 1975 was not the first during which this was the case, for borrowing from private sources seems to have been negative by very small amounts in both 1972 and 1973. This
(i3) Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Syria, and Tunisia.
<14) Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Empire, Chad, Congo, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Upper Votta, Zaire, and Zambia.
(») Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Burma, India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
situation, as in the case of African countries, reflects: (a) the stated policy of official lenders to direct development assistance increasingly to very poor countries; (b) the policies of the governments in the region and; (c) the reservations of private lenders about lending to very poor countries. In 1975, the current account position of every country in the region deteriorated, a situation which seems to have reversed itself in 1976. India's current account was in surplus in that year, and the deficit of almost all the other countries was reduced.
The external public debt of the 18 countries in the Latin America and the Caribbean region,'1'0 excluding the oil-exporting countries, was 539,477 million at the end of 1975, or about 40% of the total for all countries other than the oil-exporters. External public debt in relation to GNP for the region was about 14%. The rate of increase of external public debt, which had been considerably above that of other regions in recent years, fell from 32% in 1974 to 23% in 1975, or about the same rate as in 1975 for all countries which do not export oil. Net borrowing was $7,720 million, an increase of S977 million, or 15%, higher than in 1974. Private sources accounted for 62% of external public debt outstanding at the end of 1975 and 76% of net borrowing during that year. Countries in the region owed 61 % of all the external public debt of the 75 developing countries to private creditors as of the end of 1975. The region accounted for only 58% of net public borrowing from private sources during 1975 because most other regions increased their borrowing from private sources more rapidly. Brazil, which alone accounted for almost 40% of the GNP of the region, accounted for 29% of its external public
debt, and 34% of the net borrowing of the countries in the region in 1975. In addition, the private sector in Brazil (as in several other countries in the region) obtained large amounts of external finance without public guarantee, both in the form of loans, and, as in some other countries, direct investment. Debt of the private sector, not included in the statistics of external public debt presented in this Annual Report, represented somewhat less than half the total external debt of Brazil. Net borrowing of the private sector without public guarantee was about one-quarter of net long-term borrowing by Brazil in that year. Borrowing by the private sector in other countries seems to have been a good deal less in relation to public debt than in Brazil. Three other countries, Mexico, Argentina, and Chile, together accounted for 45% of the total public debt outstanding in the region. In 1975, the current account deficit of the region rose by about $3,500 million, but it was reduced by about $5,200 million in 1976, and reserves, which declined in 1975, rose by more than $4,000 million in 1976.
Countries other than Indonesia in the East Asia and Pacific region'17' had outstanding external debt of $10,661 million at the end of 1975, an increase of 34% over the end of 1974. Almost half the total, S5,227 million, was owed by Korea, whose economy, the largest in the region, has been growing very rapidly. The high rate of economic growth in Korea has required imports of capital in very large amounts over a
o«) Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay.
<17> Republic of China, Fiji, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand.
period of years. In 1975, net public external borrowing by the countries of the region was $2,849 million, of which Korea borrowed almost half. In addition, the private sector in Korea, like the private sector in other countries of the region, borrowed abroad without guarantee. The external public debt of the region was about 14% of total GNP. The ratio in Korea was about twice as high, but Korean exports, which were large and growing rapidly, provided the resources required to service the country's debt. In both 1974 and 1975, the current account deficit of the region was more than $5,000 million. It was reduced to $2,700 million in 1976. External borrowings in 1976 continued at levels estimated to be no less than in 1975. As a result, official foreign exchange reserves rose by more than $3,500 million.
* * * Total debt outstanding, including undisbursed balances, owed to governments by developing countries which do not export oil increased by 10% in 1975, to reach $57,620 million as shown in the table on page 28. Loans from governments were 41% of the total debt outstanding from all lenders. Commitments of governments were $9,590 million in 1975, a decline of about $1,000 million from the peak of the previous year. Disbursements, net of amortization payments, increased by 83% to $6,705 million in 1975.
Loans outstanding from international organizations, including portions which had not been
disbursed, to 75 developing countries which do not export oil, were $32,908 million at the end of 1975, an increase of 24% over 1974. Debt owed to international organizations accounted for 23% of total debt of these countries, but only 17% of disbursed debt. New loans committed by international organizations during 1975 were $7,179 million, or an increase of 23% over 1974. Net disbursements were $3,293 million in 1975, an increase of 23%. Undisbursed balances of international organizations at the end of 1975 were $15,450 million, and were about 38% of total undisbursed balances of all lenders at the end of 1975.
Loans from financial markets include loans from private banks, other private financial institutions, and bonds. Debt outstanding to financial markets, including undisbursed loans, rose in 1975 by 30%—as compared with an increase of 58% the year before—to $37,873 million. This represented 27% of the debt outstanding to all creditors in 1975. Private banks accounted for 85% of the debt outstanding owed financial markets. Disbursed debt owed to these lenders was $30,980 million, or 31% of total disbursed debt. Commitments from financial markets declined slightly to $11,757 million in 1975. However, there was evidence of an increase in 1976 and in early 1977. Net borrowings from financial markets increased by $2,365 million, or 33%, to $9,445 million after having nearly doubled the year before.
Eastern Africa
In spite of vast land resources and generally low population densities, the 17 nations of the Eastern Africa Region are among the poorest of the developing world. More than half these countries, with populations accounting for almost two-thirds of the Region's 142 million, have average per capita gross national products of below $200. While large portions of the land are desert or savannah, and rainfed crops, as well as livestock, are occasionally struck by drought as in 1974 and 1975, the agricultural potential of the Region is enormous, given a total land area larger than the United States. However, traditional low-productivity farming predominates, internal distances are great, government services and infrastructure facilities are inadequate, and export markets are remote. The majority of the farming population, mostly smallholders, live below the absolute poverty level.
Some countries, like Botswana, Zaire, and Zambia, are endowed with rich mineral deposits which can provide the resources for financing economic development; others, like Kenya, are already beyond the beginnings of industrialization. But much of the progress that could be envisaged three years ago has been retarded by the onset of various crises, with the result that, with few exceptions, the real per capita income today is hardly better than it was in 1973.
Failure of rains in the two previous years brought much human distress to Somalia and a decline in crop production in Tanzania, northeastern Kenya, and some adjoining areas of the savannah belt, necessitating additional imports of food that weigh heavily on the balance of payments. Simultaneously, the dramatic rise in petroleum and other import prices in 1974 severely affected the resource position of most countries, but particularly those with a relatively open
economy, like Kenya. Subsequently, when in
1975, the price of copper plunged from a previously high level, the two major copper exporters (Zaire and Zambia) experienced a severe and prolonged liquidity crisis.
The process of adjustment to the new situation brought about by the unfavorable terms of trade has been marked, in some cases, by austerity programs and a basic restructuring of investment, as in Kenya and Tanzania. Some programs have been accompanied by courageous measures to stimulate agricultural production and restrain real urban incomes. Some of tke more ambitious targets to provide social infrastructure to the masses of the people had to be postponed in favor of more directly productive activities. These measures have met with some degree of success, but where the resource shortfall was very large and short-term indebtedness increased rapidly (as in Zaire), the reduced import capacity retarded the successful recovery in the production of goods and services. Also, new initiatives for production, particularly in agriculture, depend, firstly, on a proper administrative framework which, very often, is in urgent need of strengthening.
Countries less affected by the movements in the terms of trade, or having benefited from inflationary movements in world commodity markets (Mauritius and Swaziland) have continued to show satisfactory rates of growth. Growth rates have also been satisfactory in Sudan, where major expansion in agricultural investment is beginning to show results. And the economies of some of the smaller countries, like Lesotho and Malawi, have shown a resiliency characteristic of a primarily agricultural thrust of development. Finally, countries of extreme poverty such as Burundi, Ethiopia, and Rwanda have experienced lesser setbacks as they are less vulnerable due to a slower pace of growth; in 197677, they benefited from the increase in the price of coffee. As time goes by, and crises of various magnitudes are overcome, the need for institutional improvements more and more clearly becomes the most pervasive factor of development in almost all the countries of the Region; institution building and development of cadres to operate new administrative and service structures, particularly in the field of agriculture, are the most urgent tasks facing governments.
The combined resource gap of the 17 countries of the Region quadrupled from 1973 to 1975 to about $1,000 million—if the copper producers are excluded—but narrowed by about 8% in 1976. With the copper exporters included, the resource gap approached $2,000 million in 1975 and declined to about $1,300 million in
1976. Thus, the past year brought some relief from the severe pressure on resources through certain improvements in the terms of trade. While import prices continued to advance, though at a reduced pace, prices for the Region's products improved somewhat more in cases like
coffee (as mentioned previously), tea, groundnuts, tobacco, and cotton. This was offset, in part, by a decline in the prices of sugar and maize, and a late recovery in sisal prices. However, good weather in 1976 has done much to bring agricultural production back to an upward trend and the resulting improvement in export volume has helped to improve the balance of payments position in several countries, although in others, this improved position had to be achieved through further restrictions on the volume of imports.
The East African Community (EAC), composed of Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda, and based on the Treaty of 1967, was both directly and indirectly affected by the severe balance of payments and financial pressures of recent years. Directly, common market trade was impaired as a result of restrictions in national imports and foreign exchange. Indirectly, fiscal austerity exacerbated existing tensions and mutual suspicions over the distribution of benefits from the Community Corporations, which had been reinforced by widening differences of political philosophy between the Partner States. The financial problems of the Corporations seriously affected their ability to meet external debt obligations and led to some delays in service payments. But since the agreement in May 1976 between the Partner States on the sharing of debt service and payments procedures, debt service to the World Bank has been met regularly.
At the same time, the Treaty Review Commission (set up in 1975) failed to make agreed recommendations and adjourned sine die in November 1976. This further embittered Community relationships and accelerated the disruption of the EAC Corporations. East African Airways was grounded, and the operations of most of the other Corporations have, in effect, been decentralized to the regions. The East African Development Bank (EADB) is the only major EAC institution which has, so far, not been seriously affected in its organization and operations in spite of the deteriorating EAC climate.
The World Bank has, over the years, not only made sizable investments in the EAC, but has provided assistance for the orderly resolution of the Community's problems. The Bank will continue to try to help the Partner States move toward revised institutional arrangements.
World Bank Lending
Lending operations increased in total amount by about 14% over the average of the previous three years, and reached $572 million in fiscal 1977. This was achieved through 39 loans and credits, compared with an average of 32 in the previous three years. Most of the increase took place in lending for agriculture and rural development, where the amount of lending increased by 133%, and the number of projects assisted reached a record of 16, or seven more than in any previous year. This has been the result
mainly of a deliberate effort in past years to prepare more projects in this key sector. Due to the special need to support the restructuring programs in Kenya and Tanzania, these countries show a more than proportionate increase in total Bank assistance in fiscal 1977. Assistance included a program credit of $15 million to Tanzania, designed to help the country keep its development program at previous levels, because shortages of inputs were hampering the manufacturing industry as well as the development of infrastructure. A program loan—of $30 million —was made to Zambia to help alleviate import shortages in the wake of stabilization measures made necessary by the continued liquidity crisis caused by the failure of copper prices to rise appreciably.
Project Co-financing
Project co-financing more than doubled from fiscal 1976 to fiscal 1977, adding more than 50% to the total value of Bank and IDA lending. This was due to an increase in the number, size, and cost of projects in the context of rising costs of imported equipment, materials, and technical assistance. As most countries in the Region have limited creditworthiness for World Bank assistance and, thus, depend for the most part on scarce IDA resources, co-financing on concessional terms was critical for the execution of the Bank's lending program in Eastern Africa. The Bank's staff worked closely during the year with member countries and other contributors to arrange co-financing. As a result, co-financing funds committed during fiscal 1977 totaled $325 million for 20 projects, as compared with $148 million for 13 projects in the previous fiscal year.
In fiscal 1977, these funds complemented assistance by the Bank and IDA amounting to $339 million and by local resources of $274 million. The largest co-financing source this year was the European Development Fund/European Investment Bank which, with the resources provided under the Lome Convention, were able, for the first time, to provide significant amounts of co-financing (about $79 million), mostly on a grant basis. Further important sources of co-financing were traditional contributors such as the African Development Bank/Fund ($33.9 million), the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) ($29.1 million), Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederaufbau (KfW) ($29 million), Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development ($24.74 million), and the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) ($18.6 million), and relatively new ones like the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) ($10 million) and the Saudi Fund ($8.5 million). Others included the United Kingdom, the Kuwait Fund, the Islamic Development Bank, the Abu Dhabi Fund, Canada, the Netherlands, and the United States, and export credit agencies. Major recipients of co-financing were Kenya ($79 million for three projects), Tanzania ($70 million for three projects), and Sudan ($60 million for two projects). In addition, co-financing complemented Bank assistance in two projects in Malawi, Somalia, Zambia, and Zaire, and one each in Ethiopia, Mauritius, Rwanda, and Swaziland.
Agricultural Development
In pursuance of the long-term objective of increasing the productivity of the rural poor,
who constitute the large majority of the population in all countries of Eastern Africa, agriculture continues to be the priority sector for lending. Against a background of lagging production over the last several years, due in part to drought and in part to other factors, such as inadequate incentives, weak technical packages, insufficient vector control, or institutional change without sufficient support from physical marketing and extension services, two types of projects have come to be of primary importance in the Region. The first kind is the single-crop production project, designed to yield substantial benefits in the relatively short term, in the form of marketable products, earned or saved foreign exchange, improved incomes of smallholder producers, better nutritional standards, and supplies for agroprocessing industries. These projects tend to be limited to specific project areas and beneficiaries, but they have the advantage of concentrating on a country's comparative ad-
vantage, are relatively quick yielding, and require only limited organizational and logistical input.
A few examples of this type of projects are: a Cotton Rehabilitation Project in Zaire, assisted by an $8 million IDA credit, which will benefit about 84,000 farmers by providing them with incentives to return to the cultivation of cotton or intensify its production and will increase their cash incomes by about 75%; the Cinchona Project in Rwanda, assisted by a $1.8 million IDA credit, which is expected to benefit about 3,600 farm families, by increasing, by 1987, production of cinchona (quinine-yielding bark) to about 1,000 tons and its share in the world market from about 4% to about 10%; and forestry projects in Tanzania and Zambia (assisted by a $7 million Bank loan and a $16.8 million Bank loan respectively), which form an important part of the two Governments' afforestation programs of pine and eucalyptus trees and
will provide raw material for a first pulp and paper mill in both countries.
The second type addresses a country's deep-seated structural problems in developing the agriculture sector. The approach is broad based, often on a national scale, involving institution building and improvements in the government's delivery systems, such as credit, extension, marketing, and storage facilities in major centers. These projects have more directly involved the Bank in a dialogue with a government on pricing, subsidies, export policies, and administrative reform. Their aim, beyond providing physical facilities and credit, is to strengthen the absorptive capacity of the public sector serving the development of agriculture, and to improve the living conditions of the poorest producers and initiate their inclusion in the market economy.
In Sudan, the Savannah Development Project, assisted by an IDA credit of $17 million, constitutes a first step in the long-term development of South Darfur province. This is a vast area in the western part of the country, where the needs of migratory pastoralists have increasingly come into conflict with sedentary smallholder farmers. Pressures due to population growth and increased numbers of animals in the area have precipitated uncontrolled settlement around the main water sources, forcing the pastoralists back onto restricted grazing areas and, in many cases, blocking essential stock routes. The project is designed to improve the lives of the people in the area by allowing a more efficient utilization of land and to ensure the long-term conservation and improved utilization of soil and pasture. As a first phase, it is essentially an experimental undertaking in which suitable production procedures will be devised through an adaptive research program. A nonformal education and extension effort is designed to motivate farmers and pastoralists to accept measures to make better use of material resources in the area. In particular, the project will implement a settlement program with the dual purpose of increasing crop production and opening up presently blocked stock routes. It will also include range management and livestock programs, the development of water facilities, and a health survey of the people living in the area.
Making Education Relevant
The three education projects approved in fiscal 1977 are designed to assist the Bank's member countries in modifying their education systems to reflect better each country's own physical, cultural, and social realities and respond more precisely to each country's own developmental needs. This is true, for example, in Madagascar and Burundi, where the education systems inherited by the countries at independence were predominantly geared to provide broad literary education to elites, enabling them to continue their studies at European universities.
The education project in Madagascar, for which an IDA credit of $14 million has been approved, will help the Government in its goals of achieving decentralization and democratization and making the educational system conform to the cultural heritage of the Malagasy nation. The decentralization of educational control will be assisted by the construction of five education centers in each regional capital outside Tananarive. At the same time, the project will help keep soaring recurrent education costs under control by the building of a teaching materials production center and by the provision of facilities for training national servicemen who have completed their lower secondary studies as primary school teachers. The new primary school curriculum will use the Malagasy language as the medium of instruction.
Similar goals are served by the World Bank's first education project in Burundi, assisted by an IDA credit of $10 million and providing for technical assistance as well as equipment. One hundred new primary schools will be built throughout the country, in areas identified as presently "underprivileged" in terms of educational facilities. The primary school curriculum is being "Kirundized," as textbooks and teacher aids are being rewritten in Kirundi, the native language, instead of French, and "ruralized," as more emphasis is given to the overwhelmingly rural aspect of life in Burundi. Local materials will be used to the maximum to keep construction costs low without sacrificing durability.
Urban-Industrial and Other Operations
In addition to selected sites and services projects, it is mostly in the manufacturing and water supply sectors that the populations of urban centers in Eastern Africa have benefited from projects assisted by the World Bank and IDA.
The two water supply projects approved in fiscal 1977 reflect the increased emphasis the Bank is giving to provide service to the urban poor. In Malawi, where a $7 million IDA credit was made for the extension of the water supply system in Blantyre, the largest city in the country, the Government has agreed to provide a standpipe service to the urban poor in low-income areas. In Tanzania, a project, assisted by a $15 million Bank loan, will help meet, up to 1986, the growing water supply requirements of Morogoro, a rapidly expanding town of 39,000. The project also provides for standpipe service and includes major reforms in revenue collection and accounting procedures and substantial expansion of the training facilities of the Ministry of Water, Energy, and Minerals for the water supply sector. In both cases, the Bank has encouraged the Governments to employ water tariffs designed to assist in income redistribution. The Malawi Government is adopting increasing block tariffs which provide the minimum amount of water required for health purposes at reduced rates, whereas Tanzania is supplying water to standpipe consumers free of charge.
The development of Morogoro will be further enhanced by a project, assisted by a $23 million Bank loan, which calls for the establishment there of an industrial complex, a shoe factory, and a leather goods factory primarily aimed at the export market. Together with a tannery already under construction with Bulgarian assistance and a canvas mill supported by the European Communities, these projects constitute a vertically integrated industrial complex to process raw hides, skins, and cotton into intermediate and finished products. The Bank-assisted water supply project, mentioned previously, will provide a reliable source of water to the complex. • Among lending for other sectors, the Wildlife and Tourism Project in Kenya should be noted. A Third Window loan of $17 million will enable
the Government to make improvements to two national parks and four national reserves. The loan will help increase the country's returns from wildlife-based tourism in areas where this activity promises higher returns than competing land uses. One of the project's aims is to ensure that the subsistence pastoralists obtain direct benefits from tourist viewing of wildlife in excess of the costs which they suffer due to the wildlife. The project also includes financing for the construction of barriers to protect crops from wildlife, a Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute, wildlife planning and policy studies, and support for antipoaching activities. It is hoped that, if successfully implemented, the project will serve as a model for similar conservation attempts elsewhere.
Western Africa
In the Western Africa Region, which covers the 21 countries south of the Maghreb to, and including, the People's Republic of the Congo, or about one-quarter of the continent, live some 150 million people at an average per capita income of approximately $300. Many of them, of course, have far lower incomes. Included are such diverse countries as Nigeria, comprising about half the Region's population and which has a fairly diversified resource base; resource-poor and landlocked Mali, Upper Volta, Niger, and Chad with 5 million to 6 million inhabitants each, and richly endowed Gabon with a population of just about 500,000. All the 21 countries require, to varying degrees, imports of food; 18 of them are oil-importers; and eight have been designated "least developed" by the United Nations. The Region relies heavily on commodity exports, both agricultural and mineral, such as cocoa (of which it is the world's main supplier),
coffee, groundnuts, cotton, timber, petroleum, iron ore, bauxite, and phosphate rock. Incomes and, especially, public savings of individual countries thus critically depend on export prices and quantities of their particular commodities, neither of which they are in a position to control.
Economic Developments
For the Region as a whole, economic developments during the past year were favorable, thanks to generally good crops, rising export proceeds, and abating import price inflation. Most West African countries, however, were still in the process of adapting to the higher level of import costs caused by the sudden, sharp increases in oil prices in 1973-74 and their aftermath. Particularly in the poorest among them, import and investment volumes thus remained depressed, with the consequence of further retarded economic growth.
Nearly all countries in the Region, including the Sahelian countries, enjoyed good harvests in fiscal 1977, and food import requirements, largely financed by grant aid, were somewhat less than in the preceding year. The cotton crop in Mali and Upper Volta was exceptionally good, and Niger, which was one of the few countries in West Africa to suffer a bad harvest the year before, had a bumper crop due to favorable weather and an improved Government farm
i services program. Adding to the impact of favorable harvests (or outweighing not-so-good ones as, for instance, in Chad and Ghana), were remarkable increases in the world prices for
"•most of the Region's exports. The landlocked Sahelian countries benefited from substantially higher world prices for cotton and groundnuts, and Niger benefited to an even greater extent from the second doubling of uranium prices in less than three years. Several coastal countries, notably Cameroon, Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Nigeria, enjoyed booming coffee and/or cocoa prices and were further aided by the recovery in the prices for timber. Senegal and Togo, on the other hand, suffered from the sharp setback in the prices for phosphate rock; this development, however, was at least partly offset by rather more favorable earnings from agricultural exports. Generally, export volumes tended to pick up as well, reflecting the end of the economic recession in the industrialized nations, so that even the countries—Mauritania, Liberia, and Guinea—relying on exports of iron ore and bauxite, whose prices remained more or less stagnant, experienced some improvement over the preceding year. At the same time, increases in the prices of imports moderated, reversing the previous deterioration in the terms of trade for most West African countries.
In spite of a more favorable agriculture and export picture, most economies in the Region have not recovered fully from the effects of the steep rises in prices for import requirements since 1973. This is reflected in continued balance of payments problems. Even petroleum-exporting Nigeria appears to have entered a period of growing external deficits; her international reserves fell from nearly $5,900 million at the beginning of the fiscal year to around ,$4,700 million near the end. Other countries added substantially to their external debt in an effort to maintain their momentum of growth. Similarly, severe budgetary imbalances continued to persist in most of the Region as government revenues have yet to catch up with the sharply higher expenditures due to the severe inflation in previous years; several countries, which, during the commodity price boom of 1974-75, had substantially increased their public expenditures, faced the additional problem of adjusting expenditures downwards as production and/or prices of their specific commodities turned out to be rather lower than expected (e.g., phosphate rock). Efforts to restrain government spending, through wage freezes and reductions
in consumer or farm input subsidies, are beginning to have an effect in some countries, but most of the spending cuts have been made on capital account, with the inevitable effect that development projects have been delayed.
During fiscal 1977, governments in West Africa preparing or approving new or signifi- i cantly revised existing medium-term development plans included Cameroon, Central African Empire, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. These plans set national objectives and priorities through specification of explicit targets for growth, employment, regional development, and the provision of foreign investable resources to sectors and projects. In large part, of course, the composition of programs to be implemented in the early years of the forthcoming planning periods is already determined by ongoing investments and by commitments or agreements already made with sources of foreign aid and capital. The total real volume of investment proposed in these plans is, however, generally much higher than was achieved in the preceding five years, which implies a substantial increase in the number of projects to be evaluated and prepared in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The World Bank has negotiated technical assistance projects, which focus on expanding project preparation capacity in high priority sectors, with three of these countries.
Without exception, the plans give new emphasis to accelerated development of output and incomes in the rural economy, where the majority of the people continue to live, but where productivity and the standard of living are low in relation to other branches of economic activity. However, absorptive capacity continues to limit the expansion of programs and projects in the rural economy, and substantial investments are planned for economic infrastructure and medium-scale or large-scale industrial or agro-industrial undertakings. The plans generally foresee large increases in net foreign capital inflow to finance the proposed investment programs, especially in the public sector, but there is a tendency to neglect the additional recurrent costs which will be associated with them. Some countries have prepared flexible programs, excluding projects of lowest priority or providing for their postponement to future planning periods.
The past fiscal year also saw significant progress in regional cooperation. The 16-member Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) (1> moved nearer reality by the adoption of five protocols on the practical implementation of certain provisions of the ECOWAS treaty. One of these protocols concerns the functioning of the Fund for Cooperation, Compensation, and Development, based in Lome, Togo.
»> Benin, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, Upper Volta.
The Bank is providing technical assistance in setting up the Fund's organization and operating procedures. It has also seconded advisers to other regional groupings, including the Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement, set up within the six-member Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine.(2> In addition, a West African Clearing House was launched to facilitate payments among West African states. Headquartered in Freetown, Sierra Leone, the Clearing House will handle direct payments between its seven members' central banks'3' and promote the use of local currency in intra-regional trading. It is, therefore, expected to spur intra-West African trade and allied transactions.
Bank and IDA Activities
In fiscal 1977, Bank and IDA lending to the Region fell somewhat short of the previous year's record high, which reflected an unusual concentration of large projects such as the Congo Railways and the Togo CIMAO clinker projects. At $392 million, involving 29 projects, the year's achievement still exceeded the corresponding fiscal 1974-75 annual averages, as did Bank and IDA lending taken separately. Directed primarily to the poorest members as it is, IDA lending to the four landlocked Sahelian countries further increased during the year, from a total of $56 million to $70 million. Highlights of the year's activities included: continued emphasis on agriculture and rural development and, for the first time in the Region, substantial lending for
urban development and technical assistance. Co-financing again played an important part, and further progress was made in implementing the program for the control of riverblindness.
The Bank has helped finance some 79 agricultural projects in the Region since 1968—compared with only one before then. Bank lending for rural development is now entering a new phase in which first generation projects are completed and, based on the experience gained, the scope of activities covered is being broadened, with great attention being paid to the role of women in development. One component of a $3.6 million agriculture project in Upper Volta, for instance, includes a program designed to improve the condition of women in 40 villages in one project area. Labor-saving grain grinding mills and carts for the transportation of wood and water will be introduced, and basic instruction in nutrition, sanitation, and functional literacy will be provided.
Of the year's operations promoting rural development, two are of particular interest, one in Chad and the other in Benin, both of which are "least developed" and are among the poorest countries in the world. The Rural Project Fund in Chad, assisted by an IDA credit of $12 million, will finance seven subprojects, including improvements to land, irrigation, and village water supplies; the construction of 200 warehouses; buildings and equipment for animal feed production and poultry marketing; and minor repairs along 1,200 kilometers of feeder roads. Well over 400,000 rural people, or over 10%
<z> Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, Upper Volta. <s> Central Banks of the Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine, The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Mali, Nigeria, Sierra Leone.
In the main workshop of the Mali Railway at Bamako. Mali Railway has been aided by three IDA credits: one of $9.I million in 1966, another of $6.7 million in 1973, and a third of $10.5 million in fiscal 1977. The 1977 credit will contribute to the financing of the first three years of the country's 1977-81 Railway Investment Plan.
of the rural population of the country, will be affected. About 48,000 farming or pastoral families will benefit from the directly productive subprojects. The village water supply subproject will reach 26,000 families as direct beneficiaries. The feeder road project in Benin, assisted by a $5.5 million IDA credit, involves improvements to nearly 1,300 kilometers of feeder roads and related training and institution building. The project features using, to the maximum extent, hand labor and only a minimum of fairly simple tools sufficient to ensure that the quality of the road improvements is acceptable; where unskilled labor is not readily available, more equipment-intensive methods will be used.
Two Examples of Success
Among the agricultural projects successfully completed during fiscal 1977 were the SEMRY irrigation project in Cameroon, and the Rural Development Fund project in Upper Volta. SEMRY, a Government agency charged with promoting rice production, completed, on schedule, the construction of irrigation works to serve 4,500 hectares along the Logone River in northern Cameroon, together with an associated rice
mill. This well-managed project, financed in part (40%) by a $3.7 million IDA credit approved in fiscal 1972, has increased fivefold the incomes of 13,000 small farmers and their families. Output has been significantly above forecast due to the successful introduction of transplanting and double cropping techniques, with the result that future production may be double that originally envisaged. This would represent about 40% of Cameroon's expected rice demand in 1985. The Government has requested that a second project now be considered.
In contrast to the intensive single crop objective in the Cameroon project is the Rural Development Fund project in Upper Volta, undertaken under a 1972 IDA credit of $2.2 million, which has directly benefited over 100,000 people—small farmers and their families—throughout Upper Volta, one of the world's poorest countries. Under this broadly based "new style" project, consisting of a series of small-scale actions, some 250 wells were dug to provide clean water for domestic use, 650 village warehouses were built, some 1,500 hectares of land were improved through soil and water conservation measures, and 385 kilometers of feeder roads were upgraded. Key factors
in the success of these actions were the strong leadership provided by the Upper Voltan Project Authority, assisted by the regional development organizations, and the response of the local communities, which donated their labor to construction activities. The local community support, which steadily increased during the life of the project, confirms the value of a part of Bank lending being channeled to integrated small-scale projects of this nature. A follow-up credit of $9.4 million was approved in fiscal 1976.
Urban Development
In its largest operation for urban development in Africa yet, the Bank extended, in December 1976, assistance totaling $44 million to the Ivory Coast for a $ 122 million project to provide improved transport and housing in Abidjan, the capital, and the port city of San Pedro. An important main urban road in Abidjan will be constructed, and traffic improvements in the business districts of the city will be made. Housing, trunk sewers, and other urban services in the poor neighborhoods of Abidjan and San Pedro will be upgraded through the establishment of sites and services programs designed to improve the living conditions of the poor; about 200,000 people will directly benefit. Technical assistance will complement this effort to help the Government improve the quality of life of the urban poor and to raise their level of productivity.
For the first time in the Region, the Bank launched projects of a purely technical assistance character. IDA credits for this purpose were extended to Benin ($1.7 million), Cameroon ($4.5 million), and Mauritania ($2.7 million and $3.5 million). All four projects are designed to strengthen and improve the operation of key government services involved in investment and policy decisions and in the planning, preparation, and supervision of high priority projects. Project activities in Cameroon, for instance, involving 36 man-years of foreign experts' services over the three-year program, aim principally at the rural and transportation sectors and areas such as urbanization and water supply, which have only very recently been accorded high priority status, and where a major institution-building effort will be necessary before the new priorities can be implemented on a large scale. The projects in Benin and Mauritania focus specifically on promoting rural development by providing additional key personnel to the respective national agencies concerned. All the projects place major emphasis on local project processing capability by arranging for training of local personnel and studies aimed at developing a pipeline of projects in order to help strengthen the countries' absorptive capacities.
The Bank continued to work closely with bilateral donors and other international organizations in arranging for the co-financing of projects in the Region. The resources committed by co-
financers in fiscal 1977 totaled $299 million for 12 projects, or nearly twice (175% ) the amount of Bank and IDA lending for these projects. The most notable operation of this kind was a co-financing arrangement between the Bank (a $39 million loan), Canada ($39 million), Saudi Arabia ($30 million), Kuwait ($28 million), the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa ($15 million), the European Investment Bank ($11 million), and the European Development Fund ($10 million) to assist the Government of Ghana in the funding of the $237 million hydroelectric power project at Kpong. This project seeks to meet the rapidly increasing industrial and other domestic demands for power, including new extensions into rural areas, and will permit further exports of power to neighboring countries.
Controlling Riverblindness
The program for the control of riverblindness (onchocerciasis) in the Volta River basin entered its third phase in fiscal 1977. The disease, which is transmitted by a species of black fly, and which can ultimately cause partial or total blindness, has forced thousands of people to move away from some of the most fertile river valleys in Benin, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta. Of the 10 million people living in the affected areas, about 1 million have the disease, and at least 70,000 of them are blind or have serious sight impairment. The primary objective of the control program is to eliminate the breeding of the fly in specific target zones. Aerial application of the larvicides to kill the vector started in 1974 in parts of Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali, and Upper Volta. During the second phase, aerial application of the larvicides was extended into additional areas of those four countries. Phase III involves treatment of the whole region scheduled to be covered by the present onchocerciasis project. In 1976, over most of the area then under treatment, transmission of the disease had been either interrupted completely or reduced to a "hypoendemic" level. The Joint Coordinating Committee, which oversees the program, and is composed of representatives of governments and international agencies, held its third meeting in Ouagadougou, Upper Volta, in December 1976 under the chairmanship of M. C. Candau, former Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO). The program, jointly sponsored by the World Bank, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), WHO, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), is designed to foster economic development of the potentially productive areas affected by the disease. A number of projects already deal with rural development in these areas, e.g., in Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Mali, while in Upper Volta, a five-year program for the development of the valley areas to be settled is being studied.
East Asia and Pacific
This area of islands and peninsulas, in which a large majority of the population lives within 80 kilometers of the sea, has experienced rapid economic growth over the last decade. Despite population growth rates of 2% to 3% a year, most countries of the Region have managed to attain annual growth rates of gross national product (GNP) per capita of 4%, and in some 6ountries (Republic of Korea, Singapore) per capita growth has been double that rate. Except for the Republic of Korea and the city-states of Hong Kong and Singapore, and despite rural-urban migration everywhere, most of the population still lives in rural areas and is largely dependent on agriculture. Because of wide variations in soil fertility, the population is spread very unevenly. With increasing population pressure, some of the most fertile areas have the worst poverty problems, the prime example being the island of Java, where 87 million people,
nearly a quarter of the Region's population, are concentrated in about 3% of its area.
While agricultural growth has generally been well in excess of population growth, land reserves have dwindled, and most of the remaining land is of lower quality, frequently subject to erosion. As a result, less and less opportunity exists for absorbing additional workers into agriculture at rising incomes. Since growth of the labor force remains very high—3% and above —it is proving difficult for most countries in the Region to provide sufficient new opportunities for productive employment, even at GNP growth rates of 6% to 7%—which most of them are attaining. In its economic work, the World Bank is giving increasing attention to this central problem.
Against this background, it has been an important policy objective of the countries in the Region to maintain their growth momentum
during the recent years of sharp price fluctuations in international trade and worldwide recession. Specific circumstances in a number of countries are discussed elsewhere in this chapter but, generally, the Region's economies continued to grow significantly in this difficult period. However, with worsening terms of trade and a slowing down, or even stagnation, in real exports, deficits in the current account balance of payments increased greatly in 1974 and/or 1975, and some countries suffered substantial losses in international reserves notwithstanding increased foreign borrowing. In 1976, with renewed growth in the international economy, real exports of all the countries in the Region recovered rapidly, and grew faster than imports. In a majority of the countries, the international terms of trade also improved, current balance of payments deficits were reduced sharply, and international reserves replenished. Although, in some countries, the terms of trade continued to deteriorate, even these current account deficits stabilized, and no loss of reserves occurred. Overall, therefore, the past year was favorable for the Region, with a continuation of recovery in economic growth in all countries, and a sharply improved balance of payments position in most of them. In addition, inflation, a grave problem for all countries during the international stagflation of 1974-75, continued to abate.
Depending on the structure of their exports, the timing, extent, and even direction in which the various countries were affected by international events, varied significantly. As an oil exporter—albeit a small one in relation to the size of its population—Indonesia's exports, in terms of real import capacity, increased greatly in 1973-74. The Government, as well as the state
oil company, Pertamina, set out to expand its investment program. But in 1975, Indonesia's import capacity was severely affected by the recession, while a large part of the country's resources had to be used to meet the obligations of Pertamina, which had run into serious financial difficulties. Foreign exchange reserves declined sharply, despite substantial foreign commercial borrowing and suspension or postponement of several large investment projects. By 1976, however, most short-term obligations of Pertamina had been repaid, and both oil and nonoil exports recovered. As a result, net foreign exchange reserves increased by $700 million and, at the end of the year, covered nearly three months of imports. Over the last three years, the economy maintained an average growth rate of 6% to 7%, and the annual rate of inflation gradually declined from over 30% to less than 15%.
For a number of years, Malaysia has been nearly self-sufficient in oil and, in 1976, it became a net exporter. The country suffered substantially from the world recession, but its main raw material exports (rubber, wood, and tin) recovered rapidly in the past year. Thus, while real national income declined in 1975, it rebounded in 1976. Net foreign exchange reserves increased by nearly $1,000 million, but private investment remained depressed.
The Philippines and Thailand suffered from a less favorable export mix, and their terms of trade, therefore, continued to deteriorate in 1976. The effects were compensated for by substantial growth in export volumes. Especially gratifying has been the growth in manufactured exports; for both countries (as well as Malaysia), these now constitute over 20% of total exports. Nevertheless, large current account deficits per-
sisted. These were wholly financed by capital imports; reserves, therefore, remained essentially unchanged. The deficit in Thailand was mainly financed by medium-term and long-term borrowing. In the case of the Philippines, some of the borrowing was relatively short-term.
The remaining major World Bank borrower in the Region, the Republic of Korea, which largely depends on industrial exports, was hard hit by the sharp increases in the prices of petro-4eum, foodgrains, and other imports, and by the international recession. Consequently, it ran substantial current account deficits in both 1974 and 1975. With the recovery in the world econ-*omy in 1976, Korea's exports increased by about 45% in volume, and its terms of trade also improved greatly. As a result, the current account deficit declined to about $300 million, and net reserves recovered substantially, while the GNP growth rate, which had averaged 8% per annum, even during the difficult years of 1974 and 1975, rose sharply to 15%.
Assistance to Smallholders
Lending by the World Bank for projects in the Region during fiscal 1977 totaled $1,475 million, including $23 million by IDA, or $16.5 million above the previous year's record total. More projects (36) were financed than ever before. Agricultural lending amounted to $523 million as against $470 million in the previous fiscal year and constituted 39% of the Region's program and 35% of its lending. The dominant theme in all 14 agriculture projects is assistance to smallholders for rice or other food crops, or for tree crops which are an important source of family income as well as large foreign exchange earners. Seven of the projects (totaling $352 million) are concerned with rehabilitation and improvement of regional irrigation systems, but increasing attention is also being given to the needs of farmers dependent on rainfed agriculture, for example, in the Second Rural Development Project in the Philippines and the Transmigration Project in Indonesia.
Transmigration—the organized relocation of people from overpopulated Java to Sumatera and other islands—is an important part of the •Indonesian Government's development plan. Official transmigration dates back to 1905. In the 1950s, about 227,000 people (56,000 families) were resettled under the program but, in "the following decade, the number dropped to about 197,000. Better organizational arrangements, adequate physical and social infrastructure, and improved agricultural support services are essential for the successful acceleration of the program. The project, assisted by a $30 million Bank loan, will spell out the costs and benefits of settlement in two schemes, provide the means for detailed preparation of other schemes, and investigate the problems of sustained annual cropping on upland soil of poor fertility.
Financing of this 150-megawatt thermal-electric generating unit of the Philippine National Power Corporation on the Bataan peninsula near Manila was assisted by a $22 million Bank loan and a $10 million IDA credit. The increased generating capacity is to meet the growing need for electricity for such purposes as drinking water distribution, pumped irrigation, and power for workshops, cottage industries, and small businesses.
The new settlement at Baturaja is in an area of 60,000 hectares bordering the trans-Sumatera highway in Selatan province on Sumatera. It consists of 10 villages for about 4,500 settler families, who will be provided with housing, water supply, and other facilities. The village centers include a primary school, mosque, community center and market, and a health post, which will dispense primary medical care, provide malaria control, immunization, and environmental sanitation, and teach nutrition and family planning. Each family will be given five hectares of land, including one hectare of Government-planted rubber trees, four hectares of food-crop land, and one draught cow. During the first year of settlement, all settlers will receive food and other essentials in line with the existing Government program.
The second scheme involves upgrading an existing settlement of about 30,000 hectares at Way Abung on the trans-Sumatera highway in Lampung province, where about 12,000 families
have been settled on two-hectare plots in anticipation of irrigation development. Some physical facilities and about half the settler holdings there have not been developed. Crop yields have remained low because fertilizer had either not been available, or its application had not been guided by extension advice. The upgrading includes a construction program affecting 22 villages. Four secondary schools and health facilities, including staff, will be provided, and a network of new and improved roads will be built. Feasibility studies and detailed engineering plans for irrigation facilities will be prepared. Each of 5,000 settler families with upland holdings clearly unsuited for irrigation development will get one draught cow and will be able to grow rubber with a guarantee of at least six years of maintenance.
Evidence of a successful smallholder tree-crop settlement in virgin forest can be found in Papua New Guinea, where the New Britain Smallholder Project was recently completed. The project was partly financed by the Bank through a SI.5 million IDA credit granted in 1969. Each of the 580 smallholder families was provided with eight acres of oil palm and land for subsistence crops. Settlers received subsistence allowances and loans to cover the costs of land clearance and a small house, and were provided with basic social amenities in the village. The farmers now have incomes of about $1,500 a year, or about three times the basic rural wage rate. The project has demonstrated that nucleus estate/smallholder projects are an appropriate basis for expanding the incomes of small farmers, provided they are well managed. Projects such as the Fourth Agriculture Development Project in Papua New Guinea and the Indonesian Nucleus Estates Project follow the same principle.
While all agricultural projects have an extension component, two projects in Malaysia and Thailand have the strengthening of the national extension service as their sole objective. The Bank has already given support to a similar project in Indonesia. Strengthening a national extension service is a long-term task, essential to transferring new technology to small farmers. In Thailand, most (and suitable for rice, the major food and export crop, is already in use, and future production increases must come from higher output per hectare. Some of these increases can be brought about through an improved extension service, which becomes even more effective if combined with a greater use of purchased inputs or the application of new research results. As the first phase of a national program, the National Agricultural Extension Project, for which a Bank loan of $28 million was made, will improve extension services in 33 of Thailand's 71 provinces, selected on the basis of agricultural importance and administrative efficiency.
The project provides for an additional 2,800 staff and the strengthening of the organization of the Department of Agricultural Extension.
The ratio of extension agent to farm families will be increased from 1 per 4,400 to 1 per 1,000. The project aims at transmitting, through an intensive system of training and regularly scheduled visits, simple, low-cost improvements in agricultural management practices to 2.8 million target farm families. The extension methods evolved gradually from extension components in earlier projects in limited areas, assisted by the Bank. Extension advice will cover the entire production cycle, such as selecting appropriate seed varieties, obtaining institutional credit at reasonable interest rates, maintaining a correct, weed-free plant stand, and selecting and applying appropriate fertilizers and pesticides. Included will be the construction of over 300 extension centers at the provincial and district level, the procurement of vehicles and equipment to enable the extension agents and other specialists to be mobile, and funds for a limited number of training fellowships.
The World Bank, in addition to concentrating its support on increased food production, has turned to a related area—nutrition—in an effort to improve the condition of life of the rural and urban poor. The Government of Indonesia has become increasingly concerned about the prevalence of malnutrition among its population, but past efforts to raise the nutritional level have had only limited success, partly because of lack of coordination with agricultural and other development programs, and partly because of failure to focus on the particular problems of the poor and most vulnerable.
A nutrition project, for which a Bank loan of SI3 million has been made, is expected to help the Government prepare the way for a national program by providing additional staff, training, and equipment, and by a modest expansion of physical facilities for the Ministry of Health's Nutrition Research Center. The project will assist in establishing a Food Technology Center at the Bogor Agricultural University, whose principal task will be to improve food processing and storage and rice-drying methods in rural areas, and assess opportunities for food fortification. The project will also finance a pilot project in seven rural districts (about 180 villages) to provide supplementary feeding to some 30,000 malnourished children under three years of age and about 17,000 pregnant and lactating women, immunization of about 100,000 children against infectious diseases, nutrition education to mothers, and extension work on home gardens. Evaluation of the cost effectiveness of the pilot program should provide the basis for expansion into a program on a national scale. The project will attempt the difficult but critical task of determining how customary habits of food preparation and weaning and feeding sick children hamper nutrition improvements. It will have close links with the National Food Crops Extension, the Agricultural Research, the Transmigration, and the Population Projects in Indonesia.
Other Sectors Aided
World Bank assistance for power, water supply, and transportation was second in importance in the Region, totaling $467 million for nine loans. A project of particular interest is the Provincial Water Supply Project in the Philippines. Assisted by a $23 million Bank loan, the project covers the first four years of a long-range water supply improvement program that will benefit about 370,000 people living in six cities on the island of Luzon. In these cities, as in the majority of the 300 provincial towns in the country and in Manila itself, old water systems do not cover the urban area and provide only intermittent service, while the water is of poor quality and is sometimes contaminated. Assistance for water supply projects has been given previously by the Asian Development Bank, the US Agency for International Development, and the Danish International Development Agency. The present project, supported by the Bank, constitutes a fourth group of projects and will finance rehabilitation works, construction of wells, pumps, pipelines, and storage tanks, as well as equipment, vehicles, and engineering services. Feasibility studies for water supply projects in 10 other cities will also be provided, as well as training of Government staff in the design and construction of water supply systems in small communities.
Alth ough Malaysia has a comparatively strong system of formal education, on which the Government spends a high proportion of its budget, educational services are distributed unequally. In particular, poorer states and rural areas lag behind the rest of the country in adequate primary school facilities and trained teachers. The major portion of the Bank's fourth education loan to Malaysia, amounting to $35 million, supports the Government's five-year primary school construction program by financing approximately 4,100 classrooms at about 850 primary schools in seven of Malaysia's most dis-
advantaged states. It will help establish systematic procedures for school mapping and for planning primary school facilities. This process, beginning at the local level, is designed to improve decisions regarding size and location of new schools, consolidation of small schools, and expansion of existing schools. The project should lead to a more equitable access to primary schools and increased returns for investments in school construction by a better allocation of resources.
The Bank continues to emphasize the importance of increasing industrial employment. A special feature of an $82.5 million loan to the Korea Development Bank (KDB) is that KDB will bring out more clearfy, in its future loan appraisals, the employment impact of the projects it finances. Another innovative aspect is that $7.5 million of the loan amount will be earmarked for use by the Korea Industrial Leasing Company (KILC), a subsidiary of KDB, for financing small-scale enterprises which have a positive impact on urban employment. With a few exceptions (e.g., hospitals and research institutions), the $7.5 million will be channeled exclusively to enterprises with total assets of less than $1.2 million and projects whose cost per new job created is less than $15,000.
World Bank lending in support of the development of Korea's industrial sector has hitherto been channeled entirely through three Korean development banks. A new initiative was taken in fiscal 1977 when the Bank approved a loan of $80 million directly to the industrial sector for a heavy machinery project. The project is designed to manufacture, at full operation, some 100,000 tons per year of heavy machinery and equipment, primarily for steel mills, power generation, and chemical and petrochemical plants. Manufacturing facilities will be sufficiently flexible and versatile for producing a wide range of other heavy industrial equipment. The project represents a significant step in the implementation of the Government's policy to effect structural shifts to more skill-intensive industries.
South Asia
Development in the South Asia Region is handicapped by a heavy density of population in relation to cultivable land, an unfavorable natural resource endowment in substantial parts of the area, and a population which, for the most part, suffers from low levels of literacy and vocational skills, as well as poor health. Viewed against this background, the countries of the Region have achieved much in the past 30 years: in several, food production has increased to keep pace with rapid population growth,(1) and considerable progress has been made in building up industry and developing the institutions of government needed to implement economic development programs.
The economic progress made in fiscal 1976 largely continued during the past year—although at a somewhat reduced pace. Although growth rates were less buoyant than in the year previous, it appears probable that overall growth in output
of most of the countries of the Region exceeded the growth in population for the second consecutive year.
Generally favorable monsoons again resulted in good harvests which, in turn, provided the basis for continued industrial expansion and levels of exports which were as large, or larger, than in 1976. Reserves of foreign exchange and food rose substantially.
Despite a generally encouraging record of production, the balance of trade of Bangladesh, Pakistan, and (to a lesser degree) Sri Lanka continued to be under severe pressure. The payments problems of most countries of the Region were alleviated by considerable inflows of for-
(i) Recent statistics from The Population Council show, however, that there has been a 17% reduction in India's crude birth rate (CBR) during the period 1955-74. Pakistan's CBR has dropped 5%, while the CBR in Bangladesh has remained constant.
eign capital, predominantly from public sources, including assistance from international agencies, particularly the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank.
These broad tendencies in economic conditions for the subcontinent as a whole inevitably mask wide differences in individual countries and regions within countries. For a fuller appreciation of the current economic situation, it is
^necessary to look more closely at the experience of individual countries.
In fiscal 1977, the Indian economy continued to build on its bright performance of last year.
"Early in calendar 1977, best estimates were that real gross domestic product (GDP) might rise around 2% on top of the 8.8% growth for 1976. Lower GDP growth in 1977 may be explained by the fact that agricultural production, although the second highest on record, was less than in 1976—a year of exceptionally favorable monsoons. Production of cash crops generally increased, however. Industrial production was also projected to grow—by more than 10%, or twice the increase of 1976, and the highest in more than a decade—as a result of increasing domestic and export demand and generally adequate supplies of power. The country's trade balance also headed for a major improvement in 1977. Exports of manufactures increased considerably, and the total volume of exports was likely to grow about 10%, reflecting the effect of policies of stimulation implemented last year. As a result, foreign exchange earnings were estimated to increase about 16%. With total imports declining somewhat (led by declines in imports of fertilizer, fuel, and foodgrains), the country's trade deficit is likely to be about $1,000 million lower than the fiscal 1976 deficit of $1,500 million. In addition, the net receipt of invisibles is expected to rise by some $300 million, resulting in a balance of payments surplus and an addition to foreign exchange reserves. Though inflation is of some concern again (wholesale prices, which fell steadily between September 1974 and March 1976, in subsequent months were rising at an annual rate of about 10%), the large foodgrain stock, as well as the increased scope for imports resulting from large foreign exchange reserves «and further liberalization, should help counter further upward pressure on prices.
The growth in Pakistan's economy during fiscal 1977 was again limited, continuing the trend of the past several years during which natural disasters hampered efforts to increase output. During the past year, heavy rains caused serious flood damage to the cotton crop in the Indus valley. (The Bank responded by approving a $40 million IDA credit to help repair the flood damage.) Nonetheless, the production of food-grains and sugarcane, which attained record levels in fiscal 1976, may be maintained—or even exceeded—due to good rains, increased fertilizer use, and added availability of water from the Tarbela reservoir. Pakistan, as a result,
may attain foodgrain self-sufficiency in the coming year. Growth of all agriculture may be about 2% for the year. Industrial growth, barely positive in fiscal 1976, may be about 4% under the stimulus of recovery in demand, so the overall growth of real GDP may not exceed 4%. Despite limited domestic resources, the Government continued to expand public investments in industry and infrastructure. As a result, the rate of investment is expected to rise to 18% of GDP in fiscal 1977, while domestic saving is estimated to be about 10% of GDP. The resulting gap has put a severe strain on the country's balance of payments, and the current account deficit may be about $1,400 million when the books for fiscal 1977 are closed.
The Bangladesh economy has experienced a marked improvement over the past two years following the initiation of a stabilization program—which included credit restraint and the elimination of deficit financing, combined with some import liberalization—in conjunction with a stand-by arrangement with the IMF. This program was preceded by a 58% devaluation of the taka. Bangladesh's stabilization efforts have been successful: food shortages have eased; inflation has been brought under control; exports have expanded greatly in volume (though not as much in value); and balance of payments deficits, although still very large, have been reduced. Good weather was a major factor in the record food-grain harvest in fiscal 1976; continued favorable weather is likely to increase agricultural production further in fiscal 1977. Manufacturing output may expand by about 7%—somewhat above the growth achieved in fiscal 1976—despite depressed internal demand caused by cautious monetary policies, declines in hoarding, and low rural income. This situation has been improving, and, altogether, GDP in fiscal 1977 is expected to grow at about 4%. Given the many profound political changes of the past six years and the acknowledged constraints on administrative capacity and entrepreneurship, recent progress is a considerable achievement.
In fiscal 1977, Sri Lanka's economy showed signs of recovery after a lapse of two years, caused mainly by drought. Field crop production responded sharply to an adequate amount of rainfall, and the Maha 1977 paddy output (the principal crop, harvested in the spring), alone, has been estimated to be close to total production in all of fiscal 1976. With the exception of coconuts, tree crop production was also expected to increase in the latter half of fiscal 1977, and tea and rubber output for the year showed signs of exceeding the previous year's levels. In addition, tea prices have benefited from a strong export market. Manufacturing output grew little, however, as it has for many years. Assuming that growth in the services sector continues at recent levels, GDP growth in 1977 is likely to be in the 4%-5% range, as compared with growth of 3% recorded in the
previous year. With money supply expanding rapidly due to budgetary deficits and a rise in external reserves, the recent annual inflation rate has been about 10%.
After two years of modest economic growth and rapid inflation, production in Burma increased markedly in fiscal 1976. Weather conditions were again favorable, and the paddy harvest appears to have set a record. According to preliminary estimates, the Burmese GDP increased by 6% in fiscal 1977 and exports rose by 40%. The increase in export earnings, combined with a substantial increase in capital flows, enabled the Government to increase its import of goods for development, much needed spare parts, and raw materials for the industrial sector.
The April 1976 tax reform halted the deterioration in the Government's fiscal position. A substantial rise in current revenue permitted the Government to increase both current and capital expenditures. Reflecting the recovery in GDP growth and the improvement in the Government's financial situation, the annual rate of inflation has decreased from more than 30% in 1976 to about 10% in the past year.
In fiscal 1976, Nepal's economic situation improved markedly, led by a substantial increase in foodgrain and cash crop production. That improvement continued into 1977. Production of various manufactured goods also increased. Growth in exports was not as rapid in fiscal 1977 as in the previous year, however, and Nepal's trade balance in fiscal 1977 may not be as favorable as in the 12 previous months.
Increasing Food Production
The Bank's principal concern is with the fundamental problems which determine the wel-
fare of the people of the South Asian Region in the longer run. The Bank and IDA have sought, in fiscal 1977, to respond to the underlying development needs of the South Asian countries through a variety of activities. A program of economic and sector missions in every country of the Region has been designed to broaden and deepen understanding of countries' problems and development opportunities, as well as provide an improved basis for lending. Bank and IDA lending to the Region was $1,164 million in fiscal 1977, down $185 million from fiscal 1976 amounts, in large measure because of a more limited availability of IDA resources. The number of projects assisted rose to 32, or five more than in fiscal 1976.
While the lending programs of both the Bank and IDA in South Asia have continued to serve a broad range of activities and sectors, particular attention has been directed to the agriculture and rural development sector in keeping with the principal concerns of governments in the Region. Continuing the emphasis of recent years, lending for agriculture in South Asia grew in relative importance during fiscal 1977, accounting for half the number of projects (16 out of 32) and nearly 39% of the amount financed ($451 million out of $1,164 million) in the Region. Projects assisted by the Bank and IDA concentrated on increasing food production, especially of foodgrains. These projects aim to accelerate growth by making better use of existing resources, for instance, through command area development and improved extension services to help farmers improve yields in irrigated areas. In India, IDA lending supports a comprehensive strategy to improve agricultural yields with the following elements: seed production, groundwater development, provision of credit, the up-
grading of extension services, and research planning through both national-level and state-level action programs.
In fiscal 1977, four state-level agricultural development projects in India, whose key component is a reorganized and strengthened system of agricultural extension and adaptive research, were assisted with IDA funds. The strengthened extension system emphasizes concentration of effort, systematic and regular training, close supervision of staff at all levels, and a fixed schedule of visits to farmers' groups. Initially, the message carried by extension agents stresses improvements in basic agricultural practices that are known to have significant impact on yields but which cost little in addition to extra labor input. This approach is especially well attuned to the needs of small farmers, and the experience gained, so far, indicates that small farmers have benefited—as have larger ones.
The agricultural extension service in the western Terai region of Nepal will also be strengthened as a result of a $9 million IDA credit, designed mainly to add to the productivity of small-scale farmers by introducing a first stage of a groundwater development program for irrigation. Under the project, deep tubewells and storage reservoirs will be installed and constructed, thus relieving the major constraint— water—to agricultural productivity growth in the area. Irrigation and drainage networks will also be constructed. Credit will be made available to farmers so that they can finance the costs of additional agricultural inputs required to make best use of an assured irrigation water supply, and a staff of agricultural extension workers and technicians will carry out intensified agricultural extension and training programs. A revamped agricultural extension service involves—as in the Indian examples—new methods of demonstration, strict adherence to a schedule, and concentration on important practices for the major crops. Some 4,500 farm families will benefit.
Some 4.7 million people in the Indian states of Karnataka, Madya Pradesh, and Rajasthan will be aided by three IDA credits, totaling $74.1 million, which assist the financing of dairy development. Through an integrated program, milk production will be greatly increased, and the beneficiaries, most of whom farm less than two hectares or are landless, will be able to have larger cash incomes and higher living standards.
Lending in Other Sectors
Increasing concern with the condition of the urban poor has led to an expansion of the Bank's efforts to contribute to the alleviation of poverty in South Asian cities. There were four urban development projects in fiscal 1977: slum upgrading, benefiting almost a quarter of a million poor in Madras, urban transportation in Bombay, and water supply projects in Nepal and Sri Lanka.
The Bank and IDA also continued to help the countries of the Region expand and modernize their basic economic infrastructure with credits or loans for telecommunications and power in India, port facilities in Burma, and railway modernization in Pakistan. The $150 million power project in India is also important to the continued development of the agricultural sector; it well help meet the demand for power arising partly as a result of the country's large rural electrification and irrigation programs.
Nonproject credits declined from a total of -.$350 million in fiscal 1976 (to India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan) to $75 million (a credit to Bangladesh) in fiscal 1977. The Bangladesh Fifth Imports Credit continues the approach of the Fourth Imports Program Credit (it became effective in late 1975), which contained provisions for an "action program" to upgrade the efficiency of the country's important jute and cotton industries; the latest credit adds a similar "action program" for the pulp and paper industry. In view of the efforts which the Government has committed itself to undertake to improve disbursed to these industries. As compared with performance in these three industries, at least half the proceeds of the fiscal 1977 credit will be the previous credit, the list of industries eligible to import under the credit has been reduced in order to permit concentration on priority industries.
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
It is difficult to speak of the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region with one voice, for the countries in it include some of the world's poorest as well as richest nations. Recent Bank borrowers include Ireland and Spain, Afghanistan and Yemen Arab Republic. Some are fertile, agriculture-exporting countries (Turkey and Yugoslavia, for instance); others (as, for example, Egypt and Portugal) must import much of their food requirements. The range of the Region's political systems is as wide as the range in income levels. In some countries, external development assistance is vital; other countries of the Region have been major providers of assistance—bilateral as well as multilateral—to the developing world and have lent money to the Bank. (See section, "Capital Flows, DAC and OPEC" elsewhere in this Annual Report for an account of recent levels of assistance provided
by members of the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries.) Some countries of the Region (those of North Africa, plus Yugoslavia and Turkey) have surplus labor and have depended on levels of workers' remittances to improve their balance of payments position; others —mainly the Gulf States—must import labor in order that their development programs can be efficiently implemented.
Except in the case of most of the capital surplus oil exporters, the majority of the countries of the Region have one problem in common; in them, remain sizable pockets of poverty —-the unemployed, the slum dwellers, and the rural poor. Increasing attention is, therefore, being given by the Region's countries—including the upper-income (above $1,075) countries —to seeing that basic food needs are provided, that education is directed to vocational require-
merits, that the needs of the cities and the urban poor are considered, and that the problem of unemployment is being tackled.
It is difficult to achieve the delicate balance required between higher consumption levels for the poor on the one hand, and the maintenance of overall savings on the other. Despite the difficulty, the concept of providing for people's basic needs seems to be taking hold, both in the poorest and more affluent of developing countries.
Bank and IDA Activities
In many countries, the Bank has influenced .the recent thrust of development—through economic and sector work, through technical assistance, and through lending. In fiscal 1977, the Bank and IDA helped finance 44 projects in 15 countries in the Region. Total lending amounted to $1,570 million, up from the previous year's figure of $1,485.6 million. The number of projects decreased by one.
Lending for industrial and agricultural development accounted for 11 % and 27%, respectively, of the total for the Region. As in the recent past, the Region remained one of the major recipients (28%) of Bank lending to industry and development finance companies (DFCs).
Co-financing provided additional resources for Bank-supported and IDA-supported projects in the Region. Those additional resources and contributions are expected to amount to $483 million for 13 projects in seven countries.
Major sources of co-financing for projects in the Region were: the Kuwait Fund ($73.8 million for five projects); the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development ($79.6 million for three projects); and the Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany) —$52 million for three projects.
Meeting Food Requirements
The problem of providing adequate food supplies and meeting nutritional standards is, of course, most serious in the poorest countries. In Afghanistan, with a per capita income of $130, severe droughts in 1970 and 1971 caused wheat production to drop 20% below normal; there
•were similar declines in harvests of other crops. The number of sheep—constituting, with goats, the main source of livelihood for the country's 2 million to 3 million nomads—fell by more than
'40%. Widespread starvation was averted only through sizable foodgrain imports. The experience of the drought years has led the Government to seek greater agricultural productivity through the better use of existing irrigation schemes, the construction of new irrigation facilities, and an increased use of chemical fertilizers. To do so, however, an institutional framework had to be built, for facilities and personnel needed to provide agricultural credit, distribute fertilizers, and service equipment were either rudimentary or nonexistent.
The Bank's involvement in agriculture in the country began seven years ago when a $5 million IDA credit (supported by substantial technical assistance) was made to the newly reorganized Agricultural Development Bank (AgBank). AgBank began its operations somewhat cautiously, concentrating on building up a strong core of staff and a reputation for quality of service. Funds from the first credit were disbursed slowly, and it was only in fiscal 1975 that a second credit was made to the Bank. This second credit represented a major breakthrough in the Afghan agricultural scene, however; operations were undertaken for the first time in short-term credit for fertilizer purchases, and credit for on-farm development, farm mechanization, and technical assistance was expanded.
In the past year, a third IDA credit, of $12 million, was made to the AgBank, supplemented by Can$5 million from the Canadian Government, channeled through the Canadian International Development Agency and administered by IDA. With the increased strength of the institution, the objectives of IDA lending can now place much more emphasis on reaching and serving smaller farmers. The role that the AgBank currently plays in helping increase food production through the increased use of fertilizers, adding to the productivity of livestock through widespread use of vaccines, and in persuading farmers to adopt new technologies and modern inputs, has provided a major support for the ambitious agricultural programs of the Government. With its population increasing rapidly, Afghanistan is still far from the point where food production in years of poor rainfall would be sufficient to insure against widespread deprivation. Nonetheless, there has been steady progress in the agricultural sector in the past four years, and the Government is making efforts to insure that the benefits of this progress reach the poorest sections of the rural population.
In Egypt, agriculture is the dominant sector of the country's economy, employing just under half the labor force, and accounting for about 30% of gross national product. Despite perennial irrigation in the Nile valley and the delta region, Egypt's food imports have risen approximately fourfold since 1972.
Since 1965, agricultural output has increased only 2% yearly—less than the country's rate of increase in population. In many areas, waterlogging and salinity have become major, physically limiting factors in crop production. Present drainage conditions result from the shift from basin to perennial irrigation. With the spread of perennial irrigation, the groundwater levels have gradually risen, and the existing drainage system has not been able to cope with the additional irrigation water. In addition, seepage from the new irrigation canals and from higher fields has contributed to a rise in the groundwater levels in many areas. The result has been to create waterlogging conditions which seriously affect agricultural output. Soil salinity has also increased.      51
In 1960, the Government launched a 30-year program to improve drainage in about 2,100,000 hectares of irrigated land. Because of financial and administrative constraints, the program moved slowly until the beginning of the present decade. Since 1970, the Bank and IDA have helped finance the drainage programs through four separate operations, totaling $178 million in loans and credits. By the end of 1976, a total of some 512,000 hectares had been provided with field drainage, of which 222,000 hectares were improved as a result of Bank and IDA assistance. The most recent of these projects was in fiscal 1977, when the Bank and IDA provided assistance in the amount of $66 million to help improve productivity on some additional 420,000 hectares of land in the Nile delta through the installation of field drains, the widening and deepening of open main and branch drains, and the construction of four new pumping stations. This latest project will benefit about 295,000 farm families, or some 1.6 million people, more than half of whom have per capita annual incomes of less than $66. Agricultural production in the affected areas will increase by from 12% to 25%; without proper drainage, production declines on the same fields could have been expected to be around 30% over the next 35 years.
The problems of rural poverty are not confined to the poorer countries of the Region. In Yugoslavia, with an average per capita income of $1,550 for its 21 million people, regional income disparities have emerged as a most im-
portant development issue. The republics of Slovenia, Serbia, Croatia, and the autonomous province of Vojvodina' represent the higher-income regions, with per capita incomes ranging between 100% and 200% above the national average. The republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro, and Macedonia, and the autonomous province of Kosovo represent the less developed regions, with incomes below the national average. In addition, incomes of individual farmers, with smallholdings in the private sector, range—on the average—considerably below incomes of workers in the "social" sector. The federal and the regional authorities are making determined efforts to redress this situation, and mechanisms for sizable transfers of resources from the more affluent regions to the poorer ones have been set up.
The Bank has supported the Government's initiative, and over the past three years, it has conducted a systematic review of the developmental potential and the constraints in these four poorer regions. Projects designed to address directly and indirectly the problems of rural poverty in three of the regions were supported by loans made during the year.
In Kosovo, a project, for which a $54 million loan was made, will benefit at least 2,200 smallholder private farm families (with average per capita incomes of about $150) by providing them with water for irrigation and domestic use. Reliable and uncontaminated water will also be made available to the entire population (about
65,000 inhabitants) of the project area. Until now, these people have had to rely on inadequate amounts of well water of poor quality which has been the cause of widespread and debilitating diseases.
Two loans, totaling $50 million, in support of agriculture/agro-industrial projects in Montenegro and Macedonia are designed to relieve two major constraints to agricultural development: the lack of capital for large investment in land
. development, irrigation, and food processing facilities in the "social" sector; and the lack of market outlets and credit for the purchase of on-farm investments in the private sector. Eleven
* agricultural processing enterprises and agricultural cooperatives will be provided credit; these facilities will, in turn, provide service to farmers in the private sector. Credit will also be made available to about 1,000 private farm families, 60% of whom have annual per capita incomes of below $340, to increase primary production.
Another example is provided by Syria, where the rapid growth of the economy from 1970 to 1975 of 8% a year occurred as a result of rapid expansion in the industrial and mining sectors. Agricultural output, however, increased by only 2% yearly during the same period, and actually declined on a per capita basis. The inevitable result was stagnating incomes for the 55% of the population who remain in rural areas. Among the rural population, the 35,000 Bedouin families, who depend on sheep raising for their incomes, have been chronically affected by droughts and the resultant loss in production and income. The Government's program for the agricultural sector envisages major investments in irrigation and an intensification in crop and livestock production.
During the past year, the Bank assisted, with a $17.5 million loan, a project directed to the needs of the smaller livestock farmers. Sheep husbandry is the most important component of livestock production in Syria, accounting for more than 65% of all meat and 50% of milk products. Output varies widely from year to year according to rainfall. The project will help rationalize feed policies and provide credit for supplemental feed and animal health services. The project is expected to result in increased produc-
. tion of meat, milk, and wool, and benefit Syria's sheep fatteners and Bedouin flock owners, whose per capita income is half the national average.
' Improving Conditions of the Urban Poor
There are a number of cities in the Region in which concentrations of poor people suffer from inadequate urban public services. In Turkey and Iran, rapid economic growth and change have lured many from the countryside into urban slums in Istanbul and Tehran. In Egypt, Cairo and Alexandria must absorb those who migrate from the countryside due to the pressures of population on the available cultivated land. In the Yemen Arab Republic and Afghanistan, infra-
A Livestock Development Project, assisted by two Bank loans totaling $17.5 million and approved in fiscal 1977, will benefit some 35,GOG Bedouin families in Syria whose per capita income is half the national average. The project will provide incentives for fattening about twice the number of animals as at present, while mutton, milk, and wool production are expected, to increase substantially.
structure must be created, as the previously small, ancient towns of Sana'a and Kabul adjust to their status as capitals of modernizing and growing societies.
The ratio of population to cultivated land in Egypt is one of the highest in the world, and the increase in population has overtaxed the agriculture sector's ability to absorb additional employment. The result has been a steady drift to the cities, primarily to Cairo and Alexandria. The country's urban population has been growing at 3.6% a year, compared with an overall population growth of 2.5%. The rapidity of this growth has overburdened the urban infrastructure, whose growth has not kept pace with the demand for services. Inadequate water supply is only one example of the problems that have resulted. The supply systems of piped, potable water are old and underdesigned, and leakage losses are considerable.
During the year, the Bank became involved, for the first time, in Egypt's public utilities sector. A $56 million loan for a water supply project in Alexandria, Egypt's second largest city, is designed to provide an additional 350,000 cubic meters of water per day, thus averting the threat of serious water shortages and reducing health hazards caused by water of poor quality. Water will be supplied to an additional 1.4 million inhabitants, many of whom live in the poorest sections of the city. One major objective of the project is to build up the expertise of the municipal water authority. It is expected that the water supply development program in Alexandria will provide a model which can be duplicated in other cities and can thus form part of a comprehensive attempt to improve living standards for the large, and unfortunately, increasing number of Egypt's urban poor.
Another example of urban problems is provided by the city of Sana'a in the Yemen Arab Republic, one of the least developed countries in the world. Effective efforts towards development only began in the early 1970s after a long civil war. The population of about 6.5 million is mainly rural; urbanization is a recent phenomenon. Although urban concentrations are still relatively few (Sana'a, the largest, has a population of only about 140,000), urbanization has been proceeding rapidly. The main towns of the country lack almost all urban facilities. Electricity and water reach a very small proportion of the urban population; sewerage facilities are nonexistent; roads in the old parts of the cities are narrow, and are ill-suited to modern transportation; inadequate sanitary facilities have resulted in the pollution of existing water supplies —which are, in any case, available only in critically small quantities—and have increased the vulnerability of the population to outbreaks of epidemic diseases. The Government is giving high priority to improving living conditions in the cities by undertaking projects to provide the essentials of water and sewerage facilities to the people.
In fiscal 1977, IDA provided a $10 million credit to help finance a second water supply and sewerage project in Sana'a to support the Government's efforts in this area of development. The project will help meet the basic needs of many of the urban poor by enlarging the water supply system now being built under an earlier IDA credit, and by providing sewerage facilities in the old part of the city where none now exist. (At least 81% of Sana'a's expected 1980 population of 176,000 is to be provided an adequate supply of water, and public sewer pipelines will serve half the population—mostly the poorest, who live in the "old city," where no private systems of sewage disposal can be used.) These improvements will reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases and improve living conditions. The $46 million project—being co-financed by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and the Saudi Fund for Development—
will provide a sound basis for what is likely to be the continued rapid growth of the capital city.
More Useful Educational Systems
The role of education varies in countries within the Region. The Bank has directed its efforts at helping governments orient their education systems more closely to their own perceived development priorities.
A particularly striking example is provided by Algeria. The 15 years since independence have been characterized by rapid social and economic development. During this decade and a half, Algeria has striven to build up an administrative and economic management capacity fully controlled by Algerians, while pursuing a policy of rapid industrialization and structural reforms. The lack of managerial and, particularly, middle-level technical skills has adversely affected, however, the efficiency and productivity of investments in many sectors of the economy. And because there is a danger that acute manpower shortages might impair the objectives of industrial development, the Government has given top priority to the development of its education system.
During fiscal 1977, the Bank provided assistance for an education project in the country, designed to meet Algeria's trained manpower needs.
The Third Education Project, for which the Bank provided $48.5 million in assistance, will help meet the need for middle-level technicians and skilled workers through the development of a network of job-oriented technical high schools of a new type and the construction of two vocational training centers. (In addition, by supporting the systematic decentralization of places of training, the project may help reduce regional inequalities and also foster the development of local industries.) Fifteen technical high schools will be built (out of a planned 30), which will offer three-year courses in mechanics, electricity, electronics, building construction, industrial chemistry, and commerce. In the vocational centers, workers in various specializations for some 15 different industrial and building construction trades will be trained as skilled craftsmen.
Creating Productive Employment
Unemployment remains one of the most serious problems of the countries of the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region, and basic needs cannot be provided to the people of the Region unless unemployment levels are lowered. Unemployment has increased in the Region over the past three years, partly as a result of the recession in northern Europe. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, there was a substantial migration of workers from Portugal, the Maghreb, Yugoslavia, Greece, and Turkey to northern Europe. This migration helped alleviate problems of employment which existed in many of
the countries. In the period 1974-76, however, the growth in migration ceased, and the countries of southern Europe and North Africa were forced to absorb larger labor forces in their own economies. (A major exception was in the Gulf area, where rapid income growth among oil-producing countries led to a rapid new migration from Egypt, Jordan, and the Yemen Arab Republic to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States, and from Afghanistan to Iran.) - These conflicting forces have brought new attention to an old problem. In many countries, projects and policies are now being reevaluated to eliminate the kinds of distortions in pricing "and design which work against productive employment, while special stimulus is being given to the development of labor-intensive activities such as small-scale industry. One example is provided by Turkey where, until recently, employment creation had not been emphasized.
The Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (TSKB) is one of the oldest and most experienced development finance companies associated with the Bank. The country's most important institutional source of long-term funds in the private sector, the TSKB has, in recent years,
shifted the regional pattern of its operations in favor of the poorer parts of Turkey, particularly eastern Anatolia and the poorer provinces in central Anatolia.
A twelfth Bank loan to the TSKB, for $74 million, introduces a new dimension: promotion of smaller-sized, labor-intensive industries. In mid-1976, an industrial sector mission from the World Bank focused on the needs and potential for the development of such industries. In assessing TSKB's role in financing smaller industrial enterprises, the Bank concluded that the TSKB might well identify, promote, and finance labor-intensive enterprises employing from between 10 and 100 workers. TSKB's own research suggested that such activities could be found mostly in Turkey's subcontracting sector, linked to the automotive, electrical equipment, durable consumer goods, and capital goods industries. TSKB has undertaken to target some $15 million of the Bank loan, plus another $15 million in foreign exchange and T£500 million in local currency for such subprojects, which are likely to have a far greater impact than their predecessors in creating employment—and creating it in areas where the need is greatest.
Latin America and the Caribbean
After two years of serious deterioration in their balance of payments, and following a year of marked decline in the growth of real output, economic developments during 1976 in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region—with the exception of several Caribbean countries, heavily dependent on sugar—were generally favorable. Satisfactory progress in the balance of payments and the growth of real output in most countries was aided by the gradual recovery of economic activity in the industrialized countries, together with a general strengthening of international commodity prices. However, these favorable results would not have been possible if most countries had not maintained (albeit at the cost of increased external debt) comparatively high levels of investment in 1974 and 1975. Unfortunately, economic policy, in general, was less successful in limiting domestic inflation. The rate of inflation worsened in some of the largest
countries of the area, particularly in Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, and Peru. In Central America, Dominican Republic, and Paraguay, on the other hand, inflation rates declined.
Notwithstanding the fact that 1976 was a year of recovery, it was, nonetheless, a difficult year for economic management for most of the countries in the area as they tried to reconcile near-term output and employment objectives with the balance of payments and price stability essential as a basis for longer-term economic growth. On the average, there was a substantial acceleration in the growth of real output, about 5%, compared with the severely depressed rate of growth of less than 3% during 1975. Heavily influencing the pickup in the average rate of growth of output in the Region were the recoveries of Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and the Central American countries. In the oil-exporting countries, such as Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, and Trinidad and
Tobago, levels of economic activity remained relatively high, and reasonable price stability was achieved. Against these favorable developments, sharp negative turns in the rate of domestic expansion took place in Jamaica and Panama, both of which are still severely affected by the rise in energy prices and generally weak demand for their exports of both goods and services. In Argentina, a process of adjustment and stabilization began in the second quarter of calendar 1976, but by the end of the year it had not yet succeeded in overcoming the depressed economic conditions, and gross domestic product (GDP) declined by about 3%. For Mexico, the year was particularly difficult. After decades of rapid and sustained growth with relative price stability, the rate of growth of the economy was far below that traditionally achieved, and the annual rate of inflation accelerated.
In general, the balance of payments record of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region during 1976 was good. The combined overall balance of the developing countries which do not export oil swung into surplus, mainly as a result of an improvement in the aggregate current account deficit, which declined to about $11,089 million, compared with approximately $16,253 million in 1975. Their export earnings increased by $4,800 million, or about 14%. In part, because some of the major countries of the Region were engaged in stabilization programs which generally involved tightened financial policies and adjustments to exchange rates, the Region's imports remained virtually flat in nominal terms, and, for the second consecutive year, registered substantial declines in real terms. The abeyance of import growth was general, except in the four oil-exporting countries, Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, and Trinidad and Tobago, as well as in Colombia and some of the Central American countries, which benefited from large increases in coffee prices.
The export earnings of a number of countries in the area benefited from the resurgence of commodity prices during the past year. In addition to the doubling of coffee prices, gains were also recorded in soybeans, fish meal, cotton, wool, copper, and other nonferrous metals. Meat prices recovered only mildly, however, and sugar prices plummeted in world markets. Price declines were also registered for certain cereals, mainly exported by Argentina. In the case of manufactured exports, the past year brought some improvement, though only moderate. The recovery of demand in the industrial countries, accompanied by flexible exchange rate policies in the exporting countries, led to a resurgence in the growth of manufactured exports in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, and Mexico; in real terms, however, growth is still below that achieved in 1974. As import prices increased relatively slowly in 1976, the terms of trade of most Latin American and Caribbean countries recovered substantially during the year.
Despite the financial difficulties experienced
by some of the major countries of the Region, international long-term public and private credit flows remained at high levels. This capital inflow, sufficient to cover the $16,253 million current account deficit in 1975, was more than enough to cover the reduced current account deficit of 1976. As a consequence, some rebuilding of international reserves took place during the year. In summary, the balance of payments record of the Latin American and the Caribbean Region—partly because of improved demand management policies, and partly because of favorable developments with respect to export earnings—improved in 1976. Moreover, because the Region, as a whole, has relatively good access to international financial markets, the countries of the area were able to continue to borrow heavily from private sources. Reflecting the large borrowing on hard terms in recent years, interest payments increased by 25%, and the public debt-service ratio in the major countries increased slightly. As a result of this borrowing, however, the impact of the recent economic slump was not as sharp as it might otherwise have been.
While the adverse world economic trends of the last few years created serious difficulties for many countries in the Region, those events have also brought out the acquired strength of their economies and their capacity to absorb severe external shocks. On the whole, Latin American and Caribbean countries have weathered the recent international crisis successfully. For a number of countries, inadequate internal financial and economic management has become the more important source of difficulties. During 1976, some countries were well advanced in taking the necessary corrective measures, while others had only begun.
Development of Energy
A high priority is necessarily now being given, in practically all countries of the Region, to the problems of the energy sector. The countries most seriously affected by the rise in energy costs are those which must import a substantial proportion of their petroleum requirements. Brazil, Chile, most of the Caribbean countries and the smaller South American nations, together with all of Central America, fall into this category. Some of these countries have been aided in their adjustment efforts by Venezuela, by Trinidad and Tobago, and by other external assistance specifically linked to the increased cost of petroleum imports. Nevertheless, the impact has been severe. The South American countries were especially hard hit in 1974-75 as they had to absorb higher oil prices during a period of weakening world demand for most traditional export commodities and manufactures. To face these problems, many countries in this group applied drastic measures to reduce nonessential consumption of fuel. Prices for gasoline in Brazil, for example, are now among the highest in the
world. At the same time, practically all the most severely affected countries have greatly intensified their efforts to exploit their own potential for energy supplies.
Increasing domestic energy production requires large investments in exploration and exploitation of the Region's fossil fuel deposits, geothermal reservoirs, and hydraulic resources. The lead times involved are considerable, and energy-importing countries require substantial assistance, over an extended period, in support of these efforts. They will also have to continue to stress energy conservation, though the potential for reductions in energy consumption is rather limited in the absence of widespread use of large automobiles and residential and commercial heating. The electric power sector appears to hold the greatest promise of savings in the consumption of petroleum over the medium term. Such savings should come about through reduction in transmission and distribution losses, interconnections to improve the use of hydroelectric plants, and direct substitution of petroleum by other energy sources in generating electricity. Substitution has been made possible in many countries because of the availability of geothermal or hydroelectric projects in an advanced stage of preparation. Over the longer term, the electric power sector will continue to play a major role. Thus, the increase in fuel prices has made the sector, which was already an essential ingredient in industrial and urban growth, even more important for the Region's developing countries.
The Bank is responding to the changed en-
ergy outlook in the Region by expanding substantially its activities in the electric power sector and by initiating work in other fields, which may result in identifying projects to increase fuel supplies. Expansion in electric power lending was made possible because of the Bank's expertise accumulated throughout its long involvement in the field. The Bank has continued to stress policy concerns such as the need for sound systems planning to reduce investments, the importance of rational pricing policies, the extension of service to rural areas and to the urban poor, and attention to environmental factors.
Electric power development requires investment in an integrated system, and the Bank has, over the years, financed a wide range of priority projects in the sector. Of particular interest is the role of improved transmission systems in permitting better utilization of hydroelectric plants (with a consequent reduction in fuel consumption) and reduced investments in system reserves. The Bank has supported several projects in this field, including, in fiscal 1977, a major transmission project in Brazil, assisted by an $82 million Bank loan, and an interconnection between Costa Rica and Nicaragua, part of a project assisted by a $22 million Bank loan to Nicaragua. In its lending for electricity distribution in the Region, the Bank has, where appropriate, supported the extension of service to low-income consumers. The Nicaraguan project, for instance, includes financing for a pilot program to reach low-income communities, similar in concept to those included in two electricity distribution loans made to Brazil in late fiscal 1976.
Bank and IDA Activities
World Bank lending to the Region increased to $1,893 million in fiscal 1977, or 31% over fiscal 1976 totals. The number of projects assisted rose from 42 to 48. Of total lending, some $42 million in loans was approved on Third Window terms; IDA credits (there were four, three of which were combined with Bank loans), amounted to $25 million.
¦ Rural poverty has been a growing concern of agricultural development policy in many countries in the Region, and the Bank has continued to support efforts in the rural sector to increase agricultural production and to improve the incomes and standards of living of small farmers. One example is the first IDA-assisted (with a $10 million credit) rural development project in Haiti. The low standard of living of the country's population, in terms of nutrition, sanitation, literacy, and other criteria, combined with a general lack of the basic infrastructure of transport and other facilities, call for a major development effort; this is handicapped, however, by administrative limitations and a lack of technical expertise. The Government has, therefore, pursued a strategy of focusing on regional rural development projects in the country's most fertile and densely populated rural areas, rather than dissipate limited financial and technical resources in nationwide programs. In line with this approach, the project is located in an area—the Northern department, where over 90% of the rural population lives at levels of absolute poverty. The credit will help finance the rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation systems; the extension of agricultural credit; the rehabilitation and construction of feeder roads; the digging of wells for rural potable water supply; the training of project staff; the improvement of agricultural extension and animal health services and market facilities; and the organization of small farmers into groups into which credit and technical assistance will be channeled. The World Food Programme will provide food to pay local workers for up to 2 million man-days of labor. Starting with a substantial input of foreign technical assistance, the Government intends to establish a strong project organization to serve as a pattern for similar projects in the future in other regions. The project will benefit directly about 4,000 rural families, increasing their on-farm consumption by about 30%, and annual cash incomes, on the average, from $60 to $150. Indirectly, about 26,000 other rural families will also benefit from better roads and agricultural services.
Lending for Social Improvement
Social change in the Latin American and Caribbean area has been strongly influenced by a high rate of growth of the population and the migration from the countryside to urban areas. Population in the Region grew from 164 million to 324 million between 1950 and 1975, or an av-
Colombia's telecommunications network has been assisted by four Bank loans totaling $106 million, thereby improving significantly the efficiency of operations in government, industry, and commerce. The fourth loan of $60 million, approved in fiscal 1977, will provide for further, greatly expanded exchange facilities and long-distance circuit capacity, primarily in small towns and rural areas. A previous loan included the provision of 1,000 additional lines in the Bogota telex exchange and 1,000 new teleprinters.
erage growth rate of about 2.8% a year. This rapid growth has caused a population explosion in the large cities. Today, Latin America is the most urbanized of the developing regions. In 1950, there were seven cities in Latin America with over 1 million inhabitants. It is estimated that, by 1980, there will be about 25 cities with over 1 million inhabitants. Concern with the living conditions of their rapidly expanding populations and the related social problems has led government authorities to implement projects designed to meet the most basic and urgent needs of the urban and rural poor. In view of the complexity of the problem, dramatic improvement in the short run is unlikely; sustained and accelerating progress is, however, a feasible objective. Bank assistance is increasingly focusing on helping countries come to grips with the problems of poverty and to improve the economic opportunities of the poor.
In the Dominican Republic, the Bank, through a loan, on Third Window terms, of $5 million, is assisting the Government in implementing a population and family health project designed to implement a shift of emphasis from curative to preventive health services. The project aims at increasing coverage and reducing fertility, while enhancing the health of mothers and children in rural areas. Because of staff constraints, improvements of services and facilities will be concentrated initially in two regions. Similar improvements will be extended to other regions as trained personnel become available. Twenty-six health clinics and one subcenter will be built and equipped in strategically selected locations to serve rural inhabitants now without access to health and family planning services. Radio communications equipment and vehicles will be financed to ensure rapid referral of cases from rural areas to major hospitals. The project will also help increase the number and quality of nursing personnel nationwide through training and technical assistance programs. Four local universities will participate, by planning and supervising medical and nursing students' work during their internships in rural clinics. Curriculum reform will enable these universities to cover adequately community health care and family planning. The project is part of a family planning effort aimed at reducing fertility rates from 7.1 in 1970 to 3.4 in the year 2000. In addition, about 800,000 people will receive effective health and family planning services by 1981, as compared with the 115,000 who would have received such services had the project not existed.
To aid El Salvador in meeting the needs of its urban population, Bank and IDA financing, totaling $12.7 million, will help implement a project which includes the major urban areas where growth has been most rapid and needs for shelter are the greatest. The objective of the project is to provide access to shelter, business opportunities, credit, and technical training for
the lowest-income families, enabling them to improve their overall standards of living. While designed with a view to its replicability throughout the country, the project itself is expected to make an important contribution to relieving the severe shortage of low-income urban shelter. Nearly 80% of the housing units will be affordable by families earning the equivalent of $90 or less per month (representing about the lower third on the income distribution curve). A further objective of the project is to encourage the inclusion of adequate community facilities (schools, public markets, health clinics, etc.) as an integral part of low-cost housing.
In Brazil, a loan of $40 million will continue to support that country's National Sanitation Plan, established in 1971 with the objective of solving, within a 10-year period, the basic problems of water supply and sewerage in the country's urban and rural communities. The $134 million project consists of about 108 water supply and sewerage subprojects to be constructed in communities ranging from 500 to 1,600,000 inhabitants.
An interesting feature of the project, first developed under a 1974 Bank loan of $36 million, is the emphasis given to increasing the capabilities of the state and federal agencies concerned in preparing and appraising subprojects. This was found to be the most effective way to deal with a large number of subprojects of different sizes and dispersed over a large area. The entities are selecting subprojects on the basis of technical, financial, and socioeconomic criteria agreed upon with the Bank. Review and supervision of subprojects by Bank staff are thereby substantially facilitated. In sum, the project combines the objective of improving access to sanitation services (and thus the standards of living of about 500,000 low-income people) with that of enhancing the project evaluation and implementation capabilities of the institutions responsible for the development of the sector.
Projects Approved for Bank and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1977, by Sector
Agriculture
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$12 million. More than 60,000 farmers and their families (about 430,000 people) will benefit from a third agricultural credit project in support of the Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan. Sub-loans will be made for farm mechanization, well drilling, on-farm development, land settlement, inputs, and marketing cooperatives. Can$5 million, administered by IDA, along with a $5 million USAID grant, will help meet project costs. Total cost: $31.5 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA — $21 million. Rice production will be increased through a project designed to provide reliable irrigation water supply to four subdistricts in the southeast. Irrigated areas will be increased by 14,000 hectares and irrigation will become more reliable on another 6,100 hectares. Can$9 million, administered by IDA from funds provided by the Canadian Government, will help meet project costs. Total cost: $52 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$16 million. Some 50,000 farm families will directly benefit from a project which will provide irrigation to about 61,000 hectares of land in the northwest region through the installation of 10,000 small capacity shallow tubewells. Workshop facilities for maintenance will be provided, and technical assistance furnished. Total cost: $25.4 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA — $10 million. The agricultural extension service in the country's northeast region will be strengthened, and efforts to make adaptive research more relevant to agricultural development and to establish closer •links between research and extension will be supported. The project also includes a pilot scheme designed to increase irrigated areas served by about 1,500 deep tubewells. Total cost: $16.3 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$83 million. Agricultural processing industries in nine states of Brazil will be expanded and modernized. Investment funds will be channeled through the Central Bank. Participating in the project, which will help expand and diversify exports, will be a number of banks, including regional and state development banks, the Banco do Brasil, and private investment banks. Total cost: $260 million.
BRAZIL: Bank — $42 million. Long-term agricultural credit will be provided to improve
living standards and incomes of some 25,500 farm families in the state of Minas Gerais. Not fewer than a third of the beneficiaries will be tenants and/or sharecroppers. About 89% of the beneficiaries would be small farmers with landholdings of less than 50 hectares and with average annual per capita incomes of around $250. Indirect beneficiaries are estimated at 300,000 people, and it is expected that the project will create at least 8,200 new jobs. Total cost: $139 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$25 million. The establishment of a new oil palm estate will help meet rising domestic demand for palm oil, inaugurate a program of smallholder development, and support efforts to stimulate the development of the southwest region of the country. Some $7 million of the loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $38.5 million.
CAMEROON: IDA—$7 million. A major institutional impact is expected from a project designed to strengthen the Fonds National de Developpement Rural, an agricultural credit institution. Some 2,400 farm families will benefit from subprojects involving bottomland development, market gardening, and stall fattening; and the quality of life for about 120,000 rural families will be improved through a village water supply component. Total cost: $10.6 million.
CAMEROON: IDA—$2 million. Three years of agronomic trials will be undertaken on the Plaine des M'Bo to establish the fertilizer requirements of rice and soybeans, the adaptation of soybeans to the cropping system, and the prospects for double cropping of rice. A mechanization/settlement scheme will also be initiated with settlers from the nearby overpopulated highlands. Total cost: $2.6 million.
CHAD: IDA—$12 million. About 10% of Chad's population, or some 400,000 people, will benefit from a project which consists of seven small-scale rural development schemes. Wells will be built and rehabilitated, feeder roads repaired, cotton warehouses built, irrigated perimeters established, and water control works financed. Total cost: $13.4 million.
CHAD: IDA—$8 million. Supplementary financing will be made available to the Sategui-Deressia Irrigation Project, for which an IDA credit of $7.5 million was made available in June 1974.
CHILE: Bank—$25 million. Long-term credit will be provided for on-farm improvements in the fruits, vineyards, beef, sheep, and dairy products fields, and for the installation, modernization, or expansion of about 80 agro-industries. Some 500 medium-scale and 4,300 smallholder farmers—most of them beneficiaries of land reform programs—will be able to increase their earnings as a result of the project. At full development, the project may either earn or save the Chilean economy $46 million annually in foreign exchange.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$64 million. This loan, helping finance an agricultural credit project, will support a three-year lending program of the Banco de la Republica to help finance on-farm investment, as well as investment in agro-industries, through public and private financial institutions. An expansion of food production is the major objective of the project. Total cost: $176 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$52 million. A rural development project, directly and indirectly benefiting some 1.5 million people, will provide small-scale farmers—among the poorest 50% of the population—with credit facilities, markets, training and education opportunities, health care, water and electricity delivery systems, and advisory services. Total cost: $131 million.
COSTA RICA: Bank—$18 million. About 2,400 jobs may be created and 3,250 farmers will benefit from a project which includes provision of credit for on-farm investment and funding for agro-industrial projects, the strengthening of the National Extension Service, improvements to rural access roads, and the preparation of a regional development study. Total cost: $37.6 million.
ECUADOR: Bank—$15.5 million. Credit will be made available to farmers, ranchers, and small local industries, and for the development of agricultural consulting services. Technical assistance will be provided, and applied agricultural research financed. Total cost: $36 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$39 million; IDA—$27 million. As many as 295,000 farm families (1.6 million people) in the Nile delta region may benefit from a fourth drainage project which seeks to prevent declines (as a result of waterlogging and salinization) in land productivity and to increase agricultural production through the installation of field drains, the construction of pumping stations, and through remodeling of open drains. A bilharzia control program (covering some 5 million people) will be completed in Upper Egypt. The Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederaufbau is expected to participate in the co-financing. Some $12 million of the Bank loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $207 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$25 million. Gravity irrigation on 10,300 hectares in central Ethiopia (on which some 4,000 people will be settled) will be provided; four state farms developed;
and a cadre of trained and experienced personnel for further development of irrigation built up. Cotton production (for export) and maize and bean production (for domestic consumption) will increase. This credit replaces a now-canceled $17 million credit, approved in fiscal 1974. Co-financing is to be provided by the African Development Fund ($5.5 million) and the European Development Fund ($16.9 million). Total cost: $56.8 million.
GREECE: Bank—$35 million. The phased regional development of the prefecture of Evros in the northeast of the country will be assisted by a project which includes investments in irrigation and flood control works; forestry; agro-industry; roads; markets; extension, research, and veterinary services; and social infrastructure. Some 138,000 people will benefit. Total cost: $81 million.
HAITI: IDA—$10 million. A rural development project in the densely populated Northern department will directly benefit some 4,000 rural families, and aid an additional 26,000 rural families: irrigation systems and feeder roads will be rehabilitated and expanded, wells built, agricultural credit facilities extended, municipal markets improved, local staff trained, and agricultural extension and animal health services provided. The World Food Programme is providing food for about 2 million man-days of labor. Technical assistance has been requested from France and the Federal Republic of Germany. Total cost: $13.4 million.
INDIA: IDA—$200 million. About 1 million farmers will benefit from a project continuing Bank support for the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation's program of lending to farmers. Support will also be given for an intensive training program, primarily for staff of land development banks. About 88% of the funds will be used to finance minor irrigation and land development subprojects; some $100 million is being reserved for small farmers.
INDIA: IDA—$30 million. The incomes of some 75,000 rural households, the majority of whom belong to the poorest segment of the population, will be augmented through a project in Kerala state which seeks to improve tree crop production. Research efforts will be expanded and agricultural extension services strengthened. The entire project has been designed with an eye to its replicability. Total cost: $69 million.
INDIA: IDA—$23 million. Water savings through canal lining and through improved system operations and agricultural practice in the command area of Tamil Nadu will permit the introduction of double cropping into areas that now grow but one irrigated crop a year, and/or bring new areas, presently rainfed, under irrigation for the first time. Village roads will be improved, project staff trained, and the district agricultural extension service reorganized. Increases in paddy production are expected to total 60,000 tons as a result. Total cost: $45.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$20 million. Foodgrain production in Orissa state is to be increased through a project strengthening agricultural extension and related research and training facilities on behalf of the state's more than 3 million smallholder farm families. A three-year program to develop studies on groundwater resources will be financed, and appropriate low-cost technology developed for the project area. Record systems in the state will also be improved, thus upgrading the Government's agricultural planning and policymaking capacity. Total cost: $40 million.
INDIA: Bank—$14 million; IDA—$4 million. Infrastructure for eight fishing villages will be developed, facilities in two fishing ports improved, and credit furnished to fishermen as a result of a project in Gujarat state designed to increase fisheries production for domestic consumption and export. The Bank loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $38 million.
INDIA: IDA—$12 million. Food production in West Bengal state will be increased through a program to strengthen and expand agricultural extension services and to upgrade agricultural research facilities. By concentrating on some 320,000 "contact" farmers dispersed throughout the state, most of the 4 million farm families in the state are expected to benefit. Total cost: $28.1 million.
INDIA: IDA—$10 million. Agricultural extension services in Madhya Pradesh will be consolidated and strengthened, agricultural research upgraded and reoriented, and provision made to evaluate and monitor project progress. Total cost: $20.9 million.
INDIA: IDA—$8 million. Some 200,000 "contact" farmers—and through them at least 1 million of Assam's 1.9 million farm families living in the project areas—will directly benefit from a project which will consolidate and strengthen the agricultural extension and research services in eight of the state's nine districts. The project also seeks to lay the base for longer-term improvements in groundwater development. Total cost: $16.4 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$63 million. About 167,000 farm families (1 million people) will benefit from an eighth irrigation project which, by providing improved water control distribution a'nd drainage, is expected to increase paddy production by a total of 93,000 tons annually, with foreign exchange savings amounting to $26 million yearly. Some 49,000 landless laborers' families will also benefit through an increase in job opportunities. Total cost: $118 million.
INDONESIA: Bank — $35 million. About 64,000 farm families (350,000 people) will benefit from a ninth irrigation project which, by providing improved water control distribution and drainage, plus new irrigation development, is expected to increase annual paddy production by more than 80,000 tons. Additional job opportunities through the project should benefit some 40,000 landless laborers' families. Total cost: $64 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$30 million. The migration of rural poor from Java to other less populated parts of the country is being aided through a project which consists of the establishment of a new 4,500-family settlement, the upgrading of an existing 12,000-family settlement (both are in Sumatera), plus technical support for the design and implementation of future programs. Total cost: $56 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$20 million. About 1,600 full-time jobs for estate laborers will be created, and the incomes of 600 farm families increased by an oil palm and coconut planting program on about 18,000 hectares. Infrastructure will also be provided. Total cost: $36.2 million.
JAMAICA: Bank—$15 million. About 1,600 hectares of underutilized land will be acquired, necessary economic and social infrastructure provided, and 1,400 farm families settled in a hilly region in the western region of the country. Assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture in its reorganizing efforts will also be provided. Total cost: $31.4 million.
KENYA: Bank—$34 million; IDA—$6 million. An irrigation system to sustain the cultivation of cotton, maize, groundnuts, and cowpeas on 6,700 hectares of land in eastern Kenya will be constructed and 5,150 families (36,000 people) will be settled. Necessary social, public health, educational, and administrative services will be provided. The Netherlands is lending $8.8 million to meet project costs, and additional co-financing, totaling $29 million, is being sought. Total cost: $91.7 million.
KENYA: Bank—$25 million. Sugar production will increase by 60,000 tons yearly, and about $30 million in foreign exchange will be saved yearly through the development of a 3,400-hectare sugar estate and some 9,000 hectares of land for about 4,500 outgrowers. Including the Bank, five co-financers are involved in the project's funding. Total cost: $88.5 million.
KENYA: Bank—$5 million; IDA—$20 million. This third agricultural credit project will help some 18,000 smallholder farmers and 500 medium-scale farmers obtain seasonal loans for crop production and medium-term credit for farm development. The availability of adequate stocks of inputs will be ensured through provision of credit to suppliers. The loan is on Third Window terms.
KENYA: Bank —$10 million; IDA —$10 million. This first phase of an integrated agricultural development program, designed to stimulate smallholder agriculture, will promote the establishment of whole farm systems through the provision of tools, seeds, fertilizers, and other farm implements. Extension services and related institutions will be strengthened. Some 70,000 small farmers will benefit from increased production of maize, beans, cotton, potatoes, passion-fruit, oil seeds, meat, and milk. The loan is on Third Window terms. The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa is making a $5
million loan for this project. Total cost: $35.7 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$95 million. Efforts to increase foodgrain production through irrigation and land development will be aided by a loan which will help finance the second stage of the Yong San Gang irrigation project. Some 29,000 families will benefit from the project which will bring reliable irrigation to 20,700 hectares, including the reclamation of 5,500 hectares of uncultivated tidal flats, and land development of 11,900 hectares. Total cost: $167 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$29 million. Some 63,000 people will benefit directly, more than 2,000 job opportunities will be created for agricultural workers, and foodgrain production on more than 12,500 hectares of land will be increased as a result of a project located 90 kilometers southeast of Seoul. Irrigation dams and canals will be built, land reclaimed, and pad-dyland developed. Total cost: $75 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$20 million. Institutional credit will be made available to some 7,900 farm families for investments in apple orchard development, silkworm rearing houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards, greenhouses for vegetable production, and on-farm storage for fruits. The funds will be channeled through the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation—the country's main source of institutional credit for the agricultural sector—and participating Gun (county) Cooperatives. Total cost: $41.2 million.
LIBERIA: IDA—$7 million. About 9,000 smallholder farm families will benefit from a project which, for the first time in the area (Bong county), will introduce a package of relatively simple and inexpensive technology combined with a set of farm support services and essential infrastructural improvements. The USAID (US) is making a parallel loan of S6 million. Total cost: $20.3 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$39 million. The productivity and incomes of more than 60,000 paddy smallholders throughout the country will be improved as a result of the construction and rehabilitation of about 195 small irrigation schemes. The Drainage and Irrigation Department will receive technical assistance, and its staff trained. Total cost: $89 million.
MALI: IDA—$15.5 million. Five financial aid agencies are cooperating in a project designed to expand agricultural production — mainly through intensification of improved cultivation methods—of cotton, kenaf, maize, and rice. Technical assistance, seed multiplication facilities, applied research, and credit are to be furnished, cotton processing facilities expanded, a rice mill built, and studies undertaken for the future development of areas cleared of onchocerciasis. As many as 1 million people will benefit. Total cost: $44.6 million.
MEXICO: Bank —$120 million. About 46,000 farm families (190,000 people) will bene-
fit directly and 30,000 permanent jobs will be created as a result of a project consisting of directly productive investments, support services, and social infrastructure components designed to raise the incomes and improve the standards of living of poor rural farm families in 20 selected microregions throughout the country. About 70% of the project funds will be channeled into productive investment in livestock, irrigation, rural industries, fruit production, soil and water conservation, and associated farm development credit. Included is support for a new rural industries program that will be implemented in 30 regions. Total cost: $255 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$41 million. Sprinkler irrigation of some 16,600 hectares of rainfed land in the main Oum-er-Rbia basin will help increase agricultural production and incomes of 3,400 area farm families, most of whom live below the per capita income poverty level of $195 yearly. The project continues the work of an earlier (fiscal 1976) Bank project in the same area. Total cost: $121 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$35 million. As did two previous agricultural credit projects in the country, this project aims at increasing agricultural production for domestic consumption and at strengthening the institutional capability of the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA). Some 350,000 farmers will benefit from CNCA's $315.3 million investment program for the period January 1977-August 1979. Parallel financing of approximately $31 million is being provided by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.
NEPAL: IDA—$9 million. This second IDA-assisted irrigation project in the Terai region includes the construction of 63 tubewells, each with a storage reservoir, associated irrigation, and drainage networks to enable year 'round irrigation of 7,500 hectares that now provide only one crop a year, the strengthening of extension services, and provision of agricultural credit. Foodgrain production will increase, added foreign exchange earned, and some 22,000 people in the region will be afforded employment opportunities equivalent to 4,000 full-time jobs. Total cost: $13.7 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$35 million. About 150,000 farm families will benefit directly and as many as 1 million people will be aided directly or indirectly through a project in Benue state which aims at increasing food production through improved farm practices and extension services, development of feeder roads and water supplies, credit marketing advisory services, and support for livestock, fishery, and forestry development. Total cost: $114 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$27 million. About 60,000 farm families will benefit directly and some 500,000 people directly or indirectly from an agriculture project in the middle belt of the country which aims at increasing food production through improved farm practices and ex-
tension services, development of feeder roads and water supplies, credit, marketing advisory services, and support for livestock, fishery, and forestry development. Total cost: $85 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$40 million. Serious 1976 flood damage will be repaired. Principal emphasis will be on the restoration of flood control works, drainage and irrigation structures, and roads. Government equipment needed for project construction works will be repaired and supplementary equipment purchased. A national flood protection plan as well as studies of the civil works contracting industry will be yndertaken. Total cost: $92.2 million.
PAKISTAN: Bank—$10 million. A livestock project in the Punjab will benefit some 60,000 small farmers (including about 15,000 landless livestock owners) through the establishment of about 500 Village Livestock Associations through which extension, veterinary, and artificial insemination services will be channeled, production inputs supplied, and milk purchased. The loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $19.7 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$8 million. A second livestock project will directly benefit about 1,500 farm families and reduce the country's dependence on imported milk through the improvement of grassland production, better husbandry, and the upgrading or replacement of poor quality cattle. Total cost: $20 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$7.5 million. The country's fisheries industry will be made more efficient through measures including the modernization of the shrimp and purse seiner fleet, the upgrading and relocation of shrimp processing plants, and the development of inland fisheries, including oyster farming. Total cost: $12.6 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Bank—$12 million. Help will be provided in establishing about 1,400 smallholder farmers on some 5,600 hectares of land for oil palm cultivation. The smallholders will be provided with credit, extension services, feeder roads, housing, and health, education, and welfare facilities. Total cost: $18.5 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank —$22 million. Some 12,000 farm families will benefit from a second rural development project that will channel short-term working capital and long-term investment credit to small farmers, provide for the construction of a feeder road network, increase rural health care, and provide technical assistance. Co-financing of $2.8 million is to be provided by the Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederaufbau. Total cost: $42.8 million.
PERU: Bank—$25 million. Irrigation and drainage systems in six coastal valleys will be rehabilitated, and agricultural production increased at relatively low cost. Through land reclamation, the strengthening of support services to farmers, and through the rehabilitation and construction of irrigation and drainage canals, some 17,200 families will benefit. The Netherlands is contributing $1 million through
a technical assistance grant. Total cost: $40.9 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$50 million. Irrigation facilities on 22 existing irrigation systems in three of the poorest regions of the country, the Ilocos and Cagayan regions of northern Luzon and Leyte in the eastern Visayas, will be improved and expanded. About 240,000 people will benefit directly from increased production, and seasonal labor, equivalent to some 10,500 full-time jobs a year, created. A schistosomiasis control program in Leyte will reduce the risk of disease for some 475,000 people. Total cost: $107.2 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$36.5 million. Some 15,000 farmers, fishermen, and rural entrepreneurs will benefit from a rural credit project in which funds will be provided to participating rural banks and stock savings and loan associations for on-lending for investments in farm mechanization, light transportation, coastal and inland fisheries, small-scale livestock development, and small-scale cottage and agro-industries. About 10,000 jobs will be created. Total cost: $91.3 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$15 million. This first Bank-assisted irrigation project in the Visayas islands (Panay island) will improve and expand four irrigation and drainage systems serving about 22,000 hectares of rice land, and provides for the construction of new irrigation and drainage works for another 2,700 hectares. In addition to benefiting about 80,000 people directly, the project is eventually expected to generate annual rice import savings of about $10 million. Total cost: $34 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$15 million. The incomes of about 15,000 poor farm families will be raised and farm production (rice, corn, sugar, abaca) increased from assistance provided to three settlement areas—two in Mindanao and one in the Visayas. The Department of Agrarian Reform will receive program support, and help (including roads, irrigation works, erosion control, health units, and village water supply systems) will be furnished the three areas. Total cost: $32.6 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$60 million. Agricultural production in two districts of eastern Romania will be increased as a result of an irrigation project consisting of the construction of a 148,500-hectare irrigation system and related facilities. Total cost: $195 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$14 million. Some 150,000 people in two separate areas of the country will benefit from a rural development project designed to promote mixed crop and livestock farming, and which also aims to strengthen central services for rural development. The project includes tsetse fly control, extension services, agricultural inputs, livestock development, feeder roads, water development, and a limited number of schools and health centers. The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa is
lending $5 million towards the project's financing; Belgium will provide about $900,000. Total cost: $23.3 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$1.8 million. Production of cinchona (quinine-yielding bark) will increase to 1,000 tons and the country's share in the world market from 4% to 10%. Farm inputs and extension and marketing services will be provided to about 3,600 farm families, and technical assistance will be made available to the Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda. Total cost: $2 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$19 million. Increased food production (including 42,300 tons of food-grains and 8,500 tons of other crops), a reduction in unemployment (some 12,000 full-time agricultural jobs are to be created), and improved income distribution are expected to result from a second project in the country's north-central dry zone. Project components include irrigation, highly intensive extension services, and the creation of a socially and economically viable pattern of settlement. Co-financing on various terms, totaling $23.2 million, is to be provided by Canada, the Netherlands, the UK, and the US. Total cost: $100.5 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$5 million. Five "tank" irrigation schemes in the country's north-central dry zone will be modernized. By rehabilitating and improving existing "tanks" (small earth-filled dams), and water conveyance systems, and with improved water management and agricultural supporting services, farm production can be expanded by 22,000 tons on some 13,000 hectares. The modernization scheme can also serve as a model for duplication elsewhere in the country. Total cost: $30 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$17 million. A savannah development project in western Sudan will attempt to reverse the trend of ecological degradation through inclusion of measures for improving the way of life of a large proportion of the people in the area by allowing a more efficient utilization of land resources. A settlement program will be implemented, improved and more reliable water supplies provided South Darfur province, and better nutrition furnished for about 60,000 people. The Saudi Fund is providing co-financing of some $8.5 million. Total cost: $38.2 million.
SWAZILAND: Bank—$4 million. Some 125,000 people—a quarter of the country's total population—will benefit from a rural development project which will strengthen agricultural services and central management for rural development programs and also provide credit, inputs, feeder and access roads, rural health clinics, and water supply installations. The African Development Bank is lending about $5.4 million towards the project's costs; the European Communities and the United Kingdom are supplying grants of about $2.9 million and $300,000 respectively. Total cost: $17.1 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: Bank—$17.5 million. Production in and income from the
sheep subsector will be increased through strengthening the organizational framework for the formulation of feed policy, the increased use of supplementary feed, and the reinforcement of animal health services. Through a working capital fund, the project will provide short-term credit to flock owners which will make possible a doubling of the number of sheep now fattened, and will strengthen the trend towards providing supplementary winter feed to range animals. The project is being carried out in conjunction with an Emergency Feed Reserve being established by the Government to meet basic sheep feed requirements during drought years. Some $12.5 million of the loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $34.5 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$9 million. Three fishing centers along the coast and one on Lake Tanganyika will be established and a pilot program on the lake will be set up to encourage the use of improved techniques by "traditional" fishermen. Villagers participating in the program will receive credit for boats and equipment, and be provided technical assistance. An increase of 21,000 tons of fish (worth $5 million) is expected, and nutrition among poor families will be improved. Total cost: $12.3 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$8 million. Foreign exchange earnings from the tobacco crop may double to $57 million by 1985, and some 100,000 smallholder families will benefit from a tobacco processing project which will increase the capacity of the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Co. Ltd. in five years from about 18 million kilograms of cured leaf annually to over 40 million kilograms. Total cost: $11.3 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$7.2 million. A five-year region-wide rural development program of high priority activities (pilot approaches to intensive crop and livestock production, provision of capacity to carry out an immediate low-cost water supply program, road maintenance, reafforestation, and technical assistance) will be launched in Tabora region. Canada is providing co-financing of Can$5 million (to be administered by IDA), and the United Kingdom will make a grant of some $5.6 million. Total cost: $23.5 million.
TANZANIA: Bank—$7 million. Some 16,000 hectares in Iringa region will be afforested with pine and eucalyptus and maintenance provided for both these and existing tree plantations. The project forms an important part of the Government's afforestation program through the development of plantations to supply industry. Total cost: $8.1 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$55 million. Irrigation facilities and supporting services to more than 130,000 farmers in the rice-growing areas north of Bangkok will be improved. Provision is also being made for improvements in operation and maintenance, a fisheries development program, and for project monitoring and evaluation. Total cost: $112 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$28 million. Almost 3
million farm families in 33 of the country's 71 provinces will benefit from a project designed to improve agricultural extension services. The Department of Agricultural Extension will be strengthened; regional, provincial, and district extension centers constructed; housing for some extension workers provided; and vehicles, equipment, and materials furnished. Total cost: $56.5 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$42 million. This project ¦^-representing the culmination of Bank and other international assistance over the past decade toward the overall development of northern Tunisia's limited water resources—includes provisions for increasing agricultural production, for supplying populous areas with sufficient potable and industrial water, for controlling floods, for generating hydro power, and for a series of water development and policy studies. Co-financing from the People's Republic of China and Iran has been agreed upon. Additional funds are expected to be forthcoming from other sources, including the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau. Total cost: $386 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$12 million. Medium-term and long-term subloans will be made available by the Banque Nationale de Tunisie to small and commercial farmers and to small farmers' associations. In addition, investment will be increased in agro-industries, particularly olive oil mills. Some 350 extra jobs in those mills will be created, and about 1.200 farmers will benefit from the increased availability of credit. Total cost: $26.3 million,
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$3.6 million. Some 46,500 farm families will benefit from a project to increase the production of cotton and cereals through provision of credit for cotton producers, the inauguration of simple irrigation schemes to increase rice and vegetable production, construction of a ginnery, building of village grain storage facilities and a training center for extension workers, construction of feeder roads, and a program to improve the condition of women (through the introduction of labor-saving devices and home education). Canada and the African Development Fund are providing $8.4 million on IDA terms, while the Swiss Technical Cooperation is providing a grant of $3.6 million. Total cost: $17.2 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$5 million. Almost 900 smallholder livestock and poultry owners will benefit from the country's first Integrated livestock project, designed to: (a) expand livestock development and production; (b) introduce modern production and marketing techniques; and (c) build up institutions concerned with livestock resources and range improvement. Co-financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Total cost: $32 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank —$54 million. The project will supply water for intensive irrigation of about 10,250 hectares, most of which are
owned by private smallholder farm families, among the poorest segment of the country's rural population. In addition, domestic and industrial water supply for three towns and 12 villages in the project area will also be provided, thus benefiting some 65,000 people. Total cost: $88.3 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$26 million. Agricultural production and processing capacity in the less developed region of Montenegro will be increased by a project which includes a 2,000-hectare irrigation system, land preparation, planting of vineyards and fruits, construction of farm roads, equipment sheds, a 10 million liter capacity winery, a refrigerated warehouse, and a vegetable collection center. Total cost: $55.6 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$24 million. Agricultural production and processing capacity in the less developed region of Macedonia will be increased by a project which includes the construction of a dairy plant, slaughterhouse, refrigerated potato warehouse, and fruit and vegetable processing facilities. Investments in fruit and vegetable production will be made, and a study on the construction of a market center for agricultural products undertaken. Total cost: $56 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$8 million. Smallholder livestock production will be assisted through the provision of improved veterinary and training services and the rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter services. Increased domestic consumption of milk and meat will provide better nutrition for about 26,000 families in the project area -—the densely populated subregion in the northwest of the country. Co-financing is to be provided by Canada, France, and Germany. Total cost: $16.1 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$8 million. Cash incomes of about 84,000 cotton farmers will rise by about 75%. In addition, the expected increase in production would permit Zaire to meet local demand for cotton fiber and enable it to increase its exports. The emphasis in this project is on reorganizing the buying, transporting, and ginning operations of the Office National des Fibres Textiles in order to give farmers the incentive to return to or to intensify their cultivation of cotton. The project also includes rehabilitation of the road network linking production areas. Total cost: $14.6 million.
ZAMBIA: Bank—$16.8 million. The Government's program of afforestation (pine and eucalyptus), reafforestation (eucalyptus), and forest maintenance will be aided; the country's logging and sawmilling capacity increased; and studies conducted on how land clearing procedures and charcoal production might be made more economical and efficient. Annual foreign exchange savings may rise as high as $15.3 million after 15 years. The Commonwealth Development Corporation is expected to assist the project with a loan totaling about S6.2 million. Total cost: $34.5 million.
Development Finance Companies
ARGENTINA: Bank—$100 million. A loan to the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE) will help provide long-term resources to finance the foreign exchange component of fixed asset purchases associated with specific industrial subprojects. Technical assistance will also be provided BANADE so that it may improve its lending to the industrial sector.
BOLIVIA: Bank—$12 million. This third Bank-assisted mining credit project in Bolivia is the first example of Bank assistance in support of the small mining subsector. It features a program of loans to small, private mines to help them increase productivity in potentially viable operations, and a technical assistance program to the Banco Minero de Bolivia—the country's public credit and marketing institution for private mining—and other Government agencies involved in the subsector. Total cost: $18.2 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$15 million. Term financing and technical assistance will be provided to 600-750 small-scale industrial enterprises to carry out necessary investments resulting from effective expansion, renovation, or relocation of their installed productive capacity.
ECUADOR: Bank—$26 million. A third development banking project provides equity and term financing to industrial companies for development of productive facilities and resources, supporting improvements in Ecuador's industrial sector, particularly regarding the financing of industrial growth. The loan is expected to finance about 12.6% of the estimated foreign exchange requirements of the two major participating development finance companies during, the period 1976-80.
INDONESIA: Bank—$40 million. The third project to assist the operations of Bank Pem-bangunan Indonesia will replenish its foreign exchange resources, strengthen organization and management, and help provide finance for Indonesian industry.
INDONESIA: Bank—$15 million. Proceeds from this fourth loan to help finance private industrial investment in Indonesia will be re-lent to the Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia which, since its establishment in March 1974, has, through its investments, generated direct additional employment of about 3,400 people.
KENYA: Bank—$20 million. A third operation in support of the Industrial Development Bank, one of Africa's fastest growing DFCs, will help that institution implement its investment programs, mostly for medium- and large-scale manufacturing projects.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$82.5 million. Of the total, $75 million will be used by Korea's largest term-lending institution, the Korea Development Bank (KDB), in its normal lending operations (mainly to large industries generating over 40% of the country's total
manufactured exports). The remaining $7.5 million will be re-lent by the KDB to a subsidiary for use in leasing operations servicing small-scale and medium-scale manufacturing enterprises.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$70 million. This sixth loan to the Korean Development Finance Corporation will help cover the institution's foreign exchange requirements of the industrial subprojects it will finance.
LESOTHO: IDA—$2.5 million. Financial assistance will be supplied to the Lesotho National Development Corporation and its subsidiary, the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation. The former helps assist enterprises of varying sizes, mainly in industry and tourism, while the latter promotes and assists indigenous small enterprises.
LIBERIA: Bank—$7 million. The prime source of medium-term and long-term development financing for Liberian entrepreneurs, the Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI) finances agro-based industries of wood and rubber production, small-scale manufacturing, transportation, tourism, and service enterprises. The International Finance Corporation is also investing up to $306,300 in the share capital of LBDI.
MOROCCO: Bank—$45 million. Funds will be made available to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique to help that institution meet growing demand for industrial credit. Some $5 million of the loan will finance a small-scale industry pilot project, the main objective of which is to gain experience that would permit larger projects to be prepared aimed at developing small-scale industries in Morocco.
NEPAL: IDA—$4 million. Help in meeting part of the foreign exchange requirements of the Nepal Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC) will be provided. Subloans will be made by the NIDC to private sector industries, including tourism enterprises. Technical assistance will be furnished by the UK and UNDP.
PAKISTAN: Bank — $25 million. Foreign exchange will be made available to the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation for re-lending to medium-scale and large-scale private industry. A study of the textile industry will also be made.
PARAGUAY: Bank —$10 million. Funds will be channeled through the Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) to help finance small- and medium-sized industrial, agro-industrial, and tourism subprojects as well as projects of small-scale urban enterprises mainly operated by artisans. Technical assistance will also be furnished the BNF for the design and implementation of a comprehensive institutional rehabilitation program.
PERU: Bank—$35 million. This first Bank-assisted DFC operation in the country will help finance a wide range of development projects— some 35 to 50 of them—in the manufacturing, mineral, agricultural processing, and tourism fields. The loan is being made to Corporation
Financiera de Desarrollo, the Government's principal development finance institution.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$50 million. The country's industrial sector will be supported through financial and institution-building assistance to the Banco de Fomento Nacional. Most of the subloans will be made to industrial projects with a high potential to earn or save foreign exchange and to small and medium enterprises, thereby providing a larger employment impact at lower cost than in the case of assistance to larger enterprises.
RWANDA: IDA—$4 million. Assistance in helping finance the Rwanda Development Bank's (BRD) foreign exchange requirements through mid-1978 will be made available. The BRD's accounts for 1976-78 will also be audited. The object of the credit is to increase economic benefits through job creation and increased foreign exchange earnings.
SENEGAL: Bank—$4.2 million. Proceeds of this loan to the Societe Financicre Senegalaise pour le Developpement de 1'Industrie et du Tourisme will be made available to help finance the foreign exchange needs of Senegalese enterprises, especially in the industrial and tourism sectors. The project also includes a small component to help develop an integrated scheme for providing assistance to small-scale Senegalese entrepreneurs in the informal, artisanal sub-sector.
SOMALIA: IDA—$5 million. The Somali Development Bank, the most important source for medium- and long-term funds in Somalia, will be strengthened in this first DFC project in the country.
SWAZILAND: Bank—$5 million. The country's industrial and tourism sectors will be supported through financial assistance to the National Industrial Development Corporation and to the Small Enterprises Development Company.
THAILAND: Bank—$25 million. With the assistance of the Bank, the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand will be able to diversify its activities, particularly in encouraging industrial development in less developed regions.
TURKEY: Bank—$74 million. This twelfth operation to assist the Turkiye Sinai Kalklnma Bankasi A.S. will help the Government's policy of decentralizing industry from the large urban complexes while concurrently developing the less developed regions and of focusing on the employment generation aspect of new industrial development. Some $15 million of the loan will be allocated for sublending to small-to-medium sized labor-intensive industrial projects.
TURKEY: Bank—$70 million. A second loan to the State Investment Bank of Turkey, covering about 6% of its project commitments during 1977-78, will help make the institution a more effective intermediary in the financing of economically sound industrial projects in the public sector.
ZAIRE: IDA—$10 million. Continuing fi-
nancial and technical assistance will be furnished the Societe Financiere de Developpement in this fourth credit to the country's most important source of medium- and long-term finance for investment in the manufacturing sector.
Education
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$6 million. An education project to help meet the country's need for practical agricultural education is designed to increase greatly the number of extension workers. Four new agricultural secondary schools will be built, and three existing ones expanded, thus adding some 5,000 places to the 1.000 places now available. Preinvestment designs for a future project in basic education and teacher training are included. Total cost: $ 11.48 million.
ALGERIA: Bank—$48.5 million. A closer relationship between secondary level education and industrial and commercial development will be fostered through a project which will contribute to meeting the urgent manpower needs in the mechanical, electrical, construction, and chemical industries, as well as in commerce. Total cost: $11 1.9 million.
BOLIVIA: Bank—$15 million. The Government will be assisted in finding cost effective ways of increasing access to primary education; in developing more appropriate curricula; and in designing a community education program for the nonschool-age population. Vocational training will also be expanded, and technical assistance provided. Total cost: $21.4 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$32 million. The country's vocational training system will be strengthened and expanded in the primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors and in geographic areas of key importance to serve the needs primarily of lower-income workers and job seekers. Total cost: $92.51 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$10 million. Material and technical assistance will be given to aid the Government in implementing its reform of primary education. Some 27,000 new pupil places will be created by constructing and equipping 100 multipurpose learning centers; the ability of the Rural Education Bureau to expand its capacity to publish textbooks will be increased; facilities will be built to enable the training of teachers in practical subjects related to agriculture. Total cost: $11.7 million.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE: Bank—$8 million. This second education project will help strengthen the country's educational system by supporting qualitative improvements at the elementary level, by providing pedagogical support to primary schools in the lesser developed northern part of the country, and by giving assistance to the local preparation and production of textbooks and other educational materials. It will also train secondary technical teachers and middle-level forest technicians. Total cost: $11.4 million.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE: IDA—$0.5 million. Supplementary finance will be provided to an education project, approved in 1971, for which $3.5 million was committed.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$25 million. Egypt's capability to meet urgent manpower needs in the industrial and construction sectors will be enhanced through a project which, each year, will provide training for 17,000 semi-skilled workers for the latter sector and 6,400 technicians and instructors as well as 2,300 skilled workers for industry. The relevance and quality of preparatory and secondary education will also be improved, and assistance for preinvestment, and educational and manpower planning studies is to be provided. Total cost: $54.17 million.
INDONESIA: Bank —$19 million. Better trained teachers will be produced by improving the knowledge and teaching skills of graduates from teacher training institutions. The content of teacher training programs will be improved: instructional materials for teacher training will be developed, produced, and distributed; about 7,000 teacher educators will be retrained; specialized facilities constructed; and improved selection procedures for prospective teachers developed. Total cost: $42.8 million.
LIBERIA: Bank—$6.3 million. This third education project will support the country's manpower development efforts by providing assistance for industrial and vocational training, forestry training, manpower planning, educational architecture, and science and technology education at the secondary school level. The project also aims to assist in correcting the traditional geographical imbalance in the distribution of educational facilities. Total cost: $9.5 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$14 million. This project is designed to improve the quality and efficiency of basic education; its main emphasis is on institution building. It includes the construction of five regional education centers, a national teaching materials production center, textbook development, and preinvestment studies for future projects. Total cost: $17.5 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$35 million. This fourth education project will add 150 primary schools, three industrial training institutes, three community service centers, and four education resource centers to the country's school system, and expand or replace about 700 primary schools, one teacher training college, and two existing industrial training institutes. About 240,000 primary school students a year will benefit, and about 3,000 skilled industrial workers will be trained annually. The Government's capability for school construction and for allocating resources for education will be improved through technical assistance. Total cost: $124.6 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$15 million. Access to primary and secondary education, particularly
for females and in rural areas, will be improved by the increased supply of qualified teachers, and manpower for agricultural services increased as a result of this third education project. In addition, the second phase of an adult literacy program will reach 96,000 villagers. Total cost: $27.2 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IDA—$4 million. Five educational institutions (in the fields of agriculture, health, primary and secondary teacher training, and technical teacher training) will be expanded so that the flow of trained manpower might be increased. In addition, planning and studies needed for long-term development, including five rural vocational centers, will be supported. Total cost: $7.4 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank—$8 million; IDA—$4 million. About 46,000 children, a fifth of all rural children aged seven to 12 in the country, will benefit from the establishment of 83 rural community learning centers and the completion of construction of 77 primary schools; 2,000 rural teachers will receive additional training; and 8,000 secondary students will benefit from the upgrading of five lower secondary schools. Total cost: $17.38 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$25 million. Strong national centers in forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine will be established at the University of the Philippines at Los Banos, and the Visayas State College of Agriculture will be upgraded. In addition, a national system for in-service training of field extension workers and nonformal training of farmer leaders will be developed through the establishment of training centers for rural development. Total cost: $45.3 million.
ZAMBIA: Bank—$13.3 million. This fourth education project will provide for an almost eightfold increase in the supply of scarce middle-and advanced-level manpower for business and commerce. It will also create the opportunity for training an additional 13,400 farmers a year in Farmer Training Centers, and will improve the in-service training capacity of Farm Institutes for agricultural and extension staff. The Norwegian Agency for International Development is supporting the project with a $2.12 million grant. Total cost: $23.2 million.
Electric Power
ARGENTINA: Bank —$115 million. The continued growth of industry in the Greater Buenos Aires area, the country's largest market for electricity, will be assisted. Under the project, 65,000 new consumers will be connected every year, including a total of 25,000 dwellings in new low-cost housing developments. In addition, the project includes arrangements to extend electricity to about 250,000 people living in about 110 shantytowns. Total cost: $495.3 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$82 million. Funds will be made available to help finance transmission works to interconnect the electrical systems of
the two most populous regions of Brazil—the South and the Southeast—-and develop the first stage of an extra-high voltage transmission system in the South. A high-level training program will also be undertaken by the Government enterprise responsible for planning, technical coordination, financing, and administration of the country's electric power sector. Total cost: $212.5 million.
CHILE: Bank—S35 million. A loan to the national power company will help restore reliable electric service by helping finance improvements in the company's distribution, transmission, and generation networks as well as the purchase of maintenance, construction, and other equipment. Spare parts will also be provided under the loan as will technical assistance to help prepare future projects. Total cost: $107.9 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank—S48 million. Some 6 million people, about a third of whom have never before received electricity, will benefit from the improvement and expansion of the electric power distribution systems in and around some 13 cities and in 19 rural zones. Technical assistance will be provided to the Egyptian Electricity Authority and the Rural Electrification Authority. Total cost: $70.6 million.
GHANA: Bank—$39 million. About 24% of the foreign exchange costs of the Kpong Hydroelectric Project (involving the construction of a new dam on the Volta River, with hydroelectric plant and transmission facilities) will be financed. In addition to the World Bank, six bilateral and multilateral agencies are helping finance the project. Total cost: $236.5 million.
GHANA: Bank—$9 million; IDA—$9 million. To help meet the growing demand for electricity, a further phase of the development program of the Electricity Corporation of Ghana will be financed. Total cost: $26.7 million.
GUATEMALA: Bank—$55 million. A dam in the Aguacapa River and a reservoir will be built, a power station with three 30 Mw generating units constructed, and a switching station and associated transmission lines built. The Central American Bank for Economic Integration is providing two loans totaling $8.8 million, while the Venezuelan Investment Fund is providing a Hoan totaling $30 million to help cover local currency costs. Total cost: $ 100 million.
INDIA: IDA—$150 million. Power generating capacity will be increased through construction of the first phase of a 2,000 Mw thermal power station (to be constructed on the Singrauli coal field in Uttar Pradesh state). The project includes the construction of transmission facilities needed to convey the power to bulk supply points. Total cost: $397 million.
INDONESIA: Bank —$116 million. This sixth power project in the country is part of an essential program for providing urgently required base load generating capacity in Java. With the commissioning of two new 200 Mw units located near Jakarta, the firm capacity will
be about 2,000 Mw, sufficient to meet demand until 1982. Total cost: $241.8 million.
MALAWI: Bank—$17 million; IDA —$8 million. The second stage of the Nkula Falls Hydroelectric Plant (providing 90 Mw of generating capacity when completed) on the Shire River, will be constructed. Co-financers include the African Development Bank, the Commonwealth Development Corporation, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the Fonds Europeen de Developpement. Some $8 million of the Bank loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $66.4 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$22 million. A new oil-fired thermal power station at Pasir Gudang will be constructed, and transmission facilities installed in this eighth power project. Total cost: $164 million.
NICARAGUA: Bank—$22 million. Through the provision of the Nicaraguan portion of an interconnection line to Costa Rica and additional transmission and distribution equipment, electricity will be brought to 400,000 more people; in addition, the industrial, commercial, and agricultural sectors will benefit. Total cost: $32.4 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$42 million. The construction of a 255 Mw hydroelectric power plant and associated transmission will help meet the country's electricity requirements at least cost, is essential to the viability of a number of directly productive projects in the National Development Plan, and will assist in significantly reducing Panama's dependence on thermal generation and hence, on fuel imports. Technical assistance is included. The Inter-American Development Bank is lending $98 million to help meet project costs. Total cost: $222.3 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$58 million. The expansion of Luzon's transmission system will play a part in helping the Government implement a large power program needed for the country's development. Technical assistance will also be provided to the National Power Corporation. Total cost: $92 million.
TANZANIA: Bank—$30 million. The Tanzania Electric Supply Company will be able to meet its growing demand for power through the construction of a concrete dam (behind which a reservoir will form), the addition of two 50 Mw units to an existing hydroelectric generating station, and the building of a 90 Mva transformer station. The loan is on Third Window terms. Co-financing is being furnished by the Swedish International Development Authority and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau. Total cost: $9.1 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$14.5 million. By helping finance the purchase of seven gas turbine units, the Bank is assisting the Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite et du Gaz in meeting Tunisia's expanding demands for electricity supply. Total cost: $29.3 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$80 million. The second phase of a 380 kv power transmission
network will play a key role in achieving two major goals of national energy policy—to end perennial power deficits by the end of the decade and to make maximum use of domestic energy resources in achieving this. Total cost: $681 million.
Industry
BRAZIL: Bank—$82 million. The construction of a phosphate fertilizer plant, with a daily manufacturing capacity of 1,000 metric tons of monoammonium phosphate and 1,000 metric tons of triple superphosphate, will contribute to Brazil's becoming self-sufficient in phosphate fertilizer production. Total cost: $294 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$64 million. An ammonia plant and a urea plant are to be built in Sergipe state in the Northeast. The project will produce about 270,000 metric tons of ammonia and 327,000 metric tons of urea yearly. Total cost: $283.4 million.
BURMA: IDA—$16 million. An important step in the rehabilitation of Burma's mining sector will be launched through a project designed to expand tin and tungsten production. Mineral export earnings are expected to increase by an average of about $6 million annually as a result of the project. Consultant services for a study of the future development of the mining sector are also to be provided. Total cost: $27.8 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank— $2.5 million. The foreign exchange costs of a feasibility study and the detailed engineering for an iron ore project as well as a diagnostic study for the state-owned Egyptian Iron and Steel Company will be financed. Total cost: $3 million.
INDIA: Bank—$150 million. Facilities required to produce up to 140,000 barrels of oil a day and 2.2 million cubic meters of natural gas a day from the Bombay High and North Bassein oil and gas fields will be constructed. Facilities for processing, transport, storage, and delivery will also be constructed. Total cost: $571 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$80 million. Through the manufacture of 100,000 tons a year of heavy machinery and equipment, the Government's objective of import-substitution through local manufacture of plant equipment will be aided; the project will significantly contribute to the development of the machinery industry and the upgrading of the technological base of the country through the transfer of technology. Some 8,000 jobs will be directly created. Total cost: $390.9 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$45 million. Through the construction and start-up of a cement plant near Oujda, in the Eastern province, the growing demand for locally produced cement will be partially satisfied, and development of one of the less advanced regions in the country will be assisted. Net foreign exchange savings of about $34 million per year at full capacity may be realized. Total cost: $182 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$50 million. A polyester plant, based upon imported technology not previously available in the country, will be built in a relatively less developed region of Arges district in the central part of the country to meet increasing demand for high quality synthetic fiber. Total cost: $128.9 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$38 million. About 500 jobs will be created and $35 million yearly saved in foreign exchange as a result of a project which, through the construction of new facilities and the modernization and expansion of other facilities, will increase the production capacity of a bearing factory at Brasov in central Romania. Total cost: $87.8 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$18.3 million. A spinning plant for continuous glass fiber as well as a weaving and finishing plant will be constructed, thus providing for necessary expansion in the country's glass fiber production capacity to supply anticipated expanded demand of important local industries. At full capacity, the project is expected to yield net annual foreign exchange savings of about $12 million. Total cost: $43.6 million.
SPAIN: Bank—$18 million. This project, the first of its kind undertaken by the Bank, will establish a research, development, and engineering unit within the Ministry of Industry and will provide it with the technical capabilities to explore industrial research and development opportunities and to carry out the engineering of new products. Total cost: $40.3 million.
TANZANIA: Bank—$23 million. An industrial complex is to be developed at Morogoro at which presently exported raw materials will be manufactured into processed goods for export. About 1,500 new jobs will be created. Some $11.5 million of the loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $36.2 million.
Nonproject
BANGLADESH: IDA — $75 million. Foreign exchange will be made available so that the country can purchase needed imports— industrial components, raw materials, spare parts, and packaging materials—to enable selected industries to maintain or expand production. In addition, action programs were agreed upon to improve the performance of the jute and cotton textile and pulp and paper industries.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank— $70 million. Egyptian industry will be supported by the financing of part of the current needs of public sector industry for raw materials, intermediate goods, spare parts, and equipment to replace obsolete or worn out machinery; and part of the private sector industry's needs for raw materials, intermediate goods, and equipment. Technical assistance is included.
GUATEMALA: Bank—$26.5 million. Help will be provided for national reconstruction following the February 1976 earthquake. The Bank assistance will help finance the reconstruction
and rehabilitation of housing, schools, and ports —sectors most heavily damaged, and considered to be of high priority in the Government's reconstruction program. Of the $26.5 million total, $20 million will be lent on Third Window terms. The Bank is participating in the reconstruction effort along with the Inter-American Development Bank, the Central American Bank for Economic Integration, the Agency for International Development (US), and the Government of Venezuela. Total cost: $52 million.
TANZANIA: IDA —$15 million. Foreign exchange will be made available so that essential capital and intermediate goods, as well as raw materials for the public and private sectors of the economy can be imported, thus assisting the Government's efforts to restructure its economy in the face of current economic difficulties.
ZAMBIA: Bank —$30 million. Help in financing imports of essential capital and intermediate goods required to maintain a reasonable level of production in agriculture, manufacturing, and mining will be provided. The project aims at assisting the Government's policy of broadening its economic base, thus making it less dependent on copper.
Population and Nutrition
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Bank—$5 million. About 800,000 people will be provided health and family planning services by 1981 in rural areas. The Bank loan, on Third Window terms, will help finance the construction and equipping of 26 rural health clinics and one health subcenter, and radio communication equipment and vehicles; nationwide, it will help finance fellowships to nursing and auxiliary schools to alleviate severe nursing shortages, training and seminars on family planning, a program of community-based distribution of contraceptives, and technical assistance in various fields. Total cost: $7.5 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$24.5 million. A second project in support of the national family planning program in Java, Bali, and 10 provinces in the other islands consists of the purchase of vehicles and equipment for family planning workers, construction and equipping of National Family Planning Coordinating Board facilities, and research studies. Total cost: $60 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$13 million. Institutions responsible for nutrition research and development will be strengthened, and personnel needed to execute a national nutrition program, trained. The project has been designed not only to support the country's overall development program but also to complement current Bank-assisted projects, particularly in the field of agriculture through greater efficiency in food processing, storage and agricultural extension, and greater availability of nutritious food to the poor. Total cost: $26 million.
TUNISIA: IDA—$4.8 million. Supplementary finance will be made to a $4.8 million credit
approved in April 1971 for a population project. The Norwegian Agency for International Development has bought a participation in the full amount of the supplementary credit.
Technical Assistance
BENIN: IDA—$1.7 million. The Societe Nationale pour la Production Agricole will be upgraded so that agricultural projects in Zou and Borgou provinces might be prepared. Consultant services will be provided to make investment proposals for areas cleared of onchocerciasis, and adaptive research in cotton and food crops pursued. The Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation is providing a $700,000 grant to help meet project costs. Total cost: $2.5 million.
CAMEROON: IDA—$4.5 million. A three-year technical assistance program aims at strengthening and improving the operation of key Government services involved in investment and policy decisions and planning. Studies done under the project will help to develop a pipeline of projects for financing by the Government, the Bank, and other donors. Total cost: $6.2 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA —$3.5 million. A three-year program of technical assistance, designed to build the Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural into a strong agency capable of preparing and executing well-conceived rural development projects, particularly in the irrigation sector, will be provided. Total cost: $4.4 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$2.7 million. A team of five professionals—two economists and three sectoral advisers—will be seconded to the Ministry of Planning to help formulate an effective and well-planned development program and to identify and prepare specific investment projects. Local staff within the Ministry will be trained to carry on the work after the experts have left. Total cost: $3.38 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$3 million. Technical assistance will be provided so that high priority projects suitable for external financing can be generated and prepared. The assistance includes preinvestment planning, feasibility and engineering studies, consulting and advisory services, and staff training for agencies responsible for project planning and preparation. Total cost: $4 million.
OMAN: Bank —$1.5 million. Consultant services to prepare an investment program in the power and water supply sectors, for both urban and rural areas, will be provided. Institutional recommendations for the two sectors will also be prepared. Total cost: $2.5 million.
Telecommunications
COLOMBIA: Bank—$60 million. A sizable, unfilled demand for telecommunication services, particularly in small towns and rural areas, will be partially met through the expansion (by
95,000 lines) of existing exchange facilities, connection of about 75,000 subscribers, and the installation of microwave and multiplex equipment. The Inter-American Development Bank is providing a loan of $29 million to help meet project costs. Total cost: $167.7 million.
INDIA: Bank—$80 million. A self-contained part of the Posts and Telegraphs Department's expansion program (which calls for the addition of more than a half million telephone lines between 1977 and 1979) will be financed. The project will help alleviate congestion in city and long-distance telephone networks, improve telex services, and bring telephone service to 220,000 new subscribers. Total cost: $415 million.
Tourism
KENYA: Bank—$17 million. Helping the Government implement its policies on the conservation of wildlife resources and tourism development, the project will help finance a Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute, buses for the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya, and support for antipoaching activities. An added objective is to increase the impact of tourism on the overall development of the economy, with specific emphasis on rural incomes. The loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $36.4 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$42 million. Two areas in Baja California will be developed as tourism sites. Infrastructure and other facilities will be developed for the tourist zones and nearby towns, upgraded airport facilities provided, and a 250-bed hotel built at each site. By 1990, annual net foreign exchange earnings are expected to total about $89 million. Total cost: $84 million.
SENEGAL: Bank—$13.6 million. A tourism project will: (a) help develop the infrastructure and common facilities for a 2,500-bed hotel development at Sali Portudal on the Petite Cote; (b) carry out renovation works on historically important Goree island off Dakar in the Bay of Hann; and (c) provide technical assistance and consulting services to improve planning, promotion, and training in the sector. Some $8 million of the loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $17.3 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$26 million. The first integrated tourism project in Turkey (south Antalya) aimed at the European mass market will be developed. Basic infrastructure and resort facilities will be built at four project sites. Private investors will finance the construction of accommodations. By 1990, some 160,000 visitors (80% foreign) are expected to come to the resort. Incremental net foreign exchange earnings could total $29.3 million by 1993. Some 7,000 hotel jobs will be created, as well as ancillary employment for 6,000 others. Total cost: $66 million.
Transportation
ALGERIA: Bank—$80 million. A new deep water port near the town of Jijel in eastern
Algeria will be constructed, cargo handling equipment acquired, and consultants' services provided. The port is to serve mainly the new Jijel steel complex to be built near the port. Total cost: $352.4 million.
ALGERIA: Bank—$41.5 million. This second highway project provides for the construction of 40 kilometers of roads in the dense traffic corridor between the eastern and western parts of the country (particularly between Algiers and the Tizi Ouzou and Constantine areas), and includes training of personnel and technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works and Construction. Total cost: $101.6 million.
ARGENTINA: Bank—$105 million. About 1,350 kilometers of roads will be improved with the help of this fourth highway loan. The upgraded roads will support existing traffic and facilitate the expected expansion of agricultural exports. The loan will also finance studies and programs aimed at improving transport sector management and operations and investment planning. Total cost: $345.1 million.
BENIN: IDA—$5.5 million. A three-year program for the improvement and maintenance of about 845 kilometers of feeder roads and the maintenance of another 425 kilometers of roadways previously improved under a 1972 IDA credit will be financed. Technical assistance will also be extended to the Ministry of Equipment which, under the project, is creating a specialized division for feeder roads. Total cost: $6.1 million.
BOLIVIA: Bank—$35 million. Equipment and tools for the rehabilitation of railroad track, freight cars, and workshop equipment will be financed, and spare parts bought; technical assistance provided the Bolivian National Railways; and consultant services supplied to the Government for the updating of the National Transport Survey and training for highway maintenance. Total cost: $55.7 million.
BOLIVIA: Bank —$25 million. Two new domestic airports will be built, and major improvements made to two others; navigational aids, communications equipment, and maintenance equipment provided; and technical assistance furnished the Airports and Air Navigation Services Administration. The project will significantly improve access or open up four towns (only one is now connected by road to other parts of the country) with reliable air transport of passengers and agricultural goods. Total cost: $39.5 million.
BOTSWANA: Bank — $20 million. The Mahalapye-Serule section of the arterial North-South road will be improved to all-weather standards, Botswana's road maintenance program will be improved and expanded, and the Roads Department Training School will be strengthened in this fourth road project. Total cost: $26.3 million.
BURMA: IDA—$10 million. The access channel to the port of Rangoon will be deepened. The project will help reduce ship-waiting time,
and will cut shipping costs as larger vessels will be able to use the port and benefit from improved cargo handling. Total cost: $16.1 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$15 million; IDA— $10 million. This second port project will help develop the country's forestry and fishing industry by improving channel access dredging and maintenance, will provide expanded and more efficient facilities for log handling, and
, includes new fishing berths, cold storage, and marketing facilities. In addition, a new dockyard and floating dry dock will be built, road and rail access to the port and within the port
• area improved, and consulting services provided. Seven co-financers are providing $70.9 million towards the project's cost. Total cost: $120 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$90 million. This seventh highway project comprises a rehabilitation program, a vehicle weight control program, a highway maintenance program, the acquisition of vehicles and other needed equipment, and studies for transport sector management. Total cost: $153.75 million.
CYPRUS: Bank—$10 million. Construction will begin on a new highway between Nicosia and the port of Limassol to the south. Feasibility studies for the improvement of the same highway west beyond Limassol to Paphos, and of the highway between Nicosia and Larnaca (today, the site of the country's main airport) are also included. Total cost: $32.5 million.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Bank—$5 million. This first Bank loan in support of transport development in the country is contributing to a project designed to bring about an important improvement in highway maintenance and planning, and assist in small road reconstruction. The loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $8.2 million.
ECUADOR: Bank—$17.5 million. Civil works and related supervision for the construction of a road between Puerto Ila and Doblones (29 kilometers) and 75 kilometers of associated feeder roads will provide access to an area with high agricultural potential. A 25-kilometer four-lane highway access to Guayaquil, the largest export-import center of Ecuador, will also be 'built. Preinvestment and organizational studies for the preparation of a regional secondary and feeder road program are included. Total cost: $38.1 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$32 million. Financial assistance to the first phase (1978-80) of the country's five-year Road Sector Program will be provided. The Program calls for 1,100 kilometers of primary and secondary roads to be rehabilitated or upgraded, 1,400 kilometers of feeder roads and 2,200 kilometers of rural roads to be constructed, and a program of maintenance for both main and rural roads to be undertaken. Technical assistance is to be provided under the project to the Ethiopian Road Authority. Total cost: $333 million.
HONDURAS: Bank—$35 million. Roads, connecting the Olancho region in central Honduras to the capital city and export outlets of the country will be reconstructed and maintained. Maintenance and workshop equipment will be bought, consulting services for the preparation of a highway master plan provided, technical assistance furnished, and a study of an integrated rural development program for the Guayape valley developed. Some $7 million of the loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $51.2 million.
HONDURAS: Bank—$12 million; IDA—$5 million. In this third port project, a new port will be built at Puerto Castilla and the port facilities under construction at San Lorenzo will be expanded, thus providing suitable outlets for export commodities. Five million dollars of the Bank loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $29.9 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$32 million. The country's largest port, Tanjung Priok, will be expanded to: (a) meet anticipated traffic growth;
(b) improve container handling facilities and reduce the turnaround time of container ships;
(c) encourage the use of larger and more efficient ships; and (d) increase efficiency in handling general cargo. Technical assistance will also be provided. Total cost: $79.3 million.
KENYA: Bank—$4 million; IDA—$4 million. Help in implementing the first phase of a rural access roads program will be made available. Over a period of eight years, the program aims at constructing some 15,000 kilometers of rural access roads. Rural employment will be provided, and cash crop and livestock production stimulated. Total cost: $10.1 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$67 million. A second project at Busan port will further develop—through extension of container berths, rehabilitation of piers and wharfs, access road construction, and dredging—the port's capacity to handle the rapidly increasing volume of containerized cargo. Total cost: $112 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$35 million. Improvements will be made to trunk roads in the states of Sabah and Johore. and maintenance programs will be started in Sabah and the states of peninsular Malaysia. The project also includes a transport and railway study for peninsular Malaysia, and an urban study of Sabah's capital, Kota Kinabalu. Total cost: $108 million.
MALI: IDA—$10.5 million. The first three years of the country's 1977-81 railway investment plan will be financed. Track and bridges will be rehabilitated, locomotives and cars bought, equipment purchased, and training and consultants' services provided. Loans and grants totaling $16.1 million will be made available from four co-financers. Total cost: $28.2 million.
MAURITIUS: Bank—$3.6 million. The port of Port Louis will be expanded, its operations made more efficient, and technical assistance provided to the Mauritius Marine Authority. The loan, on Third Window terms, complements
an earlier one of $10 million made for the same purpose in 1974. Total cost: $23.5 million.
OMAN: Bank—$15 million. Through provision of highway maintenance equipment, the training (overseas and locally) of Roads Department staff, and technical assistance to that Department, the Government's capacity to sustain an efficient national transport network will be enhanced. Total cost: $47.1 million.
PAKISTAN: Bank—$35 million; IDA—$25 million. A tenth railway project will help meet increases in demand for freight and passenger service and contribute to the improvement of railway operations. It will effect savings in the operating costs of Pakistan Railways and help avoid diversion of traffic to road transport. Total cost: $247 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IDA—$19 million. The gravel-surfaced Highlands road will be improved by a project which will pave three sections (totaling some 68 kilometers) most urgently requiring upgrading, thus providing the Central Highlands with an all-weather road connection to the coast. Detailed engineering and feasibility studies in preparation for further improvements are included, as are studies to identify and prepare a series of integrated rural development projects. Total cost: $27.5 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$95 million. Ten national road sections in Mindanao and the Visayas, totaling about 500 kilometers, and 16 minor road sections in the same two regions, totaling 230 kilometers, will either be constructed or improved. A road maintenance program, covering some 22,500 kilometers of graveled and paved national roads is also included. Total cost: $196 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$24 million. This first Bank loan to Portugal in the transportation sector will assist in: (a) developing a national program of road rehabilitation and maintenance; and (b) strengthening the country's capacity for carrying out the program and in laying the foundation for coordinated multimodal transport planning. Under the project, national roads in the Lisbon area will be rehabilitated, and equipment provided for road maintenance and for mechanical workshops. Total cost: $49 million.
SENEGAL: Bank—$6 million. Further improvements to and expansion of the port of Dakar will result in greatly increased berthing facilities for and improvement of existing operations of the industrial fishing fleet, avoidance of existing and future congestion at the port's commercial berths, and improvements in productivity of existing fish processing plants, now operating at half capacity. The loan is on Third Window terms. Co-financing will be provided by the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa ($7.2 million), and by the Caisse Centrale de la Cooperation Economique ($6 million). Total cost: $23.95 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$7 million. The Government will be aided in attaining its road development objectives (upgrading the primary road
system and improving maintenance) through a project consisting of road construction, a feasibility study, detailed engineering for upgrading another road, and technical assistance for the Civil Engineering Department of the Ministry of Public Works. The Arab Fund, the Islamic Development Bank, and the African Development Fund are helping co-finance the project. Total cost: $30 million.
SUDAN: Bank—$12 million; IDA—$8 million. The Sudan Railways Corporation's investment requirements during the first three years (1977/78-1979/80)ofthe Government's six-year development plan will be met. Track improvements will be made, workshops constructed, rolling stock purchased, and technical assistance provided. The Bank loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $141.6 million.
TOGO: IDA—$10 million. Two important roads, serving mainly agricultural areas, will be improved. One will connect a food-deficit with a food-surplus area, and will open an isolated, thinly populated area to migration and development. The other serves an important agricultural region and ends close to the site of the CIMAO clinker plant. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $15.3 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA —$20 million. A third highway project will reconstruct to paved standard the Banfora-Bobo Dioulasso-Hounde road, the most important primary road in the agriculturally important southwest region. A road maintenance study, preinvestment studies, and technical assistance will also be provided. Total cost: $29.2 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$6 million. The port of Hodeidah will be developed and the lighterage port of Mocha rehabilitated to its original capacity to meet requirements until about 1985. Technical assistance will be furnished the Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation. Parallel financing of some $12 million is being sought. Total cost: $27.9 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$56 million. Local and international users of the country's highway network will benefit from a project to relieve traffic congestion by the construction of additional traffic lanes and the upgrading of pavement to international standards. Provision is also made for complementary road-user charges and rail cost studies to encourage greater coordination among transport facilities and for technical assistance to the autonomous province of Kosovo to prepare a highway master plan. Total cost: $179 million.
Urbanization
EL SALVADOR: Bank—$6.7 million; IDA —$6 million. A second urban development project consists of the construction of about 8,000 serviced lots (70% in San Salvador), complete with social and economic infrastructure; squatter upgrading; credit and technical assistance to small businesses; and technical assistance to the
project's three executing agencies. Total cost: $24.5 million.
INDIA: Bank—$25 million. Bus services in the Greater Bombay area will be improved, and development planning and traffic management supported. The project is designed to increase mass transit capacity and efficiency in one of India's most dynamic urban regions. Total cost: $50.5 million.
INDIA: IDA—$24 million. Some 240,000 slum dwellers and other poor in Madras will directly benefit from residential sites and services; improvement of slum areas; generation of jpbs in small-scale and cottage industries; and supplementary nutrition, health examinations, and immunizations, as well as health and family planning education. The project also includes rehabilitation and expansion of water supply and sewerage systems; road and traffic improvements; and technical assistance. Total cost: $52 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$52.5 million. A program of public works designed to improve the basic social and physical infrastructure of low-income neighborhoods in Jakarta and Surabaya will be undertaken. About 1.5 million people will benefit from the provision of water supply and sewerage facilities, footpath and road construction, and school and health clinic construction. Technical assistance will also be provided to aid in the design of a national urban development program. Total cost: $104.8 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$44 million. A slum upgrading and sites and services program for about 200,000 people in the Abidjan area is the central feature of an urban development project which also includes the construction of part of the East-West highway running by the city, and the provision of technical assistance to both the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism. Some $14 million of the loan is on Third Window terms. Total cost: $122.3 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
BAHAMAS: Bank—$10 million. This first Bank lending operation in the country will help improve and expand the water supply in New Providence island, locale of Nassau, the country's main tourist center, through a water conservation program, importation of water by vessels from Andros island, the rehabilitation of a flash distillation plant, and improvements to the Nassau sanitary sewer system. Technical assistance is also included. Total cost: $32 million.
BOLIVIA: Bank —$11.5 million. Seventy rural communities, as well as low-income residents of the cities of Potosi and Sucre, will benefit from improved and expanded water supply and sewerage systems. Total cost: $15 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$40 million. Over 1 million people will benefit through the construction of new water and sewerage systems or the exten-
sion or improvement of existing systems in various towns and cities of Minas Gerais—Brazil's second most populous state. The incidence of waterborne diseases should also be reduced. Total cost: $134 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$56 million. A water supply project in Alexandria will help avert acute water shortages and related health hazards and will improve the living standards of the 2.6 million people served by the local water authority. An additional 350,000 cubic meters of treated water will be provided, thus benefiting an additional 1.4 million inhabitants and new industries. Total cost: $121.7 million.
GREECE: Bank—$36 million. Pollution of Salonica and Volos Bays will be reduced through the rehabilitation and extension of the sewer network in Salonica, and wastewater pretreat-ment and the installation of secondary sewers in Volos. More than 800,000 people in the two cities will benefit. Technical assistance will also be furnished to help the Government reorganize and improve its operations in the sewerage sector. Total cost: $113.5 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$7 million. A water supply project will meet the demand for potable water in Blantyre until the mid-1980s, when the city's population will have increased to about 360,000. Health hazards will also be reduced, especially for the 50,000 people now living in unplanned low-income areas without piped water service. The African Development Fund is providing a parallel loan of some $6 million, and the Commonwealth Development Corporation is lending $700,000 to help meet project costs. Total cost: $16.6 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$8 million. An additional 200,000 people will benefit from an adequate supply of safe water and 35,000 additional people will be served by sewerage facilities as a result of this second water supply and sewerage project serving Kathmandu, Kathmandu valley, and Pokhara, as well as the towns of Biratnagar and Birganj. Technical assistance will be provided by the UK. Total cost: $11 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$4 million. Supplementary funding will be made available to further help finance a water and sewerage project, approved in May 1974, in the amount of $7.8 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$23 million. An adequate and safe supply of water in six cities on Luzon island will be provided; a feasibility study for further water supply improvements prepared; studies undertaken on a program to improve sewerage facilities in Manila; and staff trained in this project, which will increase by more than 200,000 the number of people served with good water. Total cost: $38.3 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$9.2 million. The existing piped water system used by 1.2 million people in Colombo and five towns south of the capital will be improved; new water supply systems will be provided 410,000 people in towns north of the capital and in two towns on the southwest coast; engineering services needed to
prepare plans for improved sewerage services will be financed; and technical assistance will be provided to assist and strengthen the National Water Supply and Drainage Board. In addition, Can$5 million from the Canadian Government, and administered by IDA, will help finance the project. Total cost: $42.5 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: Bank—$50 million. Water supply in Aleppo will be increased and expanded into fringe areas of the city occupied mainly by the poor. Sewerage treatment projects for Aleppo and Lattakia will be prepared, and technical assistance provided the State Planning Commission and public construction enterprises. Total cost: $116.8 million.
TANZANIA: Bank—$15 million. The growing town of Morogoro (population 39,000) already has an inadequate supply of water. As a result of this project, supplies of water will be adequate to meet the demands of a city of 66,000 (circa 1986), and will increase sevenfold the amount of water available for industrial and commercial use. The provision of management advisory services and training to the
Ministry of Water, Energy, and Minerals will strengthen the national urban water supply institutions. Total cost: $19.2 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$21 million. Facilities will be constructed to help meet the potable water needs of the majority of people living in the governorates of Tunis, Tunis-Sud, Beja, Jen-douba, and Nabeul to the year 1990. Technical assistance will also be furnished the Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux. The Kuwait Fund is providing co-financing totaling $23.4 million. Total cost: $102.9 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$10 million. A project calling for an improved water supply for the city of Sana'a—through building wells, pumps, transmission and distribution pipelines, and a reservoir—and the first phase of a sewerage system will help meet the city's basic needs for safe water over the next decade. The project includes technical assistance to the local construction industry. The Arab Fund and the Saudi Fund will participate in this project. Total cost: $45.8 million.
Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance
The consultation process between the Bank and its borrowers continued to be a major vehicle for providing technical assistance to developing member countries on socioeconomic development policies, national and regional planning, and project work. In addition, the Bank provided technical assistance components under its loans and credits. In fiscal 1977, 162 lending operations included specific provision for technical assistance for a total of $189 million, as compared with $218 million and 152 operations in fiscal 1976. In addition, six loans and credits were made exclusively for technical assistance purposes. Some of these operations are described in the regional sections of this Annual Report.
Among oil-exporting developing countries who do not borrow from the Bank, technical assistance was extended during the past year to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela. The programs included essentially the same services as would have been provided by the Bank if it had been lending to them; they concerned, in particular, agriculture, industry, education, and transportation. The assistance continued to be extended on a reimbursable basis or with equivalent compensatory arrangements.
The Bank continued to encourage its member countries to seek grant financing for technical assistance from other sources and, in particular, from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the primary source of technical assistance financing within the UN system. The Bank continued to serve as executing agency for a number of UNDP-financed projects, many of which paved the way for subsequent Bank lending. In fiscal 1977, the Bank became agent fpr 10 new projects, for which the UNDP committed $11.4 million, including a $5.2 million grant for a project to strengthen Malaysia's capacity for project identification, preparation, and implementation (the largest project the Bank has thus far executed for the UNDP); $1.3 million for the Master Plan for Water Resources Development and Use in Egypt; $860,000 for a major irrigation study in Nepal; and $500,000 for technical assistance to the National Development Bank in Paraguay.
A significant group of technical assistance projects the Bank carries out as executing
agency for the UNDP and others concerns the strengthening of planning institutions. As experience in lending programs has shown that sustained development frequently requires dramatic improvement in the management of the public sector, the Bank has undertaken to advise governments on plans and planning machinery. The Bank is currently executing agency for planning assistance projects in Liberia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Sudan, Swaziland, Uganda, and Zaire. A planning project was completed this year in Indonesia. The Bank also extended credits to Burundi and Mauritania exclusively to finance technical assistance for planning.
The technical assistance which was provided concerned both comprehensive national planning and regional and sector planning, and involved long-term advisory services as well as short-term consultancies. Training in planning and project preparation has been gaining importance in all technical assistance programs.
In calendar 1976, the UNDP was faced with a temporary financial situation that required significant reductions in its assistance in many developing countries. In order to facilitate the continued execution of many UNDP preinvestment and technical assistance projects important to Bank lending, the Bank agreed to defer calling on the UNDP for funds to cover its disbursements as executing agency, up to an amount of $15 million; about $11.5 million was, in fact, accumulated under these deferral arrangements. By May 1977, the UNDP completed reimbursement of the total amount outstanding, by installments paid before the agreed due dates.
To expand the volume of technical assistance programs and to ensure uninterrupted continuation of ongoing activities supported by the UNDP, the Bank agreed that its borrowers might use the proceeds of loans and credits for "cost-sharing arrangements" to supplement the UNDP's contribution.
Work carried out with UNDP financing led to loans and credits for projects with an estimated cost of $1,600 million during fiscal 1977. This brought to $7,000 million the cumulative total of such follow-up investment.
Economic Development Institute
When the Economic Development Institute (EDI) was established in 1956, one course on
general development for 14 participants was held in Washington. During the past year, EDI conducted 11 courses in Washington for 290 participants and sponsored or supported 24 courses overseas for 621 officials from Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America. As EDI entered its 21st year, more than 5,000 Fellows of the Institute had attended courses in Washington and overseas, with the majority in the past few years attending courses outside Washington.
To increase the number of institutions to which it provides support, EDI has made a deliberate attempt in recent years to transfer teaching capacity to developing countries as rapidly as possible. In a number of countries, EDI now supplies little or no teaching support, but does maintain contact with the local institutions through periodic visits of EDI staff, who advise on curriculum design and teaching materials. To aid in this endeavor, EDI has continued to include, in its Washington courses, an increasing number of participants who will be concerned with in-service training in their own countries. EDI, from time to time, also invites local course directors to the Institute to discuss curricula and teaching methods and material.
In addition to the project analysis courses repeated in fiscal 1976—agro-industry (one each in English and Spanish), industry, education, development banking, rural development (one each in English and French), and rural credit—EDI added two new sector courses in its Washington program, one on urban transport projects, and the other in rail and ports projects. As in previous years, one course on national economic management was held at the Institute.
Of the year's 24 overseas courses, eight were regional courses open to nationals of a number of countries. EDI and the Training Center for Economic Development (CENDEC) of the Brazilian Planning Ministry continued their joint program of two annual courses for Latin American countries (including also Portugal and Equatorial Guinea) with a course on water supply and wastewater disposal and another on agricultural projects. As a part of a two-year training program of agro-industrial projects courses for Latin America, the Inter-American Development Bank and EDI supported courses in Argentina and Costa Rica. The first was for the River Plate basin countries and was co-sponsored by the Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Province of Santa Fe. Argentina. The second, for Central American countries, Panama, and the Dominican Republic, was co-
sponsored by the Central American Institute for Public Administration (ICAP) and the Special Development Fund of the Central Bank of Nicaragua. The Arab Institute for Economic Development and EDI co-sponsored a third course for countries of the Middle East, this year's on agricultural development projects. In the Far East, EDI also assisted the East Asia and Pacific Region of the Bank with a seminar on the management of education projects, held in Singapore for World Bank project managers in the Region. In fiscal 1977, EDI worked, for the first time, with two organizations in developed countries. In Paris, the International Institute for Educational Planning (HEP) and EDI jointly sponsored an education programs and projects course for officials from francophone countries; and under the sponsorship of the Government of Japan, the International Development Center of Japan (IDCJ) and EDI organized an industrial projects course for officials from several Asian, Middle Eastern, and Latin American countries.
Those overseas courses also included EDI assistance to various member countries in training government officials. In Sudan, the Ministry of Finance, Planning, and National Economy and EDI co-sponsored a transportation projects course and a rural development projects course. An industrial projects course was co-sponsored by the Government of Algeria. In Egypt, EDI helped the Institute for National Planning conduct a second rural development projects course. EDI assisted the Romanian Management Train- (. ing Center (CEPECA) with teaching support for two industrial projects courses. Under a joint &fa-$'f training prqgrarri^he J^Wstar^ ' \^ *.'
sion of the Ministry of Finance, Planning, and \ A'' Development and EDI co-sponsored three proj- j j ects analysis courses—agriculture, industry, and j j transportafidn^and a seminar on investment ' ' analysis and decision making^ EDI assisted the Bangladesh Institute for Development Studies (BIDS) in organizing and teaching its first transportation projects course and helped in the preparation of an industrial projects course. BIDS also conducted a fourth agricultural projects course, for the first time without EDI teaching support. In Venezuela, the Central Planning and Coordinating Office (CORDIPLAN) and EDI co-sponsored an agricultural and industrial projects course. Further, EDI continued its association with the National Planning Program in Indonesia, which conducts all its courses in the Indonesian language, and with the International Development Center of Japan in its program for development economists.
80
Other Activities
Aid Coordination
'At the request of both donor and recipient governments, the Bank has continued to take the lead in organizing various aid coordination mechanisms for a number of developing countries which receive assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources. In fiscal 1977, formal meetings of 12 of the aid coordinating groups sponsored by the Bank were held. These were the groups for Bolivia, Burma, Colombia, Egypt, Kenya, Korea, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tanzania, Thailand, and Zaire. The groups for Bolivia, Burma, and Sri Lanka met for the first time in fiscal 1977. The Bank also participated in one meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia, for which the Government of the Netherlands serves as chairman.
An indication of the close cooperation among the various development assistance agencies is the large number of projects which the Bank and IDA helped finance jointly or in parallel with other national or multilateral agencies. Projects were co-financed with the United Nations Development Programme, the World Food Programme, the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA), the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, and various regional financing institutions (the African Development Bank and Fund, the Central American Bank for Economic Integration, and the Inter-American Development Bank), as well as with aid agencies in Abu Dhabi, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Iran, Japan, Kuwait, the Netherlands, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, Venezuela, and the European Cpmmunities. For the first time, projects were co-financed with the Islamic Development Bank. The Bank also continued its efforts to stimulate private investment in Bank-sponsored projects, and during the past year, several projects were co-financed by private commercial banks.
In fiscal 1977, the Bank and the Government of the Netherlands exchanged letters relating to the general scope of future co-financing, and the Government of Canada and IDA concluded an agreement under which IDA agreed to act as administrator for funds provided by the Government and channeled through the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) for the joint financing of a number of projects to be selected with the consent of CIDA.
On a regional basis, the Bank continued its active participation in the country reviews sponsored by the Permanent Executive Committee of the Inter-American Economic and Social Council, and maintained close working relations with regional financing institutions (the African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and the Inter-American Development Bank), which helped assure coordination of development assistance activities between them and the Bank.
Formal consultations were held during the year with the Japanese aid agencies (the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan and the Export-Import Bank of Japan), the Commonwealth Development Corporation, the United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas Development, and the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation, to review questions of common interest and to discuss country and project matters. Regular contacts were maintained with the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, BADEA, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Islamic Development Bank, the Saudi Fund for Development, and the Venezuelan Investment Fund, as well as financing agencies in the OECD countries, to determine possibilities for co-financing of specific projects. In addition, discussions took place with representatives of the newly organized OPEC Special Fund and the International Fund for Agricultural Development to explore avenues for cooperation between the Bank and those organizations.
Interagency Cooperation
The World Bank's policy of cooperation with all agencies engaged in development assistance resulted in an expanded participation during the year in interagency policy consultations, joint operations, research, and conferences, both within and without the UN system.
In response to a proposal made by the Bank, the UN Administrative Committee on Coordination (ACC) established a Task Force whose immediate task will be to devise procedures to facilitate the contribution of the UN system to the formulation and implementation, by national and international bodies, of global targets and
programs for development cooperation. The core membership of the Task Force is comprised of those organizations dealing principally with economic and social development; others will be invited to participate on an ad hoc basis. The ACC also proposed setting up a subcommittee on nutrition, which would have the services of an Advisory Group on Nutrition (AGN). There would be periodic independent reviews of the "state of art" in the nutrition field by an expert group every two or three years. These arrangements would succeed the Protein-Calorie Advisory Group, sponsored by the Bank, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and the World Health Organization (WHO); members of the AGN would be appointed on recommendation by the sponsoring agencies.
A more formal type of arrangement for joint operational activities between the Bank and parts of the UN system is illustrated by four formal Cooperative Programs: i.e., agreed work programs to help governments identify and prepare projects which the Bank might finance, and to support Bank country economic and sector missions. These programs are carried out by a permanent staff unit located in the Bank's partner agency, the costs of which are shared by the Bank and the partner agency, 75% and 25%, respectively.
The activities of the four Cooperative Programs continued to be substantial. The Bank's share of the cost amounted to $5.6 million, compared with $5.5 million in fiscal 1976, and with the fiscal 1964-75 average of $2.3 million.
The FAO/Bank Cooperative Program, the oldest of the four, prepared 30% of the agricultural and rural development projects approved for financing in the year, and carried out 151 missions in 58 countries. The Unesco/Bahk
Cooperative Program, which has been in operation for about as long, provided staff for 67 missions, mainly for sector work and project preparation, in 37 countries. A joint review was undertaken of the Program's activity since its inception, and some changes were proposed to provide for greater efficiency of operations and improved service to developing member countries. The Cooperative Program with WHO, concerned with preinvestment activities in water supply and wastes disposal, was responsible for 13 sector or project surveys in as many countries. The UNIDO/Bank Cooperative program carried out three project preparation and appraisal missions in as many countries, and provided support for five Bank missions for review of the industrial sector in five different countries.
In addition, joint activities of direct or indirect operational significance were carried on by the Bank and these agencies outside the framework of the Cooperative Programs. The agreement reached last year with WHO in the field of health led to six joint missions, as well as to consultations on future programs of potential common interest, and on planning and architectural design of health care facilities. Periodic meetings were held with WHO to review activities of both organizations in the population sector.
There was extensive ad hoc cooperation with the International Labor Organization (ILO), whose staff participated in 10 Bank country, sector, or project appraisal missions. The basis was laid for greater cooperation with the ILO International Center (Turin), in providing technical and vocational training for developing countries' managers. Concern with urban development, employment, and population, led to consultations between the Bank and ILO on research on world poverty based on household surveys, appropriate technologies for the construction of housing, support of the informal sector and
small enterprises, and population planning. Possible joint action in specific urban development projects was envisaged with UNICEF, in addition to current consultations on projects involving maternal and child care, and nutrition. The UN Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) participated in several population program reviews organized by the Bank. (Bank staff also participated in several such reviews organized by UNFPA.)
. Agricultural development was the subject of a number of interagency activities. The Bank provided assistance to the Preparatory Commission of the International Fund for Agricultural 'Development (IFAD), concerned with the administrative and technical aspects of the Fund's prospective operations, and discussed the basis of operational cooperation between the Bank and IFAD. The Consultative Group for Food Production and Investment, organized by the Bank and FAO, held its third meeting to review current and prospective agricultural investment in the developing countries and food production and investment strategies in those countries, and to identify countries with potential for rapid expansion of food production. The Bank continued its participation in the ACC interagency task force on rural development, which launched a six-country review of coordination at the country level; joined FAO in research on farm-level production and employment, and on the improvement of the relative income position of the small farmer; and co-sponsored, with the UNDP and the Rockefeller Foundation, a project to set up an International Center for Cotton Research. The project will be submitted to governments and interested agencies for funding.
To explore the possibilities for, or to develop, interagency cooperation in fields potentially relevant to development assistance, discussions were held with the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization, the International Civil Aviation Organization, the World Meteorological Organization, the International Telecommunication Union, the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), and the World Tourism Organization (WTO).
To increase the efficiency of the interagency network implementing the UNDP's technical .assistance programs, the Bank joined other UN agencies in a two-year UNDP project to develop an improved system of reporting financial and programming information related to UNDP ¦projects; it agreed to serve with ILO as "lead agency."
Bank relations with a number of agencies include joint research on development, either as a main object, or as a component of more comprehensive cooperation. In fiscal 1977, the Bank initiated research designed to contribute to the expansion of the UN National Accounts System through the addition of a social dimension. Joint sectoral research was done on a variety of subjects: export incentives (with the UN Economic Commission for Latin America); evaluation
methodology for education projects (with Unesco's International Institute for Educational Planning); socioeconomic effects of low-cost housing (with UNICEF and the International Development Research Centre of Canada); and urban traffic restraints (with UNEP).
The Bank has continued attending, as an observer, the meetings of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). In addition to regular country aid reviews, many special topics were discussed at DAC with the Bank's active participation; these ranged from evaluation of socioeconomic performance, definition of basic needs, and socioeconomic typology of developing countries, to the attitudes of aid donors toward family planning, the status of public opinion concerning development aid, and the evaluation of capital aid flows. Extensive exchanges of information took place with the OECD and DAC secretariats as well as with the OECD Development Centre.
The Bank prepared substantive material for, and was represented at, the UN World Water Conference in Argentina, and attended the Conference on the Law of the Sea, contributing to the Annotated Directory of Intergovernmental Organizations Concerned with Ocean Affairs. The Bank continued to attend, as a permanent observer, the meetings of three of the four commissions (development, finance, and raw materials) of the Conference on International Economic Cooperation, and acquired observer status in the energy commission, to which it provided data on energy requirements in the oil-importing developing countries.
International Agricultural Research
Annual increases in food production in many developing countries—particularly in the poorest among them—are failing to keep pace with the increases in population. There is an urgent need to increase food production in these countries, particularly by improving crop yields per unit of land. More productive technology is a key element, and research to develop this technology is fundamentally important.
The Bank continues to serve as chairman and, with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), as co-sponsor of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR).
The programs and activities supported by the CGIAR continued to expand in fiscal 1977. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and the Commission of the European Communities became contributing members of the Group in 1977, bringing to 29 the number of members providing funds to the 12 international centers and programs which comprise the CGIAR network. Contributions in calendar year 1977 are expected to reach $79 million, an increase of 22% over the $65 million pledged in 1976.
Included in this total is an amount of up to $8.5 million in grants contributed by the World Bank from the profits transferred by it to IDA. Its contribution is made in two tranches—one in February and another planned for October. The February tranche totaled $5,925,000 and went to:
—the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), based in Colombia: $475,000;
—the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), based in Mexico: $150,000; —the  International Potato Center (CIP),
based in Peru: $700,000; —the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), based in Nigeria: $1,200,000; —the  International  Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA), based in Ethiopia: $1,500,000; —the International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases (ILRAD), based in Kenya: $800,000; —the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), based in the Philippines: $1,000,000; and —the International Centre for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), to be based in the Middle East: $100,000. The allocation of the second tranche, to the extent needed, will be determined in the light of the contributions made by other donors to the programs and activities supported by the Group which include, in addition to those named above, the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), in India, the field trials system of the West African Rice Development Association (WARDA), with its secretariat in Monrovia, Liberia, the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources, whose secretariat is in Rome, and the Current Agricultural Research Information Service, also located in Rome. Together, the programs and activities supported by the CGIAR now embrace the major food crops and ecological zones of the developing world.
Among the most promising developments in the past year has been the success, at ILRAD, in cultivating, for the first time in the laboratory, a form of the trypanosome parasite at a critical stage in its life cycle. At this stage, it contains the antigens necessary for the creation of the antibodies which may make possible the development of a vaccine against trypanosomiasis. This could have significant value in the treatment of sleeping sickness in humans, and in opening major areas of Africa to livestock development.
The Group now has 36 members: 23 countries (including those named to represent the five FAO regional conferences of developing countries), nine international or regional organizations, and four private or public foundations.
New varieties of rice have been introduced to rice farmers as a result of research by the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in Los Bahos, Philippines. IRRI is one of the agricultural research institutes supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). The Bank is one of the three co-sponsors of CGIAR.
Economic Research and Studies
The Bank's formal research program has been in existence for six years; approximately 50 projects have been completed and 75 are ongoing. Publications emanating from the research program are listed in the World Bank Catalog, issued annually. Detailed information on the current research program may be found in the Abstracts of Current Studies, also published annually.
Although there is a broad spectrum of ways in which research projects are implemented, the typical project involves close collaboration between Bank staff and outside consultants, with substantial inputs of time from both. Projects are generally initiated within the Bank and are intended to further the operational and policy interests of the Bank and its member countries in those fields where the Bank has a particular competence or comparative advantage. The range of research topics is wide, as it reflects the whole gamut of policy and operational concerns, from 84
details of project design to choices of development strategy.
The inception of the research program coincided more or less with a growing concern in the Bank and elsewhere with income distribution and, more specifically, with poverty and the measures needed to mitigate it. A considerable part of the resources devoted to research—perhaps as much as a sixth—has been devoted to research on income distribution. Five years ago, there was virtually no hard statistical information on income distribution in developing countries; consequently, much of the effort has been spent in cooperation with other international institutions on the collection, processing, and analysis of raw data in the form of household surveys and the like. A parallel effort has involved the creation of models or historical studies designed to shed light on the impact of public policy instruments on those at the bottom of income distribution groupings. This phase of the work is drawing to a close. An assessment will be made of what has been learned from the research so far undertaken in order to reach a judgment on what the next steps should be.
Several other long-standing projects are also approaching the end of the current phase of Bank support and involvement. These include the study of substitution of labor and equipment in civil construction, which has generated not only numerous reports and technical memoranda, but has also led to demonstration projects to train on-site supervisory staff in the potentialities for labor-intensive construction. Another project has been concerned with alternative designs in highway construction. The main field work, which was carried out in Kenya, has culminated in the development of a model, a complete users' manual, and program documentation for use in project feasibility studies. In order to broaden the geographical scope of the experience, other studies are being undertaken in India and Brazil. Of these, only the Indian study has received financial support from the Bank. One of the largest of the projects undertaken by the Bank is the International Comparison Project, carried out by the UN Statistical Office and the University of Pennsylvania with widespread support from national governments. The first-•stage findings, designed to divorce per capita income comparisons from the distorting effect of market exchange rates, were published in 1975; a report on the second phase is near com-"pletion. After the end of the current and final research phase, it is hoped that the techniques pioneered by the study can be institutionalized.
A significant number of the ongoing projects are directly concerned with issues of poverty. In fact, few, if any, of the projects which have a bearing on the impact of public policy, are so concerned with efficiency as to exclude considerations of equity. Two projects aim at the further development, in a different context, of an agricultural sector model which evolved from an earlier project in Mexico. One application will
examine the programming and design of investment in the Indus basin in Pakistan. Here, the interdependencies are manifold and the choices complicated; the project is specifically designed to examine the tradeoffs between equity and efficiency. The other, with particular emphasis on agricultural pricing policies, is being undertaken in Zambia. The importance of agricultural price and subsidy policy has been underlined by the existence of a shorter-range project in which a number of country case studies are being undertaken. Among the projects with a bearing on rural development, an inquiry into the effects of technological innovation in agriculture represents a new departure; an attempt is being made to identify the factors influencing the pace and the way in which new technology is absorbed and the policy measures that might affect these factors.
One of the obstacles preventing the supply of public services from reaching the poor has been the establishment of standards of service borrowed from developed countries. The poor cannot afford these standards if supplied at cost; subsidization for more than a few beneficiaries is usually much too expensive. A number of research projects have set out to explore the possibility of delivering services at a lower—but more affordable—standard; this has been, or is being done in such fields as sites and services projects, electricity distribution and, in a limited context, water supply. A new research project will utilize the experience gained in a number of physical projects undertaken by the Bank to explore the whole system of water supply and waste disposal to determine the appropriate technology for different circumstances, in particular, in densely populated slum areas.
Little is known about the factors which influence demand and supply of labor in the urban informal sector nor is much known about the influence on the informal sector of the so-called modern sector. A new research project will attempt to fill this "empty box"; it will start with two case studies in Latin America and will use all the available, but scattered, information to put together a set of employment accounts on as disaggregated a basis as appears feasible or useful. It is hoped that, once this initial phase is completed, the inquiry into the way in which urban labor markets work can be integrated into another research study, now just beginning. This latter study, of which only a first exploratory phase has so far been approved, is, in its broad conception, the ambitious one of studying a single city in a developing country as an economic entity. Individual subjects, such as housing, job location, transportation, labor force characteristics, and public expenditure, will initially be studied in their own right, but because the research is being done mainly in one city, the study can take advantage of a common statistical base and the opportunity to observe the interactions which are known to exist but are hard to identify with any precision.
One of the manifestations of poverty is malnutrition. One study completed during the year examined the cost effectiveness of programs to eliminate undernutrition. The study drew attention to the fact that it is not only the available food supply, but also, its distribution, which affects nutrition. Another project, which, to a certain extent, is an outgrowth of the earlier project on capital/labor substitution, has examined the effects of deficient diet and endemic diseases on labor productivity. The Bank is also participating with The Johns Hopkins University in the analysis of a unique body of data, gathered over nine years in a group of Indian villages provided with family planning and health (including nutrition) services.
Operations Evaluation
The Bank's operations evaluation system has continued to develop along the lines set forth in the "Standards and Procedures" approved by the Executive Directors in April 1976 and published in June 1976. The principal developments this past year have been in the further strengthening of the Bank's mechanisms for self-evaluation and for reviewing and absorbing the lessons of Bank operating experience.
The Central Projects Staff have introduced what are, henceforth, to be yearly reviews of project performance audit reports in individual sectors. The purpose of these reviews, in which appropriate staff from the regional projects departments and from the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) participate, is to examine current operational policy and practice in particular sectors in the light of experience with completed projects in that sector. The conclusions of these reviews will, henceforth, be reflected in OED's annual reviews of project performance audit reports. These reviews complement the examination of current operational experience conducted by the operating staff during the regular semi-annual review of implementation and supervision problems of projects. Operational feedback from project performance audit reports has also been strengthened by requiring that all new Board documentation for "repeater" projects, which constitute a large proportion of Bank lending, refer explicitly to the experience and lessons of earlier projects in the sector.
As the projects for which the Bank provides financing are the projects of the borrowing countries, and represent concerns of priority in their development efforts, the Bank's evaluation function would be incomplete if the countries themselves did not play a role in it. Increasingly, monitoring and evaluation functions are being established as integral parts of projects, to enable the progress of the project to be monitored and its impact evaluated during implementation and after completion. An increasing number of countries are also introducing more centralized monitoring and evaluation functions to cover their
sectoral or national investment plans. In the past fiscal year, the Bank has initiated a dialogue with a number of borrower countries on this function, to identify its nature and scope and how it may be strengthened so that the countries themselves may more effectively monitor and evaluate their major development projects, including those supported by the Bank.
The evaluation system remains comprehensive in its coverage of completed Bank-assisted and IDA-assisted projects. Close to 100 projects were reviewed in fiscal 1977. In addition, and in order to keep the Bank's policies and procedures under review in a wider perspective, broader reviews of Bank operations also continue to be made. These broader evaluations and operational policy reviews are part of OED's continuing effort to help enhance the effectiveness of the Bank's work.
The Joint Audit Committee of the Board of Executive Directors has maintained continuing oversight of this work program and of its effectiveness. The conclusions of the Joint Audit Committee, the report of the Director-General, Operations Evaluation, on the status of the Bank's evaluation system, and OED's annual review of project performance audit findings were all reviewed by the full Board of Executive Directors.
Internal Auditing
The Internal Auditing Department also performs an evaluation function within the Bank, with emphasis on the systems and procedures and related internal controls used in the conduct and management of Bank operations. Department Directors and other levels of Management are provided with periodic and independent audits and appraisals of activities within their respective areas of responsibility, including the identification of possible means of improving the efficiency and economy of operations and the use of resources.
The principal responsibilities of the Department are to: (a) review and determine the soundness, adequacy, and application of systems, procedures, and related internal controls, and to promote effective control at reasonable cost; (b) review and determine the extent of compliance with various governing agreements or instruments and related decisions, regulations, policies, plans, and procedures of the Board of Governors, Executive Directors, and Bank Management; (c) review and determine the extent to which assets are accounted for and safeguarded from losses of all kinds, including, where applicable, the effective utilization of these resources; (d) review and determine the reliability and validity of significant accounting, financial, and other data used by Management; and (e) recommend improvements in order to strengthen internal control, improve administrative efficiency, and eliminate any uneconomical use of re-
sources. In order to maintain its independence and objectivity, the Department has no direct responsibility for developing and installing changes in systems, procedures, and internal controls which it would be expected to review.
The Department's overall work program covers a wide range of financial, accounting, administrative, and other Bank activities, some of which are reviewed on an annual basis, whereas others are reviewed biennially, or every three years. In carrying out each assignment, the Director of the Department and members of his •staff, as appropriate, have unrestricted access to all Bank records, documents, and personnel relevant to the activity under review. Where relevant, the Department coordinates its annual work program with the Bank's external auditors, and its working papers and reports are made available to the external auditors to assist them in planning and conducting their examinations of the annual financial statements of the Bank. Liaison also is maintained with the Bank's Executive Directors through its Joint Audit Committee.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
By June 30, 1977, 67 States had ratified the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States, and are thus members of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). Five additional governments had signed but not yet ratified the Convention. The Centre's own Annual Report provides details of its membership and affairs.
Bank and IDA Membership
The Comoros joined the Bank on October 28, 1976, and Guinea-Bissau joined the Bank on March 24, 1977 and IDA on March 25, 1977, bringing total membership in the Bank to 129 and in IDA to 117.
At the end of the year, action was pending on membership in the Bank for Cape Verde, Maldives, Sao Tome and Principe, and Surinam, and in IDA, for Comoros, Maldives, and Sao Tome and Principe.
Borrowings and Finance
Income and Expenditures: Bank
Net income of the Bank was $209 million in fiscal 1977, down $11 million, or 5%, from net reported in the previous year.
As a result of net translation adjustments arising from currency appreciations and depreciations, the Bank's General Reserve was debited in an amount of $ 10 million in the fiscal year, which compares with a similar debit of $151 million in fiscal 1976. In fiscal 1977, an amount of $120 million derived from net income in 1976 was allocated by the Executive Directors to the Bank's General Reserve.
The Bank does not speculate in the currencies of its member countries. Under present policies, adjustments arising from the translation of currencies to US dollar equivalents would not now, or in the future, result in realized gains or losses such as would result from the conversion of currencies into US dollars. Accordingly, translation adjustments, with the exception of those relating to capital subscriptions, are charged or credited to the General Reserve rather than to income.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board in the United States requires that foreign currency translation adjustments be included in the determination of net income for the period in which they occur. In view of the character of the Bank as an international institution and its related policies, the Bank does not deem the statement of the Board to be applicable to it. The independent auditors of the Bank have concurred with this conclusion. On June 30, 1977, the General Reserve of the Bank amounted to $1,733 million.
The Bank's gross revenues increased $287 million in fiscal 1977 to a new peak of $1,617 million. The level of gross revenues has risen steeply over the past 10 years as loans and investments have expanded, and in fiscal 1977, were more than four and one-half times greater than in fiscal 1968.
Investment income amounted to $536 million, up $111 million, or 26%, in the year. Average realized return on investments, including net capital gains, was 7.4%, compared with 7.3% in fiscal 1976. The increase in average return was largely due to a substantial rise in net gains from sales of investments, which amounted to $81 million in fiscal 1977, compared with $41 million the previous year. Additional revenues were derived from the increased amount of in-
vestments held. The Bank's investments rose $1,543 million during the year to a total of $7,833 million on June 30, 1977.
In fiscal 1977, for the first time, income on loans passed the $1,000 million mark, rising $176 million to a total of $1,073 million. The average return on outstanding loans in the period was 7.4%, compared with 7.1% the year before. Virtually all of the increase can be attributed to the rising level of disbursements on loans granted in previous years.
The new lending rate formula that became effective on July 1, 1976 had a minimal effect on loan income in the year. The formula, which provides for a positive spread of 0.5% between the Bank's own borrowing costs and the interest charged on its loans in the member countries, applies only to loans granted after the above date. Consequently, the formula's impact on revenues received from loans will become evident as disbursements increase on loans granted in fiscal 1977 and in subsequent years. In July
1976, the interest rate on Bank loans was fixed at 8.9%; in October 1976, the interest rate fell to 8.7%. Three months later, the interest rate dropped to 8.5%. For the last quarter of fiscal
1977, the interest rate was 8.2%. The decrease in the interest rate charged on the Bank's loans reflected a decline in the cost of borrowings to the Bank during the fiscal year.
Other income of the Bank was $9 million.
Expenditures of the Bank amounted to $ 1,408 million, an increase of $298 million, or nearly 27%. A rise of $279 million in interest and issuance costs on the Bank's borrowings, to a total of $1,266 million, accounted for most of the increase in expenditures in the year. Continuation of the heavy marketing program that has added $8,828 million to outstanding borrowings in the last three fiscal years, was the principal cause of the rise in fixed charges.
Persistent inflation and the continuing expansion in the Bank's loans and other operations caused a further increase in administrative costs of the Bank in the year. These costs totaled $141 million, up $19 million, after deducting $72 million received as a management fee charged to the International Development Association and $1.7 million paid to the Bank by the International Finance Corporation for service and support.
The Bank's Board of Governors approved a transfer of $100 million from net income for fiscal 1976 as a grant to IDA.
Other Financial Operations: Bank
Loans held by the Bank on June 30, 1977 totaled $31,088 million, including loans not yet effective, and $1,378 million of exchange adjustments arising principally from changes in currency valuations over the last six years. Effective loans held by the Bank aggregated $26,522 million, after excluding $512 million of effective and outstanding loans to the International Finance Corporation, of which $405 million had been disbursed.
Disbursements on loans of $2,636 million in the year were at a record level and were $166 million higher than in the previous year. This amount was, however, less than had been anticipated earlier. General world economic conditions are seen as the prime reason for this; other multilateral agencies, too, have found their disbursements to be substantially below earlier projections. Aggregate disbursements since the start of operations were $22,247 million.
The Bank's borrowers repaid $773 million of principal in fiscal 1977: $709 million to the Bank and $64 million to investors who had purchased portions of loans. Cumulative repayments on the Bank's loans amounted to $8,014 million at year's end: $5,658 million repaid to the Bank and $2,356 million to purchasers of loans.
Sales of participations in new loans and of maturities from the Bank's loan portfolio were at the highest level in more than a decade. The total for the year, $ 183 million, compared with loan sales of $42 million in fiscal 1976. The increase in volume reflected a higher degree of liquidity in commercial banks throughout the world, the principal purchasers of these items. After cancellations and adjustments for changes in value of nondollar currencies, the cumulative total of loans sales amounted to $2,742 million on June 30, 1977.
The level of the Bank's liquidity position is determined by an established policy which requires it to maintain liquid holdings, at any given time, equal to a minimum of 40% of estimated borrowings for the subsequent three years. The ^objective of this policy is to ensure that the Bank is in a position to adequately meet temporary downward fluctuations in cash flow. The World Bank's liquidity position rose $1,554 million in the year to $7,949 million on June 30, 1977.
The Bank's Borrowings—Fiscal 1977
Borrowings by the Bank in fiscal 1977 were at a new record level for the fourth consecutive year; borrowings in the markets of Germany, Switzerland, and the United States were at new peaks, as well.
In the year, 39 issues, aggregating the equivalent of $4,721 million, were offered or placed by the Bank, up $910 million over the previous year. The sum of gross borrowings in the five fiscal years 1973-77 was $15,618 million, more than two and a half times greater than borrowings in the preceding five fiscal years. The sharp rise in borrowings coincided with the steep climb in the Bank's loan operations, which necessitated greater resort to the capital markets to finance the growth in lending.
The principal source of borrowed funds to the Bank in the year was the investment markets, on which the Bank sold 28 issues totaling the equivalent of $3,545 million, equal to more than 75 % of total funds raised through borrowings.
Governments and central banks, which, in the period fiscal 1973-75, supplied the bulk of borrowed funds, purchased $1,138 million of Bank issues in fiscal 1977, about 24% of the year's total and $213 million less than in fiscal 1976.
Borrowings in the petroleum-exporting countries, amounting to $395 million, were $50 million lower than in fiscal 1976 and nearly $1,600 million lower than in fiscal 1975. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency purchased the equivalent of $179.5 million of the Bank's obligations, including three US dollar issues with maturities ranging from eight to 10 years, and a six-year Swiss franc issue amounting to SwF75 million. A further $216 million of two-year US dollar bonds were placed with governments and official agencies of 13 petroleum-exporting countries, including Saudi Arabia.
Other governments and official agencies purchased $743 million equivalent of Bank obligations, including: Germany—DM500 million of five-year notes by the Deutsche Bundesbank to refinance an equal amount of maturing notes; Japan—¥2,000 million of serial obligations that will mature in 1982/83 by The Bank of Japan to refinance an equal amount of maturing serial obligations; Yugoslavia—$100 million of US dollar notes that will mature in 1980/84; and $434 million of two-year US dollar bonds by governments and official agencies in 69 countries, and by regional and international organizations.
Sales of issues in the investment market were confined to Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Of the issues sold in the investment market, $2,302 million was distributed by means of public offerings, and $1,243 million by private placements with financial institutions.
The US investment market was the largest supplier of borrowed funds in fiscal 1977, as in fiscal 1976. Eight issues, aggregating $1,850 million, were sold by means of three public offerings: (a) $750 million of bonds and notes, divided into three $250 million tranches of 8% five-year notes, 8.375% 10-year notes, and 8.85%) 25-year bonds; (b) $500 million of bonds and notes, divided into two $250 million tranches of 7.80% 10-year notes and 8.375% 25-year
bonds; and (c) $600(1) million of bonds and notes, divided into three $200 million tranches of 7% five-year notes, 7.65% 10-year notes, and 8.25% 25-year bonds.
The Bank sold 14 issues in the German market, totaling DM2,900 million, equal to $1,192 million. Included were three public offerings amounting to DM900 million: DM250 million of 7.75% seven-year bonds; DM250 million of 7% 10-year bonds; and DM400 million of 6.50% 10-year bonds. The Bank placed privately 11 issues, totaling DM2,000 million, in the market in Germany: DM1,100 million with banking institutions and DM900 million with central savings institutions.
It placed three issues with the Deutsche Bank amounting to DM650 million, including an 8% six-year note issue and two eight-year loans bearing interest rates of 7.25% and 8%. A further DM450 million was placed jointly with the Deutsche Bank and the Dresdner Bank, including 7.75% six-year notes, 6.75% seven-year notes, and ah issue of 6.50% eight-year bonds.
Placements with members of the German Savings Banks Association included: The Deutsche Girozentrale-Deutsche Kommunalbank, a DM200 million loan divided into two DM100 million tranches—DM100 million at 7.40% maturing in 15 years, and DM100 million at 7.40%, maturing 1988/97. The Deutsche Girozentrale-Deutsche Kommunalbank also extended two existing loans it had made previously to the World Bank. They totaled DM350 million, and bear interest at 5.60% and 6%.
The World Bank placed DM200 million of 8.125% nine-year notes with the Bayerische Landesbank Girozentrale; and DM150 million of 7% eight-year bonds with the Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank.
During the year the Bank borrowed SwF 1,250 million, equal to more than $502 million in the market in Switzerland. Two public offerings included an issue of SwF 100 million of 6.50% 15-year bonds and SwFlOO million of 5.25% 15-year bonds. An additional SwF 1,050 million of obligations were placed privately in Switzerland: SwF350 million of 6.125% six-year notes with Swiss Bank Corporation, Union Bank of Switzerland, and Swiss Credit Bank; SwF 100 million of 6.125% six-year notes with Swiss Bank Corporation; SwF500 million of 5.375% five-year notes with Union Bank of Switzerland, Swiss Credit Bank, the Swiss Bank Corporation; and SwFlOO million of 5.375% seven-year notes with Union Bank of Switzerland.
The Bank further increased its borrowing from the Interest Subsidy Fund, provided by contributions of various member countries to finance the differential between the Bank's standard rate and a lower rate charged certain bor-
0> The $600 million offering of bonds and notes, which was made on April 19, 1977, was credited to the borrowing program for the fiscal year 1978.
rowers on so-called "Third Window Loans." In fiscal 1977, the borrowing consisted of a $37.5 million US dollar loan from the Interest Subsidy Fund to the World Bank. Aggregate borrowings by the Bank from the Subsidy Fund were $167 million on June 30, 1977 at an interest rate of 8.50%, with maturities ranging from 1977 to 2001.
Sales of Bank obligations in the year included $3,805 million that represented new borrowings, and $916 million replaced maturing obligations. In fiscal 1976, issues sold to raise new funds amounted to $2,906 million and refundings to $905 million.
Debt maturities in the fiscal year amounted to $1,385 million equivalent. A substantial portion were bonds held by central banks and notes held by the Deutsche Bundesbank. Five market issues also matured in the period in an amount of $543 million equivalent. Included were $275 million in bonds and notes previously sold on the US market; DM350 million of loans previously placed with a Girozentrale in Germany; and SwF300 million of notes previously placed with a banking institution in Switzerland.
An additional $78 million of debt was retired in fiscal 1977 by means of sinking fund and purchase fund operations.
Outstanding obligations of the Bank increased $3,831 million equivalent, to an aggregate of $18,478 million as of June 30, 1977. On that date, estimates indicated that 28% of the Bank's obligations were held by investors in the United States, 24% in Germany, 9% in Japan, 8% in Switzerland, and 7% in Saudi Arabia. The remaining 24% of outstanding borrowings were held by investment institutions, including central banks and government agencies in more than 80 countries.
Borrowing Costs: Bank
The Bank's borrowing costs in the fiscal year, weighted by amount and maturity, averaged 7.85%, compared with 8.48% in the preceding year. The average cost of all funds to the Bank, including paid-in capital and accumulated earnings, which are cost-free, was about 5.94%, compared with 5.62% at the end of fiscal 1976.
Capitalization
The authorized capital of the Bank was increased in fiscal 1977 by $8,444 million (in terms of current US dollars) to $41,016 million. This action stemmed from a resolution transmitted to the Board of Governors by the Bank's Executive Directors in May 1976, that called for such an increase. The required approval of the resolution by Governors exercising three-fourths of the voting power in the' Bank was obtained in May 1977.
On approval of the increase in authorized capital, two other resolutions that had previously been approved, became effective. One provided
that up to S8,340 million of selective increases in subscriptions to capital be allotted to 125 member countries; the other permitted members to exercise, at their option, and in lieu of the selective increases authorized for them, preemptive rights as stockholders to maintain the proportion of their equity and voting power in the Bank.
Nine countries have indicated they intend to exercise their preemptive rights and, as a result, the total of increased subscriptions to be allotted rose by about $189 million to $8,529 million.
The Bank's Articles of Agreement provide that the amount of loans outstanding is limited to the sum of its capital and retained earnings; it has also been the long-standing policy of the Bank that when individual member countries accept special increases in their quotas in the International Monetary Fund, they are expected to request special increases in their capital subscriptions in the World Bank. A resolution to increase quotas in the Fund was approved by its Board of Governors in March 1976.
Legislative or other required action by the individual members in subscribing to additional capital may be taken up to October 1, 1980, or such later date as approved by the Executive Directors. The resolution covering the selective increases authorizes a maximum increase in subscription for each member country, which may be taken up by that member in whole or in part, from time to time throughout the subscription period, or not at all.
The Bank's subscribed capital*2' was increased by $7.2 million in the fiscal year. Included were the original subscriptions of the Comoros ($1.6 million) and Guinea-Bissau ($2.7 million), which became members during the period. The remaining $2.9 million represented an increase in the capital subscription of Senegal to $36.2 million. This last increase was received by the Bank under a resolution adopted by the Board of Governors in December 1970, which enabled the Bank to accept selective increases in subscriptions to its capital stock by 75 members. Sixty-six had been accepted by the end of fiscal 1977 for a total of $1,904.5 million. The Bank's subscribed capital, on June 30, 1977, totaled $25,589 million in terms of 1944 US dollars, and $30,869 million in terms of current dollars.
Figures in this paragraph are expressed in terms of US dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944. In April 1976, the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund approved proposed amendments to the Fund's Articles of Agreement which will become effective upon their acceptance by 60% of its members representing 80% of the voting power. Under these amendments, currencies will no longer have par values, gold will be abolished as a common denominator of the monetary system, and all calculations for purposes of the Fund's Articles will be made on the basis of the Special Drawing Right (SDR). The Bank has under consideration the effect of these amendments on the valuation of the Bank's capital and the rights and obligations of members with respect thereto. If the SDR were to be substituted for the 1944 dollar in the Articles, it is not expected that this would have a material effect on the financial position or results of the operations of the Bank. If such a substitution were to have taken place on June 30, 1977, the Bank's subscribed capital stock, expressed in current dollars, would have been $29,833.3 million.
Finances: IDA
Credits totaling $11,707 million were held by the Association on June 30, 1977, including credits not yet effective and exchange adjustments of $485 million. Effective credits amounted to $10,950 million, including $3,515 million as yet undisbursed. Credits approved but not yet effective were $757 million at year's end.
Disbursements were at a record $1,298 million, an increase of $46 million over fiscal 1976. Aggregate disbursements as of June 30, 1977 were $7,503 million. In the five fiscal years ended June 30, 1977, IDA disbursed $4,780 million, equal to nearly four times disbursements in the previous five years.
The total of resources provided to IDA increased $277.4 million in the period, after taking into consideration a net increase of $52.6 million in the value of resources made available by members in previous fiscal years. The World Bank granted $100 million to IDA from its fiscal 1976 net income, of which $90.5 million was for the general purposes of the Association and $9.5 million for grants by IDA for agricultural research and onchocerciasis control.
Resources of $115.7 million became available to the Association from the Italian Government's notification of its participation in the Fourth Replenishment.
Norway made $4.8 million available to IDA in fiscal 1977 by purchasing, on a grant basis, a participation in a credit to Tunisia. The participation was taken under the terms of the aid cooperation agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and the World Bank and IDA. To June 30, 1977, aggregate participations by Norway under the agreement were $22.4 million.
Other resources that became available to IDA during the fiscal year totaled $13.8 million and were derived from releases by Part II countries and cancellations of and repayments on credits, after taking into account a net decrease of $7.7 million in resources provided by operations.
On June 16, 1977, the Board of Governors adopted a resolution providing for a Fifth Replenishment of the Association's resources, as agreed upon by representatives of 26 nations in Vienna. Under the resolution, a total of $7,638 million equivalent would be contributed by 21 Part I countries, four Part II countries, and one nonmember country—the United Arab Emirates.
Pending the effectiveness of the Fifth Replenishment, however, a number of donor governments have indicated that they would be willing to provide commitment authority to IDA by making advance contributions. As a condition for this "bridging arrangement," contributing governments must commit themselves to making advance contributions in an aggregate amount of not less than $1,200 million equivalent.
No subscriptions and contributions would become payable unless members, including at least 12 Part I members, whose subscriptions and contributions aggregate not less than the equfva-
lent, determined on the basis of exchange rates at March 14, 1977, of $6,000 million, shall each have given the IDA, on or before September 30, 1977, or such later date as the Executive Directors may determine, formal notification that it will make both the subscription and contribution authorized for such member in accordance with the terms of the resolution. These notifications may provide that payment of the second and the third installments of the subscription and contribution of any member is subject to appropriate legislative action. The replenishment arrangements provide that unless unqualified notifications are received covering at least 80% of the second and third installments respectively, the Association cannot enter into new unqualified commitments to be drawn on the particular installment.
Foreign and International Bond Markets— Calendar 1976
Borrowing in foreign and international bond markets'3' rose substantially in 1976, although at a slower rate than in the previous year. Volume of new issues reached a new record of $34,174 million, an increase of $11,380 million, or 50% over borrowings in 1975. This compares with an expansion of more than 80% in 1975 when
W The terms "foreign" and "international" in this context refer to issues sold outside the country of the borrower: foreign, if sold in one national market; international, if in more than one.
many issuers turned to these markets to ease balance of payments difficulties.
With the deceleration of the rate of growth of the markets, there appeared to be a greater stability in the source of borrowed funds. Volume of foreign bonds in the United States was 61% above the 1975 level, compared with an increase of 90% from 1974 to 1975. Foreign bonds in European and other markets were 48% higher, compared with a 30% increase in 1975, and those on international markets increased 43%, compared with a 133% rise in the previous year.
Borrowings by issuers in the industrialized countries were $23,753 million, equal to 70% of total transactions during the year, and an increase of $7,478 million, or 46%, over volume in 1975. Issues by borrowers in the industrialized countries of Europe rose $2,163 million to $9,955 million; those by borrowers in other industrialized countries were $13,798 million, a gain of $5,316 million over borrowings the year before.
A total of $8,013 million was borrowed by international organizations, an increase of $2,683 million, or 50%, over 1975. Of this amount, $3,003 million went to European institutions, which was 81% more than the amount they issued the previous year. The European Economic Community used foreign and international bond markets for the first time in 1976 to raise an aggregate of $1,095 million through four issues in the United States and in international markets. The European Coal and Steel
Community and the European Investment Bank raised $1,115 million and $675 million respectively through several issues throughout the year, and the Council of Europe offered $117 million in foreign and international bonds.
The remaining $5,010 million by international organizations went to development institutions. World Bank borrowings of $4,118 million were $1,172 million higher than in 1975. Regional development banks also increased their borrowings through the issuance of bonds: the Asian Development Bank raised $385 million and the Inter-American Development Bank $507 million for a combined increase of $199 million over the 1975 level.
Bond issues by developing countries totaled $1,829 million, approximately 5% of total issues in 1976, and $1,067 million higher than in 1975. Most of these funds were borrowed internationally, and well over three-quarters of the issues were offered publicly. These numbers indicate, in part, a potential for use of bond markets as a supplier of funds for development, at least in times when the markets are strong.
Foreign Bonds
Sales of foreign bonds in all markets in 1976 increased $6,805 million to $19,079 million. Sales in the United States rose $4,167 million to $10,995 million; those in Europe, $2,638 million to $7,402 million; and those in other foreign markets remained the same at $682 million.
Foreign Bonds: the United States
The volume of foreign issues in the United States rose 61% to a record $10,995 million, of which $6,527 million was sold by public offering and $4,468 million by private placement. As in previous years, Canadian issuers and the World Bank were the largest borrowers in the United States, accounting for 67% of total transactions.
In 1976, Canadian issuers almost doubled their previous year's borrowings to a total of $6,080 million. Provincial and local governments and public enterprises again accounted for most of Canadian borrowings, with issues aggregating $4,563 million. Three very large private placements by public utilities totaled $2,150 million, and counted heavily toward this increase.
Other major borrowers in the United States among the industrialized countries were issuers from France ($630 million, up $395 million), Australia ($415 million, up $150 million), Israel ($321 million, up $78 million), Japan ($293 million, up $193 million), and the United Kingdom ($268 million, down $32 million).
Borrowings by international organizations totaled $2,275 million, an increase of $350 million over 1975. World Bank borrowings amounted
to $1,250 million, all of which were sold by public offering. Other international organizations tapping the US market in 1976 were: the European Coal and Steel Community ($325 million); the Inter-American Development Bank ($250 million); the Asian Development Bank ($175 million); the European Investment Bank ($175 million); and the European Economic Community ($100 million).
The only borrowing by an issuer from a developing country was $367 million by the National Power Corporation of the Philippines. This issue was sold in several parts, with maturities ranging from 11 years to 15 years, six months and initial offering yields from 8.05% to 8.25%.
It was the first public issue ever to carry the complete guarantee of the US Export-Import Bank, and was very large compared with other issues by developing countries. Proceeds were used to finance a nuclear power project in the Philippines.
Foreign Bonds: Europe
Switzerland was again the largest and most active market for foreign bonds issued in Europe. Bonds sold on the Swiss market amounted to $5,328 million, and accounted for 66% of all foreign issues outside of the United States. This volume represented an increase of 51% over the amount sold in 1975, which already had increased 263% over foreign issues in Switzerland during 1974.
Approximately 175 issues by borrowers in 21 countries and six international organizations were sold in Switzerland in 1976. French issuers were the largest borrowers with $227 million in public issues and $645 million in private placements. Japanese issuers were next, with a total of $559 million. A further $2,674 million was offered or placed by borrowers in other industrialized countries, and $223 million by European institutions.
Borrowing for development in Switzerland aggregated $672 million: $359 million by the World Bank; $110 million by the Inter-American Development Bank; $171 million by public enterprises in Mexico and Spain; and $32 million by the Asian Development Bank.
Foreign bonds issued in other European markets aggregated $2,074 million, and consisted of $741 million of public issues and $1,333 million in private placements. Foreign issues sold in Germany in 1976 totaled $1,270 million, or more than twice the amount sold the previous year. With the exception of two issues by the European Coal and Steel Community ($90 million) and one by Eurofima ($38 million), all other issues, amounting to $1,142 million, were by international development institutions. Issues on the Netherlands market were $655 million, up $420 million above the 1975 level, and went largely to borrowers from Scandinavia and the
United Kingdom, and to the World Bank. Issues in France rose $20 million to $76 million; in Italy, they declined $73 million to $8 million; and in Luxembourg, they also declined—$19 million to $27 million. A total of $38 million was sold on the Austrian market, which has had no foreign issues since 1973.
.Foreign Bonds: Other Markets
Borrowings in other foreign markets in 1976 were limited to issues by governments and international organizations. Volume on the Japanese market was the equivalent of $287 million, down $54 million from 1975. The amount included an aggregate of $102 million by three developing countries—Brazil, Mexico, and Singapore—and a total of $118 million by the Asian Development Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, and World Bank.
In Saudi Arabia, $264 million was raised by the World Bank through special placement with the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. The Asian Development Bank raised $31 million in Saudi Arabia in a similar way. The Yugoslav market also provided funds to international development institutions by allowing a $100 million private placement by the World Bank with the Banque Nationale de Yougoslavie.
International Bonds
Volume of international bonds was higher by 43% in 1976 than in 1975, a year in which volume had risen 133%. Public offerings, amounting to $11,702 million, were 74% higher than those offered in 1975, while the level of private placements actually fell—from $3,788 million to $3,393 million—in 1976.
Almost all classes of issuers increased their borrowing activity, although at varying rates. Proportionally, the greatest increase was by developing countries, which more than doubled the amount borrowed in the form of international bonds. As a group, these countries borrowed $1,190 million internationally in 1976, accounting for 8% of total international bonds, ?compared with $458 million, or 4% of the total in 1975.
Mexican borrowers led the group with $276 pillion in new issues: $241 million by public offering and $35 million by private placement. All Mexican borrowings were made by either the Government or public institutions, and were used for purposes of economic development.
Other major borrowers among the developing countries were issuers in Spain ($192 million, up $74 million); Brazil ($159 million, no international bonds in 1975); Singapore ($141 million, up $129 million); and Algeria ($109 million, up $74 million). Nine other developing countries issued an aggregate of $313 million in international obligations to be used for various purposes.
International bonds by development institutions were $1,024 million. The World Bank increased the principal amount of its two-year US dollar "special placements" with governments, central banks, and international institutions to $894 million from $590 million. The Asian Development Bank issued $96 million in international notes, and the Inter-American Development Bank borrowed $34 million internationally in 1976.
Other international organizations tapping the international market as a source of funds in 1976 were: the Council of Europe ($68 million, up $40 million), the European Coal and Steel Community ($462 million, up $173 million), and the European Investment Bank, whose borrowings of $381 million were virtually the same as in 1975. In the first and second quarters of 1976, the European Economic Community issued its first bonds on this market in a three-part offering totaling $995 million. The bonds were part of a total of $1,300 million intended for Italy ($1,000 million) and Ireland ($300 million) to help finance their balance of payments deficits. The arrangement consisted of two public bond issues, one for DM500 million ($195 million) and one for $300 million, a $500 million private placement, and a $300 million Eurocurrency credit. The aforementioned public offerings were the largest ever made on the international bond market.
Sales of international obligations by industrialized countries were up 29% over the level in 1975 to a total of $10,791 million. Canadian, French, and Japanese issuers accounted for more than half these borrowings, with bonds totaling $5,454 million. Canadian borrowers issued the equivalent of $3,005 million, $1,861 million higher than in 1975. This amount included $1,400 million of public offerings denominated in Canadian dollars. Issuers from Japan (88% private enterprises) sold $1,156 million in international issues, a gain of $18 million over 1975. French borrowers also expanded their borrowings slightly from $1,228 million in 1975 to $1,293 million in 1976. Public enterprises and regional entities in France borrowed $660 million, state and local governments, $25 million, and private companies, $608 million.
Other industrialized countries obtaining more than the equivalent of $500 million from the international bond market in 1976 were Norway ($787 million), the United Kingdom ($751 million), Australia ($602 million), and Sweden ($588 million). Sales of international obligations by United States' issuers were up $92 million to $405 million, but still far below the levels before 1974, when US corporations or their financial subsidiaries were major borrowers in the international market.
The US dollar and Deutsche mark continued to be preferred currencies for denomination of international bonds, and 84% of all issues were in those currencies. The volume of US dollar
issues rose sharply in the year, amounting to $9,798 million, an increase of $4,876 million over the year before. Bonds denominated in Deutsche mark were $2,844 million, a decrease of $255 million from 1975.
Canadian dollar issues rose $884 million to $1,450 million, of which $1,400 million, as noted before, was borrowed by Canadian issuers, and $50 million by the European Coal and Steel Community. This is in contrast to bonds denominated in US dollars or Deutsche mark which are issued by borrowers of diverse nationalities. Netherlands guilder issues were down $160 million to the equivalent of $467 million, and Kuwaiti dinar issues were up $140 million to $304 million.
The only new currencies to appear on the international bond market in 1976 were the United Arab Emirates dirham and the Australian dollar. All bonds denominated in dirhams were issued by borrowers from developing countries. The issues, sold as both public offerings and private placements, included borrowings by: Compagnie Nationale Algerienne de Navigation, $25 million; Ljubljanska Banka, $20 million; and Caisse Nationale d'Epargne Loge-ment de Tunisie, $25 million. The one issue to be denominated in Australian dollars was by the Australian Industries Development Corporation for $19 million.
The popularity of composite currencies diminished in 1976 after growing in 1975. Only five issues were denominated in composite units for a total of $103 million. These were all denominated in the European Unit of Account and went to borrowers from Scandinavia.
Bond Markets—1977
Borrowing in foreign and international bond markets amounted to $16,777 million during the first half of 1977, 9% below the level of borrowing recorded during the first six months of 1976. There was a noticeable shift away from bonds issued in national markets to those issued in the international market. Foreign bonds totaled $6,557 million, considerably less than the $10,011 million borrowed during the first half of 1976. International bonds increased 21%, with total borrowing amounting to $10,220 million, as compared with $8,420 million during the first six months of 1976.
As in 1976, industrial countries and international organizations issued over 90% of all foreign bonds, with borrowing by industrial countries amounting to $4,275 million and international organizations' borrowing amounting to $1,922 million.
Foreign bonds issued in the United States declined to $3,643 million during 1977 from the $5,923 million mark of the first half of 1976. This 40%) decline was mainly due to the low level of borrowing by Canadian borrowers. Canadian issues were $1,353 million during
1977, 61% below the $3,434 million during the first half of 1976. Other foreign bonds issued in the US totaled $2,290 million during the first half of 1977, compared with $2,488 million during the first six months of 1976.
Over 60%, $1,788 million, of borrowing in other national markets was in Switzerland. This amount was about 35% below the $2,731 million borrowed in Switzerland during the first half of 1976. Foreign bonds were also issued in Germany ($379 million); Saudi Arabia ($230 million); the Netherlands ($155 million); Japan ($114 million); Luxembourg ($27 million); and Italy ($15 million).
International bonds totaled $10,220 million, 68% of which were issued by industrial countries. Major borrowers included Canada ($1,223 million); Norway ($797 million); the United Kingdom ($717 million); the United States ($683 million); and Sweden ($764 million). Major borrowers during the first half of 1976 were Canada ($1,981 million); France ($803 million); Japan ($687 million); Norway ($491 million); and the United Kingdom ($429 million).
Developing countries borrowed $1,245 million, 12% of all international bonds, and more than double the $438 million they borrowed during the first half of 1976. The most active borrowers were Brazil ($312 million); Mexico ($275 million); Hong Kong ($107 million); and Venezuela ($100 million).
International organizations borrowed $1,438 million during the first half of 1977, 28% less than the $1,999 million they borrowed during the first six months of 1976. During both periods, the European Economic Community was the most active borrower, raising $995 million during the first half of 1976 and $600 million during 1977. The proceeds from its recent public offerings will be re-lent to member states experiencing balance of payments difficulties.
During the first half of 1977, the most widely used currencies in the international market continued to be the US dollar and the Deutsche mark. US dollar-denominated bonds amounted to $7,046 million (69%), and Deutsche mark-denominated bonds amounted to $2,117 million (21%). In April, the European Investment Bank completed the first Euroyen bond issue in the international market. At the present time, Euroyen bonds can be issued by international institutions which have borrowed in the yen-denominated Japanese market.
Syndicated Eurocurrency Credits
Borrowings in the form of Eurocurrency credits amounted to $28,675 million in 1976, an increase of $8,121 million, or 40% from the previous year. This volume was almost identical to the level reached in 1974, when industrialized countries made great use of these markets for balance of payments financing.
Developing countries borrowed $17,536 mil-
lion in publicized Eurocurrency credits, an increase of $5,072 million, or 41%, over 1975. A large portion of this increase was accounted for by higher-income countries, which borrowed $6,429 million in 1976, compared with $3,236 million during 1975. Four countries borrowing very large amounts in 1976 were Spain ($1,872 million, up $865 million), Iran ($1,431 million, up $1,186 million), Venezuela ($1,099 million, up $899 million), and Argentina ($1,044 million, up $1,010 million). Other developing coun-
tries borrowed $11,107 million, an increase of 20% over the level of 1975.
Other borrowings in 1976 included $7,716 million for industrialized countries (up $2,647 million over 1975), $2,466 million for countries with centrally planned economies (down $191 million from 1975), $580 million for corporate borrowers whose activities could not be allocated by country (up $281 million over 1975), and $377 million for international organizations (up $312 million over 1975).
Executive Directors
Executive Directors
With the exception of certain powers specifically reserved to them by the Articles of Agreement, the Governors have delegated their powers for the conduct of the general operation of the Bank to a Board of Executive Directors, which performs its duties on a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters.
The Executive Directors consider and decide on the loan/credit proposals made by the President. Policy is broadly decided by the Directors within the framework of the Bank's Articles of Agreement. The Executive Directors are also responsible for presentation to the Board of Governors at its Annual Meetings of an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and an Annual Report discussing the operations and policies of the World Bank, and any other matter that, in their judgment, requires submission to the Board of Governors at the Annual Meetings or otherwise.
There are 20 Executive Directors: as provided in the Articles of Agreement, five are appointed by the five members having the largest number of shares, and the rest are elected by the other members.
During fiscal 1977, the Executive Directors met 76 times in formal sessions. They considered a wide range of policy questions bearing on the Bank's operations, and reviewed and approved 161 Bank loans, including 11 on Third Window terms, and 67 IDA credits, and 37 borrowing transactions in Germany, Japan, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, the United States, and Yugoslavia, as well as two central bank issues. A $20 million loan by the Bank to the International Finance Corporation met with approval.
Also approved were the Bank/IDA operating programs and administrative budgets for fiscal 1978. They also agreed to set the level of Bank lending for fiscal 1978 at $6,100 million. They further agreed that they would endeavor to reach an agreement by June 30, 1978 on a further capital increase for the Bank, although an earlier decision might be possible.
They also completed a series of other major actions affecting the transfer of resources to the developing countries. In a report on the Fifth Replenishment of IDA, of particular importance to the poorest countries of Africa, Asia, and Latin America, they recommended to the Gov-
ernors a $7,638 million replenishment of IDA resources for the three-year period July 1, 1977 to June 30, 1980, and approved arrangements to maintain IDA operations in the transition between the Fourth and Fifth Replenishments.
Among other policy matters, the Executive Directors approved per capita income guidelines for operational purposes, grace periods and final maturities on fiscal 1977 Bank loans, procedures for investment by the Bank and IDA of their liquid funds, and measures to create employment through small-scale enterprise development; they reviewed, in mid-year, the fiscal 1977 operating programs and administrative budget, and reviewed, during the year, the annual report on the Bank's research program, program lending policy and practice, and project implementation and supervision procedures.
The Executive Directors made two grants for international agricultural research and a grant for control of onchocerciasis in West Africa. With the growing importance of co-financing, the Executive Directors approved special IDA co-financing arrangements with Canada that, it was hoped, might prove a pattern for similar arrangements with other countries. In order to further assist member countries with their development, the Executive Directors approved an additional commitment authority of $7.5 million for the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, thereby increasing to $12.5 million the funds available for advances under special circumstances to developing countries to assist in the preparation of projects for Bank and IDA financing.
In April 1977, the Executive Directors unanimously adopted a resolution reappointing Robert S. McNamara as President of the Bank for a further term of five years beginning April 1, 1978. Mr. McNamara will also serve as President of the International Finance Corporation and IDA.
In addition to formal regular meetings, the Executive Directors met as the "Committee of the Whole" for discussion of various matters prior to their consideration for formal action. They also met informally as frequently as required; topics covered included the valuation of the Bank's capital, and the report of the External Advisory Panel on Population.
The Executive Directors continued to give particular attention to operations evaluation in
the Bank and considered the annual report of the Director-General, reviewed project performance audit results, and approved the fiscal 197778 operations evaluation work program.
Concerning the Development Committee, the Directors approved, jointly with the Directors of the International Monetary Fund, a report to the Governors on the review of the performance of the Committee, and revision of the fiscal 1977 budget of the Development Committee Secretariat. They participated in the Development Committee meetings held in Manila and Washington.
They received progress reports on the establishment of the International Fund for Agricultural Development and the UN World Water Conference, held in Argentina.
A list of all Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors, showing their voting power and the countries they represent, with notations of changes since the last regular election of Executive Directors, appears on page 167.
Joint Audit Committee
The Joint Audit Committee was established in 1970, essentially to represent the Bank's shareholders in maintaining vigilance over the soundness of the Bank's financial practices and procedures. Its responsibilities include the duty of nominating a firm of private, independent, internationally established accountants to conduct the annual audits of the Bank, IFC, and IDA, to discuss with them the scope of their examination, to review with them the annual audited financial statements and the opinions thereon, and to report to the Executive Directors. In addition, through frequent meetings with
the Bank's senior financial officers, the Committee seeks to ensure that the Bank's financial affairs are properly conducted.
It is also charged with the responsibility of satisfying itself that the Bank's internal audit and operations evaluation are adequate and efficient. It reviews the work programs of the Internal Auditing and Operations Evaluation Departments, the work in progress, desirable standards, and procedures of reporting. In line with its expanded terms of reference, it reviews most papers produced by the Operations Evaluation Department and identifies those giving rise to policy issues which can be considered by the Executive Directors. Since Project Performance Audit Reports are prepared on all completed projects, the volume of reports to be considered by the Committee is increasing. To facilitate its work, the Committee, in fiscal 1977, established informal working groups, which can be attended by other interested Executive Directors, to review various groups of reports.
The Committee provides a continuing channel through which the internal and external auditors may communicate with the Executive Directors should the need arise. The Committee also periodically reviews the adequacy of the flow of financial information to the Executive Directors in order that the Board may discharge properly its responsibilities with respect to the financial policies of the Bank. It meets as frequently as necessary, but at least once a month. The Committee consists of six Executive Directors appointed by the Board for a term of two years after each regular election of Executive Directors. In December 1976, Jacques Henri Wahl was selected to serve a second term as Chairman of the Committee.