Summary and Background of the Year's Activities
The Year in Brief
In fiscal 1978, the World Bank, together with its affiliates, the International Development Association (IDA) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), made lending and investment commitments totaling $8,749.1 million.(1) This amount was $1,475.6 million more than in fiscal 1977.<2>
One hundred thirty-seven Bank loans to 46 countries totaled $6,097.7 million, a gain of $339 million over fiscal 1977.
Ninety-nine IDA credits to 42 countries amounted to $2,313.0 million, up $1,005 million over fiscal 1977. Considerably more resources were available to IDA during the year; fiscal 1978 was the first year in the three-year period of the Association's Fifth Replenishment. Resources currently available to IDA for the period fiscal 1978-80 total $7,731.7 million.'3'
The IFC made 41 investments amounting to $338.4 million in 31 countries. In fiscal 1977, the Corporation's loan and equity investments totaled $258.9 million.
Net income of the Bank was $238 million, up $29 million from the previous year. Gross revenues totaled $1,947 million, and were at a record high.
During the past year, the Bank borrowed the equivalent of $3,636 million; a total of 28 issues were offered or placed by the Bank. The year's borrowing program had been $4,200 million; of that amount, $600 million was borrowed before the fiscal year began in order to take advantage of favorable factors in the United States investment market.
(For further details of the Bank's finances, see the chapter, "Borrowings and Finance" in this Annual Report.)
Bank disbursements in fiscal 1978 totaled $2,787 million, up 5.7% over the previous year. IDA disbursements were $1,062 million, a drop of 18%. These disbursements were below expectations. The possible causes for the lower-than-expected totals are varied, and the weight that should be attached to each is difficult, if not impossible, to determine. A review by the Bank of the causes of the slow growth rate in disbursements indicates that implementation of many Bank-assisted projects has been adversely affected as borrowing governments have tried to adjust to inflation, to balance of payments
difficulties, and to rising budgetary deficits. In adjusting to inflation by reducing expenditures, and in adjusting to balance of payments difficulties by cutting back on domestic credit expansion, governments have found that counterpart funds needed for the full financing of Bank-and IDA-assisted projects are in short supply; this shortage, of course, affects project implementation. The review also shows that disbursements in certain major sectors, particularly agriculture, will, for several years, be somewhat lower than would be expected on the basis of past disbursement experience. "New-style" projects are not only technically complex; they also involve new agencies and institutions carrying out new activities to benefit groups of people previously considered outside the reach of most government programs. Delays in disbursements can reasonably be expected to fade as borrowers and the Bank gain experience in project execution. The Bank is actively seeking advice from several of its borrowers on how its disbursement procedures may be accelerated in the future.
Net transfers of resources by the Bank and IDA to member countries during the year (disbursements minus repayments of principal, interest, and other charges) totaled $1,598 million, as against $2,078 million in fiscal 1977.
Technical assistance activities by the Bank continued to increase in fiscal 1978. Technical assistance was the exclusive purpose of two loans and one credit, for a total of $20.3 million, as compared with six operations, amounting to $16.9 million, in fiscal 1977. In addition, technical assistance components were included in 151 operations, for a total of $230 million, compared with 162 operations, for $189 million, in fiscal 1977.
(1> The fiscal year of the World Bank, as well as its two affiliates, runs from July 1 to June 30.
(2) Since the real value of loan commitments by the Bank and IDA is eroded to the extent that cost inflation occurs over the period of disbursements, it is the practice of the Bank to make allowance for inflation at the time of commitment. The deflator now used to express lending in real terms is a weighted average of the price levels assumed to be prevailing over the period of the execution of a project. If fiscal 1978 Bank and IDA commitments were to be expressed in terms of 1977 dollars, they would be $7,931 million, or 5.7% lower in real terms.
<:r> The use of $3,439 million of this amount for the extension of credits is subject to certain conditions (see page 12).
Note on dollar amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of this Report refer to current United States dollars. Where Special Drawing Right (SDR) amounts are used for the capital of the Bank and the subscriptions and contributions through the Third Replenishment of IDA, one SDR equals 1.23953 current United States dollars. In previous Reports, dollar amounts used for Bank capital referred to United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944 (1944 dollar), while those used for IDA subscriptions and contributions, with the exception of the Fourth and Fifth Replenishments, referred to United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January ], 1960 (1960 dollar). For all practical purposes, they were the same, and at June 30, 1977, equaled 1.20635 current United States dollars.
For a more detailed discussion, see Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G for the Bank and Appendix F for IDA.
There are no differences in the way IDA credits and Bank loans are processed; the same standards are used to assess the soundness of both Bank and IDA projects. The two institutions support projects in the same sectors. Yet the sectoral composition of Bank loans and IDA credits shows noteworthy differences. Those differences result from the varying economic priorities of Bank borrowers and IDA borrowers.
Because the demand for IDA assistance has always exceeded the supply of available funds, IDA credits are severely rationed; few credits are approved to countries with per capita income levels above $520 (in 1975 dollars). (Guyana was the only country in this category to which an IDA credit was extended in fiscal 1978.) A chief characteristic of the economies of many of these countries is low agricultural productivity. Thus, some 58% of IDA credits approved in fiscal 1978 were for agriculture and rural development. Bank lending in the sector, on the other hand, was 32% of the total. Middle-income and upper-income developing countries generally have more industrialized economies than do the poorest countries; thus, Bank lending in the industrial development and finance and industry sectors in fiscal 1978 accounted for 20% of total commitments. Only 5% of IDA commitments were for such development.
The Internationa] Finance Corporation—the World Bank affiliate responsible for assisting the economic development of its less developed member countries by promoting the growth of
their private sectors—significantly increased its investment activities during the year. The dollar volume of investment approvals by the Corporation's Board of Directors increased 31% over the previous year to $338.4 million, and the number of investments approved increased 21 % to 41. The greatest part of the increase in the number of investments approved was due to the Corporation's accelerated efforts in Africa and the Central America/Caribbean region.
The total cost of IFC projects approved during the year was $1,871.8 million, raising the cumulative total to $10,904.4 million.
In fiscal 1978, IFC made its first investments ever in five countries: Lesotho, Mali, Swaziland, Trinidad and Tobago, and the Yemen Arab Republic, Mali and the United Arab Emirates joined the Corporation during the year, bringing total membership to 108.
The acceleration and broadening of IFC's operations reflect the increase in its authorized capital from $1 10 million to $650 million, approved by the Board of Governors during fiscal 1978. With the additional resources now being made available to it by the capital increase, IFC has embarked on a program to intensify and diversify its assistance to developing member countries.
A separate Annual Report, detailing IFC's operations for the year, is published by the Corporation.
Future Role of the Bank; Increase in Capital
In March 1977, when the Executive Directors accepted planning assumptions for commitments by the World Bank of $6,100 million in fiscal 1978 and $6,800 million in fiscal 1979, they also agreed to make their best efforts to reach an agreement by June 30, 1978 regarding a General Capital Increase. Concomitant with these negotiations, there was to be a discussion of the future role of the Bank and of the range of financial options needed to support that role.
It was understood that the decision to accept a planning assumption for Bank commitments in fiscal 1979 in the amount of $6,800 million was tentative, and that the Executive Directors would not be committed to such a figure if there were no substantial progress on the General Capital Increase by the end of fiscal 1978.
During fiscal 1978, progress was achieved, through informal discussions, on the subject of the General Capital Increase. The need for the Bank to have a General Capital Increase sufficiently large so as to permit its lending to grow in real terms over the next five years was endorsed. The Executive Directors will continue their discussions of the future role of the Bank and of the appropriate size of a General Capital Increase. Against this background, therefore, the Executive Directors agreed to a commitment
figure of $6,800 million for Bank lending in fiscal 1979. This figure will be reviewed in midyear so as to permit the Executive Directors to take account of the progress in discussions surrounding the General Capital Increase.
Discussions on the Bank's future role, as noted in the Bank's A nnual Report for fiscal year 1977, will be set against the background of significant changes in the size, regional distribution, sectoral composition, and character of the Bank's operations—changes that have made the Bank's operations more responsive to the developmental objectives of its member countries. In fiscal 1978, two issues also received attention, both within and outside the Bank, namely those of human rights and staff compensation. The former has not been formally discussed within the Bank; the latter has.
In order to determine what constitutes the appropriate scale of staff compensation, the
Executive Directors of the Bank, jointly with the Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund, established in August 1977, a committee to study the issue of staff compensation in the two institutions. The 15-member committee (consisting of five members each from the Boards of Executive Directors of the Bank and Fund, plus five outside experts) is expected to make its recommendations to the two Boards during the first half of the 1979 fiscal year. The chairman of the committee is Alexandre Kafka, an Executive Director of the Fund.
IDA: the Fifth Replenishment
All four prior replenishments of the Association became effective when donor countries, whose contributions aggregated about 80% of the total replenishment, deposited formal notifications that they would make the contributions
authorized for them in the respective resolutions. In the Fifth Replenishment, however, a different effectiveness procedure was agreed to. The Fifth Replenishment provided for contributions totaling $7,637,855,000, and was to become effective when donor countries, whose scheduled contributions totaled in the aggregate at least S6,000 million, gave IDA formal notification that they would pay the contributions authorized for them under the Fifth Replenishment Resolution; the agreement did permit donors to qualify this notification by making their commitment to pay the second and third installments (but not the first) subject to their obtaining appropriate legislative action. The Fifth Replenishment became effective on November 29, 1977. Prior to that date, IDA had been able to extend credits under a Bridging Arrangement in which 12 countries made advance contributions, totaling about SI,300 million.
In connection with its participation in the Fifth Replenishment, the United States notified IDA that it would pay the amount of $800 million (representing the first installment of its contribution) and that, subject to obtaining the necessary appropriations, it would pay the remaining $1,600 million. The notification by the United States is thus qualified with respect to SI.600 million of its contribution. The Fifth Replenishment Resolution provides that unless unqualified commitments are received covering, in the aggregate, at least 80% of the second and third installments, respectively—a level that cannot be reached without unqualified commitments by the United States—the Association may not enter into new credits, disbursements for which would be drawn from those installments, unless the credits are qualified in a manner whereby they become effective and binding on the Association only when unqualified commitments covering at least 80% of the respective installments have been made.
When the terms of the Fifth Replenishment of IDA were agreed upon in Vienna in March 1977. $51.7 million of the total replenishment amount of $7,638 million remained unallocated among IDA donors. Since that time, six countries—Australia, Ireland, Kuwait, the Netherlands, Norway, and the United Kingdom—have made additional contributions totaling $45.5 million. In addition, the government of Saudi Arabia informed the Association in April 1978 of its decision to increase its contribution to the Fifth Replenishment by $100 million.
Subject to the qualifications noted, up to June 30, 1978, resources totaling $7,731.7 million (at IMF representative exchange rates of March 14, 1977) are expected to be made available to IDA for lending during the period, fiscal 1978-80. Against this amount, commitments of about $2,300 million were made in the first year of the replenishment period.
1977: Continued Growth, Persistent Problems
During the year, the Bank continued to monitor the effects of world economic trends on the developing countries. By analyzing trends in savings, investment, production, consumption, exports, and capital flows for developing countries representing about 87%; of both the population and gross national product of the developing countries, the Bank made a general assessment of the medium-term (to 1985) prospects of those countries following their adjustments to the mid-decade period of inflation and recession.
The analysis showed that the effects on the developing countries of the oil price increases, of crop failures, and of the recession in the developed countries were generally less serious, and the adjustment was less painful, than many had feared. As a group, the developing countries fared better, in terms of real growth in gross domestic product (GDP), than the developed countries during 1974 and 1975. In human terms, however, even the relatively small declines in the growth rates of developing countries tended to slow down the pace of alleviating the conditions of poverty that are so widespread in those nations.
A major conclusion that emerges is that, in general, developing countries have shown an ability not only to continue their long-term structural adjustments in the face of the recession, but also to ride out fluctuations in the world economy. Looking to the mid-1980s, therefore, the Bank believes that the more rapidly growing developing countries are likely to be able to maintain their rates of growth, and that some increase of growth can be expected in the slower-growing countries.
A recent updating of the data, based on figures for calendar 1977, tends to confirm these conclusions. Preliminary data indicate that developing countries, as a whole, continued to outpace the industrialized world in terms of economic growth in 1977. The only significant change in the medium-term outlook occurred within the lower-income developing countries, the statistics for which are dominated by India. Recent advances in the Indian economy (discussed in detail in the "South Asia" chapter of this Annual Report) promise more rapid growth over the medium term.
As always, the economies of developing countries were greatly influenced during 1977 by the events in the industrialized countries. Continued economic growth in industrial countries acts to enhance the prospects in the developing world for improved demand for exports, higher levels of development assistance, and access, by some countries, through migrant workers, to the labor markets of developed nations. Initial growth,
followed by stagnation, tends to affect adversely developing nations more than if economic growth were to follow a moderate but steady path. Extra export earnings, for instance, garnered by developing countries during an initial boom period, often do not match the losses in such earnings that occur during periods of slackening growth. Thus, an increase of only 3.5% during 1977 in the real gross national product (GNP) of those countries that are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)—as opposed to growth of GNP of more than 5% in 1976— limited the gains recorded by developing nations during the year.
The slow pace of growth of the OECD nations in 1977 was reflected in a slackening in the growth, by volume, of world trade. In 1976, a year of partial recovery from the recession years of 1973-75, world trade increased by 12% in volume, and by about 14% in US dollar value. In 1977, however, growth in the volume of world trade was only about 4%, far below the post-World War II period average of 7.2%. But the US dollar value of exports from developing countries (excluding capital surplus oil exporters) rose rapidly, by about 14%, in 1977. The export performance of the low-income countries and intermediate middle-income countries exceeded the average, rising 22% and 17%, respectively, while that of the upper middle-income countries was slightly less than 10% . The export performance of the lower middle-income countries was close to the average.
The continued increase in these values suggests that the competitiveness of developing country exports is not a transitory phenomenon, but is one that is likely to continue—barring increases in trade barriers. During 1977, however, additional trade barriers imposed by industrial countries were largely directed against products such as steel and motor vehicles; thus, they affected other industrial, rather than developing, countries. A major exception to this pattern has occurred through restrictions imposed upon exports by developing countries of clothing and textiles. Exports of these items have been governed by the Multi-Fiber Agreement, negotiated in 1973, under which quantitative limits on trade can be imposed in each defined subcategory for each pair of trading partners. A new agreement, negotiated at the end of 1977 for the period 1978-82, is more restrictive than the old one, and, in addition, it is being applied to many more countries, including those that are not yet major exporters. While citing a notional guideline of 6% annual growth for all exporting countries taken together, it leaves considerable scope for the importing countries to set lower limits through bilateral negotiations.
Improvements in the terms of trade of devel-
oping countries in 1977 were small (slightly over 2% ) but widespread, and affected not only middle-income countries that arc increasing their sales abroad of manufactured goods, but many of the poorest nations that export primary agricultural products, as well. The improvement reflected upward movements in the prices of a wide range of the exports of developing countries. The available evidence indicates that, in 1977, US dollar prices of manufactured exports rose about 9%. The aggregate price index of 34 commodities (excluding petroleum) rose by 25%.
The commodity price gains were led by sharp advances in the prices of beverages (a 72% increase), fats and oils (a 26% increase), and some metals, led by tin, lead, and bauxite. Cereal prices, however, reflecting favorable weather conditions, and sugar, continued to decline. Other foods prices also declined, and most raw materials prices, both agricultural and industrial, showed only marginal increases from their average 1976 levels.
Nominal petroleum prices, on average, rose a little—around 8%— in 1977. But oil consumption increased only slightly, reflecting the slowdown in economic activity in the major oil-importing countries, particularly in Western Europe. The current account surplus of the 12 largest oil-exporting countries declined by 55,400 million—to just under $30,000 million—because their imports remained large.
Because many commodities fluctuate widely in price, most developing countries arc becoming increasingly aware of the need to pursue programs designed to diversify their production. Unfortunately, however, countries that depend on exports of two or three products are often those that can least afford the uncertainty of fluctuating market prices. Some of the poor countries in sub-Saharan Africa—where the difficulties in expanding manufactured exports are particularly great—depend heavily on exports of cocoa, copper, or sisal, whose prices have been among the most volatile in recent years. During the period, 1973-75, for instance, copper accounted for about 90% and 70% of the exports of Zambia and Zaire, respectively. Of Ghana's exports, 60% were cocoa, which also represented nearly 20% of the exports of Benin and Togo. Almost 60% of total sisal exports came from Africa — primarily from Angola, Lesotho, and Tanzania. Such dependence on a very few export products whose prices vary widely means that a country's balance of payments position will be particularly vulnerable to the vicissitudes of the international market. Its ability to plan long-term development programs can thus be seriously impaired.
Trade improvements in 1977 in developing countries were accounted for by increases in both primary and manufactured exports.
Although figures relating to growth in manufactured exports by the developing countries are still lacking, larger-than-average increases in export values registered by countries in 1977 such as Korea and Mexico (around 18% and 20%, respectively) suggest that exports of manufactures expanded at a fast rate.
The percentage increase in import values of goods by the nonoil developing countries was exceeded, for the second straight year, by that of exports. Nonetheless, trade deficits for 1977 totaled $12,700 million. This deficit was more than $3,000 million less than in 1976, and was but half the 1974-75 average. Import growth in 1977 was especially strong, however, in lower-income and lower middle-income countries. Import demand in those countries was stimulated by the fact that imports had been contained in the previous year to reduce heavy trade imbalances recorded in 1974 and 1975.
Since 1975, rapidly increasing export earnings by developing countries, coupled with only moderate growth in imports, has helped reduce, to a remarkable extent, current account deficits of many nonoil developing countries. During
1975, when the worldwide recession was at its height, and when adjustment measures taken in the wake of increasing petroleum prices had only begun to be formulated, the aggregate current account deficit of all nonoil developing countries rose to a record $37,300 million. In
1976, the deficit dropped by almost $12,000 million; this downward trend continued through
1977, and the aggregate deficit was reduced to $22,000 million. This is about the same proportion of GNP as in the early 1970s.
Further reductions may be difficult to achieve; data for early 1978 suggest that import expansion may well catch up with export growth, and that a reversal in recent terms of trade improvements may push the trade deficit of the nonoil developing countries higher once again. A fall in beverage prices in 1978—data for early 1978 show a fall in those prices from 1977 levels— would, for instance, have a particularly strong adverse effect on the trade balance of the upper-income and intermediate middle-income developing countries. A modest rise in the aggregate current account deficit is not likely to create widespread difficulties in these countries, however.
Analysis of recent and prospective financing flows suggests that available receipts of capital and aid could cover a $30,000 million aggregate deficit on current account without visible strain. Indeed, in both 1976 and 1977, some countries with ready access to capital markets were able to borrow abroad substantially more funds than they needed to meet their collective current account deficit; as a result, they added the difference to their reserves. Analysis also suggests that, after allowing for growth and inflation, a
modest rise in the aggregate current account deficit would not be unduly high in real terms, and that an increase could be viewed as a return to traditional levels after sharp fluctuations above (1975) and below (1977) the norm.
One problem returned during 1977 after a decline over the past three years: a resurgence of inflation. The return was widespread; of the 88 nonoil developing countries for which consumer price indexes are available, 50 showed higher inflation rates than in the year before. In 1976, 62 countries experienced lower rates of price increases than in the previous year. Excluding certain Latin American countries with atypical inflation rates, the weighted average rate of inflation was 21% in 1977, up six percentage points from 1976.
The Bank's overall studies of developing country economies in 1977 point to the fact, therefore, that, on average, recovery from the recession years of 1973-75, begun in 1976, continued, and that prospects for 1978 are likely to be unchanged. But the continued growth of developing country economies is a fragile one, and aggregate figures obscure the fact that many social and economic problems cannot be eliminated by rising commodity prices, reduced current account deficits, and expanding trade.
Agricultural production remains barely ahead of population increases, and despite gains in productivity through improved agricultural practices, food production is still largely hostage to the vagaries of the weather. Employment has not kept pace with the expansion of the labor force, even when growth in output has been impressive. Rapid urbanization—growth rates of more than 5% yearly in the population of cities are not uncommon—raises difficult problems, not the least of which is the need for sizable increases in infrastructure investments in housing, roads, schools, and public utilities. Absolute poverty in the developing world remains an immense problem, especially in the low-income countries of Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.
The alleviation of poverty and the provision of an environment that can help ensure the prospects of growth in developing countries cannot be brought about or provided for by the developing countries alone, even though the most lasting effect of the economic shocks of the mid-1970s is likely to lie in the policy improvements—in the developing countries, themselves —they engendered. But projections of future growth are modest indeed—especially when account is taken of population increases—and those modest prospects can only be assured if the long-term trend towards closer international relationships among developed and developing countries continues.
The relationships need not lead to an environment characterized by competitive confrontation. Developed countries have, in the past, been
supportive of development. Through the maintenance of a liberal international trading system, through improvements in the transfer of resources (in the form of official development assistance, and from international capital markets and international financial institutions), by international action to support the expansion of energy resources, and through continued international support for an expansion of agricultural research (so necessary to sustaining increases in agricultural productivity), a general climate of economic dynamism, needed to bring about changes in the social and economic structure of developing nations, can be built up.
Increased Trade and the World Economy
If the world has learned anything from the lessons of the past five years—increased energy-prices, wide and sudden fluctuations in the prices of certain commodities, recession, inflation, and foodgrain shortfalls—it is that the future prosperity of the developed and developing countries have become linked, and that the links, though recently forged, are not likely to be broken easily.
These recent events have raised the consciousness of the world about the need to maintain stable trading relationships. When petroleum prices suddenly increased in October 1973, for instance, developing countries, endeavoring not to cut back on their development programs, the higher cost of oil notwithstanding, turned to commercial banks to help finance much of their capital needs. At the same time, they expanded their exports, particularly of manufactured goods. This expansion enabled them to service their increased debt; their foreign exchange earnings also increased considerably. As a result, these countries became important markets for the industrialized countries. And, to the extent that developed countries recovered from the recession of 1974-75, the recovery was led by exports to developing nations. Today, an estimated 28% of total manufactured goods exports from industrialized countries go to developing countries.
These links—and there are others as well: the orderly international movement of labor, from the Mediterranean basin to Europe, from Mexico and the Caribbean to the United States, and from developing countries on the periphery of the Middle Eastern oil-producing nations to those countries, for instance—should not be seen as a threat to the economic well being of either industrialized or developing countries. Rather, increasing economic links can be a source of strength to both groups and can provide opportunities for more rapid worldwide economic advancement.
Among those measures that might be taken to reinforce the movement towards better eco-
nomic relationships among nations is to stimulate further trade relationships between industrialized and developing countries. The World Bank has always attached great importance to the growth of exports from developing countries, for the experience of the last decade has confirmed that exports can be a dynamic factor in overall growth. Countries that have been successful exporters have seen their economies grow as well. Furthermore, a rising export trend can form the base on which the ability of developing countries to borrow and service debt can rest.
Liberalization of trade—especially trade of manufactured goods—is only one aspect in the overall issue of trade that is of particular interest to the developing world. For those developing countries that export industrial raw materials, and for those that export tropical beverages and fruits, for instance, the main concern is price stability (a subject that will be discussed early in fiscal 1979 by the Bank, and in September 1978 by the Development Committee); for those that export agricultural raw materials, the foremost problem is competition with man-made fibers and synthetics; for developing countries dependent on the export of temperate zone agricultural products, on the other hand, the major issue is the existence, in industrialized countries, of domestic price support policies that aid domestic production.
For developing countries exporting manufactures, however, liberalization of trade is a key issue. The number of countries involved in this trade has grown as fast as the international pattern of comparative advantage has changed. A decade ago, there were no more than a half dozen developing nations exporting an appreciable amount of manufactured goods. Today, their number has increased fivefold.
An increasing volume of exports of manufactures from the developing world has often been accompanied by stagnation of output and declining employment in corresponding sectors in some industrialized countries. Though this process is one that economic history and theory would lead one to expect, it has been occurring at an unprecedented speed, and the frictions and defensive responses arising in this vast restructuring of the world economy are, therefore, not surprising.
Against this background, it should be noted that current trade barriers imposed by industrialized countries—even against finished manufactures—are, by historical standards, remarkably low. Thus, export promotion policies by many developing countries, coupled with the lowering of trade barriers, have led to the rapid growth of manufactured exports from developing countries—at rates of around 15% yearly in real terms from the early 1960s to 1976. However, increased exports to industrialized countries with stagnating economies are resulting in a rise in
protectionist sentiments in developed countries. In a few cases, quantitative import restrictions to aid domestic industries threatened with, or suffering injury have actually been introduced. An example of this is provided by the new Multi-Fiber Agreement that was negotiated at the end of 1977 (see page 13). The effect of that agreement may severely reduce export growth of clothing and textiles of not only the major exporters, but also of the smaller, poorer, and less advanced developing countries where textile products usually comprise a large share of manufactured exports.
As a result, developing countries are becoming increasingly concerned about the ability of policymakers in the industrialized world to withstand pressures for the imposition of new quantitative restrictions.
The most important way in which developed countries can currently contribute to trade expansion by developing countries is to refrain from introducing new quantitative import restrictions and to clarify and tighten rules regarding "safeguard" or emergency use of such restrictions. Other measures that, in theory, could be taken by industrialized countries would be harder, in practice, to adopt. Though studies indicate that it takes about $20,000 worth of manufactured imports to displace one worker in the developed countries, and that increased exports to developing countries can create many of the jobs that would be lost through increased imports, such shifts do give rise to the need for adjustment assistance to displaced firms and workers in developed countries.
Even in the absence of further measures taken by developed countries to liberalize trade with developing nations, there are steps that the latter group can take to increase its share of world trade.
Developing countries frequently discriminate against their own exports through a combination of measures that, for instance, encourage the protection of not-so-infant "infant" industries, overvalue exchange rates, and that foster purchases at artificially low prices. An increasing number of developing countries have, however, systematically begun to adjust their exchange rate and trade policies so as to eliminate or reduce a bias against exports. Strong moves towards liberalization have been made recently in countries—Argentina and Chile, in particular —that used to be prime proponents of high protection. It will be more difficult to reduce protective measures in developing countries than in the industrialized world; substantial liberalization would, in the short run, cause serious disruption of employment and to the balance of payments positions of many countries. Considerable adjustment assistance would, therefore, be required—particularly for the poorest countries.
If developing countries accelerate their export promotion policies and if the industrialized nations refrain from creating new trade barriers, the economic effects for the former group could be considerable. It has been estimated that by 1985, for instance, the value of exported manufactures from the developing countries could rise by as much as $21,000 million, and could grow by some 15%yearly.
For many countries, added exports could be expected to help break through balance of payments constraints holding back their overall development; increased exports could also have a significant impact in increasing employment.
Developed countries, on the other hand, must realize that moves in the direction of specialization and comparative advantage are inexorable. Creation of artificial barriers can only delay— not stop—the process. Self-interest on both sides dictates, therefore, that measures be taken to allow the workings of a world economy to move gradually but steadily, rather than convulsively, towards the inevitable outcome.
Agriculture and Rural Development
It is now five years since President Robert S. McNamara's major address on poverty and rural development, given at the 1973 Nairobi Annual Meetings of the Board of Governors. On that occasion, he set a target for Bank lending to
agriculture (including rural development efforts directed toward low-income farmers) of $4,400 million in real terms over the quinquennium 1974-78 (representing more than a 40% increase over the previous five-year period), or some 20% of total projected lending. Moreover, as the President pointed out in his address, "without rapid progress in smallholder agriculture throughout the developing world, there is little hope either of achieving long-term stable economic growth or of significantly reducing the levels of absolute poverty." Thus the President further proposed that an increasing share of the Bank's agricultural lending be devoted to programs directly assisting the small farmer to become more productive. About 70% of the Bank's agricultural loans might contain a component for the smallholder farmer, Mr. McNamara added.
Five years after, what have been the results of this redirection in Bank activity, and specifically, to what extent have the targets been met? What has been the Bank's experience in project implementation with the "new style" projects and project components directed towards the improvement of small farmer productivity and income? Lastly, and most important, what broader changes have occurred to alter the prospects for agricultural and rural development, and with what impact on the perspective and emphasis presented in Nairobi five years ago?
The record of the Bank in relation to the Nairobi targets is relatively easy to describe. All the targets set have been achieved. In the period, fiscal 1974-78, lending by the Bank and IDA for agriculture and rural development amounted to some $10,020 million for 363 projects, equivalent to $5,950 million in terms of the 1973 values used for the Nairobi targets. Thus, the Nairobi target figure of $4,400 million was considerably surpassed, by some 35%. Moreover, lending for agriculture and rural development (in real terms) was almost doubled relative to the earlier quinquennium, fiscal 1969-73. In the past year, fiscal 1978, such lending involved 88 projects, accounting for S3,270 million and exceeding, by a considerable margin, the record set in the previous year, fiscal 1977, when $2,308 million was lent for 84 agricultural projects.
The results as regards the orientation of lending towards the smallholder group are also highly encouraging. At least 75% of the 363 projects approved during the five-year period contain a small farmer element or component. Moreover, of the total volume of agriculture and rural development lending during fiscal 1974-78, over 50%' is accounted for by 210 rural development projects which, by the Bank's definition, are those projects in which more than half of the direct benefits are expected to accrue to the rural poor. Thus, assistance to small farmers has accounted for the major share of lending in this sector. In fiscal 1978, 49 rural development projects were approved for a total of $1,728 million, or 53% of total agriculture and rural development lending in that year. The corresponding proportion in fiscal 1973 was 26%, and was only 22% for the five-year period, 1969-73. A significant shift in the orientation of Bank lending towards the small farmer has, therefore, been achieved.
One much discussed question when the new orientation of lending for small farmer development was proposed, was whether a sufficient volume of projects could be identified that would meet the Bank's standards of economic and financial return. Another question was whether the interest and commitment among member countries to this type of project would be sufficiently great for the lending targets to be realized. The record indicates that those concerns were generally exaggerated. Moreover, in a number of cases, building on the early experience with an initial rural development project, it has proved possible to develop a series of related "second generation" projects, often through state or regional authorities and, in some cases, through a comprehensive national program. The increased scope and larger scale of these "second generation" projects are one important aspect of the continuing expansion in lending in this sector; these more recent projects incorporate the early lessons of experience, resulting in
improved design and effectiveness.
The number of beneficiaries from the agricultural and rural development projects is likely to be substantial. As estimated at the time of appraisal, total agriculture lending during the five-year period, fiscal 1974-78, is expected to help increase the incomes of over 19 million farm families, or about 115 million individual members of such families. Through the 88 agriculture and rural development projects approved in fiscal 1978 alone, some 28 million of the over 43 million direct beneficiaries are estimated to belong to the target group of rural poor. It should be recognized, though, that these estimates are subject to a wide margin of error, and that there is considerable variation from one project to another, both in the amount and the spread of benefits accruing to farm families, depending on the design and type, as well as project size and country circumstances. Broadening the impact of Bank lending through the design of the projects themselves, as well as through an expanding volume of lending, is an important consideration. In recent years, the Bank has been able to identify and assist increasing numbers of projects whose real cost per beneficiary is relatively low.
Ultimately, of course, the Bank's performance in this sector, as in others, is to be judged not by the anticipated success or impact but by project performance and observed impact.
Because the vast majority of the "new style" projects initiated during this period are still under implementation, and because the projects themselves are designed to generate progressive improvements over a relatively long time horizon—10 years to 12 years, in most cases—the available evidence of project impact is thus far limited. But a fair measure of success appears to have been obtained with the few early projects, especially in those cases where a well-defined technical basis for improved agriculture, and a delivery system for inputs to farmers was well established (a situation most often found in irrigated areas or for permanent crops in schemes involving agricultural intensification). More difficult cases are those where the natural resource base is poor, e.g., in semi-arid areas and in tropical areas with depleted soils, where the technical packages are either poorly developed or unknown. The lack of a proven set of technical recommendations often goes hand in hand with extremely weak delivery systems, local institutions, and rural infrastructure, thus compounding the problems. It is in this type of project that the probability of error in project design is greatest, that delays in project implementation are most likely to occur, and that the danger of ultimate failure is more apparent. The Bank is moving carefully in respect of such projects. Some technical assistance or pilot development projects have been supported, and it
may be that these types of projects will need to be given greater emphasis in the future lending program to meet the needs of marginal areas. Research components, designed to further develop and adapt the technical base of knowledge to the local environment, are included in more than half of the agricultural projects, and a number of recent projects provide more comprehensive support for research systems and programs at the national level.
An important general factor in project performance, especially in those projects that are of an essentially pilot or experimental nature, is a measure of flexibility in project design that allows for revisions to be made in the course of project implementation. This rinding underlines not only the need for adequate preparation of rural development projects, but also the critical importance of high-quality management and administration, particularly during the early years of implementation. In a number of countries, Bank staff, working closely with governments, have established or strengthened an institutional framework for project implementation, forming the basis for a wider approach with substantial impact beyond the projects themselves. These new arrangements may involve a closer degree of cooperation between line agencies than has been attained in the past, resulting in a better understanding of the complex needs of rural populations and a more appropriate sequencing of developmental activities. Technical assistance may be provided to expand or strengthen project management. Formal and informal training schemes are an important part of many of these projects and the discipline and challenge of working towards well-defined objectives and to given schedules are themselves valuable forms of training and skill upgrading.
But although a beginning has been made in the task of improving the local institutional capability to assist the small farmer to improve his productivity and income, the challenge is a long-term one and much remains to be done. The Bank's early experience also serves to indicate a number of instances where, with hindsight, project design and the pace of implementation have been too ambitious, resulting in delays and shortfalls from original expectations. Learning from the experience of failures, as well as successes, is an important aspect of project work, which the Bank is attempting to capture through efforts to develop and strengthen the monitoring and evaluation of project performance. Among the more difficult aspects is the establishment of systems within which small farmers can themselves have a say in how programs are designed and implemented, and how their skills, expert knowledge of the local farming environment, and their capacity to help themselves can be fully integrated into an overall effort. The Bank is involved in a number of innovative approaches to
this crucial problem, but much remains to be understood and further tested.
The third question posed related to the global prospects for agriculture and rural development; have these changed significantly since Nairobi and, if so, how?
The world situation of today has improved in both developed and developing countries since the general food crisis of 1974. World food production has increased during the past three years, and stocks in food-exporting countries have reached high levels. Nevertheless, the improvement should not obscure the fact that while the food crisis has temporarily abated, it has not been eradicated.
Recent general improvement masks wide regional variations. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) estimates that world food production, which is dominated by the output of grains, expanded
by about 3% in 1975 and 1976, but only 1.4% in 1977. Production in developing countries during 1977 was up 2%, a rise due, in large part, to the 4% increase registered in India. Middle Eastern and African production of food increased not at all from 1976 levels, and increases in Latin America held at 1 % . These figures indicate that per capita food production in all developing regions except for Asia has declined, and that a particularly difficult situation exists in Africa, where, according to the FAO, the 1977 per capita index is 10% below the level of the period, 1961-65.
Projections based on data compiled by the FAO for production and consumption indicate that, by 1990, food deficits among the developing countries could rise to between 120 million tons and 145 million tons, up a minimum of 80 million tons over 1975. It is estimated that Bank-assisted and IDA-assisted agriculture and rural development projects will result, in additional production of 13 million tons of cereals annually by the late 1980s, or only about 10% of the projected deficit.
To what extent will developing countries be able to import this amount of food on commercial terms?
At one end of the spectrum are the OPEC and some more developed Asian countries with substantial manufacturing and export earnings. Through those earnings, they should be able to import the 30 million to 35 million tons of food they are expected to need by 1990.
Similarly, middle-income, non-OPEC countries of the Middle East and Latin America should be able to buy on commercial terms the 20 million to 25 million tons of food that they may require by 1990.
The real core of the world's food problem exists among the low-income, food-deficit countries of South Asia and Africa, where two-thirds of the population of developing countries lives. Though their present food deficit is small—only 12 million tons in 1975—it could rise to as much as 80 million tons by 1990. When such projected deficits are compared with the projected foreign exchange earnings of these countries, there is little prospect that this amount of food deficit can be secured on commercial terms.
The consensus is, therefore, that these countries must grow their additional food on their own soil, and that hard policy decisions need to be taken to make that possible.
The food and agricultural development problems faced by many of the poorest developing countries was one factor that led to the emphasis on rural development in the 1973 Nairobi speech. The small farmer is a critical element as a producer of foodgrains and other food products in many major food-deficit countries. A second factor was the fact that there existed still a tentative, but expanding, body of evidence
that pointed to improved economic and social conditions as a factor of prime importance in the effort to reduce population growth rates through lower birth rates.
The diagnosis presented at Nairobi has suffered few challenges; regrettably, there is every indication that massive rural poverty, sustained and spurred on by an increasing rural population, limited land resources, and inadequate supporting systems, is a continuing feature in most of the Bank's member countries.
Valid still are the measures outlined by President McNamara as necessary elements in seeking solutions to the poverty problem—land and tenancy reform, credit, water supply systems, extension, training and research—and "new forms of rural institutions and organizations that will give as much attention to promoting the inherent potential and productivity of the poor as is generally given to protecting the power of the privileged."
But, associated in part with the wider impact of the Nairobi speech, the past few years have seen a greater emphasis on poverty problems and an expansion of national and international efforts (for example, those of the UN family of agencies and newer agencies such as the International Fund for Agricultural Development) focused on the rural poor. Like the efforts undertaken with Bank support through its agriculture projects, many of these other newer initiatives are yet to be fully evaluated in terms of impact, and, for most, the fruits are yet to come. The impetus to rural development remains small and patchy in relation to the scale of the problem; but a beginning has been made, and the experience acquired will be valuable to governments in tackling the many formidable challenges still ahead.
Mineral and Fuel Development
A continuing supply of both nonfuel minerals and sources of energy is critical to the health of the world economy. Their exploitation is of particular importance to those developing countries in which they are found. Nonfuel minerals can be a major source of foreign exchange earnings and domestic revenues. They can also serve to stimulate development in other sectors. The importance to developing countries of cutting back imports of petroleum products is obvious; virtually all developing nations have a strong incentive to develop indigenous sources of energy as rapidly as possible. During the past fiscal year, the Bank's lending policies in both these fields were assessed, and were modified to fit better the needs of the developing countries. Substantial changes in the existing lending patterns will have to be looked at, however, in connection with the available resources of the Bank.
Nonfuel Minerals. The views of developing countries and private foreign investors on how to exploit mineral resources have tended, in recent years, to diverge rather than come together. Developing countries that possess reserves of minerals have shown increasing dissatisfaction with the "enclave" arrangements that were typical in the past. Their claims for a greater voice in decisions concerning the exploitation of mineral resources and for a more balanced sharing of the economic and social benefits to be derived from mining ventures are coming to be generally recognized. But foreign mining companies and investors have hesitated to commit large funds to mining ventures located in countries that appear politically unstable or where there is a serious risk that the terms of investment agreements may be changed by the host government. Uncertainty on this score is perhaps the main reason why mineral investment, particularly equity investment, during the last two decades has taken place largely in developed countries.
International financial institutions—the World Bank, IDA, and IFC, together with the regional development banks—can help bridge the differences between producing countries and foreign mining concerns by providing an international "presence" in mining ventures. Agreements governing projects in which one of the international financial institutions is an active partner are more likely to be regarded as fair by all parties and, therefore, to endure. In this way, foreign investment—particularly risk capital—should become more readily available for mineral production in the developing countries than it has been in the past.
In practice, the World Bank's role as an "active catalyst" would be:
—To help prepare projects and provide assistance at an early stage. Such preparation is needed, for mining projects, which typically involve a web of interrelated technical, financial, legal, and commercial arrangements, are among the most complex and costly in the world. By its involvement, the Bank could be in a position to help all parties arrive at agreements that are both fair and that have a reasonable chance of being observed or of being renegotiated under agreed rules; and to encourage the parties to agree on suitable arrangements for the settlement of disputes, including, where appropriate, recourse to ICSID;
—To provide assistance to developing countries in determining their resources, in planning a strategy for resource exploitation, and in obtaining technical expertise to design, implement, and operate mining ventures.
In order to carry out these functions, and to maintain an "effective presence," the Bank must be willing, however, to contribute a significant share of the financing of nonfuel mineral projects. This share might average about 15% of
total project costs, but it may vary substantially.
The estimate of gross investments required in the mineral sector in developing countries for the period 1976-85 runs as high as 895,000 million. As much as two-thirds of this amount may have to come from foreign private sources. There is a consensus in the industry that unless expenditure on new mining capacity begins to accelerate soon, supplies of some essential minerals will fall short of demand in the 1980s, since it takes 10 years or more to develop a new mine. At present, the prospects for increased investment in this sector are clouded by the depressed state of the market for most minerals. It may be another year or two before the effects of the present oversupply wear off and investors are willing to consider new ventures.
In the near term, the Bank expects to assist in the financing of two to three projects a year, and to double this number as soon as the demand for minerals has revived. For the reasons mentioned earlier, the Bank's loans and credits for mining projects will be associated with much larger volumes of investment, both foreign and domestic.
Fuels. The case for increasing Bank assistance in the development of energy sources—primarily petroleum, natural gas, and coal—is more pressing than that for nonfuel minerals, and applies to many more countries.
Until recently, the Bank has not financed projects involving petroleum production for two main reasons: before 1973, petroleum production in most developing countries was uneconomic at prevailing international prices, and supplies from low-cost sources, mainly in the Middle East, were increasingly abundant; on the other hand, where the economic justification was not in doubt, private finance was usually readily available. After the dramatic increases in petroleum prices from the end of 1973, which substantially improved the economies of production from higher-cost sources, the Bank began to review its lending policies for energy development.
Studies recently carried out by the Bank show that:
—Some 50 to 60 oil-importing developing countries have a potential for producing oil and/or gas. Only 14 are producers now.
—Current oil prices justify the exploration and development of many areas previously considered uneconomic.
—The benefits of more intensive petroleum development in oil-importing developing countries would be substantial.
—Most of these countries, however, lack not only the necessary technical skills and financial resources to develop their potential, but also, the experience to plan a strategy for the sector. They need advice in deciding what technical expertise to employ, and how to use it to the best advantage.
On June 30, 1977, the Bank made its first loan —of $150 million, to India for the development of the Bombay High offshore field—for oil and gas exploitation. Earlier in the same month, governments represented at the Conference on International Economic Cooperation (CIEC) invited the Bank to expand its participation in developing countries, particularly in energy-importing developing countries, in order to assess the capital availabilities for investment in energy exploration and development. The Conference also called on the Bank to act as a catalyst to induce additional flows of capital into energy development. Later in the same year, a new Petroleum Projects Division was set up within the Bank's Energy, Water, and Telecommunications Department in order to expedite better the requests of member governments for assistance in the energy sector. During fiscal 1978, the Bank sent missions to more than a dozen developing countries to identify and prepare projects aimed at oil and gas production.
The trend, therefore, in Bank activities in the sector is an upward one. But questions remain: how fast and to what extent can the Bank expand its operations? And what should the Bank's main role be in helping finance projects in the sector?
As in the case of nonfuel minerals—only more so—the Bank can hope to finance only a small portion of the financial needs in the sector. Over the next decade, it has been roughly estimated that total financial requirements for petroleum development (covering both energy exploration, production, and downstream facilities) in the oil-importing developing countries will be on the order of about $6,000 million a year (in 1975 dollars). Most of the funds will have to come from foreign investors and the producing nations; international financial institutions such as the Bank would need to contribute only so much as to permit them to assume the responsibility for appraising and supervising projects and helping producing nations marshal the total funds required, including co-financing with other external agencies. Thus, in this sector, too, the Bank's major role would be a catalytic one. Token loans would be sufficient to ensure an adequate international presence in projects with a high potential for profit; in other cases, a substantially larger share of project financing by the Bank might be required.
Since the Bank's entry into the petroleum sector is comparatively recent, the appropriate scale of lending cannot be predicted with confidence. Based on project identification and preparation work carried out to date, however, it may be expected that the Bank's lending program for oil and gas production could reach S500 million for as many as eight projects annually from fiscal 1981 onwards.
Because financing of exploration activities is
an area best left to risk capital, the Bank's role in this area would be a minor one, at the margins, and only in special cases: for geological, geo-chemical, and geophysical reconnaissance, and for better appraisal of promising discoveries.
Emphasis on oil problems should not obscure the fact that oil comprises only one dimension of the energy requirements of the developing countries. New initiatives and expenditures in petroleum development must not be undertaken to the detriment of coal, hydro, geothermal, etc. development where feasible; nor must investments in hydro, thermal, and geothermal power generation be neglected in a rush to implement new oil projects. Bank and IDA investments in power generation—begun in 1948 by the Bank —have totaled, to date, almost $10,000 million; where comparative advantage in this field exists, investments will continue.
The Bank has also begun to reappraise traditional noncommercial energy sources that still supply about one-half of total energy in developing countries, and more than 85% of energy used by the 2,200 million people in the rural areas in these countries. A large potential exists for maintaining, or even increasing, the exploitation of energy sources in rural areas with considerable economic, social, and environmental advantages. This would not require sophisticated new technological developments, but, rather, a straightforward application or adaptation of basic expertise that usually exists in the developing countries. Rural development and infrastructure projects being assisted by the Bank are giving special attention to energy: e.g., the production, processing, and utilization of firewood and agricultural and animal wastes. Fuelwood components are included in 14 out of 34 Bank forestry projects, and in 11 out of 22 rural development projects with forestry components approved or planned during fiscal years 1976-80. In a number of projects, the Bank has encouraged its member governments to recognize the importance of these sources of energy. In addition, the Bank has given financial support for the development of low-cost devices appropriate to local conditions: e.g., to make practical use of solar energy in the Bolivian Altiplano; to improve the efficiency of the earthen charcoal kilns used by Philippine smallholders; and to improve the efficiency of cooking stoves in several countries.
Nonfarm Employment and Rural Activities
The Annual Report for fiscal 1977 noted that the Bank was prepared to give increased attention to the development of small-scale enterprises (SSEs) in the knowledge that SSEs can often make efficient use of relatively abundant labor resources and that the jobs created generally benefit both the urban and nonfarm rural poor.
In fiscal 1978, attention was directed in the Bank to the role that rural enterprises can play in providing for nonfarm employment opportunities.
The percentage of the rural labor force that is today primarily engaged in nonfarm work'4' is a significant one—between 20% and 30%, and it is increasing rapidly—especially in those countries that are in the earlier stages of development. In Africa, for instance, rural areas and towns provide over two-thirds of all nonfarm employment opportunities. In Latin America, the proportion is far less—about one-third. The level, composition, and growth of rural nonfarm employment are derived from the demand from three sources for the products and services of rural nonfarm activities. These are the demands for:
—Nonfood goods and services, which rise as rural incomes increase.
—Inputs and services to agriculture (including tools and equipment, repair services, transport, processing, and supporting infrastructure and works), which rise with agricultural development.
—Manufactured goods and handicrafts, which stem from markets in other regions or from abroad.
Agricultural development can have contrasting results. As agricultural productivity increases, the demand for additional agricultural labor decreases—certainly in relative terms and, eventually, absolutely as well. The adverse effect of this shift in the demand for agricultural labor will be offset to the extent that the rise in agricultural and farm income stimulates the growth of output, employment, and earnings opportunities in local nonfarm activities.
Many of the people displaced from their jobs as a result of agricultural development will eventually migrate to urban areas in search of a better life. But their acquisition of skills and experience, gathered in rural nonfarm activities, can act as an important determinant of their future earnings in the city. Indeed, many laborers acquire necessary skills and experience before migrating to urban areas in search of better economic opportunities. Rural nonfarm activities thus have an important role in the process of economic development and structural change from rural-agricultural to urban-industrial economies.
In general, rural nonfarm activities are highly labor intensive. But high labor intensity also is a reflection of the cheapness of labor, the prevalence of poverty, and of low labor productivity. For such activities to raise output, to provide the volume of goods and services needed to help develop agriculture, and to raise the real incomes of the rural population, gains in labor productivity are essential. The two—the need for added productivity and additional employment—need not conflict in a developing rural economy where greater economic growth can be
realized through the efficient expansion of comparatively labor-intensive activities. Because rural nonfarm activities seem to combine all those elements necessary for spreading the benefits of development to lower-income groups through growth in employment and wages, they deserve close attention when development policies that emphasize the alleviation of poverty are formulated.
Should development assistance be extended directly to rural nonfarm activities, or should development be left to depend on a self-reliant response to market demands generated by the growth of agriculture? There are several reasons that provide a case for direct assistance, depending on local circumstances. Through direct assistance, nonfarm activities might be enabled to respond better to the demands of agriculture and the rural population; they might better add to output, employment, and earnings in rural areas; they might be able to increase faster the flow of benefits from rural development programs to a large proportion of the rural poor— the landless and small farmers who eventually leave agriculture permanently, or, who rely on nonfarm work as a secondary source of income.
—Small businesses and services are among the primary beneficiaries of improvements in the social and economic infrastructure in rural areas and towns. Rural roads enable nonfarm activities to widen their markets and improve their access to raw materials, labor, public utilities, and commercial and marketing services. Rural electrification schemes obviously benefit small manufacturers, shops, and service and crop-processing enterprises.
—Rural nonfarm activities have grown in the face of exceptional difficulties and restrictions that have hindered rural banking and credit schemes. Improved access to capital through the use of nonfarm extension services, guarantee funds, and other devices would help provide the means for further expansion of output, employment, and earnings opportunities.
—Assistance in the form of aid to vocational training programs, and trading, research, and demonstration services can help nonfarm activities improve their techniques, services, and products, and expand their markets.
—Successful rural nonfarm activities must eventually compete with large-scale urban firms that already have been furnished with various forms of assistance, including subsidies and protective measures; direct assistance to rural non-farm activities could be justified on the grounds
<l> Rural nonfarm activities include construction, commerce, service, transport, processing, and manufacturing. "Rural" is defined to include small and medium-sized towns whose economic roles and functions are closely related to agriculture and to the needs of the rural population.
that a balanced and competitive development of large-scale and small-scale sectors is desirable.
Support for rural nonfarm activities by the Bank has, to date, taken three main forms, involving assistance to rural development projects, rural infrastructure projects, and agro-industrial and marketing projects. Studies indicate that support in the future should continue to be seen as an extension, rather than as a new and separate aspect, of Bank operations. For this reason, therefore, Bank-wide lending targets cannot be set.
The rural development and urban poverty programs of the Bank already provide the framework for developing new and increased forms of support and assistance. Additional support can be extended, for instance, by increasing the number of special nonfarm components in rural development projects, and by providing for the development of small-scale enterprises in rural towns and small urban centers. Support can also be extended through components in Bank projects in other sectors—education, water supply, transportation, and electricity, to name a few.
It will be difficult for Bank borrowing members to build up new forms of development assistance for rural nonfarm activities. There are few examples of successful programs to draw upon, and uncertainty is heightened by the diversity of political, social, and economic situations in which such assistance must function. The inclusion, therefore, of monitoring and evaluation components in Bank-assisted projects, and the lessons drawn from the Bank's own research program will help the Bank and implementing agencies in its developing member countries to gain a better understanding of the ways in which assistance to rural nonfarm activities might be directed.
continuity of financing for current projects as well as anticipated needs.
Net borrowing in 1976 was $29,048 million, higher by $4,241 million than in 1975.
The 96 countries include nine<G) oil-exporting countries, whose combined net borrowing in 1976, $4,641 million, was considerably higher than in 1975 ($3,060 million), and 1974, a year of very low levels. Over 90% of the total increase in borrowing by these countries may be accounted for by the resumption as net borrowers of Iran and Venezuela, which, in 1974 and 1975, made net repayments of external public debt. In 1976, these two countries still had large, current account surpluses, but they were smaller than in 1975. Overall, the nine oil-exporting countries had a current account surplus of about $6,000 million, about $ 1,000 million less than in 1975; all but Iran, Iraq, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela were in deficit, however. In this sense, these countries were beginning to resemble more closely other developing countries in their external position.
The balance of payments deficit on current account of the 87 developing countries that are not major oil exporters (excluding, therefore, those countries listed in footnote 6) narrowed markedly in 1976 to about $33,000 million, down from about $44,000 million in 1975. As indicated in the Bank's Annual Report for 1977, this development reflected the adjustments made, in many of these countries, to the difficulties of 1974 and 1975; the expansion of their export earnings in 1976 was also reflected. Net borrowing by these countries increased by $2,659 million to $24,408 million. This was a far smaller
External Public Debt
Examination of the most recent data on external public dcbt,") of 96 developing countries reveals an increase in external public debt during calendar 1976 at about the same annual rate as in 1975. At the end of 1976, the total of debt outstanding and disbursed was $ 160.505 million. This total represented an increase of $30,229 million—or 23%—over 1975, compared with an increase of $21,850 million—or 20%—in 1975 over 1974. The total, including undisbursed balances, increased in 1976 by $41,150 million to $227,403 million, an increase of some 22% over 1975. These undisbursed balances, representing firm agreements to lend not yet made effective by disbursements, stood at $66,877 million, or about 29% of total debt outstanding— slightly less than at the end of 1975, and somewhat higher than in earlier years. As in 1975, these balances represented an assurance of the
'r:] This section on external public debt incorporates some of the improvements that are progressively being made in the Bank's Debtor Reporting System (DRS), and to the continuing analysis of problems of external debt that the DRS and related information from the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) make possible. Although detailed, consistent statistics of long-term external debt are still limited to public borrowing, detined as borrowing by public entities or with their guarantee, information about borrowing by the private sector in developing countries without guarantee by the debtor country is progressively being incorporated into the DRS.
The Bank has received reports on private nonguaranteed debt from 16 countries, accounting for more than half of an estimated S45,000 million in private debt outstanding as of the end of 1976. To compute this total, estimates for an additional 24 countries were developed from balance of payments and creditor statistics. Of these estimated country figures, nearly half are thought to be quite reliable. The less reliable figures may result in a margin of error of about 10% for the total.
Improved information about balance of payments developments, resulting from cooperation with IMF staff, has made possible a better understanding of the increasingly complex patterns of external finance of many developing countries. In brief, the analysis of external debt is now part of a broader analysis of external finance and balance of payments problems involving both institutions.
There have been improvements in the quality and coverage of data on external public debt (partly as a result of assistance to member governments) and on borrowing in international capital markets.
('•> Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq. Nigeria, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela.
increase in borrowing than in the previous two years; in conjunction with the reduced current account deficit, this borrowing made possible a large addition to official reserves, about $6,000 million. This was in contrast with the situation of 1974 and 1975; during that period, these countries drew down reserves by about $8,000 million.
Because these 87 countries are so diverse, any statements about their combined external borrowing and finance must be qualified. In particular, statistics on external public debt measure a much smaller element of the external finance of the larger and more complex economies than of the poorer countries, which continue to rely mostly on official assistance. Other forms of external finance, including private direct investment, borrowing by the private sector without public guarantee in the borrowing country, and short-term transactions, are important in the countries with relatively high per capita income. It is possible, however, to generalize about regional groupings which, to a considerable extent, coincide with categories based on average per capita income.
Of all the regions, the developing countries in the Mediterranean17' region rely least on external public borrowing as a source of external finance. These countries, which broadly are among those with per capita incomes a good deal higher than most developing countries, had a combined current account deficit in 1976 of $11,100 million, or about the same as in 1975. Net borrowing was $3,138 million, an increase of 11% over 1975, and equivalent to 28% of the current account deficit. Other sources, including the use of reserves of about $1,100 million, provided the remaining finance. At the end of 1976, total disbursed public debt was $21,417 million, an increase of 18% over 1975, and a relatively low 9% when expressed as a percentage of gross national product (GNP).
Alone among the regions, the developing countries in the Middle East and North Africa1 s> —other than major oil-exporting countries—experienced a widening (albeit a small one) of their combined current account deficit in 1976 to $4,800 million, up from $4,500 million in 1975. Net public borrowing declined by $740 million to $2,293 million. This decline was more than accounted for by a decline in borrowing by Egypt, which also had a much reduced current account deficit. Other countries in the region, in particular, Morocco and Syria, had larger current account deficits in 1976, but these were not largely financed by increases in public borrowing. For the region as a whole, reserves were drawn down by about $500 million, about the same as in the year before. At the end of 1976, the external public debt of the countries of the region was $10,785 million, equivalent to almost 28% of their combined national income. Most of this debt and borrowing was from official sources—
76% of the debt outstanding at the end of 1976 and 74% of net borrowing during that year was from such sources.
With few exceptions, the countries of Africa South of the Sahara19' have very low per capita incomes and have borrowed little from private lenders. In 1976, the combined current account deficit of these countries was reduced to about $3,100 million from $5,100 million in 1975. Net public borrowing was $2,601 million, or 10% higher than in 1975. Of this borrowing, two-thirds was from official sources. The total public debt outstanding at the end of 1976 of sub-Saharan countries was S13,927 million, of which two-thirds was owed to official creditors. Most of this debt was on highly concessional terms. Debt outstanding to private creditors at the end of 1976 was $4,608 million, an increase of 24% over 1975. Of this amount, 69% was owed by four countries—Ivory Coast, Sudan, Zaire, and Zambia. In 1976, official arrangements were made to reorganize the debt of Zaire.
South Asia'1"' resembles sub-Saharan Africa in that a large proportion of external public debt is owed to official creditors and that a high proportion of new borrowing is from official lenders. The countries of the region owed a total of $23,177 million at the end of 1976, of which 96% was to official creditors. Most of this debt was on highly concessional terms, either originally, or as a result of successive rearrangements of the service payments on earlier loans. As in the case of African countries, this reflects: (a) the stated policy of official lenders to direct development assistance increasingly to very poor countries; (b) the policies of the governments in the region; and (c) the reservations of private lenders about lending to very poor countries. During 1976, almost all net borrowing by countries of the region continued to be from official sources. The level of borrowing in that year, $2,322 million, was about $500 million lower than in 1975. The current account deficit of these countries was reduced by about $ 1,000 million, to $1,100 million. This reduction, combined with the availability of other flows, including official grants, permitted an increase in reserves of these countries of about $2,300 million.
,:) Cyprus, Greece, Israel, Malta, Portugal. Spain, Turkey, and Yugoslavia.
fS) Bahrain, Egypt. Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Syria, Tunisia, Arab Republic of Yemen, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
i'1' Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Empire, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Upper Volta, Zaire, and Zambia.
Afghanistan. Bangladesh, Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
The external public debt of the countries in the Latin America and the Caribbean region excluding the oil-exporting countries, was $50,841 million at the end of 1976, or about 38% of the total for all countries other than the oil exporters. External public debt in relation to GNP for the region was about 16%. The rate of increase of external public debt rose to 28%, up from 23% in 1975, but still below the peak increase of 32% in 1974. Net borrowing was $10,789 million, an increase of $2,893 million, or 37% higher than in 1975. Private sources accounted for 67% of external public debt outstanding at the end of 1976 and 87% of net borrowing during that year. Countries in the region owed 58% of all the external public debt of the 87 developing countries to private creditors as of the end of 1976. The region accounted for 66% of net public borrowing from private sources during 1976. Brazil, which alone accounts for about 43% of the GNP of the region, accounted for 29% of both its external public debt and its net borrowing in 1976. In addition, the private sector in Brazil (as in several other countries in the region) obtained large amounts of external finance without public guarantee, both in the form of loans, and, as in some other countries, direct investment. Debt of the private sector, not included in the statistics of external public debt presented in this Annual Report, represented somewhat more than 40% of the total external debt of Brazil. Net borrowing of the private sector without public guarantee was somewhat less than 40% of net long-term borrowing by Brazil in that year. Borrowing by the private sector in other countries seems to have been a good deal less in relation to public debt than in Brazil. Three other countries, Mexico, Argentina, and Chile, together accounted for 46% of the total public debt outstanding in the region. In 1976, the current account deficit of the region was about $11,400 million, $500 million less than in 1975. This made possible an increase in reserves of almost $3,000 million.
Countries other than Indonesia in the East Asia and Pacific region(12) had external debt outstanding of $14,547 million at the end of 1976, an increase of 29% over the end of 1975. Net public borrowing in 1976 was $3,270 million, an increase of 16% over 1975. The combined exports of the countries in this region increased in 1976 by more than 60%. This contributed to a reduction in the current account deficit from more than $5,000 million in both 1974 and 1975 to about $2,000 million in 1976, a level about the same as in 1971, and considerably smaller after accounting for inflation. About 46% of total debt outstanding was owed by Korea, whose economy, the largest in the region, has grown rapidly. Net borrowing by Korea, $1,207 million, did not increase in 1976, and was 37% of the total for the region. In addition,
the private sector in Korea, like the private sector in the other countries of the region, borrowed abroad without guarantee. Net borrowing by the Philippines was about 23% of the total for the region, and accounted for 15% of the region's debt outstanding. Unlike most countries in the region, the current account deficit of the Philippines widened in 1976, and no addition to reserves was made. Overall, the reserves of the countries of the region increased by almost $3,000 million.
*       * *
The debt and borrowing of the 87 developing countries that are not major oil exporters may also be viewed by type of creditor. Of the total external public debt of these countries at the end of 1976 of $134,673 million, exclusive of undisbursed balances, governments were owed $54,029 million, an increase of 15% over 1975. The share of debt owed to governments to total debt outstanding continued its steady decline from 52% in 1970 to 40% at the end of 1976. Almost three-quarters of this debt was at highly concessional terms at the end of 1976, compared with about two-thirds in 1970. Disbursements by governments, net of amortization payments, were $6,516 million, a decrease of 14% from a peak of $7,604 million in 1975, but about $2,000 million higher than in 1974. New government commitments to lend in 1976, which include new loans not yet disbursed, rose by about 10% to $13,044 million. The total amount of undisbursed loans from governments at the end of 1976 was $21,011 million, equivalent to 28% of total public debt owed to governments, including the undisbursed portion.
Debt owed to international organizations by the 87 developing countries was $21,589 million at the end of 1976, an increase of 20% over 1975. Debt owed to international organizations accounted for 16% of total disbursed debt, a share which has remained stable through the first half of the 1970s. Net disbursements were $3,629 million in 1976, an increase of only 6%, compared with a 37% rise in 1975 and one of 41% in 1974. New loans committed in 1976 were $7,714 million, an increase of 4% over 1975. Undisbursed balances of international organizations at the end of 1976 stood at $19,085 million, and were about 37% of total undisbursed balances of all lenders at the end of 1976.
Loans from financial markets include loans from private banks, other private financial institutions, and bonds. Debt outstanding to financial markets at the end of 1976 was $47,915 million,
(ii) Argentina, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. Republic of China, Fiji, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand.
an increase of 37%. This followed increases of 37% in 1975 and 45% in 1974. Public debt owed to these lenders represented 36% of the debt outstanding to all creditors in 1976; this share had increased steadily from 16% in 1970 to 32% in 1975. Net borrowings from financial markets increased by $3,386 million, or 34%, to $13,270 million. New commitments by these lenders increased by 41% to $18,241 million, after having declined by about 6% in 1975. Undisbursed or undrawn commitments stood at $8,569 million at the end of 1976, in many cases representing commitments that would be drawn only as needed.
Reliable estimates of the increase in debt outstanding during 1977 have been made for 34 countries which, together, have accounted for about four-fifths of the public debt outstanding of the 87 nonoil developing countries and a slightly higher proportion of the increases in debt
of these countries. The estimates have been made possible, in many cases, by improved and more timely reporting to the Bank on external debt by borrowing countries, and by more intensive efforts, including field missions, by Bank staff in assisting countries to make such reports. For the sample of 34 countries, public debt outstanding at the end of 1977 is estimated at $133,800 million, an increase of 23% compared with an increase of 24% for this group of countries in 1976. It appears that, as in 1976, borrowing by these countries was in excess of immediate needs: their combined current account deficit is estimated to have been reduced in 1977, following a reduction in 1976, and, in many cases, substantial additions to reserves were made. However, statements about these countries in aggregate are qualified by their diversity; among the various regions, the rate of increase in debt appears to have declined in Latin America, South Asia, and Africa, but rose or remained the same in the other regions.
Capital Flows from DAC and OPEC Countries
Preliminary data from the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) (ls> of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) indicate that Official Development Assistance (ODA) of $14,754 million by DAC members in calendar 1977 rose by about 8% in dollar terms, and by about 4% in real terms over 1976. Thirteen of the 17 DAC member governments increased their outflow of ODA in dollars during the year, and nine countries'14) also raised it as a share of their gross national product (GNP). As a percentage of their combined GNP, ODA from members of the DAC fell back from 0.35% in 1976 to 0.31% in 1977, the second lowest ratio in the 1970s.
In 1974, Sweden became the first DAC country to meet the target of providing the equivalent of 0.7% of its GNP in the form of ODA. Its ODA reached a record high of 1 % relative to GNP in 1977. The Netherlands and Norway provided 0.85% and 0.82%, respectively, up from 0.82% and 0.70% in 1976.
Very preliminary data indicate that total flows of financial resources, which include export credits extended by official and private institu-
tions, direct and portfolio investments, and grants by private voluntary organizations to developing countries by DAC members, were $43,449 million in 1977, compared with $40,511 million in 1976. According to DAC estimates, total flows in 1977 were equivalent to 0.93% of DAC members' combined GNP, compared with 0.97% in 1976. These figures exclude significant amounts in Eurocurrency borrowing by developing countries (discussed in the chapter, "Borrowings and Finance" in this Annual Report). Although most Euromarkets are located in DAC countries, the funds in any one loan do not necessarily originate in the country issuing it.
Although the statistics on the aid flows from members of the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC)are much less
Includes Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada. Denmark, Finland, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States, and the Commission of the European Communities.
''''Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark. France, Japan, tire Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden.
""¦> Algeria. Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq. Kuwait. Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia. United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela. Capital surplus OPEC countries are: Kuwait, Libya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.
firm than those for the DAC countries, DAC reports indicate that total net disbursements by OPEC members, which rose rapidly from $ 1,740 million in 1973 to $5,952 million in 1974, and to $8,164 million in 1975, but which appeared to have fallen slightly in 1976 to $7,955 million, increased substantially to about $9,000 million in 1977. These figures include both concession-
ary and nonconcessionary resources. In 1977, approximately 61% of net disbursements were on concessionary terms. Total OPEC flows represented some 3% in terms of these countries' GNP in 1977, and concessional flows were about 2% of GNP. The major donors were Iran, Kuwait, Libya, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.
The Year's Activities, by Region
Eastern Africa
Eastern Africa, like its sister Region to the west, Western Africa, is experiencing high rates of population growth of some 2.7% a year. Moreover, the population in many areas of the Region is widely dispersed. These characteristics impose financial burdens on governments that are laying down the social and physical infrastructure needed to equip their citizens to participate fully in economic development. Large areas of cultivable land mean that the potential for expanding agricultural output is great, despite the Region's highly weathered and leached soils—which, nevertheless, can respond to development through more intensive research efforts. The utilization of this potential may prove to be expensive, particularly in view of the long distances that, in many cases, separate new areas from existing centers.
Though the Region is still largely rural in character, migration to urban areas has been increasing rapidly in recent years. Governments
everywhere are trying to cope with the costs imposed by an expansion of services in urban areas, and efforts are under way to increase the number of employment opportunities available in the modern sector.
As in years past, the circumstances that most affected the economic situation of Eastern African countries in 1977-78 were the level of prices received for their commodity exports in relation to import prices and the quality of harvests. Both of these elements were, on the whole, positive, but certain countries (especially those dependent on copper exports, like Zaire and Zambia), continued to suffer from economic stagnation and financial crises. Zambia, in order to mobilize international assistance, asked the Bank to form a Consultative Group of countries and institutions interested in supporting its economy and development; the first meeting of this new Consultative Group took place in Paris at the end of June. The positive economic develop-
merits affecting the Region were overshadowed by heightened levels of uncertainty and political unrest, which, in many countries, caused defense expenditures to strain government finances and inhibited the systematic investment necessary to direct the additional resources acquired into longer-term development efforts. Transport routes were disrupted, slowing the pace of shipments of goods to port, and, although the flow of official aid continued apace, private external sources of capital dried up to a large extent, and heavily indebted countries found it increasingly difficult to obtain refinancing.
In an effort to overcome political uncertainty in one area of the Region, the three Partner States of the East African Community (EAC) —Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda—met, over the past year, under the auspices of the World Bank to discuss outstanding issues among them. The mediator chosen, Dr. Victor Umbricht, a Swiss national—whose efforts are being financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and under a Bank loan—is now actively working to help the Partner States reach a permanent settlement with regard to the division of the assets and liabilities of the former EAC corporations and institutions. He will also make recommendations with regard to the future structure and operations of the East African Development Bank. Meanwhile, disbursements against remaining World Bank loans to the EAC are being continued, as the Partner States have individually taken responsibility for the undisbursed portions of those loans.
Agricultural Prices Up
The improvement in the commodity terms of trade over the last year was the most dramatic since 1974. Considering the range of major Eastern African commodity exports (which account for over 70% of total export revenues), world market prices rose an average 18% over the past year (1977), compared with an international inflation rate of some 10%. This favorable development was mainly due to increased prices for agricultural crops, as mineral prices, in general, remained depressed. Benefits accrued, especially, to principal coffee and tea exporters like Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire. The prices of beef, groundnuts, sisal, and tobacco all recovered from previous declines, but the price of sugar remained at a low plateau in relation to the extremely high levels of 1974-75, hampering the growth of the Region's major sugar exporters, Mauritius and Swaziland. A drop in the price of cotton particularly hurt Sudan, whose economic and financial situation deteriorated seriously, partly also as a result of lagging exports of other agricultural commodities.
In contrast with the improvement in the agriculture sector, the situation was less bright on the mining side. The major negative factor remained the depressed price of copper, which represents some 30% of the total value of exports from Eastern Africa. Lower copper prices, combined with a reduction in volume of copper exports (due, in part, to transport problems and
Somalia's education development has been aided by three IDA credits totaling $19.3 million since 1971. These projects support Somalia's effort to improve the quality of its education system, as well as its manpower development, including training schemes for nomads, agriculture, and health.
increasing costs), have severely strained the balance of payments position of Zaire and Zambia, as both countries have substantial amounts of debt service to pay and are largely dependent on imports to support their productive sectors. An exception in the mining sector was diamonds. Diamond prices rose by some 42% over the previous year, boosting the value of exports of Botswana and Tanzania, and offsetting, to a small extent, Zaire's low export earnings from copper.
The increase in regional export earnings manifested itself most dramatically in a rising level of gross foreign exchange reserves, which grew to about $1,900 million in 1977, or more than 50% over the average of the previous three years; a few countries, nonetheless, experienced some declines. These increases notwithstanding, the pace of investment in the Region was gener-
ally lower than what it could have been. The shortfall was due to the Region's limited institutional and planning capacity, its shortage of skilled manpower, and an increase in political instability. (The first two mentioned factors are the subjects of priority activities of Eastern African countries and of the Bank in its economic studies and lending program.) Still, increased export values and government revenues allowed some relaxation in many of the strict austerity programs that had been initiated in the wake of the sharp increase in world oil prices and inflation in the price of manufactured imports from the industrialized countries. A number of countries laudably continued related restructuring programs whose objectives are to adjust to the oil price hike by promoting exports and by reducing dependence on imported foods and industrial inputs.
Considerable progress has been made in improving the terms of trade of the rural sector in several countries, which, along with investments designed to support agricultural producers, has provided more incentives and income to the rural population. This improved situation has resulted partly from movements in world market prices, but, more importantly, from basic policy changes designed to redress sectoral imbalances within member countries. Furthermore, some governments have also begun to review-how public services might best meet the basic needs of people. The bill for these services will be a rapidly growing one, because of sharp increases in population.
Bank and IDA Activities
Total lending in the Region in fiscal 1978, at $560 million, was about equal to the average of the previous three years. The number of loans and credits, at 35, was the same as the 35 averaged over fiscal years 1975-77. The average terms of fiscal 1978 lending to the Region improved significantly as a result of greater availability of IDA funds. New IDA commitments, totaling $398 million, were $137 million higher than in fiscal 1977, while Bank lending, at $162 million, dropped by $150 million from fiscal 1977 totals. Lending for agriculture and rural development and urbanization accounted for most of the increase in IDA lending. In the last two years, agriculture and rural development has absorbed over one-third of the Region's lending, while the focus on urban poverty has been reflected in three projects (in Botswana, Kenya, and Tanzania).
Funds committed under co-financing arrangements in fiscal 1978 for the Region added $214 million to the total value of Bank and IDA lending, compared with $325 million in the previous year. Fourteen projects were co-financed, compared with 20 in fiscal 1977. Bank and IDA resources committed to co-financed projects were $251 million, compared with $349 million. The fall in co-financing does not imply a commensurate decline in the Bank's co-financing efforts during the year or a reduction in co-financing activities in the future. Co-financing operations have tended to fluctuate rather widely in recent years.
Co-financing agencies in fiscal 1978 included the Saudi Fund ($37 million), the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa ($20.5 million), France's Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique ($20.7 million), the Canadian International Development Agency ($15.4 million), the Ministry of Overseas Development (United Kingdom) ($16.6 million), the African Development Bank/Fund (S7.8 million), the International Fund for Agricultural Development ($12 million), the Kuwait Fund ($10.5
million), the (German) Kreditanstalt fur Wie-deraufbau ($11.3 million), and the OPEC Special Fund ($7.3 million). The largest recipient of co-financing was Madagascar, where six agencies provided $68.9 million for construction of the Andekaleka dam and power station. Ten other countries in the Region also received co-financing, including Tanzania ($32 million for two projects) and Sudan ($36.7 million for three projects); co-financing complemented Bank financing for one project each in Botswana, Burundi, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Rwanda. Somalia, and Zaire.
Agriculture and Rural Development
With 1 1 projects accounting for about 30% of the Region's lending, agriculture remained the single most important sector of the Bank's activities in Eastern Africa. As before, the main areas of concentration were smallholder food and cash crop production, with perhaps stronger emphasis than before on the institutional and infrastructural (rural roads projects in four countries) aspects of agriculture. At the same time, some large-scale enterprises in agriculture continued to receive support, especially where the national situation required a rapid expansion of exports or production designed to reduce imports. In the category of import-substitution falls an oil palm project in Zaire, which will, at full maturity, provide about 33,000 tons of palm oil, or 18% of projected national production, through the planting of 1 2,000 hectares of oil palm and the rehabilitation of existing commercial oil palm plantations. The project was assisted by a $9 million IDA credit.
The increasing emphasis on assistance to smallholders in recent years is now reaching the stage where lessons learned from earlier projects can be taken into account in designing new ones. An example is the Shire Valley Agricultural Consolidation Project in Malawi, assisted by a $10.7 million IDA credit. The project is designed to enhance the agricultural and infra-structural development investments that have been made in the valley since 1968. (These investments include two earlier IDA credits, one in fiscal 1968, of $3.7 million, and a $10.5 million credit approved in fiscal 1973.) The consolidation project will intensify the provision of agricultural extension services; establish an irrigated seed multiplication farm and an afforestation program; provide production credit; improve livestock extension services; expand a fisheries development program; improve village health facilities and potable water supply; and extend farm-to-market road networks. It will also provide social and infrastructural services to about 70,000 families, and introduce improved farming practices, enabling about 40,000 smallholder families in the Shire valley to in-
crease their annual farm incomes from about $75 to $120. The project also addresses a number of problems encountered during implementation of the earlier projects, particularly the second project, when serious drought occurred, and the project management agency proved unable to implement all aspects of the project according to the planned schedule. The consolidation project addresses these problems through measures such as the introduction of improved technical packages for the farmers (including distribution of improved drought-resistant cereal varieties), increasing the number of extension workers, and the undertaking of an irrigation feasibility study for the Shire valley.
Another effort to reach the very poor through the provision of a wide range of services and infrastructure can be found in the Lesotho Basic Agricultural Services Project (aided by an IDA credit of $6 million), which aims to reverse the serious decline in soil fertility due to overgrazing, poor cultivation methods, limited mixed farming practices, and the land tenure system. About 130,000 farming families, or almost 800,000 people, representing about two-thirds of the country's population, will benefit from the project. Basic agricultural services will be provided so as to increase production in five major food crops (maize, sorghum, beans, peas, and wheat). The continuing decline in per capita incomes in the rural areas—now below $100 a year—is expected to be arrested, for about 70,000 families arc projected to experience direct increases in their farm incomes. The project's training program will take into account the fact that women and young people do most of the farm work in Lesotho, as a majority of the able-bodied men work in South Africa. Assistance will also be furnished the Ministry of Agriculture in order to strengthen its institutional capabilities. Additional funds for this project, amounting to $12.6 million, will be contributed by the European Development Fund, the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom, and the UNDP.
As far as the institutional aspects of agriculture are concerned, the Bank has continued to pursue project opportunities that attempt to remove constraints affecting smallholder production and to set a broad foundation for future development. One such project approved during the past fiscal year was a Grain Storage and Marketing Project in Ethiopia (assisted by a $24 million IDA credit), which will provide for construction of storage facilities and for improved market and crop intelligence and forecasting, and an increased role for the public sector in marketing. Another innovative project of this kind was the Sudan Agricultural Research Project designed to help correct the imbalance in agricultural research efforts among the various regions of the country. The project focuses
specifically, at this stage, on the relatively undeveloped western region, which contains 30% of the country's population, but which accounts for only 5% of agricultural research expenditures. The purpose of the research is to evolve sustainable agricultural technologies for the various agropastoral production systems in the west, and to adapt them to practical farming conditions. While direct beneficiaries of this project obviously cannot be identified, the research results should be applicable to the 1 million farming families in the area who live at, or below, the estimated poverty level.
Urban and Industrial Projects
By comparison with other regions. Eastern Africa is not extensively urbanized. However, urban population growth rates are high (up to 9% yearly in some cases), and low rates of employment growth in the modern sector have given rise to increasing numbers of urban poor. In fiscal 1978, urban projects were put forward for Francistown and Selebi Phikwe in Botswana, for Nairobi, Mombasa, and Kisumu in Kenya, and for Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Tabora. Iringa, and Morogoro in Tanzania, accounting altogether for about 12% of the Region's total lending. With a Bank loan of $25 million and an IDA credit of $25 million, the Kenya Urban Project became the Bank's largest sites and services operation in the Region to date. Furthermore, water supply projects were started in Nairobi and in Mogadishu, Somalia.
A feature shared by the three urban projects is the specific targeting of services (especially housing) to the urban poor, through focusing on the upgrading of existing areas of squatter concentration and, in the case of the Second Sites and Services Project in Tanzania (aided by a $12 million IDA credit), through a new program of "surveyed plots." The "surveyed plots" are to be supplied only with water and plans for on-site services; basic infrastructure is to be furnished by the residents themselves. The cost per household of these plots is $25, compared with $385 for conventional squatter upgrading. Under all three projects, the cost of services has been kept at a minimum to bring them within reach of the target group and, through full, or near-full, cost recovery, the projects will be able to be replicated. Even without future replication, the Tanzania project will benefit more than 315,000 low-income urban dwellers (about 26% of the country's urban population); in the Botswana project (assisted by an $8 million Bank loan), 60% of the population of the two towns concerned will be affected; and in the Kenya project, about 30,000 plot holders and urban residents will be aided. The Tanzania project has a small-scale industry component that will create approximately 870 new jobs at an investment cost of $650 per job
under an experimental program; the Kenya project has a small-scale industry component that provides for the development of 960 serviced sites for small industries, as well as loans for the construction of workshops. The component in the Kenya project is to be complemented by the Bank's first small-scale industry project in the Region.
That particular project, aided by a S10 million IDA credit has, as its primary focus, institutional support for the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE). The KIE, a semi-autonomous government-supported agency, and the principal institution through which technical assistance has been channeled to small industrial enterprises, will be reorganized and strengthened. The industrial sector has been the fastest growing sector of the Kenyan economy in recent years, with over 500,000 people employed in "formal" and "informal" industrial establishments. Of the
100,000 people employed in "formal" manufacturing, 20% work for firms with fewer than 50 employees. The remainder are employed in active "informal" industrial firms of even smaller size. Recognizing the importance of the sector, the Kenyan government is changing its strategy for industrial development in order to promote more efficient industries and markets, encourage the use of local raw materials, create employment through labor-intensive methods of production, and achieve a better balance in the geographical distribution of employment opportunities. The project will make resources available for loans for working capital and equipment, and for the construction of 150 workshops in 10 rural industrial promotion areas, and 40 workshops in Nairobi. Factories will be constructed, and technical assistance and training will be provided to accelerate the development of small industries.
Western Africa
Membership in the Western Africa Region increased by one to 22 countries when Sao Tome and Principe joined the Bank in September 1977. The Region's mid-1976 total population is estimated at slightly over 150 million, of which Nigeria, alone, accounts for about half. Preliminary estimates from some population censuses carried out since 1975 generally indicate larger populations and higher demographic growth rates than had previously been believed. While high population densities exert excessive pressure on the land in a few areas along the coast and in parts of the Sahel, the Region, as a whole, is sparsely populated. Population growth, however, is rapid everywhere— at 2.7% annually, on average—reflecting still high fertility rates. The social costs of continued rapid demographic expansion are being felt especially in the fields of education, health, and employment. The rates of growth of Western African cities, principally the capitals, vary be-
tween approximately 6% and 10% yearly, and have become a source of serious concern for governments, as unbridled growth invariably results in substandard living conditions.
Economic Developments
Over the past fiscal year, the economic environment of the Region has been less favorable than in the year before in two important respects.
First, commodity prices for most Western African products generally leveled off, or declined from the peaks reached by some of them at various times between fiscal 1974 and fiscal 1977 (although many have remained above historical levels).
Second, poor weather has, once again, adversely affected crop production, especially, but not exclusively, in the Sahelian countries. On the other hand, export competition among industrialized countries has helped to contain import
prices for the Region; indeed, the prices of imported foodstuffs—wheat, sugar, and, to a lesser extent, rice—that weigh heavily in some of the countries' import bills, have actually declined.
Such external factors have affected countries in different degrees and, given the great diversity of initial economic conditions and government policies, have resulted in quite different levels of economic performance and a further widening of differences between real income levels among countries—a phenomenon that has perhaps dominated the development of Western Africa over the past 15 years. In fiscal 1978, a half dozen countries — Benin, Cameroon, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Niger, and Togo — achieved rates of growth in gross national product (GNP) significantly above population growth rates. The success of these six countries has been the result of continued good export performance—principally based on cocoa, coffee, and timber for Cameroon and Ivory Coast; uranium for Niger; bauxite expansion for Guinea; a recovery in phosphates for Togo; and, in the main, transit services to Nigeria, in the case of Benin. Marginal increases in per capita incomes may also have occurred in the Central African Empire, Gabon, and Guinea-Bissau. In all the other countries of the Region, there was, at best, no progress. Even oil-exporting countries did not perform particularly well, as is strikingly illustrated by the case of Nigeria.
Fiscal 1978 was a momentous one for Nigeria: its sustained economic upswing since 1970 began to falter as petroleum exports plummeted by
25% in volume and by an additional 4% in price from their levels of a year ago. The government reacted by curtailing budgeted public development expenditures and by resorting, for the first time, to borrowing (SI,000 million) in the Eurodollar market so that priority investment projects might continue. At the same time, harvests of food crops were below normal, adding to food imports; these increased imports helped boost the rate of domestic price inflation to about 30%. In addition, Nigeria's terms of trade worsened appreciably. Though the manufacturing and the services sectors continued to expand, their combined gains hardly outweighed the declines registered elsewhere in the economy; on balance, therefore, per capita national income probably dropped somewhat. The loss in real income appears to be more pronounced for the urban population, whose wages and salaries remained substantially fixed, than for farmers, who benefited from sizable increases in producer prices, which, in some cases, exceeded the inflation rate.
Since the beginning of 1974, Western African economies, whether growing or stagnating, have been confronted, almost without exception, with severe internal and external imbalances. There are three main reasons for this condition. First, rapid inflation has proved to be more than a passing phenomenon, although some dampening of the rate of increase in prices seems to have occurred during the past year (except in Ghana, where the rate of inflation continued to rise). Mediocre crops, budgetary deficits helped along by expansionary monetary policies, and still ris-
Senegal, Western Africa's largest rice importer, is trying to become self-sufficient in a number of foodcrops. Four projects, supported by IDA credits totaling $34.5 million, are helping to remedy this situation. Two of the projects, based on irrigation, are in the North along the Senegal River. The other two projects, in the traditional rice-growing region of Casamance in the South, involve water control schemes, soil and hydrological surveys, and the installation of 35 small cooperative rice mills.
ing import prices appear to be the most common causes for inflation in the Region.
Second, inflation (and the resulting pressures to increase urban wages and salaries, as well as agricultural producer prices), rising debt-service payments, and built-in factors, such as the continuous growth of school enrollment and, at times, poorly conceived employment policies in the public sector have all contributed to generally poor or deteriorating budgetary performance. Poor performance has been marked by higher current expenditure levels and decreasing public savings, although public savings in some cocoa-exporting and coffee-exporting countries continued at high levels during the year. In quite a few cases, such as in Congo, Ghana, Guinea, and Mali, the public enterprise sector as a whole, has aggravated, rather than alleviated, the lack of public savings—despite governments' commendable efforts to improve the management of individual firms.
Third, balance of payments pressures, due to either depressed export earnings (e.g., Mauritania and Nigeria) or increased imports (e.g., Ivory Coast) have led countries to tap external resources more systematically. As of December 31, 1977, 13 countries in the Region were being assisted by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). In the last six months of the fiscal year, additional requests were being processed for drawings on the IMF under the second credit tranche and the Trust Fund. More generally, external public borrowing, particularly from private sources, increased rapidly, and has now reached unprecedented levels, while average terms of borrowing have hardened significantly. Difficulties in meeting debt-service payments are being experienced in varying degrees by several countries, and Sierra Leone had to obtain debt relief from the "Paris Club" during the past year.
Against this rather bleak background for the Region in general, some favorable developments
occurred or have been strengthened. There was confirmation of commercially exploitable petroleum resources in Chad and Ivory Coast, and the prospect of such in Ghana; active exploration continued in four or five other countries. Cameroon is a step further along, and recorded its first exports of indigenous crude oil in February 1978. Niger continued to enjoy rising earnings from exports of uranium concentrate. Even more significant perhaps, because it reflects governments' conscious efforts to strengthen the economy of the Region as a whole, further progress was made towards regional economic cooperation. The 16-member Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)'" became operational in July 1977, when both the Secretariat in Lagos and the Fund for Cooperation, Compensation, and Development in Lome opened their doors for business. The Bank has established contacts with these institutions, as it has done before with other regional organizations in Western Africa, such as the West African Development Bank (BOAD), with a view to cooperation and coordination of activities. In addition, the six-member francophone West African Economic Community (CEAO)(2) created a new Solidarity Fund, in whose design and institution the Bank provided technical assistance. The Fund is to aid particularly its less developed member countries by guaranteeing loans, giving loans and subsidies, and financing studies for high-priority development projects.
Bank and IDA Activities
Bank and IDA lending to the Region reached a new high during fiscal year 1978. A total of 35 loans, totaling $509 million, were approved. This amount represented a 13% increase over the previous high (in 1976), when the totals were affected by several exceptionally large projects. While Bank lending increased 20% over the average 1974-77 level, IDA credits were 55% higher than the average for that period, and exceeded $200 million for the first time. There was a continued emphasis on lending to the Region's poorest countries; they accounted for almost half the total number of IDA credits.
The five-year period, fiscal 1974-78, showed a 132% increase in lending over the period, fiscal 1969-73. Average annual Bank lending of $264 million increased by 1249% while IDA lending brought the average annual per capita level of IDA credits to the Region to $2.37. as compared with a level of $1.09 during the period, fiscal 1969-73.
The sectoral distribution of total lending in fiscal 1978 generally reflected that which prevailed during the entire fiscal 1974-78 period. Agriculture claimed the largest share (38% — increasing from only 17% during fiscal years 1969-73), followed by transportation (27%),
industrial development and finance (14% ), and public utilities (13%). The continued emphasis in recent years on the agricultural sector has been directed toward the smallholder farmer through both crop development and the varied extension, training, and social services provided in integrated rural development projects. Transportation lending included assistance for projects for all types of transport. While feeder roads are of primary importance in rural areas, rail, port, and highway projects can serve more than the single borrower, as witnessed by four projects approved during the year: the joint Ivory Coast-Upper Volta rail project, the Senegal rail project, which also serves Mali, the Benin port project serving also Niger and Nigeria, and the Cameroon highway project, which also benefits Chad.
The scope of operations in the area of development finance companies was especially broad during fiscal 1978. It represented, on the one hand, assistance to the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, an institution with annual lending of about $78 million for medium-scale and large-scale industrial endeavors, and, on the other, support to the national development banks of Niger and Upper Volta for expansion of small and medium-scale firms and for training and technical assistance to support artisans and small entrepreneurs. Within the public utilities sector, water supply and sewerage lending showed the largest increase.
Continued efforts to secure co-financing during fiscal 1978 helped increase the total flow of resources to the Western Africa countries. Seventeen of the 35 projects involved co-financing for a total amount almost matching the $234 million provided by the Bank and IDA. In fiscal 1977, co-financers committed resources totaling $299 million for 12 projects. (During the past four years, 56 projects have been co-financed, for a total of $945 million, an amount representing 130% of Bank and IDA lending for these same projects.) Co-financing came from sources including the Canadian International Development Agency ($41.1 million), the Caisse Ccnlrale cie Cooperation Eeonomique (CCCE) ($27 million), the Kuwait Fund ($19.7 million), the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation ($15.3 million), the Commonwealth Development Corporation ($14.5 million), the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) ($13.3 million). the Saudi Fund ($11 million), the European Investment Bank ($9.2 million), the African Development Bank/Fund ($8.9 million), the European Development Fund ($8.9 million), and Norway
<:> Benin, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, Upper Volta.
(-> Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Upper Volta.
($8.3 million). Three projects in Liberia and Chad were co-financed, two each in Benin, Ivory Coast, and Cameroon, and one each in Mali, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo. The largest co-financed project approved during fiscal 1978 involved lending by IDA ($11 million), aid agencies of Canada, France, and Norway ($10 million, $1.5 million, and $8.3 million, respectively), BADEA ($4.6 million), the CCCE ($3.1 million), the Abu Dhabi Fund ($2.6 million), and the African Development Bank, as agent of the Nigerian Trust Fund ($2.9 million) to assist the Government of Benin in financing a $46.1 million project for the expansion and modernization of the port of Cotonou.
Innovative Projects in Nontraditional Sectors
A $6.3 million IDA credit to Senegal for technical assistance to the "parapublic" sector is the first operation of its kind attempted by the Bank. (The parapublic sector is composed of public enterprises that are wholly government owned, and mixed companies owned by government and private entrepreneurs.) The project responds to the government's expressed need to increase its capability to plan, execute, and manage development projects in all sectors. The project is also designed to resolve the problems facing the government in its financial oversight of public enterprises and mixed companies. The IDA credit, which provides about 30 man-years of advisers and consultant services, supports a three-year program aimed at strengthening the efficiency of government organizations charged with supervision of the parapublic sector; upgrading the auditing, financial management, and accounting procedures of parapublic enterprises; and training government officials dealing with the sector.
An agricultural project, to be assisted by a $4.5 million IDA credit, will attempt a new approach to reforestation in Niger. Based on studies of the Sahel region, which identified agrarian and grazing pressures as major factors contributing to the destruction of natural forest cover, a pilot and technical assistance project has been designed to provide a sound basis for proceeding with a larger-scale national development program for Niger's forestry resources. Included in the project are pilot irrigated and rainfed tree plantations, which aim at more efficiently meeting the wood requirements of urban centers; provision of equipment, vehicles, and supplies to improve ongoing rural forestry activities; refresher courses in rural reforestation techniques for field staff dealing with rural forestry activities; and research. Emphasis has been placed on securing the participation of the rural population, a necessary prerequisite to the success of long-term forestry development in the country.
A two-pronged attack on Upper Volta's urban problems was launched during fiscal 1978 in the form of an $8.2 million IDA credit to help finance an urban development project and a $4 million IDA credit to help finance a project for artisanal and small and medium-scale enterprise development. These projects were designed to ameliorate both the living and employment conditions of the most disadvantaged urban dwellers. The urban project includes basic infrastructure improvement loans, and funds for provision of community facilities and social services. More than 100,000 people living in Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso are expected to benefit from the urban upgrading, sites and services, and water supply distribution components of the project. Job creation will be stimulated by the $4 million credit, which will also expand training opportunities to urban artisans, as well as provide training in the construction trade, with the trainees actually constructing the community centers to be financed under the urban project. Some 750 jobs are to be created in the modern sector, and about 1,500 jobs may be created in the traditional sector as a result of the project.
Meeting Rural Sector Needs
Two IDA credits, for $8.5 million and $13 million, will help improve food crop and cash crop production in particularly low-income areas of Cameroon by providing packages of inputs and services especially adapted to the social, economic, and natural environment. The first project will support an extension of activities in areas where new development zones in the eastern part of the country were recently designated, and will also strengthen ongoing programs in these and in the older development zones. The prime objectives of the project arc to increase productivity and incomes among 13,200 poor farm families by emphasizing food crop development, as well as improvement in cash crop earnings (coffee and cocoa); and to better the environment by providing health care services and water supply facilities. At full development, net per capita farm incomes of the project beneficiaries arc expected to increase from $95 to a maximum of about $180, and. on average, to about $ 140. A notable feature will be the hiring of female extension workers in a sociological environment where women farmers have sole responsibility for food crop production, but are precluded by custom from working with male extension workers. Feeder roads in the project area will be constructed under a separate project also approved during the past year.
The Western Highlands (Cameroon) Rural Development Project will assist the development of extremely poor areas that are characterized
by a high population density, mountainous terrain, and heavy rainfall. In these areas, the pressure of population (17% of the country's population lives-on 3% of its land area) has led to intensive cultivation of nearly 95% of the cultivable land, including steep slopes. Declining soil fertility and spreading erosion are serious problems in large parts of the area. The project provides a complementary package of inputs, techniques, and infrastructure aimed at the farming system as a whole. By developing institutions, by training people, and through the introduction of appropriate procedures and techniques, the project will help improve the incomes and welfare of some 600,000 rural inhabitants who have per capita incomes of $70, or less than 25% of the national average ($300). About 220 water points will provide 18,000 rural families with safer and more accessible water, while the construction of simple water control works will enable about 400 hectares of currently uncultivable bottomland to be put into productive use by some 1,300 rural families.
The Bank's first cocoa (as well as its first agricultural) project in Nigeria was successfully completed during the past year. The project, financed in part (40%) by a $7.2 million loan
approved in fiscal year 1971, achieved its target of establishing 17,400 hectares of high-yielding cocoa in the principal cocoa-growing territory in the central part of the former Western state, now Oyo, Ondo, and Ogun states. The project was implemented by a well-managed Cocoa Development Unit, staffed entirely by Nigerians. Not only were the project's technical and production objectives achieved, but the 18,250 participating farmers turned out to be more than double in number the 8,000 estimated at appraisal. Yields today are 963 kilos a hectare for new plantings and 840 kilos per hectare on plantations rehabilitated during the project. The yield figures, in both cases, are more than double the current national average. The return to farmers, at almost $9 equivalent per man-day, is much higher than expected at appraisal as a result of increased yields and increases, since 1971, in cocoa prices. The overall economic rate of return of the project is now estimated at 26% —nine percentage points above the appraisal level. Strong institutional support, including that of the Cocoa Research Institute, the University of Ibadan, the Cooperative Bank, and Cooperative Marketing Societies, was highly instrumental in the success of the project.
East Asia and Pacific
The countries of this Region, inhabited by populations of varied cultural and ethnic backgrounds, have shown their ability, over recent years, to weather short-term fluctuations in the world economy and to continue their development efforts. As in the case of other countries with open economies, they were affected by the boom, subsequent recession, and concurrent strong inflation in the industrialized countries during the period, 1973-75. These factors caused sharp fluctuations in the demand for, as well as in the prices of, their commodity exports. In addition, the oil-importing countries had to make difficult adjustments to higher oil prices. Considering all these factors, the economies of the countries of the Region have performed remarkably well.
East Asian and Pacific countries are at different stages of development, with per capita incomes ranging from a low level in populous Indonesia to an intermediate, middle level in
Malaysia and Korea, and their growth paths are likely to continue to differ in the future. Among the factors determining long-term economic prospects, the demand and prices for the commodities produced and exported by the Region are generally expected to be favorable over the coming decade. Potential sources of future growth are the rapidly expanding industrial sector, which is becoming an increasingly important factor in an already fairly diversified regional export structure, and a broad agricultural base, which generates both food and primary products for export. Past policies that encouraged high investment are continuing to pay off, and with the real burden of servicing medium-term and long-term debt at a tolerable level, and good credit ratings in foreign capital markets, there is little risk that short-term fluctuations in export earnings will require cutting back on imports or lowering economic growth rates.
Pairs of Opposites
Indonesia and Malaysia, the two important oil producers within the Region, have improved their terms of trade since fiscal 1973. Their traditional exports (rubber, timber, and tin) suffered temporarily, however, from low demand and lower prices in 1974 and 1975. Indonesia has also been affected by the need to meet the debt obligations of Pertamina, the state oil company. But, by fiscal year 1977, both countries were recovering; the earlier gains in their terms of trade were restored, and foreign exchange reserves increased. In Indonesia, reserves reached a level, at the end of 1977, that amounted to about four months of imports. The country's economy grew an estimated 6.5% in 1977, somewhat lower than in 1976. mainly because of lagging food production, particularly rice, but the 1977 growth rate corresponded to the average for the 1974-77 period. In Malaysia, a recent oil producer, and one which is expected to become an exporter of natural gas by the early 1980s, current account surpluses and foreign exchange reserves increased to very comfortable levels by the end of 1977. Growth in gross national product (GNP) was 8% in 1977, only slightly below the rate achieved in 1976.
The Philippines and Thailand, whose exports are quite different from those of Indonesia and Malaysia, experienced fluctuations in their non-oil commodity terms of trade virtually opposite to those experienced by the latter two countries. During the recession years of 1974 and 1975, the Philippines and Thailand were shielded from the effects of higher petroleum prices by con-
tinued, exceptionally high prices for their sugar exports and, in the case of Thailand, for rice and other cereal exports, as well. Their balance of payments experienced the delayed effects of higher petroleum prices in 1976 and 1977, and current account deficits increased in both countries, but more particularly in Thailand. For the time being, the draw-down of foreign exchange reserves in both countries has been limited by relying on foreign borrowing, and the GNP growth rate has been maintained at just above 6% for the Philippines, and at 5.5% for Thailand (corresponding to the average rate for the 1974-77 period for both countries).
The Republic of Korea, the most industrialized country among the Bank's large borrowers in the Region, and hard hit by both high food and petroleum prices in 1974 and 1975, managed to avoid any deceleration in its economic growth; indeed, it succeeded in continuing its strong export growth of manufactured goods through a vigorous drive to expand and diversify markets. In 1977, Korea became the leading exporter of manufactured goods among the developing countries.
Its export volume increased by 18% in 1977, following a large increase in 1976. and its terms of trade improved by 6%. The large balance of payments deficits of 1974 and 1975 were eliminated, and a small surplus was achieved in 1977. By the end of 1977, gross foreign exchange reserves had increased to a level equal to about four months of imports. Korea's GNP growth rate exceeded 10% in 1977, having risen to 15% in 1976 from 8% per year in the previous two recession years.
The Malaysian State of Sabah's ports will be provided with cargo handling equipment and additional berths. Engineering services, including siltation studies, and technical assistance and training to the Sabah Ports A uthority are part of the project, assisted by a $14 million World Bank loan approved in the past fiscal year. The photo is of a berth in Kota Kinabalu.
The smaller Pacific island countries in the Region such as Fiji, Papua New Guinea, and Western Samoa, which suffered more during the worldwide slowdown because of the openness of their economies and heavy dependence on the international situation, showed some signs of recovery during the last year. Papua New Guinea benefited from high export prices of coffee, cocoa, and copra, and Fiji benefited from the assurance of a guaranteed minimum price for sugar under the Lome Convention.
These small countries, isolated from the main centers of world population, face serious problems arising from the small size of domestic markets, limited domestic raw materials, heavy dependence on imports, and high transportation costs. These countries also have a significant subsistence sector with low-income levels that needs to be brought into the monetized sector of the economy through employment-creating and income-generating activities.
They rely heavily upon capital inflows to assist their development; some receive substan-
tial bilateral financial and technical assistance under special agreements, e.g., Australian assistance to Papua New Guinea. Funds from multilateral sources such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, although a small proportion of the lending of such institutions to the Region, contribute considerably to the development of these smaller countries.
Last year's Annual Report noted that the countries of the Region seemed to have weathered the storms of the three-year period, 1974-76. The year 1977 provided further evidence to this effect, and most economic indicators have confirmed the trend of continued economic growth. It is important that growth continue if progress toward solving the problems of employment, poverty, and income distribution is to be made. As a result of high birth rates in the 1950s and early 1960s, growth in the labor force continues in most countries of the Region at annual rates of about 3 %. Most countries are finding it difficult to provide sufficient new opportunities for productive employment, even at GNP growth
rates of 6% and 7%. In nearly all the countries of the Region, most people still live in rural areas, and are dependent on agriculture for income and employment. Agricultural growth has generally exceeded 4%, and in countries where new land is still being developed, such as Malaysia and Thailand, growth in the agricultural sector has been between 5% and 6% for many years. Food production has been sufficient, so far, to avoid increased dependence on imports. Thailand has always been a rice exporter; Korea has become self-sufficient, while Malaysia and the Philippines are moving towards rice self-sufficiency. In Indonesia, however, recent rice crops have been below expectations.
Fewer and fewer opportunities exist in agriculture to absorb additional workers or to promise them rising incomes. Increasingly, therefore, some countries are relying on the industrial sector to provide new employment opportunities. In Korea, for instance, it is estimated that industry, relying to a significant extent on manufacturing for export, already provides nearly half the additional new employment. In Malaysia, Thailand, and the Philippines, where industrial manufacturing contributes between 15% and 25% of gross domestic product (GDP), the sector holds the promise for further growth and for providing more employment opportunities. In Indonesia, on the other hand, efforts to direct industrial development towards labor-intensive manufacturing activities are still at an early stage.
Growth and Exports
While most of the Region's countries are large enough to have important domestic markets, future economic strength is likely to depend, to a significant extent, on export-induced growth. The large countries have export shares ranging between 18% of GDP (for the Philippines) to 51% (for Malaysia). Some countries, such as Malaysia or Thailand, which, not many years ago, relied on the export of only a limited number of agricultural crops and primary products, have broadened the range of their exports; they have managed to adjust to international price changes and have taken advantage of market opportunities. Korea, which has achieved an annual growth of exports of about 30% over the last few years, has relied entirely on manufacturing to broaden its export structure. Korean exports of manufactures account for about 90% of its total exports. The maintenance of appropriate incentives for exporters, and a flexible exchange rate policy combined with an aggressive export drive, have been mainly responsible for Korea's continued good export performance. Some of the other countries which, so far, have based manufacturing activities mainly on import substitution and production for the domestic market are now beginning to turn to manufac-
tured exports. Within the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), created 10 years ago by Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand, member governments are exploring ways to share a wider internal common market among themselves and to strengthen the competitiveness of their products in world markets.
Bank and IDA Lending
Lending by the World Bank to the countries in the Region during fiscal year 1978 totaled $1,726.2 million, including $139.3 million by IDA, for 37 projects. The amount of lending exceeded the level achieved in fiscal 1977 by $251.2 million, while the number of projects increased by one. IDA lending increased by $116 million. Of the 37 projects assisted, 10 involved co-financing efforts totaling $220 million. In fiscal 1977, five projects were co-financed; the amount of co-financing involved in fiscal 1977 was $204.1 million. After a three-year pause, IDA lending to Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand was resumed. While all Bank and IDA lending was for specific projects, the scope and objectives of many of them were sector-wide. A substantial number were repeater projects, and supported sectoral objectives and development strategies initiated by the borrower and the Bank under projects financed in previous years.
Agricultural lending amounted to $794.2 million, or 46% of the Region's total. Although many of the 15 agricultural projects provide direct support for increased production of food crops and smallholder tree crops, many also encompass extension and credit services, and include components such as village roads, and water supply, health, and education facilities. Industrial lending, frequently for financial assistance to small-scale enterprises, and on-lent through financial intermediaries, totaled $344.8 million. Transportation, electric power, and education projects accounted for most of the remaining $587.2 million. Included in this latter amount are projects benefiting only, or mainly, rural populations, such as those in support of rural electrification programs or adult nonformal education.
Broadening Rural Development
Four projects, one each in Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, and the Philippines are financing multisectoral investments in rural areas. The multisectoral Rural Infrastructure Project in the Philippines, assisted by a $28 million IDA credit, provides a range of infrastructure facilities and basic services to the rural population of six provinces that were selected mainly on the basis of present low-income levels. About 2.1 million people live in
the six provinces, nearly 90% of them in rural areas. Project components include communal irrigation systems, "barangay" (village) roads, small ports, rural water supply facilities, and rural health stations providing health, nutrition, and family planning services. The project builds on ongoing programs in these sectors and increases their scale. The Bank's assistance, therefore, emphasizes the strengthening of the technical and administrative capabilities of the implementing agencies and the introduction of improved methods to monitor and evaluate the developmental impact of these programs. Other components necessary for rural development, such as credit, improved extension services, and rural electrification are being, or will be provided, under other Bank-assisted projects.
The Rehabilitation and Development Project in the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the first project assisted by the Bank in that country. Aided by an IDA credit of $8.2 million and a United Nations Development Programme technical assistance grant of SI .7 million, the project will help increase rice and pork production in Vientiane province. It includes construction and rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage schemes on some 8,300 hectares of permanent paddyland in the lowland areas of the province; rice intensification, based on improved seeds, distribution of fertilizers and insecticides; introduction of better cultivation techniques; pig multiplication, based on a regular supply of weaned piglets for fattening; and credit for pig feed and other inputs. The project is also designed to strengthen the planning and implementation capabilities of government agencies, and to provide experience that can be transferred later to other provinces. An estimated 10,000 farm families, whose incomes are considerably below poverty levels, are expected to benefit from the project.
Additional support for rural communities and small-scale village enterprises in Thailand will be provided under the Accelerated Rural Electrification Project, for which the Bank loaned $25 million during the year. Some 675,000 households in about 4,500 villages, mostly in northeast Thailand (one of the poorest regions of the country), will be provided electric power. Many of these villages serve as market and service centers for surrounding areas. Electricity will permit farmers to perform their domestic tasks at night and free them to work longer hours on their farms during the peak planting and harvesting seasons. Electric power made available by the project will be used to run irrigation pumps and village industries. Electricity in the villages will also create more favorable conditions for vocational and adult education programs. The Bank loan will help finance distribution line accessories (transformers and substations), switching equipment, meters, and wiring. The project, which constitutes the first five-year
phase of an Accelerated Rural Electrification Program, will also receive $8 million in financing from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and $7 million from the OPEC Special Fund.
Agricultural extension, primarily an educational activity, is essential to the transfer of new technology to small farmers. The Bank is already supporting national extension projects in Indonesia and Thailand. A National Extension Project in Malaysia is now being assisted by a Bank loan of $19 million. The project provides extension services to an estimated 1 million very poor rural families. They are primarily paddy and coconut farmers, who often intercrop or grow other minor crops in rotation, and who rely largely on rain fed cultivation. Under the project, these farmers will be guided on the basis of research results, new technology, and farm management economics. Regular in-service training of field-level agricultural staff, progressive improvement and regularization of extension methodology, and the strengthening of extension education and management are being emphasized. The number of field staff will be increased, and in-service training for them will be expanded and regularized throughout the country. The national average ratio of field-level agricultural technicians to farm families is expected to improve from 1:1,300 to 1:800. Specialists will provide technical backstopping for the extension workers. The project also includes the improvement and expansion of seed production, processing, and marketing facilities. The effectiveness of an ongoing farm subsidy program, which aims to reduce farmers' risks connected with the introduction of new techniques and new crops mainly by providing inputs such as seeds, planting materials, fertilizers, insecticides, and pesticides, will be reviewed.
Population Growth Rates Reduced
With rising incomes and broadening of education, particularly of women, the barriers to the introduction of family planning are coming down. Most countries are now implementing family planning programs. Korea and Singapore started such programs in the mid-1960s; Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand are doing so now with the assistance of the Bank. The average family size is everywhere reported to be on the decline, and the number of acceptors of birth control methods among women of childbearing age is increasing, having reached 25% and more in most countries. Even with lower death rates, population growth rates are declining—approaching 2% in Indonesia, 2.5% in Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand; in Korea, the population growth rate is 1.8%, and Singapore has had a still lower rate for many years.
During fiscal 1978, the Bank helped finance a first Population Project in Thailand with an IDA credit of $33.1 million. The accelerated national family program (first phase) in Thailand aims at reducing the rate of population growth from 2.5% to 2.1% during the Fourth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (covering fiscal years 1977-81). Under the program, more than 3 million new acceptors of birth control methods are expected to be recruited, and maternal and infant mortality rates are expected to be reduced by 20%. The project will extend the delivery of family planning services and supplies to rural areas; increase the supply of nurses, auxiliary midwives, and practical nurse/midwives—key personnel in providing family planning services; and strengthen family planning evaluation and research, as well as information, education, and communication activities. The project will also improve the rural health delivery system in 20 relatively disadvantaged provinces by raising the level of services to national standards. The Australian Development Assistance Bureau, CIDA, the Government of Norway, and the United States Agency for International Development are participating in the financing of the project.
Small-scale Enterprise Assistance
Industrial development is being emphasized by most countries within the Region, and the Bank is supporting these efforts through direct loans or through lending extended by financial intermediaries. In Indonesia, industrial investment has, so far, been mainly for large, capital-intensive projects, but the government now recognizes that the small-scale enterprise sector has an important role to play in providing productive employment at a low cost per worker. Small-scale enterprises range from some relatively modern firms in manufacturing, construction, and transport to large numbers of traditional artisans and small traders, with the latter accounting for a major proportion of the total number. Limited access to institutional credit has been one of the major constraints to the growth and modernization of many small-scale enterprises. In 1974, the Government of Indonesia initiated a credit program to provide investment and working capital to small-scale
enterprises through the existing state banking system, under the guidance of Bank Indonesia. A Small Enterprise Credit Project, assisted during the year by a $40 million IDA credit, will provide technical and financial assistance to the credit program in order to improve loan appraisal and loan handling, and to reduce lending costs. It is expected that, through this project, assistance to small enterprises in towns and rural areas can be strengthened, that labor-intensive technologies can be introduced, and that additional employment—both full-time, off-farm employment and supplemental employment to farmers—can be created at a low cost per job.
Ports Modernized
Availability of adequate modern port facilities is important for this area of islands and peninsulas, where a majority of the population lives near the sea. During fiscal 1978, the Bank helped finance, with a S13 million loan, additional berths and ancillary facilities for the port of Tawau in the Malaysian state of Sabah and container handling facilities at Port Moresby (Papua New Guinea) with a loan of $3.5 million.
Container traffic through Papua New Guinea ports has been growing rapidly; all shipments from Australia, which account for about half of all overseas traffic, are now containerized. At present, containers are being handled mainly through Lae, which has adequate facilities financed under a 1973 IDA credit. The port improvement project at Port Moresby includes land reclamation, the building of a 125-meter berth, the extension of the present container freight station, and improvements to the port access road. A 30-meter coastal berth will be built at Samarai, located on a small island off the coast of southern Papua, and consulting services will be provided for project design and implementation, and for training the staff of the Papua New Guinea Harbours Board. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is participating in the financing of the project, with a loan of $3.5 million.
The improvements will permit Port Moresby to realize fully the greater efficiency of container shipping. They will also reduce ship waiting and turnaround time, and thus, significantly reduce cargo handling costs.
South Asia
The common thread of developments in South Asia during fiscal 1978 has been the acceleration of economic growth in much of the Region11' and the improvement in the availability of resources that has followed in its wake. Since the Second World War, economic growth in the Region has been held back by lack of resources —foreign exchange, foodgrains, electricity, and essential raw materials. Although resolute development efforts have led to significant improvements in the production structure and the quality of the labor force, economic growth has been sluggish, in most years barely exceeding the rate of population growth. For many of the inhabitants of this most populous Region of the world, conditions have improved only slowly, and some 300 million people have continued to live in extreme poverty and, as a result, are still deprived of adequate food, clean water, and other basic necessities. Per capita consumption of essential items, such as foodgrains and cotton
manufactures, has hardly increased at all. In the last three years, however, economic growth has generally been somewhat ahead of population growth in the countries of the Region, with the exception of Pakistan and Nepal. In fiscal 1977, there was a slight pause in growth, but in fiscal 1978, growth in gross domestic product (GDP) for the subcontinent as a whole is likely to approach that of fiscal 1976, which, in turn, had been the year of highest growth during the present decade.
Expansion of Irrigation
The main factor in the recent growth of the Region's economy has been the state of bumper crops of foodgrain in India, Bangladesh, and
<]> Membership in the Region increased by one during the fiscal year when Maldives joined the Bank and IDA in January 1978.
Sri Lanka, a vigorous recovery of cotton production and adequate grain crops in Pakistan, relatively high prices for traditional export products such as jute and tea, and continued growth of nontraditional exports. The bumper crops were associated with favorable monsoon weather over most of the subcontinent; Nepal and Burma missed out on the good weather, however, and agricultural production in those countries did not increase. Other factors also played a role. Fertilizer consumption, which, in some countries, stopped growing when international prices increased in 1973, is surging ahead once more; so, too, is the use of improved seeds. Irrigated areas are expanding much faster, and significant steps have been taken towards using, more efficiently, water on completed irrigation projects. These improvements are associated with the concentrated efforts throughout much of the Region to bring more effective extension services to farmers.
At this stage, however, it is not known precisely how much of the increase in agricultural production can be credited to longer-lasting improvements and how much has been due to the fortuitous succession of a few years of good weather. Whatever the relative importance of these factors may be, however, the good harvests have substantially strengthened the resource position of the Region, India in particular, by reducing the need for imports of food and by providing opportunities for building up buffer stocks against possible future crop shortfalls.
Workers' Remittances
The resource position of the Region was also bolstered last year by favorable developments on external account. These developments included an increase in export earnings of about 10%, increased earnings from tourism in Sri Lanka, India, and Nepal (in Nepal, tourism has become the country's largest foreign exchange earner), and, most important, increased remittances, particularly from workers who have migrated to the Middle East. In only a few years, these remittances have become the single most important source of foreign exchange for India and Pakistan, and their importance is rapidly rising for Bangladesh, as well. Judging by the Pakistan and Indian experience, the skills of the migrants are widely varied, and migrants work as unskilled laborers as well as professionals. Remittances, therefore, must be benefiting households over most of the income distribution scale, including households at its lower end. Meanwhile, some difficulties have occurred, in areas where many migrants have left, in construction and manufacturing and in the implementation of development projects. Minimizing the cost to the economies of the Region of migration, while increasing the flow of migrants, may require accelerated training in critical categories of skills.
At the same time, the migrants, who usually leave their families behind (for they intend to return to their home countries within a limited
A 22,000-ton increase in Sri Lanka's production of rice, oilier cereals, and pulses will result from the modernization of five tank irrigation schemes in the north-central dry zone, serving some 13,000 hectares. The project, assisted by an IDA credit of $5 million, approved in fiscal 1976, and a grant of $6 million from the United Kingdom, is expected to contribute to an estimated annual savings of $4 million in foreign exchange, increase employment opportunities in rural areas, and raise farm incomes.
time), should be given the benefit of special schemes to help them put their savings to productive use. (To some extent, such schemes exist already in India.) To be sure, remittances allow recipient households to raise their standards of living; but also, remittances are frequently spent on housing or land, often at inflated prices. There is, therefore, a need for schemes that would help workers returning from the Middle East invest their savings in productive assets, such as small industrial undertakings or agricultural equipment. These, and other, issues related to migration are currently being investigated with Bank assistance in both Pakistan and Bangladesh.
Developments in other sectors during the past year have also led to the strengthening of the Region's economic resources. Further progress in the exploitation of oil and natural gas resources and in the exploration of new deposits has opened the prospect of reduced dependence
by Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan on imported fuel, and an improved basis for domestic production of important petroleum-based products, such as fertilizer. Production, in India, of iron and steel increased further and, thanks to good monsoons, so did the generation of hydropower. Of longer-lasting significance for the Region's resource position is the already mentioned increase in farmland under irrigation. In India, irrigation development has acquired great momentum; according to recent estimates, its pace has accelerated from less than half a million hectares of newly irrigated land in the early 1970s to around 1.5 million hectares in fiscal 1978. In Nepal, irrigation development is proceeding at about twice the level of five years ago. In Burma, where water development possibilities are substantial, encouraging progress has been made in the rehabilitation, flood protection, drainage, and irrigation of large areas in the Irrawaddy delta.
Several schemes, moreover, promise further progress on a large scale in harnessing the Region's water resources.
—The Tarbela dam in Pakistan, the largest such project in the world, is close to completion, although technical mishaps have required further works to be undertaken. IDA and Canada provided supplemental funds during the year. A number of countries, including original contributors to the Indus Basin and Tarbela Development Funds have indicated their willingness to make further contributions, and contributions are being sought from other sources as well. The facilities at Tarbela will increase the irrigation potential in Pakistan's part of the Indus basin: in addition, the dam will eventually supply one-third of the country's total electricity output.
—The agreement between India and Bangladesh on the sharing of the Ganges waters has paved the way for their planned utilization in both countries.
—In Sri Lanka, the newly elected government vowed to speed up implementation of the largest water development scheme on the island, the Mahaweli Ganga development program.
The sum of these improvements in the availability of resources—foreign exchange, grain stocks, irrigation potential, hydropower. oil and natural gas. iron and steel—has brought the Region. India especially, to a better position to step up its development efforts. India is now less subject to the constraints of food and foreign exchange availability that have historically hampered its development. Improvements have also occurred in other South Asian countries, although not to the same extent: Nepal, a traditional exporter of cereals, has seen its surpluses dwindle rapidly during the past five years; and most countries in the Region, Bangladesh and Pakistan in particular, continue to rely heavily on external assistance. Yet there now exists an opportunity for much of the Region to undertake a larger development effort without undue fears of crippling shortages of resources.
The response to this opportunity was somewhat limited in the past year, though more recently, there are clear indications of a step-up in capital formation in both the public and private sectors. These facts point to the need for supplementary action to remove institutional bottlenecks, to simplify and rationalize procedures further, and to bring about structural improvements.
Taking Up the Challenge
Policy decisions in several countries of the Region during the past year demonstrate that this challenge is being taken up. In the wake of major political changes in several South Asian countries, an intense scrutiny of existing social
and economic policies has started. It has already resulted in important measures, such as liberalization of import and investment controls, greater recognition of the role of exports and reduced emphasis on import substitution, efforts to improve the price structure of agricultural products, and importance being placed on adequate commercial performance of state enterprises. At the same time, governments are reappraising the role of public investment in the economic development process. Throughout the Region, this reappraisal is leading to a shift away from an earlier emphasis on heavy industry and certain types of infrastructure, in favor of agriculture, irrigation, rural development, small-scale industry, education, and health. The restructuring of public investment programs will require time, however, because of the weight of ongoing programs and the difficulties inherent in designing new types of projects.
The shift in the emphasis in public investment corresponds to a new perception in the Region, both of what is required to make an economy grow, and of how the needs of the poorest segments of the population might be met. Concern with equity is of long standing in most of South Asia, where employment creation, income distribution, popular participation in the development process, and satisfaction of minimum needs have all been planning objectives long before they became the focus of worldwide development debate. In spite of considerable improvements in literacy, nutrition, and life expectancy, the Region has not as yet been successful—with the notable exception of Sri Lanka —in creating a basis for sustained improvements in the conditions of the broad masses of the population. In the past year, the search for a new strategy that emphasizes increases in productivity of the mass of small farmers and craftsmen, and access by the poor to the basic education and health care needed for their economic advancement has been intensified. In addition to calling for new policies and institutions, such a strategy requires innovative projects that can raise the productivity of the poor and achieve a wide distribution of project benefits. In the past years, the Bank has worked closely with the governments of the Region in the design and implementation of such projects. Many of these projects have been concerned with the development of agriculture and irrigation, but there have also been examples to choose from in the fields of urban improvement, water supply and sewerage, and education.
Bank and IDA Lending
In fiscal 1978, Bank and IDA lending to the Region was $1,648.9 million, up $485 million from fiscal 1977 amounts. The number of projects assisted rose to 36, or four more than in
fiscal 1977. As usual, given the resource constraints of most of the countries of the Region, 80% of the total lending was on IDA terms. Co-financers committed resources totaling $144 million for five of the Bank-assisted and 1DA-assistcd projects. In fiscal 1977, co-financers committed $176.8 million for seven projects.
Attempts to increase the ability of farmers to draw the full benefits of technological advances have become a major theme in IDA lending for agriculture in South Asia. Productivity is often held back by the gap between fully tested and potentially operational technology and actual farm practices. To bridge this gap, several IDA-assistcd projects in the Region feature a new system of agricultural extension, the "training and visit" (T&V) system. This system emphasizes the intensive and precise instruction of farmers at regular, brief intervals on agricultural practices that they should undertake in seven to 14 days' time. The main ingredients of this promising approach to the problems of stagnating agricultural yields are disciplined training, organization, and supervision of the extension workers; strict adherence to a fixed schedule of visits; and the use of model farmers to help spread the word. The extension workers are freed of the administrative chores usually thrust upon them, and receive adequate transportation and other resources to carry out their tasks.
Wherever the T&V system has been put into operation, results have been gratifying. Most families in project areas soon start to follow one or more of the recommended practices, and their agricultural yields have often increased dramatically within one or two seasons—with little or no increase in purchased inputs. There are limits, of course, to yield increases that can be obtained without increases in purchased inputs, and, where appropriate, use of improved seeds. Application of fertilizer, water, pesticides, and provision of credit is tied in with the content of the instruction. To enable the extension service to incorporate technical innovations smoothly into the content of the instruction, close contact with applied agricultural research organizations is included in the projects. Through their initial emphasis on low-cost, labor-intensive methods, the projects have particularly benefited small farmers who, typically, have little cash, but do have spare labor. The benefits from the projects have enabled farmers to nourish their families better, to improve their housing, and permit their children to attend school. Benefits are not limited to farm families, since more intensive cultivation methods counseled by the extension workers have led to increased employment of landless workers on larger farms.
In India, the T&V system is the backbone of three statewide extension and research projects, all assisted with IDA credits in fiscal 1978
—in Orissa, Rajasthan, and Bihar. These projects have come on the heels of similar projects, assisted in fiscal 1977, in Assam, West Bengal, and Madhya Pradesh, as well as projects in more limited areas. In Bangladesh, the government has decided, in principle, to organize its own extension service on the basis of the T & V system; in Pakistan, the T & V system is the core of the Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project, assisted by a $12.5 million IDA credit; in Nepal, application of the system has raised farmers' yields by half in a single year in parts of the Birganj irrigation project, assisted in fiscal 1977 by a $9 million IDA credit; and in Burma, the system is being used in the Paddy-land Development Project, assisted in fiscal 1976 by a $30 million IDA credit.
Improved research and extension is not only beneficial to an increase in foodgrain production. In Bangladesh, it is an essential element in a project, assisted by a $21 million IDA credit, to improve the cultivation of jute, the country's most important export product. About I million, mostly verv poor, farm families stand to benefit from yield increases obtained through the project, while about 10% of them arc expected to benefit additionally from higher jute prices, to be obtained as a result of a pilot marketing scheme.
Dairy Development
The National Dairy Development Project in India is aimed at increasing yet another source of rural income. Most rural families in the subcontinent own a few head of cattle or buffalo for draught purposes and milk production. Even poor tenants and landless laborers often own at least one cow or buffalo from which they derive a meager cash income—if only they can find an outlet for the milk. With the objective of increasing their incomes, small cattle owners began to establish dairy cooperatives after the Second World War, but these cooperatives were often dominated by middlemen. About 30 years ago. the "Amul'" cooperative, made up of mostly small milk producers in Kaira district, in Gujarat, succeeded in breaking the milk marketing monopoly of a private milk company in Bombay, and provided a beginning to a cooperative movement in which dairy facilities are owned and operated by the farmers themselves. Cooperatives of this nature have now been established in 10% of India's districts; they own processing plants, transportation and marketing facilities, and provide advice and veterinary services to their members. A guaranteed outlet for milk at a fair price has greatly increased the family incomes of cooperative members.
A $150 million IDA credit to the Indian Dairy Corporation aims at promoting the establishment of dairy cooperatives on the Amul
model throughout India. The credit, which follows three earlier ones (in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan) for dairy development on a similar, but more limited scale, will provide for dairy processing, distribution and transport facilities, as well as training, research, and animal health services. Most beneficiaries of the project will be subsistence or small farmers, whose average annual per capita farm income (above subsistence) of about $50 is less than half the national average. As a result of the project, the net incomes of some three and a half million families are expected to increase substantially. Since dairy production is a labor-intensive activity, the project will also provide additional employment opportunities to landless and smaller farmers. The surplus revenues from milk sales accruing to village dairy cooperative societies have been used by the villagers to build schools, water supply systems, and access roads. Dairying has also helped to enhance the status of women and to break down caste barriers.
Other Sectors Aided
Although South Asia is chiefly rural in character, about 150 million of its inhabitants live in cities, in many of which there are enormous problems of housing, sanitation, and employment. The approach to urban development in South Asia is still evolving, and consultations between the Bank and the governments of the Region on urban lending are still in progress. In previous years, IDA has helped finance projects in Bombay, Madras, and Calcutta aimed chiefly at improving water supply facilities and transportation in these agglomerations. In fiscal 1978, IDA helped finance, with an $87 million credit, a project in Calcutta designed to provide a much wider range of urban improvements, including improvements to slum areas, primary schools, health centers, water supply and sanitation facilities, roads, and footways—all concentrated in slum areas.
Sites and services for small-scale industries will be set up, and market centers for consumers constructed. These measures are expected to lead to overall improvements in the organization and design of basic urban services for many of the almost 10 million inhabitants of the Calcutta agglomeration, and provide specific benefits to target groups — including better schools and social and economic support for almost a million slum dwellers. Experience in the implementation of this project will act as an important
guide in the design of future urban projects in the South Asia Region.
In Nepal, the shortage of trained technical manpower to implement development projects has been an important factor preventing the government from achieving projected rates of growth in GDP. Today, there is no local capacity in the country for training senior engineering technicians. Almost all are trained abroad; the estimated number of returning graduates through 1980 represents less than half the projected needs of the current plan period (1976-80). Moreover, foreign training is not specifically related to Nepalese conditions and problems, and foreign-trained technicians are generally reluctant to work outside the Kathmandu valley.
A $5.7 million IDA credit is aimed at increasing the supply of needed junior and senior engineering technicians through increasing the capacity and quality of training at the main campus of the Institute of Engineering. Under the project, graduates (primarily in civil and electrical engineering) would meet about 50% of the estimated requirements for junior technicians in the current plan, and about 85% in the Fifth (current) and Sixth plans combined. Studies, providing a basis for future development of the education sector, will also be carried out.
Small-scale and cottage industries (SCIs) in Bangladesh will be given a boost by a $7 million IDA credit approved during the past year. The credit will aid the development of SCIs—which provide work for about 80% of the country's total industrial labor force—by assisting a project whose purposes are to introduce reforms in the institutional framework for aiding SCIs by strengthening institutions, redefining their roles, and initiating programs to tackle problems limiting SCI development; and to provide finance for investments in new, expansion, balancing, and modernization projects, including permanent working capital requirements, and for technical assistance. It is expected that as many as 200 small-scale, and up to 1,000 cottage industries will be aided by the project. Rough estimates indicate that the project could result in incremental direct employment for about 8,000 workers, and increased earnings for an additional 6,000 workers.
Included prominently among the beneficiaries would be many of the country's 100,000 women who are involved in handicraft production using jute as the major raw material. Sales of handicrafts made of jute are thought to have an immediate potential for expansion.
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
In none of the World Bank's six regional departments are the countries as disparate— geographically, culturally, and economically—as are those that belong to the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region.
However, diverse countries such as Portugal, Yugoslavia, Egypt, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Afghanistan, as well as other member borrowing countries of the Region have, in recent years, increasingly attempted to devise ways in which the basic needs of their populations can be better fulfilled— through emphasizing the production of food, by strengthening programs of vocational education, and by developing schemes designed to alleviate urban poverty. The ways in which the countries of the Region have gone about these tasks are outlined later in the chapter in the discussion of projects assisted with Bank and IDA finance during the past fiscal year.
And, too, the Region's countries—rich and poor, large and small—have all been adversely affected—in different ways, of course—by the slower-than-expected recovery in traditional growth rates of the developed, industrialized countries.
Particularly affected by this slow recovery were the exports of labor and nonoil goods from the Region. Thus, in Turkey, for example, export earnings declined, compared with those of 1976, and net emigration of labor was sharply reduced. In Portugal, a continuing balance of payments deficit was due, in part, to the sluggish growth of exports to European countries; a significant factor, also, was the high domestic demand for export goods. In some countries, such adverse developments were offset by the export of goods and labor to oil-producing countries. Cyprus and Jordan, for example, benefited substantially from exports of agricultural and
manufactured goods to Persian Gulf countries; as a result, Jordan is planning to make major investments to increase agricultural output in the Jordan valley. Afghanistan, also, is well placed to serve these Gulf markets. A development strategy, led by agricultural exports, increasingly in processed form, has already begun to take shape in the country. To take advantage of these opportunities, Afghanistan is developing institutions to assist small-scale agricultural and industrial producers, both in improving their products and in increasing their output. In addition to income from exports, remittances from emigrant labor working in oil-producing countries have been substantial in such countries as the Arab Republic of Egypt, Jordan, Yemen Arab Republic, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Afghanistan, and Syria.
Sluggish economic recovery in the industrialized world was also partially offset by continuing aid flows from the oil-producing countries which provided significant amounts of aid, often in the form of grants, to countries in the Region; Egypt, Jordan, Syria, and Yemen Arab Republic were major recipients of these flows.
The slowing down of external migration from North Africa to Europe has given added impetus to the Maghreb countries to strengthen their efforts to increase domestic employment. In Algeria, for example, employment creation has been emphasized through large investments in
new industries; an accelerated program of small and medium-scale regional enterprises; and continued implementation of its Agrarian Revolution, which aims at providing full employment to landless agricultural laborers. On the other hand, in many oil-producing countries, particularly in the Gulf, acute labor shortages and rising costs have led to a growing awareness of the need for manpower planning. As part of its program of technical assistance, the Bank has been helping the Saudi Arabian government conduct a major manpower planning study. Launched in 1974, the study is still continuing. Among its objectives are the estimation of domestic demand for various types and levels of manpower over the decade; and development of analytical and institutional capabilities within Saudi Arabia to initiate manpower planning, evaluate alternatives, and evolve detailed policies and programs for meeting manpower needs.
In the field of energy, efforts continued in many non-OPEC countries of the Region to reduce their dependence on imported oil through price increases to consumers and through attempts to step up oil exploration and develop other sources of energy. In Romania, for example, the government's earlier efforts to develop indigenous sources of energy other than oil, particularly of lignite and low-grade coal, were speeded up. Ways to encourage greater efficiency in energy use are also being actively
pursued in the country. And in Tunisia, the means by which its gas resources might be exploited are being studied.
Bank and IDA Activities
In fiscal 1978, the Bank and IDA helped finance 44 projects for a total of 51,856 million, compared with 44 projects for 51,570 million in the previous fiscal year.
Lending for industrial and agricultural development accounted for 17% and 30%, respectively, of the total for the Region. As in the recent past, the Region remained one of the major recipients (25%) of Bank lending to industry and development finance companies.
Co-financing provided additional resources for Bank-supported and IDA-supported projects. Those additional resources and contributions are expected to amount to $1,240 million for 20 projects in 11 countries.
Major sources of co-financing for projects were: the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan ($224 million), the US Agency for International Development ($74.7 million), the Saudi Fund (at least $70 million), the Abu Dhabi Fund (at least $25 million), the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (at least $ 14.5 million), and the OPEC Special Fund ($10.25 million).
Among the various means being employed to reduce their foreign exchange deficits, the nonoil developing countries in the Region are paying increasing attention to the development of agriculture, not only to meet their domestic needs and to raise the living standards of the rural poor, but also to increase exports. To assist countries in devising agricultural export strategies, the Bank has undertaken a series of studies —providing comprehensive analyses and forecasts of market conditions—on likely export markets in Europe for fruits and vegetables. The need for such studies is great, for there are many countries—at different levels of development— involved in exporting these crops. The results of these studies have already been helpful in shaping future agricultural projects in several countries.
Raising Agricultural Productivity
A $30 million Bank loan approved in fiscal 1978 for a Vegetable Production and Marketing Project in Greece supports an innovative effort in that country to take fuller advantage of its favorable location and climate to export high-value, out-of-season vegetables to European markets. The project will help small farmers supply this lucrative market, and, if successful, could increase incomes of participating farmers by an estimated 20%. Besides essential investments in greenhouses, packhouses, cold storage
A water supply and sewerage project in Sana'a, capital of the Yemen Arab Republic, is being helped by a $10 million IDA credit, approved in fiscal 1976. The city's residents will be provided with 18,000 water and about 8,700 sewage connections, in addition to about 50 public water taps. The improvements will assist many urban poor and help reduce the incidence of waterborne diseases.
facilities, and tractor trailers, the project provides for improvements in research and extension services so as to increase production and improve varieties; assistance in organizing improved marketing arrangements to take better advantage of market opportunities; and improvements in the country's agricultural credit system. The project's investments are to be located in two regions of high agricultural potential, Crete and the Peloponnesus, and will be executed over a period of five years.
Another project designed to exploit the potential of producing fruits and vegetables for export to neighboring countries — but this time, in Afghanistan — was assisted during the year by an $18 million IDA credit. By providing farmers with incentives, such as improved cleaning, packing, storage, and trucking facilities, grading and export certification systems, marketing assistance, and farm credits, cropping patterns will be diversified. The project provides the first
systematic attempt to encourage Afghan farmers to grow these crops and/or improve their quality. Two government-owned financial intermediaries—the Agricultural Development Bank and the Export Promotion Bank—together with three other recently established institutions—the Afghan Seed Corporation, the Afghan Raisin Institute, and the Afghan Vegetable Export Corporation—are involved in the project, and IDA funds will be used to help strengthen the institutions concerned. The average annual income of each of the 1 million farm families benefiting from the project—mainly through improved raisin processing and marketing—is expected to increase from S512 to S720.
A $5.2 million IDA credit to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen will support a project designed to increase agricultural productivity and yields in Wadi Tuban, a district near the capital city of Aden, through the provision of improved inputs, agricultural equipment, extension services, and technical assistance and training. The main crops involved include cotton, sorghum, maize, sesame, melons, and tomatoes. If, as expected, the annual gross value of agricultural production increases by over 100%, the country could save about $1.2 million in foreign exchange, and public revenue from the project area would increase substantially. Each of about 7,000 cooperative farm families (some 36,000 people), most of whom now live well below the poverty level (estimated at $75 per capita in 1976), is expected to have its average annual income augmented by about 63% when the project is fully developed. The project would also improve the living conditions of rural inhabitants through the construction of potable water supply systems serving 6,000 people living in six villages that still lack proper water supplies. About 22 kilometers of feeder roads will link nine villages to the main road, thereby improving communications and access to health and other facilities. A novel feature of the project includes a survey, by earth satellite, of selected parts of the country, to identify areas of groundwater and agricultural potential. Such a survey has never before been undertaken in the country. And, since water is such a scarce and valuable resource, the project also provides for a study for the evaluation, management, and use of the water resources in Wadi Tuban.
A First Livestock Project was successfully completed in Turkey in early 1978. The project, assisted by a $4.5 million IDA credit, was approved in 1971, and represented a first major effort by the Turkish government to modernize the dairy industry. More than 3,000 pedigree Holstein cattle were imported for use on private farms in western Turkey near the four main milk-consuming centers of Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir, and Adana. The cattle were imported in
order to establish a nucleus of breeding stock from which to upgrade indigenous herds over the long term. The project also succeeded in establishing 150 modern dairy farms and promoting modern dairying techniques through the provision of credit and technical assistance. Due to a slow start-up and the impact of inflation, however, their number fell short of the 250 to 300 farms projected at the time of appraisal.
The cattle, imported from Western Europe, adapted well to Turkish conditions, and milk production and calving rates exceeded appraisal expectations. Although the project has not yet reached full development, 500 surplus Holstein bulls are already being distributed each year to local farmers for herd improvement. In view of the progress made, a repeater dairy project, a Third Livestock Project (aided by a Bank loan of $21.5 million), was approved in 1976, and is now being implemented. It aims at consolidating the gains made under the first project and at extending benefits to new areas in western and central Turkey. The project also includes a pilot scheme to assist 300 small livestock producers living in villages.
Improving Urban Conditions
The problems of the cities and the urban poor, have, in recent years, become a focus of increasing concern to many of the Region's countries. In Morocco, growing demand for housing, particularly for poor people, has outstripped the supply of public housing, and the government has increasingly focused on the need to upgrade housing in squatter settlements and slum areas. The first World Bank-assisted urban development project in Morocco forms part of the government's program to upgrade a total of 500,000 dwelling units during the new Development Plan period, 1978-82. The project, aided by a Bank loan of $18 million, aims at improving the living conditions and productive capacities of about 60,000 people living in squatter settlements in Rabat. It provides for the upgrading, through self-help efforts, of squatter housing, development of a 12-hectare experimental sites and services scheme, extension of basic social infrastructure, and essential urban services at costs that are affordable by beneficiaries. Efforts are also being made to initiate improved training in skills, expand commercial installations, and develop local employment opportunities. Through these efforts, it is expected that the incomes of the urban poor might be raised by creating about 2,500 new jobs in the project area.
In Algeria, the existing urban water supply and sewerage systems are insufficient to meet the needs of a rapidly growing urban population that now accounts for 42% of the country's total population. The population of Algiers, at
1.7 million, has more than tripled since 1962, and the city's infrastructure, including facilities for water supply and sewerage, has not been able to keep pace. Wastewaters from Greater Algiers are discharged without treatment into Algiers Bay and the El Harrach River, and waterborne diseases are endemic. A first Bank-assisted sewerage project in Algeria will help the government achieve its priority objective of reducing water pollution and its associated health hazards. A reduction in water pollution would help in three ways. First, it would permit redevelopment of the affected areas and make it possible to put to use land presently vacant because of pollution, thereby helping to relieve population congestion in the inner city. Second, the proposed project, aided by an $82 million Bank loan, calls for the reuse of treated sewage. Reuse would result in a substantial increase in the water resources of Greater Algiers, thereby reducing the need for investments in water supply. Third, by treating the wastewater, the El Harrach River and Algiers Bay would recover their natural ecological environment, and the discharge into the Mediterranean Sea of matter that would cause the seawater to become oxygen deficient would be prevented.
In Portugal, the Bank provided a $40 million loan during the year to help finance a water supply project in the urban and rural municipalities of the Lisbon region, where 30% of the country's population lives. The project, which is the main item in a regional five-year investment plan, will help meet the basic needs for water of an estimated 300,000 poor people in Lisbon and adjacent rural areas by increasing the availability of water and by extending the distribution network to new areas. These improvements will reduce the risk of a cholera outbreak such as occurred in 1974/75, as well as the incidence of other waterborne diseases. The project will also assist the government in building up and strengthening major institutions responsible for water supply and sewerage in Lisbon and the other main urbanized areas of the country, Oporto and the Algarve. Through the construction involved in the project, an estimated 22,000 man-years of employment will be created, thus partially alleviating an unemployment problem in the Greater Lisbon area.
Lending for Social Improvement
Two significant obstacles to long-run economic and social progress in Syria are the shortage of technical manpower and the absence of effective administrative institutions. A $20 million Bank loan will help finance an education project that addresses itself directly to these macroeconomic issues. In addition, the project attempts to focus on two high-priority areas in the education sector: increasing the
quality and relevance of education through improved teacher-training facilities, and orienting curricula toward the practicalities of everyday life. The project will help reduce technical manpower shortages, and will introduce new vocational specializations required for the development of Syrian industry and infrastructure. Consistent with the government's regional policy, most of the project facilities will be located away from the main urban centers of Damascus and Aleppo. Moreover, by providing that at least half the trainee places are to be filled by women, the project would ensure the availability of women teachers for primary schools, and thus, given the social and cultural setting, help foster a greater attendance in school of female pupils. Finally, the project takes steps to meet immediately a shortage of craftsmen through the establishment of adult vocational training centers and the expansion of the country's technical secondary schooling system. These centers represent an initiative to improve the skills, and, thereby, the productivity and incomes, primarily of the lowest-income and least-skilled elements of the Syrian labor force.
Industry and Transportation
On March 4, 1977, Romania suffered a severe earthquake that covered approximately 10,000 square kilometers of the eastern part of the country. A Bank loan of $60 million will help in the highly effective rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts that were organized immediately after the quake. The loan's proceeds will finance the foreign exchange costs of direct imports for industrial enterprises damaged in the earthquake, and will help accelerate expansion of capacity for the production of construction materials, machinery, and plant for construction-related industries, as well as for reconstruction of the computer center serving the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications that collapsed completely in the earthquake. A portion of the loan will be used to develop a National Center for Earthquake Engineering as part of the National Earthquake Protection Plan.
In Egypt, part of a third Bank loan, for $40 million, to the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) will focus on the development of small-scale industries. While the industrial sector in Egypt has traditionally been dominated by the public sector, consisting of some 200 mostly large companies, the private sector has been growing, with textiles, food products, leather, woodworking, and engineering leading the way. Although there is, as yet, no official policy on small-scale industries, the government, in the context of its new economic policy, is encouraging private initiative, and appreciates the potential for small-scale industrial development. Part of the proceeds of the Bank loan—supplemented
by co-financing in the amount of $8.75 million by the OPEC Special Fund—will be used to finance the development of about 350 small-scale industries. (The average subloan size is expected to be between $15,000 and $60,000.) In addition, the project includes a pilot program designed to provide small-scale industries, including the artisanal sector, with technical assistance. Through the technical assistance, the Bank will finance, through institutions other than the DIB, a program of technical extension services, skill upgrading, and industrial management development for small-scale industries.
The project's objectives are to raise the productivity of enterprises by improving manufacturing processes and by providing assistance to solve problems in areas of production engineering and management; to increase the availability of skills by accelerated training and the upgrading of skills; and to remedy deficiencies in commercial management. Promotion of small-scale industries can also be expected to provide greater scope for entrepreneurial development, encouragement of initiative, redistribution of income, and the stimulation of savings and investment. During the development of the project, the DIB, convinced of the merits of promoting small industries, set a target of 20% to 25% of its total lending to be directed to small-scale and urban poverty-oriented projects.
To help finance Egypt's program for the expansion of the Suez Canal, the Bank approved a $100 million loan during the year to the Suez Canal Authority (SCA), as part of a $1,003 million project to improve the Canal's facilities by 1980. Countries or agencies participating in the project include the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, the Islamic Development Bank, the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Saudi Fund for Development, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Japanese government, the US Agency for International Development, and other bilateral donors.
The Canal will be deepened and widened to accommodate more and larger ships, drawing up to 16.1 meters (53 feet), and other complementary improvements will be made. Technical assistance will also be provided to help with final project engineering, project execution, and planning the operations of the Canal.
The Suez Canal is Egypt's second largest foreign exchange earner, after cotton, and the substantial increases in Canal revenues resulting from the project could influence greatly the outcome of the country's overall development plans. The project will also have a significant international impact, by providing shorter shipping routes for larger ships, thereby reducing operating costs.
Latin America and the Caribbean
The countries of the Region continue to find that the accomplishment of their longer-term economic and social development goals is complicated by the adverse trends experienced in the world economy in recent years. In these circumstances, shorter-term financial and economic management has been particularly difficult.
In this context, calendar year 1977 can be regarded as a year in which notable improvements were recorded in the internal financial and economic management of several countries. Rampant inflation was substantially reduced in a number of countries, and significant progress was made in containing balance of payments deficits. Although the rate of growth of economic activity was somewhat disappointing for the Region as a whole, the year was one of strong growth for several countries.
Though inflation rates remained high in most countries, the average annual increase in prices came down drastically during 1977, particularly
where inflation has been virulent in recent years, as in Argentina and Chile. As a rule, careful demand management and realistic exchange rate policies were instrumental in arresting the acceleration of inflation and the relative size of the current account deficit. There were some conspicuous exceptions, however, and a few countries continued to face serious difficulties.
The growth of economic activity in the Region as a whole during 1977 was 4.3%, slightly below the near 5% rate of growth achieved during 1976. This modest rate of increase in real gross domestic product (GDP) could, in large measure, be attributed to a weaker-than-expected growth of world demand and output and restrictive policies adopted by a number of countries in order to slow down inflation and reduce external imbalances. Brazil and Mexico are important examples as, in both cases, priority was given to reducing inflation and to improving current account deficits. In Brazil, GDP
increased by only 4.7%, while Mexico's increased by less than 2%—in contrast with an average annual rate of growth of 10.7% and 5.1% for both countries, respectively, for the previous six years. Real output for the other nonoil-exporting, developing countries in the Region rose by about 4.2%, indicating that a substantial recovery from the preceding two years of recession and stagnation has taken place in many of these countries. Important increases in output were registered in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Honduras, and Paraguay. In contrast, Peru, Jamaica, and Guyana continued to confront serious adjustment problems made more difficult by weak prices of some of their principal exports. In these countries, real output declined, unemployment continued to rise, and an upward drift in inflation persisted. In contrast, the economies of the principal oil-exporting countries of the Region continued to expand rapidly; output of Venezuela and Ecuador rose by about 7.5% in real terms.
For the nonoil developing countries of the Region generally, financing the aggregate current account deficit presented no problem in 1977. Improvement in current account was accompanied by rising international reserves. This major improvement, for the second consecutive year, was the result of the successful implementation of stabilization policies, including flexible exchange rate policies; the restricted increase in economic activity in the two major economies
of the Region, Brazil and Mexico, which helped to dampen the average rate of growth of total imports; and favorable prices for coffee and some other commodity exports. The pace and degree of improvement in the current account balances of Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico were exceptionally strong during 1977. The improvement resulted in a decline in net borrowing by the public sector from private commercial sources. Total net capital inflows exceeded the current account deficit, permitting the Region's level of international reserves to increase by about $5,100 million.
In spite of the year's achievements, the economic policymakers of the Region's countries are still facing the same problems and challenges that have confronted them since 1974: how to reconcile balance of payment and price stability with both near-term output and employment objectives and the implementation of development policies that are essential for longer-term economic growth.
After the developments that have taken place in the area over the past four years are assessed, and the difficulties that the countries have faced are taken into account, the bottom line of the balance sheet shows good results. Some countries have chosen to follow different routes at different times, but the predominant and general responses have been appropriate; on the whole, the countries in the Region continue to lay down solid foundations for their further development.
Liberalization of Trade
At a time when the Region has been facing serious external and internal imbalances and at a time when the more industrialized countries of the world are seriously and openly considering a return to some forms of protectionism, a number of countries in the Latin America and the Caribbean area have substantially liberalized their trade policies. Since 1974, Argentina, Chile, Colombia, and Uruguay have implemented trade liberalization programs that have resulted in substantial reductions in across-the-board tariff levels. Equally important programs for the reduction of quantitative import restrictions have also been implemented. Moreover, most of the countries of the area have maintained, and are operating on, a flexible exchange rate system. Although there have been, and are, some exceptions, exchange rate movements since 1974 show that the countries have responded fairly well to price movements and current account developments.
Apart from the improvements in resource allocation and the favorable impact these improvements have on the long-term growth potential of the Region, the implementation of these policies has permitted a sustained expansion of export earnings, including those of manufactured products.
The recent marked improvements in the Region's external balances, the modest rise in economic activity (against a backdrop of sluggish economic performance by the industrialized countries), the progress in reducing inflation, and the continuation of realistic trade and exchange rate policies constitute a considerable economic achievement. However, to do so, the nonoil developing countries of the Region have been obliged to apply restrictive domestic policies that have limited the growth of consumption and, in some cases, employment and investment levels, as well. The fact that most of the Region's countries are giving increasing attention to improving the distribution of the benefits of growth has made the imposition of restrictive policies particularly painful.
The fact that the Latin America and the Caribbean Region has demonstrated an increasing ability to increment and diversify its exports and that its access to medium-term and long-term capital continues to expand is of significance not only to the Region, but to the developed world. The resulting higher levels of investments and economic activity in the Region create a multiplier effect on world trade and output—via the impact of the Region's increasing imports—that is not insignificant. The relative importance of the many semi-industrialized, middle-income economies in the Region suggests that the potential for further expansion of trade and capital flows is great.
A comprehensive integrated rural development program in Mexico is supported by two World Bank loans totaling $230 million. In 50 microregions, ranging from arid to humid tropical zones, with over 2 million inhabitants, irrigation systems, feeder roads, markets, and water supply systems will be constructed, rural health centers and classrooms renovated or built, self-help projects encouraged, and financing to promote rural industries and create off-farm employment in small towns will be provided.
Bank and IDA Lending
Bank and IDA lending to countries of the Region totaled $2,1 10.1 million, up from $1,893.2 million in fiscal 1977. Of the total, $55.6 million was lent on IDA terms. Co-financers committed resources totaling $773 million for 15 of the Bank-assisted and IDA-assisted projects. In fiscal 1977, co-financers committed $621.3 million for 12 projects. As in fiscal 1977, lending for agricultural development led the way, both in amount ($655.5 million, or 31 % of the total) and by number (12 operations, or 24%).
Agricultural lending assisted projects aimed at sugar factory rehabilitation (Jamaica), provision of credit (Argentina and Mexico), increasing acreage under irrigation (Guyana), livestock production  (Mexico), construction of grain
storage facilities (Argentina), building up institutional capacity through an agricultural extension project (Brazil), and production of alpaca/ vicuna/llama wool (Bolivia). In addition, rural development projects were approved in Brazil and Honduras. But the major development in fiscal 1978 was the increase in lending for projects designed to meet the Region's urban problems.
Urban Problems
The Region is unique among developing areas in terms of the levels of urbanization reached, the size of its largest cities, and the rates of urban growth. Sixty percent of the population of Latin America is already urban, and the proportion is expected to grow to three-quarters within the next 20 years.
Natural growth alone accounts for most of the urban explosion. Mexico City, for example, already the third largest city in the world, with a population of 1 1 million, is expected to grow to 21 million by the turn of the century—even if the urban influx could somehow be immediately stopped.
Such unprecedented urban growth, coupled with limited financial and institutional capacity at the municipal, provincial, and central government levels, has led to serious shortfalls of basic services, shelter, and full-time employment— especially among the poor. Despite significant investments in the expansion of water supply and sewerage facilities in the major cities of Latin America during the last 20 years, about one-fourth of those living in those cities still have no direct water supply: almost two-thirds have no sewerage facilities. As for shelter, urban growth has outstripped the supply of planned housing fivefold throughout Latin America.
Income distribution is typically skewed, and has become even more so in some cities in recent years. Nearly 50 million urban dwellers in Latin America live below the urban poverty threshold, defined as household income either so low as to preclude adequate nutrition, or less than a third of the national average. Urban unemployment and underemployment are high, and widespread low productivity and earnings are even more serious problems.
Many of the poor are forced to live in unplanned settlements, often located in peripheral areas where travel time to and from work each day may exceed three to four hours. The prevalence of disease in such settlements is sometimes as much as 50% higher than the citywide average. Such conditions further erode the productivity of the poor and can lead to a self-perpetuating cycle of poverty.
Benefits to the Poor
The Bank has long been involved in projects
in urban areas to develop industry, transportation, power, water supply, sanitation and, more recently, health and education. During the last several years, however, increasing attention has been focused on ways to deliver the benefits of such projects more directly to the poor. One promising approach has been through "basic urbanization" projects that assist low-income families to build their own homes and improve their own communities through self-help efforts. These projects are comprehensive, and typically include improvements to existing slums and development of new plots provided with basic infrastructure and community facilities. Families are offered loans for house construction or improvement. Efforts are also made to expand job opportunities.
This approach was pioneered in Latin America. Peru's "pueblos jovenes" slum improvement program and the 70,000 serviced sites undertaken by Chile in the late 1960s were among the first large-scale projects of this type in the world. Bank funds—clearly limited in relation to the needs—are now helping to introduce similar efforts throughout the Region.
In its basic urbanization projects, the Bank has encouraged low, affordable standards and maximum cost recovery, so that the approach can be replicated on a large scale. Services and dwellings are designed for progressive improvement over time. On average, the serviced sites developed under Bank-assisted projects cost less than half the amount a household at the poverty threshold can afford. Projects are designed so that over three-quarters of the costs can be recovered from beneficiaries.
The Bank has been "learning by doing." Innovation has been a prime goal of its involvement in basic urbanization, and the design of its most recent projects has been improved in several ways.
First, job generation has received increasing emphasis, and now accounts for about 10% of total investment. Second, recent projects have increasingly emphasized improved administration and greater community participation. Third, slum upgrading is being expanded, since it offers the most effective means of delivering services to the largest number of existing urban poor. At the same time, there has been no reduction in the pace of serviced site development.
Significant growth occurred in Bank lending for basic urbanization projects during fiscal 1978. Since 1973. nine such projects have been approved, involving total project costs of S329 million. Potential beneficiaries number more than a million people. The three projects approved in fiscal 1978—in Bolivia, Colombia, and Mexico—involved $58 million in Bank lending, and accounted for over a third of total investment and over half the expected 1 million beneficiaries.
Other Urban Sectors Aided
Another new area of emphasis has been urban transport. The Bank's first two projects in the Region in this sector were approved in fiscal 1978, and involved $104 million in loans. These projects, in Costa Rica and Brazil, are designed to improve traffic management and public transport, to derive maximum benefit from existing infrastructure, and to provide affordable transport to move people to and from work.
Complementing these more direct efforts at alleviating poverty, the Bank has also been reorienting its traditional lending for industry, water supply, and education in urban areas so as to achieve a better balance in distributing benefits.
A major effort has been under way during the last three years to study the special problems of small-scale enterprises and of labor-intensive activities. Appropriate credit and technical assistance institutions serving small and medium-sized industrial enterprises have been identified, and projects that promise to have a significant impact in creating employment for the urban poor have been developed. The first Bank loan devoted exclusively to small-scale enterprise financing in the Region was made to Colombia's Corporacion Financiera Popular in fiscal 1975. The results were so encouraging that a second loan to the same institution was approved in fiscal
1977. Intensive efforts to develop an appropriate small enterprise credit and technical assistance program in Mexico resulted in a $47 million loan in fiscal 1978. This comprehensive project comprises a credit and loan guarantee program for small and medium-scale industrial enterprises, to be carried out through commercial banks and other financial intermediaries; reinforcement of a program to provide risk capital to such enterprises; a program to lease plant buildings and equipment to small and medium-sized firms; and the creation of a force of industrial development extension agents to serve the sector.
Lending in the education sector has also been adapted to meet the needs of the urban poor. Emphasis in regional lending in recent years has shifted towards the support of nonformal vocational education designed to meet the most common educational needs of the adult urban poor by providing skill training so as to enhance the employability of the unemployed and the productivity of those already employed. In fiscal
1978, vocational training projects, devoted mainly to upgrading industrial skills, were assisted in El Salvador and Uruguay with Bank loans of $9 million and $9.7 million, respectively.
The strengthening of national vocational training systems (with some reorientation to deal more effectively with the educational and training needs of the target population in the "informal" sector) and a greater emphasis on the basic educational needs of out-of-school children and adolescents in poor urban areas will be continued throughout the Region in the next few years.
Urban Water Supply
During the eight-year period, fiscal 1971-78, the Bank has provided assistance amounting to almost $600 million for water supply and sewerage facilities in the Region—most of them in urban areas. These projects arc expected to benefit about 8 million urban poor. The Bank plans to play an even more significant role in assisting its Latin American and Caribbean member countries to meet the goals they have set for themselves for the next few years—to provide water, through house connections, to 80% of the urban population, and sewerage facilities to 70% of urban dwellers by 199CL The Bank's lending strategy in the sector is designed to help meet the needs for water and sewerage facilities of the poorest groups in Latin America's cities by including, in its urban water projects, the extension of distribution networks to marginal areas. Bank-assisted projects also aim at encouraging the establishment, or strengthening, of tariff policies and structures that result in the cross-subsidization of the cost of water to the urban poor. Design criteria have also been developed and applied so that the urban poor can pay for the services. All these measures are being carried out within the context of financially self-sustaining operations. Such operations are indispensable if reasonable progress in meeting rapidly growing demands—without creating unsustainable burdens on government budgets— is to be assured. The third Managua water supply project, for which a $10.1 million Bank loan was approved in fiscal 1978, reflects the application of the Bank's urban strategy in the sector. Safe water will be provided to 95% of the city's population (465,000 people in 1975) and the number of poor served by house connections will be increased by 130,000.'
Also in line with this strategy, a $6.6 million IDA credit was approved during the year for a Provincial Towns Water Supply Project in Haiti. The project will provide potable water to about 155.000 people by 1982, including 70,000 very poor people who will be served through public standpipes.
Projects Approved for Bank and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1978, by Sector
Agriculture and Rural Development
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$22 million. Some 12,000 farm families stand to benefit from a second Khanabad irrigation project which aims to develop agriculture by rehabilitating and extending existing irrigation and drainage schemes, extending agricultural credit to farmers, and by providing an efficient extension service. A malaria control program is included; so, too, is a feasibility study for a dam about 90 kilometers above the project area. Total cost: $28.7 million.
AFGHANISTAN: IDA—$18 million. More than 1 million farm families are to benefit from a fruit and vegetable export project which aims to expand market access for horticultural exports (raisins, vegetable seeds, potatoes, onions, and fresh fruit) through the provision of cleaning, packing, and trucking equipment; grading and export certification systems; marketing assistance; and on-farm credit. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $27.6 million.
ARGENTINA: Bank—$105 million. Twenty grain silos, with an average capacity of 100,000 metric tons, will be constructed, railway improvements, including minor works at port reception facilities and alterations to 2,000 boxcars for effective grain transport made, and deepening of port access channels studied, so that grain spoilage might be prevented, production stimulated, and exports increased. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $280 million.
ARGENTINA: Bank—$60 million. Medium-and long-term agricultural credit as well as technical assistance will be provided to some 4,500 farmers and cooperatives so that productivity on farms in the Pampas and Mesopotamic regions might be increased and cropping and pasture areas expanded. Total cost: $161.7 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$25 million. About 19,000 tons of foodgrains, valued at about $6 million, are expected to be saved annually under a second foodgrain storage project that includes the financing of storage facilities, weighing and testing equipment, vehicles, mechanical drying facilities, and technical assistance. Total cost: $40 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$21 million. About 1 million farm families will benefit from a project designed to improve productivity in jute cultivation and strengthen marketing of raw jute. The project aims to mitigate fluctuations in the supply of raw jute and help Bangladesh maintain its share of the world jute market. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $33.28 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$6 million. Through construction and equipping of buildings, training of staff, and technical assistance, agricultural research in the country will be strengthened— specifically the research facilities, management and scientific manpower of the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute, and the planning, coordinating, and monitoring functions of the
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council. Total cost: $7.4 million.
BOLIVIA: Bank—$9 million; IDA—$9 million. Poor farmers, mostly in the UllaUUa region north of La Paz, and artisans in La Paz and Cochabamba departments will benefit from an integrated system for the production, processing, and marketing of alpaca/llama/vicuna wool, including handicraft development. Total cost: $24 million.
BOTSWANA: Bank—$6.5 million. Help in arresting the deterioration of the country's range-lands through introducing improved range and cattle management systems will be provided. About 100 ranches will be developed, alternative communal grazing systems tested, marketing infrastructure improved, and credit provided for ranch development and communal associations' schemes. EDF is granting $300,000 and ILCA is providing monitoring and evaluation services valued at about $1.3 million to help finance project costs. Total cost: $12.2 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$100 million. Almost three-quarters of a million farmers will receive extension services for the first time as a result of a project that will strengthen the federal and state institutions responsible for providing agricultural extension services. Special emphasis will be placed on three priority regions of the north, northeast, and center-west. Total cost: $284.92 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$37 million. Through agricultural credit to improve and expand production by about 17,000 small farmers, by strengthening support services, and by providing infrastructural improvements, agricultural production and farm incomes in the state of Bahia's Paraguacu River basin will be raised. Total cost: $106.62 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$24 million. Farmers in the small northeast state of Paraiba will benefit from an integrated rural development project consisting of five main elements: agricultural production services, nonfarm production services, investment and seasonal credit to improve and expand small-scale farms and nonfarm enterprises, infrastructure improvements (roads, health, simple water supply systems, education, and nutrition), and technical assistance. Total cost: $67.3 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$17 million. Some 35,000 people in Ceara state will benefit from directly productive components, and 150,000 will benefit from improved health and education services as a result of a project designed to raise rural incomes by increasing yields on existing farms and by increasing the area under cultivation. The project will be supported by improved extension, agricultural experimentation, greater credit coverage, better health and sanitation services, cooperative support, nonformal and primary education, feeder roads, and rural elec-
trification. Total cost: $55.75 million.
BURMA: IDA—$5.5 million. A seed development project will strengthen the government's applied research capability and will lay the foundation for future development of the seed industry. Crops receiving the most emphasis from the project are rice and cotton. The UNDP will finance the technical assistance component with a grant of $975,000. Total cost: $11.1 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$15 million. Employment and substantially increased incomes will be provided for about 5,000 estate workers and 1,300 farmer families in this follow-up project, designed to increase output of palm oil and rubber. Technical assistance is included. The CDC and the CCCE are helping to finance the project, with loans of $7.5 million each. Total cost: $37.2 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$14.5 million; IDA— $14.5 million. Dikes, irrigation and drainage systems, and access roads will be constructed over a 15,000-hectare site in the country's northern province on which rice and other crops will be grown. Some 7,000 participating farm families will be supplied support services, including credit. The CCCE is lending $8.1 million, and the FAC is providing a $4 million grant to help meet project costs. Total cost: $51 million.
CAMEROON: IDA —$13 million. Some 80,000 farming families in the western highlands region of the country will ultimately benefit from a project that seeks to address itself to the region's farming system as a whole. Extension agents will be trained, field storage facilities improved, a revolving credit fund established, 220 water points constructed, and technical assistance provided. The project's direct economic benefit will be to increase the production of food crops and coffee. Total cost: $22.8 million.
CAMEROON: IDA—$8.5 million. An estimated 13,200 farm families will benefit from an integrated rural development project in eastern Cameroon supporting institutional development, agricultural production (coffee, cocoa, rice, fish, and food crops), marketing and processing facilities, and social infrastructure. Total cost: $11.8 million.
CHAD: IDA—$11.5 million. About a million people will benefit from a livestock project that will provide livestock services and credit to associations of pastoralists, furnish equipment, help finance a tsetse eradication program, and provide for management training. The EDF is providing co-financing in the amount of $3.4 million. Total cost: $16.1 million.
CHAD: IDA—$1.9 million. Fourteen sub-projects spread throughout the Sahelian zone of Chad will help increase development of crop farming, sustain and improve animal health services (some 250,000 families will be aided
through a livestock vaccination program), maintain water supplies, expand forestry activities, and increase the government's capacity to deliver transport services. CIDA is contributing SI.9 million as a grant to help meet project costs. Total cost: $3,959 million.
CYPRUS: Bank —$10 million. The entire population (21,000) of the underdeveloped Pitsilia region, located in the south-central part of the country, will benefit from an integrated rural development project that provides for complementary investments in productive, social, and institutional infrastructure. Production of vines, potatoes, vegetables, and tree fruits (including citrus) will increase. Total cost: $21 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$32 million. Some 52,500 smallholder farmers will benefit from a project that will initiate a process of rehabilitation of the agricultural credit, cooperative, and extension systems. Rural institutions will be strengthened to enable them to promote economic development and, through investments in two selected governorates, crop and livestock production will be increased. In addition, future livestock and credit projects will be prepared. Total cost: $45.7 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$24 million. The project will provide the Agricultural Marketing Corporation with incremental storage facilities for produce and farm inputs, equipment, permanent trading capital, and technical assistance. By supporting the establishment of an orderly grain marketing and input distribution system by technical assistance to the regulatory Ethiopian Grain Agency, and by improving crop forecasting, more stable producer and consumer prices will be achieved, adequate production incentives will be maintained, marketing margins should be reduced, and by creating buffer stocks through a grain reserve, an adequate food supply throughout the country will be assured. Total cost: $34.6 million.
GREECE: Bank—$30 million. Some 9,000 farm households (20% of whom live below the poverty line), as well as several cooperatives and trucking companies, will benefit from a project that supports the production and marketing, primarily abroad, of about 140,000 tons of off-season vegetables—mainly cucumbers, tomatoes, eggplant, and peppers—in Crete and the Peloponnesus. Total cost: $84 million.
GUYANA: IDA—$10 million. Some 6,000 families, 98% of whom fall below the poverty line, will benefit from a project that seeks to increase the country's export earnings through rice exports. Through the rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, through on-farm development, and by improvement of agricultural supporting services, productivity on about 30,600 hectares of land will be increased. Co-financing is being provided by
IFAD ($10 million), USAID ($7.5 million), the IDB ($6 million), and CIDA ($2.5 million). Total cost: $42.8 million.
HONDURAS: Bank—$10.5 million. An integrated package of assistance and services will be provided for about 1,200 small farmers and 70 agrarian reform settlements with over 1,500 families in selected areas of the Guayape River valley in this first phase of a possible project that would eventually cover the entire valley. Total cost: $14.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$150 million. Farm incomes will be increased and employment opportunities provided for some 3.5 million village farmers, including 500,000 landless laborers through a dairy development project intended to increase milk production in about 20,000 villages through a cooperative development program that includes animal breeding, feeding and health improvement, and the development of facilities for milk collection, processing, and marketing. Total cost: $363.8 million.
INDIA: IDA—$126 million. Agricultural production will increase, farm incomes will rise, and employment opportunities will be opened up, primarily for small farmers and landless laborers, by a project designed to help complete three major irrigation schemes presently under construction in northeastern Karnataka state. Total cost: $284.4 million.
INDIA: IDA—$107 million. Yearly storage losses of wheat and rice will be reduced by some 180,000 tons as a result of a project that will help the government construct storage facilities needed for foodgrain procurement and distribution operations. In addition, foodgrain handling practices, including bulk handling, will be improved. Total cost: $215.5 million.
INDIA: IDA—$85 million. Irrigated areas will increase substantially and 10,000 and 12,000 additional full-time jobs in the farm and non-farm sectors will be generated as a result of an irrigation project in Gujarat state which, through increased production of foodgrains, oilseed, and cotton, will save the country $52 million yearly in foreign exchange. Total cost: $170.5 million.
INDIA: IDA—$70 million. The annual net incomes of some 14,500 farm families may increase fivefold, an additional 38,000 man-years of employment will be provided, and an annual crop increase, valued at $24 million, is expected to result from a project designed to complete Maharashtra state's largest irrigation scheme and initiate modernization of an adjacent irrigation project. Total cost: $140 million.
INDIA: IDA—$58 million. The incomes of 30,000 farm households will increase as a result of a project in Orissa state designed to utilize the many small rivers there for providing irrigation to about 66,000 hectares of land where large-scale irrigation or groundwater development is not possible. Total cost: $116 million.
INDIA: IDA—$17.5 million. About 75,000 subsistence fishermen will benefit from a project aimed at improvement and expansion of existing harbor and shore facilities in three locations in Andhra Pradesh, an expansion of the mechanized fishing fleet and seafood processing capacity, and provision of village access roads and water supply. Total cost: $36.5 million.
INDIA: IDA—$16 million. Help in financing the second phase in the implementation of India's National Seed Program (designed to increase the availability of high quality seeds) will be furnished. Seed output would be increased by 125,000 tons, and coverage extended to five additional states. Total cost: $34.9 million.
INDIA: IDA—$14 million. Through provision of improved marketing facilities, credit for crop production, research, and technical assistance, marketing and production of apples and walnuts, and research on mushroom development in Jammu and Kashmir will improve, and the incomes of 40,000 growers will be increased. Total cost: $27.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$13 million. The project will help increase yields as a result of the strengthened agricultural extension and adaptive research system in the state of Rajasthan. It will directly benefit 290,000 contact farmers and, through them,
I. 5 million families of the 2.9 million families in the project areas. Total cost: $27.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$8 million. An estimated 7.6 million farm families will benefit from a project that will reorganize and strengthen Bihar state's agricultural extension services, and help upgrade and develop adaptive research. The project is designed to achieve early and sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains. Total cost: $16.01 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$140 million. Some 189,000 farm families will benefit from a tenth irrigation project designed to rehabilitate, upgrade, and expand existing irrigation systems. Three construction components are included in the project, as are feasibility studies and detailed design work for a number of dams. Total cost: $216 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$65 million. The net incomes of some 5,750 settler smallholder families in Sumatera will triple, and 16,500 permanent jobs will be created by a project in which
II, 500 hectares of rubber holdings will be planted. Additional public sector rubber estate areas will be replanted or rehabilitated, coconuts and oil palm planted, and palm oil and rubber processing facilities constructed. Total cost: $134 million.
INDONESIA: Bank —$65 million. Some 7,600 families will be settled on two new settlements in Sumatera, and social and physical infrastructure provided, as well as agricultural inputs to sustain the planting and maintenance of 15,200 hectares of rubber trees. A rubber re-
planting scheme for 3,750 existing smallholders will be implemented, new rubber plantings undertaken for the benefit of the public sector estate (PTP IV), and program support and technical assistance provided for smallholder and nucleus estate development. Total cost: $100.5 million.
INDONESIA: Bank — $31 million. An eleventh irrigation project, designed to assist the government's program to extend the provision of irrigation facilities and to provide storage so as to enhance the productivity of existing irrigated areas, will ultimately benefit about 36,000 families, and increase rice production by 35,000 tons yearly. Total cost: $47.4 million.
INDONESIA: IDA—$30 million. Finance will be provided for long-term loans to about 40,000 smallholders for subprojects mainly in fisheries, livestock, and perennial crops. Technical assistance will be provided to Bank Rakyat Indonesia, through which the subloans will be made. Total cost: $60 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank —$20 million. A 13,500-hectare rubber plantation, begun under an earlier project, will be completed by the planting of 6,500 hectares of rubber trees. Access roads and social infrastructure will be provided for, as well as credit and extension services for outgrowers. Technical assistance will be furnished, and a rubber processing factory built. Co-financing will be provided by the CCCE ($8.3 million), the EDF ($5.5 million), and the EIB ($4.5 million). Total cost: $53.6 million.
JAMAICA: Bank—$18 million. The country's three largest raw sugar factories and its only sugar refinery will be rehabilitated through a project designed to reverse declines in sugar production. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $33.8 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$95 million. A large proportion of the country's rural population will benefit from a second rural infrastructure project with the following components: irrigation of about 9,200 hectares, construction of rural water supply systems in about 7,400 villages, construction or improvement of river banks, connection of 2,700 villages to the telephone network, training, and project monitoring and evaluation. Total cost: $232 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$36 million. Rice and barley production will be increased through changes in land use, drainage improvement, and on-farm development. The project, which will benefit some 130,000 people, will support the government's efforts to increase foodgrain production and rural incomes through irrigation and land development. Total cost: $76 million.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: IDA—$8.2 million. Some 10,000 farm families living in the Vientiane plain will benefit
from a project that includes construction of simple irrigation facilities, establishment of 10 pig breeding farms (where weaned pigs will be sold to farmers for fattening), and equipment furnished to two rice institutes, where, in addition to expanding production of local rice varieties, farmers will be trained in techniques of cultivation. The UNDP is providing a technical assistance grant of $1.7 million. Total cost: $11.9 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$6 million. Some 130,000 families are expected to benefit from a Basic Agricultural Services Program that seeks to boost output of five major crops (corn, sorghum, beans, peas, and wheat) in six areas, covering 75% of the country's arable land, and encompassing two-thirds of the population. Co-financing from Germany ($4.7 million, of which $1.8 million is in grant form), the United Kingdom, the EDF, and the UNDP (grants of $3.9 million, $3.8 million, and $200,000, respectively) are anticipated. Total cost: $26.4 million.
LIBERIA: Bank—$7 million; IDA—$6 million. Rubber production on Liberian-owned farms, and incomes of 6,300 small- and medium-scale rubber farmers will substantially increase from a project that includes an intensive program of replanting and rehabilitation through credit, extension services, training, and assistance for rubber processing and marketing. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $29.6 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$10.7 million. Through provision of agricultural credit and extension services, establishment of an irrigated seed multiplication farm and an afforestation program, improvement in livestock extension services and in health and water supply facilities, expansion of a fisheries development program, and extension of the farm-to-market road network, further development of the Shire valley region will be assisted, and investments made since 1968 consolidated. Total cost: $12.6 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$28 million. Land will be cleared and planted to rubber (at least 25,000 hectares), cocoa (4,000 hectares), and annual crops (200 hectares). Social and economic infrastructure will be provided to 6,200 families, all living beneath the poverty line, and employment on cocoa estates will be provided for some additional 1,500 families. Total cost: $92.3 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$26 million. The productivity and incomes of 32,000 smallholder farm families, two-thirds of whom have incomes below the absolute poverty line, will be improved as a result of an integrated agricultural development project in northwest Selangor state that includes provision of improved drainage and irrigation facilities, access roads, training, and intensified agricultural supporting services. Total cost: $60 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$19 million. About 1 million rural families will be reached through a project designed to provide the infrastructure and extension services needed to increase the yields of paddy, other field crops, and coconuts. Extension and seed production services, with particular emphasis on areas of rural poverty, will be increased. Total cost: S46.5 million.
MALI: IDA—$15 million. Some 90,000 people living in the flood plains of the Niger River will benefit from a project that will help increase rice production through construction of new polders and improvements made to polders constructed earlier. A village adult literacy program will be established, credit for fertilizer and farm implements will be made available, and technical assistance and equipment furnished. The ADF and the FAC are joining in the financing, with loans of $6 million and $2 million, respectively. Total cost: $31.2 million.
MEXICO: Bank —$200 million. About 67,000 farm families will benefit from a sixth agricultural credit project that is also expected to generate over 14,000 full-time jobs. The credit will be provided for investment in livestock production, annual and perennial crop development, and agro-industries. Total cost: $627.2 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$56 million. Through development of six pilot projects introducing technical packages for annual and perennial crops and livestock; by improving and expanding agricultural and livestock extension programs in the humid tropics; and through support of tropical agricultural and livestock research programs, assistance will be provided a long-term program for intensifying agricultural production in the country's humid tropical areas. Total cost: $149 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$65 million. The standard of living of about 33,900 farm families in the Fes-Karia-Tissa region will improve and agricultural production will increase through a project that includes a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural services (extension and credit) and provision of infrastructure —roads, village water supply, and health and education facilities. Total cost: $161.5 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$30 million. An irrigation project in southeastern Nepal will—through the restoration and improvement of the existing system, and the provision of new structures for regulating canal flows—decrease the deposit of sediment, increase the reliability of water deliveries, and extend the supply of water, thus increasing the productivity and incomes of some 35,000 farm households. Total cost: $37.5 million.
NIGER: IDA—$4.5 million. Through the establishment of 400 hectares of pilot irrigated tree plantations and 700 hectares of pilot rain-fed tree plantations, and through a program of
technical assistance to the Forestry Department, a sound basis will be provided for proceeding with larger-scale national development of the country's dwindling forestry resources. Total cost: $5.3 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$30 million. The Rivers state government will be provided assistance in financing the planting of some 20,000 hectares of oil palm on a nucleus estate and associated smallholdings and the construction of a palm oil mill. Earth roads serving smallholders will be improved or reconstructed, staff and smallholders will be trained, and feasibility studies for a second phase of the project carried out. A coconut project identification and preparation study will also be undertaken. Total cost: $83 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$70 million. Soil salini-zation will be halted and surface water deliveries increased by a project that includes canal remodeling, tubewell and drainage system construction, and credit and technical assistance to farmers living east of the Indus River in the Rahimyar Khan district of Punjab province. Agricultural production (mainly foodgrains. seed cotton, and oilseeds), employment, and incomes should all increase substantially. The United Kingdom is extending a $ I 6 million grant and the KfW a $9.5 million credit to help meet project costs. Total cost: $170 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA — $35 million. Repairs and additional works required for the Tarbela dam project will be undertaken, with additional help (contingent on formal approval by their authorities) expected from Australia, Canada, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and some OPEC countries. Total cost: $1,274 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—512.5 million. Agricultural extension services will be strengthened, and adaptive research farms developed in five of Punjab's 21 districts. Marginal and small farmers would be the main beneficiaries of a new extension and research system and of the project's emphasis on efficient use of existing resources. Total cost: $20.8 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$3 million. A three-year project will assist in developing improved technologies in food, fodder, horticulture, and tree crop production in Azad Jammu and Kashmir. Pilot projects, trial schemes, and experimental demonstration farms will be set up. A follow-up project to extend improvements to farmers will be prepared. Total cost: $4.5 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$1.7 million. Assistance will be provided to the government in formulating an integrated program for the development of forest resources in the Hazara region of North West Frontier province, an area with few other resources for development. Total cost: $2.6 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$150 million. To help
finance the second stage development of a multipurpose project on the Magat River, a loan will be made available to support a project consisting of all civil works for the main dam and appurtenant structures, reservoir resettlement, installed mechanical equipment, and the services of consultants. Total cost: $346 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$65 million. More than 300,000 people, most of them below the poverty line, and living in southern Luzon, the western Visayas, and in Mindanao, will benefit from a project designed to aid the rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems and construction of new ones, covering a total of 80,900 hectares. Road facilities will also be built, a schistosomiasis control program in Mindanao will be inaugurated, and technical assistance provided to the National Irrigation Administration. Total cost: $140 million.
PHILIPPINES: IDA—$28 million. Paddy production will increase, jobs will be created, isolated rural families will be integrated into the mainstream of economic life, health standards will be improved, and the availability and quality of water increased by a rural infrastructure project in six provinces providing for the construction and rehabilitation of irrigation facilities and rural roads, rehabilitation and improvement of three ports, and the construction of village health stations and wells. Total cost: $59 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$8 million. Some 7,400 poor smallholders working 28,600 hectares of land, and living in several areas of the country, will benefit from the establishment of tree farms. Additionally, 3,000 hectares of pine plantations will be established in northern Luzon. Total cost: $16 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$70 million. More than 25,000 people will benefit directly from a project that aims at providing the impetus needed to make the government's new agricultural and fisheries credit system operational and at contributing to food production through provision of credit for on-farm development, agro-industrial development, the construction of fishing vessels, and through the strengthening of project implementation agencies. Total cost: $256.5 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$71 million. Credit will be made available so as to increase the supply of pork available for domestic consumption or for export, and to increase efficiency and productivity in the pork industry. Total cost: $322.5 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$40.5 million. Agriculture production in an area of about 115,000 hectares in Teleorman county, 100 kilometers west of Bucharest, will be increased and stabilized through investment in irrigation and related farm development. Labor productivity will also be increased. Total cost: $153.5 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$20 million. The incomes
of some 9,000 people, among the poorest in Senegal's rural areas, will increase as a result of a project that provides for civil works, agricultural development activities, consulting services, and technical assistance so as to continue irrigation development in the Senegal River delta and, through the strengthening of the national development agency, to prepare the future integrated development of the entire river valley. Co-financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund ($5.3 million) and FAC ($2.7 million). Total cost: $35 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$21 million. Through replanting and infilling on about 7,000 hectares with high-yielding clonal tea plants, through rehabilitation and expansion of tea factories and replacement of obsolete machinery, vehicles, and equipment, efficiency in production will be increased and a better quality of tea produced. About 25,000 estate labor families will benefit from improved housing, water, and health services, and some 15,000 man-years of incremental employment will be created. Total cost: $30.8 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$4.5 million. Degraded lands, consisting mostly of nationalized tea farms, will be rehabilitated, diversified, and settled, mainly by displaced estate workers, who will also be provided necessary social infrastructure at low cost. Some 4,500 small farms based on mixed minor tree crops, will be established. In addition, about 3,700 hectares of forest will be commercially developed, and 2,200 hectares of forest will be developed for conservation purposes. Total cost: $6.5 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$25 million. The project will support the creation of a national livestock marketing system through improvement of both market and transport infrastructure, and the provision of staff and supporting services for the Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation. The United Kingdom will finance a technical assistance component, estimated to cost $3.1 million, on grant terms. Total cost: $43.1 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$16 million. Increased production of sorghum and sesame for export will result from a project designed to help existing large-scale mechanized farmers to become more productive and to support two programs intended to devise mechanized farming systems for use by smallholders. Total cost:$21.4 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$15 million. By developing the research capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in western Sudan, by implementing research programs in this region, and by expanding support services at ARC's new Khartoum headquarters, crop and livestock production technology should improve, farmers in western Sudan should be able to increase their production and incomes, land use management in the ecologically fragile region should improve, and the capacity of ARC to dis-
charge national agricultural research programs should be strengthened. Total cost: $45.4 million.
TANZANIA: IDA — $27.5 million. The country's annual processing capacity of cashew nuts will increase by 30,000 tons, employment will be created for about 3,000 people, and foreign exchange will increase through a second project in support of the commodity which is grown predominantly by smallholder farmers. Total cost: $36.3 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$14 million. Incomes of the country's tobacco growers will rise, marketed production of the crop will increase (and so, too, will the profits of the Tobacco Authority of Tanzania) through a project designed to cut losses by 25% during tobacco handling. Plastic bulking bags will be supplied farmers, grading/ baling centers and marketing centers built, warehouses constructed, and technical assistance supplied. Total cost: $20.7 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$12 million. More than a half million people with a per capita income of less than $75 a year will benefit from a rural development project that includes agricultural investments, a village self-help program, road improvements, and water supply facilities. Joint financing, in the amount of $ 12 million, will be provided by IFAD. Total cost: $30.5 million.
TOGO: IDA—$14 million. About 53,000 poor farm families, or 20% of the country's population, will benefit from expansion of cotton, maize, sorghum, and groundnut production, and new and improved feeder roads. The national agency, SOTOCO—the Societe Togolaise du Coton—will be strengthened. The FAC is providing a $5.1 million grant. Total cost: $23.6 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$86 million. By providing for construction of 26,000 kilometers of logging-extraction, forest, and village access roads, and the stabilization of 25,000 kilometers of existing forest roads; through procurement of specialized logging equipment, vehicles, and the installation of maintenance workshops; through the establishment of an intensified forest management program; and with technical assistance, forest management planning and operations will be improved, industrial roundwood production increased, and additional employment created. Total cost: $915 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$24 million. Through a program of supervised credit to about 5,200 subborrowers for investment in imported and local animals, farm buildings, pasture improvement and foodstuff production, and through expansion of technical/extension services to farmers and training of professional staff and farmers, the gains made in eastern Turkey for village development will be consolidated and extended, and the improved dairy production concepts introduced in western and central Turkey under previous livestock projects also
extended. Total cost: $83.2 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$10.5 million. Incomes of some 3,700 agricultural families in the Tihama coastal plain will substantially increase as a result of greater agricultural productivity resulting from investments in extension, agricultural credit, and access roads, expanded use of inputs and equipment, and the provision of technical assistance. Co-financing is being provided by the UNDP, the EEC, and others. Total cost: $39.5 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$5.2 million. The gross value of agricultural production on 7,000 hectares of state and cooperative farmland will increase by about 107% and about 7,000 cooperative farm families (36,000 people) will have their average annual incomes rise by 63% as a result of a project that seeks to increase the efficient use of water and to raise agricultural production through the use of modern inputs and improved cultivation practices. A satellite survey of selected parts of the country, to identify areas of groundwater and agricultural potential, is also included, as are technical assistance and training. Total cost: $12.3 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$75 million. Agricultural credit will provide for investments in a wide variety of agricultural and agro-industrial activities. The less developed regions will receive half the loan, which is much larger than their share of the national agricultural product. Of the proposed loan, 57% will be allocated to individual farmers, and a significant part of that percentage will reach the poorer farmers throughout the country. Total cost: $231 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$9 million. Through planting of 12,215 hectares of oil palm, by renewing the equipment of three oil mills, by the purchase of needed equipment, and by providing for the construction of staff and workers' housing, schools, and clinics, the trend of rapid deterioration of palm oil production may be reversed. Technical assistance is included. The ADF, the CCCE, and BADEA are lending $6.1 million, $4.2 million, and $4.4 million, respectively, to help meet project costs. Total cost: $47.4 million.
Education
ALGERIA: Bank—$90 million. By supplying engineers and higher technicians in mechanical engineering, workshop instructors for an expanded network of vocational training centers, and technical/workshop teachers for the civil engineering technology sections of a new network of technicums, the acute manpower shortages of high- and middle-level technicians and skilled craftsmen will be alleviated. Regional inequalities will be reduced, and local industrial development supported. Total cost: $150.5 million.
CHAD: IDA—$8.3 million. Primary education in rural areas will be improved by replacing existing dilapidated schools and by undertaking a series of studies aimed at introducing a more efficient administration of education. In addition, the government will be aided in its attempt to improve secondary technical education, and an Agricultural Technician Training Center will be opened. Co-financing is to be provided by the UNDP ($600,000) and the UNCDF ($300,000). Total cost: $9.2 million.
EL SALVADOR: Bank—$9 million. Industrial and agricultural training in the country will be increased through a project calling for the construction, equipping, and furnishing of industrial and agricultural training centers, as well as of facilities for training industrial supervisory personnel and small and medium-scale businessmen. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $12.7 million.
THE GAMBIA: IDA—$5.5million.Through the construction of a technical institute, training facilities for nurses and paramedical personnel, a management development institute, 30 teaching "areas" in secondary technical schools for science, technology, and practical work, three regional education centers for school administration and teacher retraining and upgrading, and by establishing an educational planning unit within the Ministry of Education, the government's education and training policies will be supported, and manpower constraints will be eased. Total cost: $6.5 million.
GREECE: Bank—$60 million. Through assistance provided to 61 lower secondary schools, 10 combined Vocational/Technical upper secondary schools, four post-secondary higher Technical and Vocational Education Centers, and a post-university school for the advanced training of secondary education teachers and officials, the country's technical secondary/post-secondary education and general secondary teacher training program will be improved. Total cost: $123.5 million.
HAITI: IDA—$10 million. Physical facilities for 19,500 primary school students and about 240 students in teacher-training will be built, vocational and agricultural schools will be provided, and the quality of primary education for more than 300,000 children will be improved by a second education project designed to correct inequalities in access to primary education and improve its relevance and internal efficiency. The supply of skilled and semi-skilled industrial workers, agricultural extension agents, and rural community development agents will be increased as well. The UNDP is providing a $470,000 technical assistance grant. Total cost: $12.67 million.
HONDURAS: IDA—$5 million. Government efforts to increase the coverage and quality of primary education in rural areas and to train
critical middle- and higher-level agricultural and forestry manpower will be aided. Total cost: $7.6 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$15 million. Through the strengthening of Penmas, the government agency responsible for out-of-school education, vocational training, and basic education will be provided to about 2.5 million Indonesians in seven provinces between 1979 and 1982. The priority benefiting groups will be the poorest segments of the population, with emphasis on women, out-of-school youths, and young adults. Total cost: $33.1 million.
KENYA: IDA—$23 million. Agricultural, technical, and administrative training will improve and increase through the expansion or construction of new educational facilities; equity in access to primary and post-primary levels of education will be improved through construction and equipping of school facilities (including construction of 13 boarding primary schools for children of nomads); and technical assistance will be provided. Total cost: $30 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$23 million. A vocational training project will contribute to meeting the manpower requirements of the growing industrial sector through the provision of training facilities for skilled workers. It will support the government's efforts to provide social equity through the development of the system of Vocational Training Institutes, which constitutes an alternative means of industrial skill acquisitions (and subsequent employment) for deserving middle-school graduates from low-income families, about half of whom would be from rural areas. Total cost: $56.2 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$7.5 million. An education project will contribute to the country's long-term national objectives of economic growth, social justice, and reduction of economic dependence on South Africa. Curriculum will be developed, and facilities for teaching pre-vocational subjects in secondary schools will be expanded. The pool of skilled workers within Lesotho will be increased, and individual workers seeking employment in South Africa will be able to obtain higher wages because of an improved skill base, thus enabling them to increase their remittances to their families. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $9.29 million.
MALI: IDA—$10 million. Basic education programs for children and adults not serviced by the school system will be developed; science and technology courses will be improved and extended to rural lower secondary schools; training of agricultural and livestock technicians will be expanded; and a functional literacy program, designed to make farmers more receptive to new techniques, will be extended to new regions of the country. Total cost: $12 million.
MAURITIUS: Bank—$15.2 million. The project will assist in strengthening the govern-
ment's capacity to administer educational activities and to restructure secondary education through the provision of additional student places, technical assistance, and facilities for a reorganization of the Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs, and by improving the Primary Teacher Training College, the Ministry's Audio-Visual Center, and the Mauritius Institute of Education. Total cost: $23.8 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$5.7 million. By helping finance facilities and equipment for the Institute of Engineering of Tribhuvan University, the supply of qualified engineering technicians needed to implement the country's development programs will be increased. The United Kingdom has agreed to help finance the costs of related staff training and specialists' services. Total cost: $7.82 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$2 million. A pilot project for developing and evaluating the cost effectiveness of educational radio in two areas —-in-service teacher training and primary classroom teaching—will be financed. Related studies and the preparation of a possible future project will be provided for. Total cost: $3.86 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$21 million. Manpower will be trained to help meet the needs of the economy, and the quality and efficiency of education will be improved. The project also includes a study to determine the nation's manpower needs up to the year 1990. Help in meeting the costs of technical assistance will be provided by the United Kingdom and Sweden. Total cost: $47.9 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$8 million. The quality of education, manpower development, and institution building will be enhanced through a project featuring curriculum development, the provision of teaching aids and primary textbooks, and the development of regional centers for the improvement of adult education. The ADF is making a parallel loan of about $1.7 million to help meet the project's costs. Total cost: $11.3 million.
SWAZILAND: Bank—$4 million. A second education project will assist in the expansion of the country's basic education cycle from seven to 10 years and will improve the cycle through the introduction of science and practical studies. Some 13 existing junior secondary schools will be expanded, and four new ones built; and a "model agricultural center" will be constructed and equipped. Total cost: $6 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: Bank—$20 million. The quality and relevance of education will be improved through support of curricula reform and the provision of new teacher training facilities; the training of semi-skilled and skilled workers and technicians will help in meeting manpower needs; and sector institutions will be strengthened through support for the establishment of a national entity for the planning, coordination, and rationalization of vocational
and technical training activities. The UNDP and the US, British, and French governments are expected to help finance part of the project costs. Total cost: $40.3 million.
URUGUAY: Bank—$9.7 million. Initiation of a national vocational training program to meet the training needs of the export-oriented industrial sector will be supported, and the government and private sector assisted in selecting appropriate technologies and in improving and expanding quality control for exports. Buildings for the Vocational Training Council and new laboratories for the Technological Laboratory of Uruguay will be constructed and equipped, and technical assistance furnished. Total cost: $16.4 million.
Industrial Development and Finance
BANGLADESH: IDA—$7 million. Subloans for equipment and permanent working capital of small enterprises and cottage industries will be financed; a special capital fund providing supplementary financing to selected projects for which the sponsors are unable to provide sufficient equity will be set up; a pilot cottage industry component for jute and cane/bamboo handicrafts will be established; and technical assistance will be furnished to strengthen the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation and to support the development of small and cottage industries.
BURUNDI: IDA—$3.4 million. Foreign exchange will be made available to the Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE), a limited liability company providing finance for productive enterprises in the agricultural, industrial, artisanal, and tourism sectors, and for housing. The costs of two technical experts to assist BNDE's technical capability in project appraisal and implementation will also be financed.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$100 million. Private industry will be developed through contribution of foreign exchange for loan and equity financing by development finance companies of investment projects, including technological improvements and pollution control, in manufacturing, agro-industry, mining, and tourism.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$15 million. Through development of 38 hectares of land for an industrial export processing zone, by providing infrastructure (power distribution lines, road improvements, and a water transmission main), and by providing technical assistance for international promotion, exports will increase and diversify, and employment will be fostered in Cartagena, capital of one of the country's poorest departments. Total cost: $31.3 million.
COSTA RICA: Bank—$15 million. The amount of medium- and long-term credit available to industries—especially labor-intensive
ones and those that make use of local resources —will be increased, and the capacity of participatory financial intermediaries to select, appraise, and supervise efficient export- and import-substitution projects built up. Total cost: $49 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$40 million. Part of the Development Industrial Bank's foreign exchange requirements over the next two years will be met. A special effort will be made to assist small-scale industrial enterprises, and technical assistance will be provided. The OPEC Special Fund is participating in the project with an $8.75 million loan.
THE GAMBIA: IDA—$3 million. This project addresses the credit needs of rural and urban enterprises and seeks to build up the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB) as a financial intermediary. About 80 rural and urban entrepreneurs and artisans are expected to benefit, and some 700 jobs may be created. Technical assistance to the GCDB is included. Also included will be a study of housing finance in the country. Total cost: $4.5 million.
INDIA: Bank—$80 million. This twelfth loan to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India, the country's primary-source of foreign exchange investment funds for private industry, will help finance high-priority industrial projects, many of which are export-oriented and/or located in "backward" areas.
INDIA: Bank—$25 million. Foreign exchange will be provided, through the Industrial Development Bank of India, to meet the foreign exchange costs of medium-sized industrial projects in the public and joint sector sponsored by the states of India.
INDONESIA: IDA—$40 million. Incomes of small farmers and businessmen will be improved, and additional employment opportunities are to be provided by a project that aids Bank Indonesia in strengthening, over the next 30 months, its existing Small-Investment-Credit/ Small-Permanent-Working-Capital Credit program. Total cost: $80 million.
KENYA: IDA—$10 million. Credit, supportive facilities, and institution-building assistance will be provided the Kenya Industrial Estates, a semi-autonomous, government-supported industrial promotion agency, and an agency through which future external assistance to small-scale industries will be channeled. Total cost: $15.6 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$110 million. Help in meeting the foreign exchange requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Korea Development Bank over the next two years will be provided; up to $10 million of the loan will be earmarked for the financing of small and medium-sized leasing projects.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$55 million. Part of the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by the Medium Industry Bank will be met; some $20 million of the proceeds are to be earmarked to assist small-scale, labor-intensive subprojects.
MAURITIUS: Bank —$7.5 million. The foreign exchange requirements of the Development Bank of Mauritius, which makes loans and investments in the industry, agro-industry, and tourism sectors, will be filled until mid-1979.
MEXICO: Bank—$100 million. Funds will be provided to the Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial for re-lending to industrial enterprises through the commercial banking system to help finance machinery, equipment, and other fixed assets for projects that will improve the country's balance of payments through exports or efficient import substitution.
MEXICO: Bank—$47 million. The project aims at expanding the production capacity and improving the efficiency of small and medium-scale industrial enterprises by means of a comprehensive program of technical and financial assistance through three federal government trust funds created to serve the needs of such enterprises. Total cost: $132 million.
NIGER: IDA—$5 million. A line of credit will be provided the Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger (BDRN) to help finance labor-intensive small and medium-scale enterprises. Technical assistance will also be made available to BDRN. The project also provides for financial and technical assistance to (a) a new agency providing technical assistance and training to local entrepreneurs; and (b) the Artisans Center of the National Museum so as to stimulate productivity and employment of artisans. Total cost: $8.1 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$60 million. Term financing for about 25 industrial enterprises to meet one-third of total investment costs will be provided. Subloans are expected to be in the areas of light manufacturing, construction materials, agro-allied industries, food and beverages, and hotels. Total cost: $180 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$80 million. Long-term finance will be supplied the Development Bank of the Philippines for the establishment of industrial enterprises of all sizes except for cottage industries. Of the total, $50 million will be earmarked for large-scale enterprises, $29.7 million for small and medium-scale industry, and about $300,000 will be used to establish a development banking institute to train the management and personnel of smaller development finance institutions.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$30 million. Through the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines, subloans will be made to help finance the foreign exchange requirements of projects, mainly in manufacturing.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$15 million. The capacity of PISO (Philippine Investments Systems
Organization), a private financial institution, to provide medium- and long-term finance for investment in the industrial sector will be developed. PISO will make subloans to finance foreign exchange requirements of projects, mainly in manufacturing.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$8 million. A substantial portion of the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon's estimated foreign exchange requirements over the next two years, for lending to private sector industrial projects and tourism, will be met.
TANZANIA: Bank—$15 million. Part of the Tanzania Investment Bank's (TIB) foreign exchange requirements through 1980 will be met, thus enabling TIB to expand its operations (traditionally, it has financed manufacturing enterprises) into financing for agro-industries and transport- and tourism-associated projects.
TUNISIA: Bank—$35 million. Thirty million dollars will be lent to the Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie to help finance lending for industry. Of this amount, $2 million is to be earmarked for financing the expansion of existing small-scale enterprises. The remaining $5 million is to be channeled through an account with the Central Bank to help finance exclusively newly created small-scale enterprises.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$4 million. Credit and technical assistance will be provided to artisans and small and medium-scale enterprises relying on three institutions—Banque Nationale de Developpement, Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique, and Centre National de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux. About 2,250 new jobs may be generated.
Industry
BRAZIL: Bank—$85 million. A raw materials plant, with a production capacity of about 1.25 million tons a year of ethylene, propylene, butadiene, benzene, and other petrochemical derivatives will be built, as well as a utilities plant consisting of steam production, water treatment, and power facilities. The country's need to import petrochemicals will lessen, and industries will be diversified away from the Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro areas. The IDB is providing co-financing in the amount of $111.7 million. Total cost: $836 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$10 million. The technical and economic viability of substituting coal from the Bukit Asam mine in Sumatera for oil (to be used for electricity generation) will be established, and the implementation of an integrated coal mine-transportation expansion project will be prepared. Total cost: $13.22 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$85 million. Two new tire manufacturing plants will be built to manufacture truck, tractor, and off-the-road tires.
Some 4,300 new jobs will be created, increasing domestic demand for tires will be met, and foreign exchange will either be saved or earned. Total cost: $258.2 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$60 million. Through assistance to damaged enterprises requiring immediate reconstruction, and to enterprises in and related to the critical construction sector, the government will be helped in meeting the remaining needs of delayed reconstruction and deferred construction activities caused by the March 1977 earthquake. Specialized equipment for a National Center for Earthquake Engineering will also be financed.
TANZANIA: Bank—$25 million; IDA—$20 million. The project consists of an integrated textile mill with spinning, weaving, and processing facilities to produce about 21.5 million square meters of blended fabrics as well as 650 tons of polyester/rayon yarn. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $106.9 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$4.75 million. An industrial estate, with all necessary supporting facilities, will be established 35 kilometers east of Bangkok. The project is a part of a long-range program to establish such estates and export processing zones away from congested Bangkok in a first phase, and develop added facilities at more distant regional locations in a second phase. Total cost: $9.91 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$95 million. The country's imports of needed flat steel products will be reduced by a project that is designed to help finance the second-stage expansion of the country's only producer of flat steel. Liquid steel production capacity should increase by 500,000 metric tons yearly through additions to raw materials handling systems and scrap preparation facilities, and through the construction of facilities to reduce operating costs and consumption of energv. Total cost: $341.8 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$7 million. The project aims at returning the Sana'a Textile Mill to full capacity utilization and profitability through the reconditioning or replacement of machinery, the introduction of an incentive scheme to increase productivity, and management and operating assistance. Co-financing is expected to be provided by the OPEC Special Fund ($1.5 million). Total cost: $25.5 million.
Nonproject
BANGLADESH: IDA—$75 million. Foreign exchange will be provided for the purchase of industrial components, raw materials, chemicals, and spare parts needed by selected high-priority industries to maintain production. In connection with this credit, action programs were agreed upon to expand the scope of efforts initiated under earlier program credits, designed to in-
crease the efficiency and financial viability of the jute and cotton textile industries.
JAMAICA: Bank—$30 million. Foreign exchange needed by private and public sector entities for imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, and capital equipment—all needed for the country to maintain a reasonable level of production in industry and agriculture—will be provided.
LEBANON: Bank—$50 million. Reconstruction work following the civil war will be undertaken. Beirut's port and telecommunications system will be rehabilitated, as will its water supply and sanitation facilities. Studies designed to accelerate the preparation of future projects for urban reconstruction and development are included. Total cost: $83.6 million.
Population and Nutrition
COLOMBIA: Bank—$25 million. In seven departments and in Bogota, a community-based health system will be established, and nutrition education provided for 1.8 million people, mostly among the poorest 30% of the population. A portion of the beneficiaries will also benefit from potable water supply systems, latrines, and family gardens; pregnant and nursing mothers and small children in one department will increase food consumption. The government's national nutrition program will be strengthened, and its food coupon system tested. Improved food preservation and processing techniques will also be developed. Total cost: $68.9 million.
THAILAND: IDA—$33.1 million. A population project is designed to help the government reach its demographic target for the Fourth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (fiscal 1977-81) by assisting in the recruitment of more than 3 million new "acceptors," and by cutting maternal and infant mortality rates some 20%. The project includes training paramedical staff and village volunteers in health and family planning; purchasing equipment, vehicles, and materials; developing information, education, and communication activities; and carrying out research and evaluation studies. Norway is participating in the credit with a $3.1 million grant, and additional financing is being provided by aid agencies in Australia ($3 million), Canada ($6.3 million), and the US ($5.5 million). Total cost: $68.6 million.
Power
BRAZIL: Bank—$130 million. The project is part of the program for the expansion of the power subtransmission and distribution systems during the period 1978-81 of the three public electric power utilities in the south and southeast of Brazil. Public service electricity will be made available to about 62,000 new low-income con-
sumers, and about 48,000 new rural consumers will be connected. Total cost: $2,346.8 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$126 million. The project—including construction of a 70-meter high earth dam on the Guatape River, inlet and discharge tunnels, and an underground power station with four generating units, as well as transmission facilities; consultant services; and a study on how to minimize power losses— forms part of Interconcxion Electrica S.A.'s 1978-82 expansion program, and will provide additional power capacity required in the early 1980s. Co-financing is being provided by the IDB ($70 million). Total cost: $421.3 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$50 million. A 523-kilometer long, single circuit 500 kV transmission line between the central and Atlantic regions of the country, as well as two terminal and two intermediate substations will be built, thus achieving the long-standing objective of interconnecting Colombia's major power systems. Consultant services for engineering, civil works, and supervision are included. Co-financing is being provided by the KfW ($40 million). Total cost: $167.2 million.
FIJI: Bank—$15 million. This project, the first stage of Fiji's hydroelectric development program, includes construction of a 60-meter high embankment dam, a water conductor system, and an overground power station with an initial capacity of 40 MW, which can be extended to 80 MW later. Co-financing has been arranged with the EIB (joint financing, $ 14.3 million), the CDC (parallel financing, $9.1 million), and the ADAB (grant, $ 1 1.5 million). Total cost: $54 million. "GUATEMALA: Bank—$72 million. Through construction of a rockfnl dam, a 25.6-kilometer power tunnel and a surface powerhouse, and through provision of associated transmission, the hydroelectric development of the Chixoy River will be carried out. Co-financing will be provided by the IDB ($105 million), the CABEI ($9 million), the FIV ($70 million), and private financial institutions (up to $23 million). Total cost: $414.1 million.
INDIA: IDA—$200 million. So that the country's western region might not be plagued by power cuts that hinder utilization of existing industrial capacity and discourage installation of new capacity (and also constrain agricultural output), three 200 MW generating units, together with ancillary equipment and related works, and about 800 circuit kilometers of associated transmission lines will be built in Madhya Pradesh state. Total cost: $439 million.
INDIA: Bank—$105 million. To help meet the forecast load growth in the Bombay area, a 500 MW power generating unit—the first single unit installation of its size in the country — together with boiler, electrical and mechanical equipment, and associated works will be constructed. Total cost: $209.4 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$109 million. Through the construction of a third oil-fired thermal power unit at Semarang harbor in central Java and associated transmission lines/substations, consultants' services, and studies, the country's electric power authority will be able to meet the increase in load forecast for Java by 1982/83. Total cost: $161.53 million.
JAMAICA: Bank—$20 million. A second power project, emphasizing electricity service for low-income rural and urban consumers, includes construction of 141 kilometers of transmission lines, expansion of existing stations, and installation of new transformer capacity. A training program for employees of the Jamaica Public Service Company, Limited is included. Total cost: $36.1 million.
LIBERIA: Bank—$10 million. The Liberia Electricity Corporation will be assisted in expanding its generating capacity, strengthening its management, staffing, and financial position, and increasing access to electric power for about 5,000 low-income families in the Monrovia area. Co-financing will be provided by the Saudi Fund ($11 million), BADEA ($3.7 million), and the EIB ($4.68 million). Total cost: $31.55 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA — $33 million. Through the construction of a concrete diversion dam on the Vohitra River, and provision of an underground power house with ancillary facilities, transmission lines, and technical assistance, the growth in demand for electricity until 1992 in the Antananarivo area will be met. Co-financing is expected to be provided by the Abu Dhabi Fund ($5 million). BADEA ($10 million), CCCE ($15.4 million), CIDA ($15.4 million), the Kuwait Fund ($10 million), and the Saudi Fund ($12 million). Total cost: $116 million.
MAURITIUS: Bank—$15 million. By providing additional power transmission and distribution capacity to supply points, by increasing the reliability of the system operations, and through the strengthening of the Central Electricity Board's organization and operations, forecast demand will be met, reliability of supply will be improved, and system losses cut. Total cost: $18.9 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$60 million. Almost 900,000 families living in provincial towns and rural areas will be provided with access to electricity services, and job opportunities will be created by a project supporting the National Electrification Administration's rural electrification program for 1979-80. Total cost: $160.5 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$8.2 million. The Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation will be helped in its efforts to meet fully present demand and projected requirements through 1980 and to restore a measure of reliability in supplying the electric power needed to sustain the country's economy. Technical assistance will also be pro-
vided. BADEA is providing a loan of $5 million to help meet project costs. Total cost: $15.2 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: Bank—$40 million. The first stage of the country's 10-year national rural electrification plan—designed to provide electricity service by 1987 to all villages with at least 100 inhabitants—will be financed. Transmission and distribution lines will be installed and consulting services provided. USAID is providing co-financing in the amount of $34.2 million. Total cost: $135.8 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$50 million. Through the construction of a rockfill dam and the expansion of an existing transmission system, the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand will be better able to meet the growing demand for power in the southern region of the country and in other selected rural areas. Total cost: $144.6 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$25 million. Through construction of main primary lines and secondary lines, the installation of distribution transformers, meters, and streetlights, and the supply of related equipment, electricity will reach an estimated 675,000 households and a population of 5 million spread out over more than 4,500 villages in 20 provinces of the northeastern, northern, central, eastern, and southern regions of the country. CIDA and the OPEC Special Fund are helping co-finance the project with loans of $8 million and $7 million, respectively. Total cost: $110 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$5 million. An impetus to agricultural development in Wadi Hadramout will be provided by electrifying all irrigation water pumping in the Wadi through the erection of a 16 MW diesel generating plant and the construction of related transmission and distribution networks. By 1983, power will also be provided to major population centers, reaching some 80,000 consumers and small industrial consumers. Discussions with possible co-financers are being held. Total cost: $28.3 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$73 million. Three concrete gravity dams and their associated power stations and transmission links will be built in Bosnia-Herzegovina as part of a long-range plan to develop the Neretva River. Through the project, the economic development of the republic will be assisted, and the country's hydro resources will be more fully exploited. Total cost: $402.6 million.
Technical Assistance
ECUADOR: Bank—$11 million. A three and a half-year program of assistance to the National Preinvestment Fund (which finances project preparation work carried out by the government) and other Ecuadorian agencies will
be furnished, thus increasing the number of economical and well-prepared projects in the country. Total cost: $17.8 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$6.3 million. A three-year technical assistance project will help strengthen governmental organizations charged with strategic analysis, operational supervision, and formal financial control over the parapublic sector, resulting eventually in improved management, a healthier financial situation, and better working relationships with government. Total cost: S8.2 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$3 million. A three-year program of technical assistance for project preparation studies, leading to high-priority investment in the economy and an expansion of the capacity of Somali institutions to manage preinvestment work will be undertaken. Total cost: $3.8 million.
Telecommunications
COSTA RICA: Bank—$10.6 million. Through increases in exchange capacity, additions to the number of rural communities receiving telephone service, the installation of either an earth satellite station or a submarine cable, the expansion of telex and mobile telephone service, and additional training, anticipated demand for local, long-distance, and international service in San Jose and other localities will be met. The IDB is providing co-financing in the amount of $12.2 million. Total cost: $100.3 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$53 million. Through the installation of about 226,000 local exchange lines, the addition of 5,000 trunk exchange lines, and the expansion of telex services, support will be given the Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization's 1978-80 program for rehabilitation of, and improvement to, the country's telecommunications system. Total cost: $210 million.
EL SALVADOR: Bank—$23 million. Through the installation of additional lines of local automatic telephone exchange equipment, long-distance equipment, teleprinters, and longdistance public call offices in areas currently without service, and the expansion of the telegraph network, the National Telecommunications Agency will be better able to meet unsatisfied demand, upgrade and expand its services, and improve its financial management and practices. Total cost: $51.6 million.
INDIA: Bank—$120 million. A priority component of the Post and Telegraphs Telecommunication Branch's investment program for 197881 will be financed, thus significantly extending the present network into rural areas. In addition, the production facilities of the three major government-owned telecommunications equipment manufacturers will be upgraded and modernized. Total cost: $818.5 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$14.5 million. Through a third telecommunications project, about 70% of the demand for local telephone service will be met; radio facilities will be provided to subscribers at 100 isolated locations; telex facilities will be expanded; and technical assistance furnished. The United Kingdom's ODM will provide co-financing in the amount of $3 million. Total cost: $25.6 million.
Tourism
MEXICO: Bank—$50 million. Some 32,000 permanent jobs will be created directly (and another 33,000 indirectly) as a result of a project designed to help the Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo finance the construction of hotel accommodations and related tourism facilities included in its 1977-79 program. Total cost: $212 million.
Transportation
BANGLADESH: IDA—$5 million. Equipment, materials, and spare parts for the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority and the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation will be financed, and technical assistance will be provided. Total cost: $8.5 million.
BENIN: IDA—$11 million. Physical facilities at Cotonou port will be expanded, productivity there increased through improvements in port and cargo handling and training, and the government will be aided in introducing an adequate tariff structure for the transit of goods— a major economic activity in Benin. Joint and parallel financing, totaling $33.08 million, from seven co-financers, will help meet project costs. Total cost: $46.09 million.
BENIN: IDA—$10 million. State-owned trucking companies and local truck owners and operators, as well as farmers living in the area of influence of the project roads, will benefit from a project designed to eliminate the backlog of periodic maintenance on bituminous and laterite roads, and improve the country's ongoing routine highway maintenance efforts. Total costs: $21.3 million.
BOLIVIA: Bank—$25 million. By carrying out required road maintenance in three districts; by providing equipment, vehicles, and spare parts; through a technical assistance program in support of the National Highway Service; and through the preparation of a countrywide maintenance program, maintenance of the country's roads would be improved. Total cost: $36.3 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$114 million. About 1,500 kilometers of federal highways will be rehabilitated, engineering for the rehabilitation of about 3,000 additional kilometers will be provided for,
a highway maintenance program in Parana state supported, weighing stations installed, and research studies financed. Total cost: $312 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$14 million. The government will be assisted in financing the construction of a major road (from Bujumbura to Ru-gombo), road improvement and betterment works, and the continuation of its road maintenance program. Co-financing is being provided by BADEA ($6 million), the UNDP ($900,000), and the Federal Republic of Germany ($800,000). Total cost: $24 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$16.5 million. Through technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport and through the reconstruction of the Garoua-Figuil road (95 kilometers) to two-lane paved standards, transport costs on the south-north Transcameroonian rail/road route will be reduced, and overall transport planning and coordination improved. The project forms an important part of the overall development effort for northern Cameroon, as the road serves agricultural, industrial, and administrative centers. Total cost: $21.6 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$4.6 million; IDA— $6.5 million. Feeder roads for four high-priority rural development and livestock projects (benefiting some 100,000 low-income farm families) will be provided. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $17.1 million.
CYPRUS: Bank—$8.5 million. Port facilities at Limassol and Larnaca will be expanded to relieve congestion and to accommodate future traffic growth up to 1983. The project also provides for technical assistance to the Cyprus Port Authority. Total cost: $29.47 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank — $100 million. By 1980, ships drawing up to 16.1 meters (or about 120,000 dwt laden and 350,000 tons in ballast) will be able to use the Suez Canal as a result of a project designed to expand the Canal and improve its facilities. Eight co-financers have approved loans to help meet the project's costs. Total cost: $1,003 million.
HAITI: IDA—$15 million. Through the reconstruction or upgrading of six road sections, the reconstruction of two important bridges, and the building of three coastal shipping port facilities, a better balance between road transport and coastal shipping will be achieved. In addition, the project will help overcome the isolation of outlying areas, and help foster regional activity. Total cost: $20.45 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$29 million. A feeder road and highway maintenance project will provide improved transport services for the rural population, and will reduce transport costs. Regional workshops will be built, equipment bought, and technical assistance provided. Total cost: $63.2 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$23 million. The priority items of the 1978-79 portion of Regie
des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger's 1977-82 investment plan will be covered. The items consist primarily of track realignment and renewal of track material in Ivory Coast, track improvement in Upper Volta, purchase of locomotives and provision of maintenance equipment, training facilities, and consultant's services. CIDA is providing co-financing in the amount of $29.2 million. The loan is supplemented by a $5.2 million credit to Upper Volta. Total cost: $66.2 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$120 million. A sixth railway project forms part of Korean National Railroad's 1977-81 investment plan which aims at providing it with the capacity needed to handle increasing traffic volumes and to reduce operating and maintenance costs. Total cost: $406.9 million.
LIBERIA: Bank—$13.8 million. Two main roads, linking Monrovia to the central and southeastern regions of the country, will be reconstructed and improved; technical assistance on road maintenance will be supplied; and a feasibility study for one main road and engineering works on two other main roads provided for. Co-financing from the Kuwait Fund ($7.4 million) will help meet project costs. Total cost: $28.8 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$10.5 million. More than 100 kilometers of road will either be constructed or strengthened on the Kasungu-Jenda road and the Zomba-Lilongwe road and consulting services provided, thus assisting the government's general strategy of developing the northern half of the country, where several rural and urban development projects have been initiated or planned. The OPEC Special Fund is lending $1.8 million to help meet project costs. Total cost: $14.26 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$13 million. The ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan, and Tawau will be provided with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic growth and to replace old equipment; Tawau port will be provided additional berths and ancillary facilities so that its needs to 1990 might be met; and technical assistance will be furnished the Sabah Ports Authority. Total cost: $26 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$17 million. A second highway project calls for the construction of a feeder road connecting the Dang valley to the East-West highway in the far-western region, upgrading a mountainous section of the main road between Kathmandu and the Indian border, support for the government's Five-Year Road Maintenance Program, consultants' services, and the training of mechanics. Total cost: $20 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$12 million. Through the acquisition of new maintenance equipment, spare parts, and the provision of consulting services, the maintenance organization, methods, and
personnel of the Ministry of Public Works will be strengthened, thus enabling it better to carry out its Four-Year Maintenance Program, covering the country's entire highway network (9,200 kilometers). Total cost: $12.91 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Bank—$3.5 million. Container handling facilities will be built at Port Moresby harbor to reduce ship waiting time and lower cargo handling costs; a 30-meter coastal berth at Samarai, located on a small island off the southern Papua coast, will be built; and training will be made available to the staff of the Papua New Guinea Harbours Board. Co-financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund. Total cost: $10.5 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank—$33 million. A fifth highways project will help upgrade 98 kilometers of high-priority road between Coronel Oviedo and San Estanislao, will help strengthen and expand the Ministry of Public Works and Communications' ability to maintain existing roads, and will help continue the strengthening of transport planning and coordination. Co-financing is being provided by the Bank of Nova Scotia ($5 million). Total cost: $48.1 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$15 million. A fourth highway project, which will help lessen vehicle operating costs and prevent the further deterioration of the main road network, includes the improvement, rehabilitation, and upgrading of about 1,500 kilometers of gravel roads; a four-year maintenance program on about 3,500 kilometers of earth and gravel roads; and the strengthening (through training and purchase of needed material) of the country's Road Branch. The Federal Republic of Germany, Belgium, the UNDP, and the WFP are included as co-financers. Total cost: $23.7 million.
SENEGAL: Bank—$11 million. A large program of action aimed at improving operational and financial performance, including measures to strengthen the national railway authority's organization, management, and staff training will be carried out. Track will be renewed, maintenance equipment and spare parts purchased, a marshaling yard extended and rehabilitated, a training program initiated, and consulting services provided. Total cost: $11.81 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$22 million. Through an increase in physical capacity, in operational productivity, and management capability, the port of Port Sudan will be modernized and improved so that congestion might be relieved and throughput increased. The ODM (UK), the KfW, and the Kuwait Fund are providing co-financing of $9.6 million, $3.5 million, and $500,000, respectively. Total cost: $50.7 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: Bank—$58 million. Sections of highways, totaling more than 350 kilometers, will be improved or newly constructed, and consultant services and technical assistance provided in this third highway loan
assisting the country's highway development program which emphasizes the completion of the main transportation axes, maintenance and improvement of existing roads, and the stimulation of further development of what are, potentially, the most productive sectors in the economy. Total cost: $113.6 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$15 million. Public sector transport companies will be made more efficient, adequate training opportunities provided, and spare parts for the trucking industry made available in this project, designed to overcome road transport bottlenecks that have put severe strains on the country's agricultural economy. Total cost: $17.3 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$110 million. Eleven sections of provincial roads, totaling about 670 kilometers, will be constructed and improved, an eight-year program of maintenance of national and provincial roads will be implemented, and the country's provincial road system will be upgraded and expanded through a program of technical assistance, engineering studies, and consultants' services in this sixth highway project. Total cost: $206.69 million.
TOGO: IDA—$5.8 million. Support will be given to a four-year program for the construction and improvement of about 1,000 kilometers of feeder roads, for technical assistance to establish a Feeder Roads Unit within the Department of Rural Works, and for a study of a follow-up feeder road program. Total cost: $8.3 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$32 million. About 1,000 kilometers of rural roads will be improved, and complementary agricultural investments—credit, equipment purchases and improvements to extension services—provided in this project designed to make available assured and less expensive transport of essential agricultural inputs and crops, and to help raise farm incomes and increase employment. Total cost: $93.6 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$5.2 million. For details, see the description of the $23 million Bank loan to Ivory Coast.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$11.5 million. By assisting a three-year road maintenance program, by constructing vehicle weight control stations, by preparing a highway master plan, and through technical assistance to the country's Highway Authority, vehicle operating costs will be reduced, and a framework for improved management and rational investment for future highways will be provided. Co-financing is expected to be provided from other external sources. Total cost: $55.3 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$100 million. Through the overhaul of track, station and track reconstruction, electrification, modernization of signaling and telecommunications equipment, purchase of traction and rolling stock, and other investments, the efficiency of the country's
railways and its competitive position will be improved. The project consists of the 1978-80 slice of the Yugoslav Railways' 1976-80 Investment Plan. Total cost: $2,000 million. YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$80 million. Bottlenecks will be eliminated and traffic flows on the E94 Trans-Yugoslav Highway will be facilitated as a result of a ninth highways project that includes 86 kilometers of construction and procurement of maintenance equipment. Total cost: $257 million.
ZAMBIA: Bank—$11.25 million; IDA— $11.25 million. Zambia's road maintenance programs will be improved, and the institutions responsible for maintenance will be strengthened through the provision of road maintenance and workshop equipment, technical assistance, and consultant services. Total cost: $26.7 million.
Urban Development
BOLIVIA: Bank—$ 17 million. The first Bank-assisted urban development project in the country consists of: a program of sites and services and urban upgrading, which would provide and improve essential urban services in low-income areas of La Paz; construction of five retail food markets; credit to artisans and small-scale enterprises to provide jobs and create employment; and technical assistance. Some 10,000 families will benefit. Total cost: $22.5 million.
BOTSWANA: Bank—$8 million. About 38,000 people will benefit from the residential component of a second urban project designed to increase the participation of the poor in the economic growth of Francistown and Selebi Phikwe in the northeast of the country. Social and physical infrastructure will be provided, and about 1,250 jobs will be created or upgraded. Total cost: $11.3 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$88 million. Urban transport services in five metropolitan areas—Belo Horizonte, Curitiba, Porto Alegre, Recife, and Salvador—will be improved, and special emphasis given to the provision of public transport to the urban poor. Components include traffic engineering, introduction of bus lanes, road construction and widening, construction of bus terminals, paving of bus routes, and technical assistance. Total cost: $248.9 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$24.8 million. Through construction of community development centers, extension of primary education, health, and nutrition services, regularization of land tenure, home improvement credit, sites and services, and water supply and sewerage facilities, some 550,000 people, mostly in the poorest 30% of the population, and living in 23 selected towns, will be provided comprehensive assistance. Total cost: $62 million.
COSTA RICA: Bank—$16.5 million. Travel conditions in San Jose will be improved, espe-
cially for users of public transport, through the upgrading of existing transport infrastructure. Maintenance equipment will also be provided, as will training and technical assistance. Total cost: $31.4 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$14 million. Through comprehensive upgrading of four settlements, sites and services on two sites, a small business assistance and manpower training program, improvements in solid waste collection and disposal, urgent repairs to water supply and sewerage systems, and technical assistance, some 120,000 poor people in Cairo, Alexandria, and Assiut will experience improved living conditions and an increase in employment opportunities. Total cost: $21 million.
INDIA: IDA—$87 million. Capabilities of the administrative authorities in the Calcutta Metropolitan District will be expanded and upgraded; about 1.8 million poor residents will benefit from fringe development and slum improvement schemes; and some 45,000 people will have improved housing. About 60,000 children will have access to primary schools, and some 175,000 poor residents will receive health care from a pilot program. The Netherlands is providing co-financing in the amount of $1.8 million. Total cost: $183.9 million.
KENYA: Bank—$25 million; IDA—$25 million. In Kenya's three largest cities, Kisumu, Mombasa, and Nairobi, more than 30,000 low-income households will benefit directly from an urban development project that provides for the construction of physical infrastructure and community facilities to serve existing unserviced squatter settlements, preparation of new housing areas with serviced plots, credit, and employment opportunities. Total cost: $69.4 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$16.5 million. Some 75% of the low-cost shelter needs of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation through 1981 will be met. Institutional arrangements for urban development programs will be strengthened, and employment created by assisting small enterprises through credit and technical assistance programs. A replicable institutional model will be created, and additional urban projects in the country prepared. Total cost: $36.1 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$18 million. The living conditions and productive capacities of 11,000 urban low-income households will be improved as a result of a project in Rabat that is introducing solutions to some of the more difficult problems facing the urban sector: inadequate urban planning, financing, and management. The project includes squatter upgrading, a sites and services scheme, an employment generation program, community services equipment, and technical assistance. Total cost: $37.62 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$12 million. About 26% of the country's total urban population—more than 315,000 low-income people—will benefit
from a second urban development project that includes squatter upgrading and surveyed plots (to be provided with essential infrastructure, community facilities, and credit for home improvement) and a program of assistance to small-scale industries. Total cost: $29.3 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$8.6 million. The living conditions of about 35,000 of Bangkok's low-income residents will be improved by providing new housing for about 3,000 families, by improving the sanitation, health conditions, and access to public services for about 3,500 families in existing slums, and by increasing employment opportunities in the project areas. Total cost: $17.2 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$8.2 million. Living conditions will be improved for more than 10,500 households (86,000 people) in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso as a result of an urban development project that will provide essential infrastructure, regularization of occupancy rights, and the supply of credit for housing construction or improvement. A water supply component in three additional squatter settlements in Ouagadougou will benefit an estimated additional 20,000 people. Total cost: $9.1 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
ALGERIA: Bank—$82 million. A project, comprising primarily of the construction of combined sewer interceptors, the first stage of a sewage treatment plant, and technical assistance, will help abate water pollution and associated health hazards in Algiers, will permit redevelopment of affected areas near the El Harrach River, and by permitting the reuse of treated sewage, will reduce investments in water supply. Total cost: $154.21 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$110 million. By providing sewage collection services to 3.5 million people and sewage treatment facilities for 5.5 million people and for 6.1 m3/sec of industrial wastes, the health and environmental conditions for the 10.6 million population of greater Sao Paulo will be improved. Total cost: $1,239.6 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$13.8 million. About 250,000 residents of Cali and nearby Yumbo will benefit directly from a second water supply and sewerage project that aims to improve sanitary conditions by moving the discharge of raw sewage downstream from the city's main intake of water, and by separating domestic sewage from stormwater run-off. A water distribution network for low-income households will be constructed, and household connections installed. Total cost: $42.9 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$2 million. The foreign exchange costs of a feasibility study and related technical assistance to help identify and prepare a regional water supply
project, focusing on rural areas and secondary cities, will be financed. Appropriate technical standards, financial policies, and institutional arrangements in the water supply sector will also be established. Total cost: $2.3 million.
HAITI: IDA—$6.6 million. Through the rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply systems in seven provincial towns, about 155,000 people—or 90% of the towns' population—will benefit. Substantial technical assistance will be provided the new and untried institution the project aims to strengthen, Service National d'Eau Potable. Total cost: $8 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$33 million. A second project in support of Abidjan's sewerage and drainage system and the institutions responsible for the system includes the supply and laying of primary sewers and drains, sewer and drainage networks, construction and equipping of a pumping station, road surfacing, and the services of consultants. Total cost: $53.1 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$16 million. In support of the government's efforts to improve living conditions of people residing in small towns, safe water will be provided to about 400,000 additional people as a result of a project to improve and extend existing water supply systems —and to construct new ones—in secondary centers of the country. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $23 million.
JORDAN: IDA—S14 million. About 16,000 additional low-income people will be provided improved water service, and improvements to sewerage facilities will benefit a substantial number of low-income users as a result of a third water supply and sewerage project in Amman that includes construction of water and sewerage mains, provision of water meters, and training. Total cost: $33.9 million.
KENYA: Bank—$30 million. The population of Nairobi served with treated water will be increased by about 80% by 1981 as a result of a second project designed to improve the existing water supply system and expand distribution to new areas. Training and technical assistance will be provided, and treatment and transmission facilities, trunk mains, pumping stations, and distribution systems built. Loans from the OPEC Special Fund ($5.5 million) and the Saudi Fund ($25 million) will help meet project costs. Total cost: $78 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$1.5 million. Assistance in helping develop the design and planning criteria for upgrading urban sewer systems and in strengthening and reorganizing the institutions responsible will be made available. Among immediate benefits will be a sewerage proposal for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region that will reduce health hazards and risks to the fisheries industry. Total cost: $2.46 million.
NICARAGUA: Bank—$10.1 million. The potable water requirements of the population of Managua will be met up to 1985 through the expansion of water supply production and the construction of transmission and distribution facilities. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $13.8 million.
NICARAGUA: Bank—$3 million. About 175,000 people living in about 550 dispersed villages will benefit from this first Bank-assisted project designed to provide basic sanitation and health-related services exclusively to the lowest-income population. Project components include construction of low-cost water supply systems, rehabilitation and improvement of latrines, vaccination against disease, improvement of sanitary conditions, and technical assistance. Beneficiaries are paying at least 15% of project costs and all operating and maintenance expenses. Total cost: $6.3 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank—$6 million. Some 63,000 persons living in 42 villages will benefit from the construction of water supply systems, and 32,000 people will be served through the construction of individual waste disposal solutions. Technical assistance to the National Environmental Sanitation Service is included. Total cost: $ 1 1 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$40 million. As many as 2.6 million people, including some 300,000 urban poor, will benefit from a water supply project serving the Lisbon region which aims at increasing the production of potable water and improving the water distribution system there; in addition, the project will assist the government in water sector reorganization and in design and planning capability. Total cost: $153.2 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$6 million. Mogadishu's water supply capacity will be increased (enabling water supply to be extended to an additional 29,000 urban poor) through construction, procurement of equipment, and technical assistance, while the preparation of a larger second project will be assisted through water resource investigation. Total cost: $7.7 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$1.2 million. Water supply master plans for Aden and Mukalla will be prepared, potential water resources in other populated areas assessed, and the first construction phase of projects for the improvement and expansion of water supply services in the areas under consideration elaborated. Technical assistance will be furnished. Total cost: $1.5 million.
Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance
The provision of technical assistance, an integral part of the Bank's services to its developing member countries, has been expanding vigorously. Consultations take place between Bank staff and borrowers during project preparation and appraisal, and during country or sector reviews. Aside from this steady flow of technical information, the Bank assists its borrowers with feasibility studies, engineering, resource surveys, in helping build up institutions, in training, and the like.
Technical assistance was the exclusive purpose of one loan and two credits, for a total of S20.3 million during the year, as compared with six operations, for a total of $16.9 million, in fiscal 1977. In addition, technical assistance components were included in 151 lending operations, for a total of $230 million, compared with 162 operations, for a total of $ 189 million, in the previous year. During fiscal 1978, $6.4 million of financing was provided by the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. The facility make temporary advances for studies and other forms of technical support; the borrower repays the advances by refinancing them through a Bank loan or an IDA credit for the project concerned as soon as it becomes effective. Other forms of assistance are provided on a reimbursable basis, or under equivalent compensatory arrangements, to oil-exporting countries that do not borrow from the Bank. In fiscal 1978, this kind of assistance in the amount of $33 million was directed to four countries.
For many years, the Bank has served as executing agency for preinvestment and technical assistance projects financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Unlike other executing agencies, however, it has handled the procedural, administrative, and other aspects of its role as executing agency on a project-by-project basis. During the year, these arrangements were standardized in a Bank/ UNDP relationship agreement.
In fiscal 1978, the Bank agreed to serve as executing agency for 23 new projects, for which the UNDP contributed $11.9 million.
These included a $2 million multisectoral program for project preparation in Sri Lanka, designed to prepare sound investment projects and to strengthen the country's capacity to identify and prepare other such projects in the future; a $2.2 million regional project in Africa to support the Organisation pour la Misc en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal; a $220,000 railway management study in Ghana; a $400,000 study of the agricultural sector in Algeria; and a $400,000 project to provide assistance to the Korean Institute of Electronic Technology and to other similar agencies in Korea.
In addition, the Bank and the UNDP joined in contributing to the cost of mediation services for the East African Community. These services are aimed at helping Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda reach agreement on the division of the assets and liabilities of the corporations and institutions previously operated by the Community.
A number of UNDP-financed. Bank-executed projects provide economic planning assistance. Typically, they call for small teams of planning advisers, supporting consultant services, and training programs for local counterpart staff; in some cases, these programs have been carried out with the cooperation of the Bank's Economic Development Institute.
Ongoing planning advisory projects in Korea, Liberia, Philippines, Sudan, and Zaire were extended to fiscal 1978 at the request of the host governments; work on a project in Uganda was continued; one of two projects in Swaziland was completed; and advisers were recruited for a project in Malaysia.
The Bank assisted the UNDP in assessing the relevance and effectiveness of UNDP technical cooperation for the establishment of self-reliant central planning agencies and in suggesting possible improvements. The assessment was based on 12 country case studies; Bank staff participated in six of the studies.
The design of these planning projects reflects a growing appreciation of the need for better distribution of the benefits of development, both among social groups and geographically; for greater consistency between annual resource
allocations and long-term development objectives; and for shortening the time required to prepare sound investment projects.
Of great significance to the developing countries is the fact that Bank-executed, UNDP-financed projects have an operational focus that very often leads to projects suitable for Bank financing, producing substantial investment follow-up. Studies completed, or under way, led to an estimated $555 million of Bank and IDA project financing in calendar 1977.
Economic Development Institute
During the past year, the Economic Development Institute (EDI) continued its program of conducting courses in Washington and assisting with national and regional courses in developing countries.
Eleven courses were held in Washington, including two new ones, one on power projects and the other on project management. In addition, the national economic management course was given, for the first time, in French. EDI also began to experiment with shorter seminars. It gave a two-week seminar on teaching methods and curriculum design, and hosted a seminar for representatives of Ibero-American training institutions in which ideas and experiences were exchanged on the objectives and functions of training in development strategy. The United Nations Institute for Training and Research and EDI conducted a seminar on economic development and its international setting for members of United Nations diplomatic delegations.
As in recent years, most of the training activities with which EDI was associated took place outside Washington. EDI supported 28 courses overseas, and, as a result of its policy of encouraging the development of local training institutions and of contributing to them only resources and skills not available locally, EDI provided less than 25% of the teaching in six of those courses.
In fiscal 1978, EDI co-sponsored or assisted 10 regional courses open to officials from countries sharing a common linguistic, cultural, or geographic background. Each of the remaining 18 courses was open to nationals of a single
country. Six of the 10 regional courses were held with institutions with which EDI was collaborating for the first time. In East Africa, the East African Management Institute and EDI organized a Transport Project Planning, Evaluation, and Management Course in Arusha, Tanzania for officials from Eastern and Southern Africa. The International Livestock Center for Africa and EDI co-sponsored a Livestock Development Projects Course in Nairobi for officials from English-speaking African countries. As part of a three-year training program for South and East Asia, the University of the Philippines at Los Banos, the Southeast Asian Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture, and EDI conducted courses on agro-industrial projects and rural development projects at the University. For the second year of a training program of agro-industrial projects courses for Latin America and the Caribbean, the Inter-American Development Bank and EDI supported courses in Colombia, with the Banco de la Republica, and in Barbados, with the Caribbean Development Bank.
Of the 18 national courses that EDI supported during the past year, three were held for the first time: an industrial projects course in Iraq with the Ministry of Planning, a transport projects course with the Transport Planning Authority of the (Egyptian) Ministry of Transport, and a seminar on development policy analysis and decision making in India with the Administrative Staff College (Hyderabad) and the Training Division of the Government of India's Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms.
In December 1977, the Bank's Executive Directors endorsed a five-year program for the period, fiscal 1979-83 for EDI that included a further substantial expansion overseas and a reorientation of EDI's activities to give more emphasis to the provision of advice and teaching materials to institutions in developing countries. EDI will continue to add to its curriculum and extend it to cover more fully the preparation and management of projects, as well as their appraisal. It expects, also, to schedule more short seminars on particular subjects as the need arises.
Other Activities
Aid Coordination
At the request of both donor and recipient governments, the Bank has continued to take the lead in organizing various aid coordination mechanisms for a number of developing countries that receive assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources.
The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development was organized, and met for the first time in fiscal 1978 under the chairmanship of the Bank. The Caribbean Development Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, and the International Monetary Fund were associated with the Bank in convening the meeting.
The main objective of the meeting was to start a process through which external donors could increase, in a coordinated way, their financial and technical assistance to the Caribbean area in support of appropriate and long-term economic programs undertaken by the countries of the region. In June 1978, 31 governments and 16 international agencies met at the Bank; from that meeting, a new Caribbean facility—called the Caribbean Development Facility—was set up to supply assistance to Caribbean countries. Ten donor countries and international agencies indicated that they would make available about $ 112 million to meet the needs of Caribbean countries for this type of assistance during the year beginning July 1, 1978. Additional amounts are expected to be made available as countries complete their internal decision processes and, in particular, as fuller consideration is given to the requirements of some countries that were not considered in detail at the meeting.
During the year, formal meetings of 10 of the other aid coordinating groups sponsored by the Bank were held. These were the groups for Bangladesh, Bolivia, Burma, Egypt, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Zambia. The Bank also participated in one meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia, chaired by the Netherlands.
An indication of the close cooperation among the various development assistance agencies is the large number of projects that the Bank and
IDA helped to finance jointly or in parallel with other national or multilateral agencies. Projects were co-financed with the United Nations Development Programme, the World Food Programme, the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA), the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, the Islamic Development Bank, and various regional financing institutions (the African Development Bank and Fund, the Caribbean Development Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank), as well as with aid agencies in Abu Dhabi, Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Kuwait, the Netherlands, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, the United Kingdom, the United States, Venezuela, and the European Economic Community. For the first time, projects were co-financed with the OPEC Special Fund and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). The Bank also continued its efforts to stimulate private investment in Bank-sponsored projects, and during the year, a growing number of projects were co-financed by private commercial banks.
On a regional basis, the Bank continued its active participation in the country reviews sponsored by the Permanent Executive Committee of the Inter-American Economic and Social Council, and maintained close working relations with regional financing institutions (the African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and the Inter-American Development Bank) and the Commission of the European Communities, which helped assure coordination of development assistance activities between them and the Bank.
In December 1977, the Bank hosted a meeting in London of donor agencies active in the population sector to discuss ways of improving co-financing and other areas of coordination. Representatives from eight donor countries, the International Planned Parenthood Federation, the Population Council, and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities attended the meeting. The participants agreed that closer collaboration between donors is best achieved within the context of individual countries. They
also emphasized the need for intersectoral coordination, as the boundaries of "population financing" were now broader than in the past.
Formal consultations were held during the year with France's Ministry of Cooperation and the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, with the Ministry of Economic Cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, the Japanese aid agencies (the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan and the Export-Import Bank of Japan), and the United Kingdom's Ministry of Overseas Development to review questions of common interest and to discuss country and project matters as well as possibilities for co-financing. Regular contacts were also maintained with the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, BADEA, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Islamic Development Bank, the Saudi Fund for Development, and the Venezuelan Investment Fund, as well as with financing agencies in the OECD countries, to determine possibilities for co-financing of specific projects. In addition, discussions took place with representatives of the newly organized IFAD to explore avenues for cooperation between the Bank and that organization. Details of the agreement reached between the Bank and IFAD may be found in the next section. "Interagency Cooperation," of this Annual Report.
Interagency Cooperation
Three new cooperative undertakings were added during fiscal 1978 to the network of relationships between the Bank and other institutions concerningassistance to the developingcountries.
The Bank entered into an agreement with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the newest UN specialized agency, established following the 1974 World Food Conference to promote food production.
The Agreement sets out the principles underlying the cooperation between the Bank and IFAD, and establishes a framework within which working arrangements may be agreed. IFAD is required, by its Charter, to rely on the services of other agencies for project appraisal and loan administration. The Bank can provide such services, either through co-financing, or by appraising and subsequently administering projects to be financed exclusively by IFAD. Bank staff are now working with IFAD to identify projects of potential interest to IFAD. Co-financing with IFAD has been already arranged for two such projects: an irrigation scheme in Guyana, and a rural development project in Tanzania.
The Bank became co-sponsor of a long-range Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases initiated by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and also agreed to serve as fiscal agent for the Special Programme. The Programme has two objectives: to develop and apply effective and low-cost methods to control six major tropical diseases (filariasis, leishmaniasis, leprosy, malaria, schistosomiasis, and trypanosomiasis); and to train scientists and technicians and to strengthen research institutions in the countries affected by the diseases, thus increasing the capability of those countries to deal with tropical disease problems. Although the Programme is global in concept and plan, its initial major focus will be in Africa.
An agreement was signed in Brussels in May 1978 between IDA and the European Communities and their nine member states under which IDA would administer a Special Action Account, totaling $385 million, for the Communities and their members. The agreement followed a decision of the Communities at the conclusion of the CIEC (North-South Conference) in June 1977 to provide additional quick-disbursing assistance to the poorest developing countries with acute foreign exchange needs.
The centerpiece of ongoing Bank relations with UN agencies is made up of four Cooperative Programs. The Bank and each of the four partner agencies agree on a work program to assist governments to identify and prepare projects suitable for Bank financing, and to support Bank country economic and sector missions. The work is carried out by a permanent staff unit located in the partner agency, the cost of which is shared by the Bank and the partner agency, 75% and 25%, respectively.
The largest and oldest of the Cooperative Programs, between the Bank and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), had a record year of activity, it staffed and carried out 177 missions in 55 countries. The Program's emphasis was on projects benefiting the rural poor and on promoting close involvement of member governments in the formulation of projects. Loans for projects prepared by the Program represented about one-third of the year's lending for agriculture.
A substantial number of activities was also realized by the Bank-United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (Unesco) Cooperative Program which undertook, or participated in, 55 project missions involving 29 countries. Thirteen sector survey missions were also carried out, and nine countries received project preparation assistance. In addition, Unesco staffed two project completion missions on its own in support of the Cooperative Program, and assisted the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department with its work in the education sector.
The main emphasis of the Bank-WHO Cooperative Program during the year was on activities designed to give effect to resolutions of the 1974 UN Water Conference. These included, in particular, preparation of "rapid assessment" reports, analyzing a country's water supply and sanitation situation and assessing its needs if the target set by the Conference—safe drinking water and adequate sanitation for all by 1990— is to be met. The reports will serve to aid the launching, in 1980, of an "International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade." Over 30 "desk studies" to assist countries in their "rapid assessment" were prepared during the year by staff of the Cooperative Program. Eleven water supply and sanitation sector studies were com-
pleted during the year, and the Program also assisted in the preparation of projects to be financed by the UNDP and by bilateral donors.
The Bank-United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) Cooperative Program carried out five project identification or preparation missions—two looking to the development of small industries—in as many countries. These initiatives reflect the approach that the Bank adopted in fiscal 1977, designed to provide increased employment opportunities by encouraging productive activities, including those in the artisanal/"informal" sector, additional to those provided by conventional industrial projects. The Program also provided support to Bank missions that reviewed industrial sector problems and programs in six countries, and to two other missions that assessed the developmental potential of forestry industries and identified specific projects. In addition, the Program's staff aided some of the Arab-financed development funds in locating and appraising suitable projects.
Staff of the International Labour Organization (ILO) participated in over 20 Bank country or project missions in as many countries. The Bank joined the ILO and the UNDP in a study of appropriate construction technology in developing countries that will include five country reviews and will provide the basis for the economical application of labor-intensive methods to the construction of institutional buildings. The Bank shared with ILO its experience in project performance audit techniques, and took advantage of ILO's expertise in devising training programs.
Co-financing with UN agencies became increasingly frequent during the year: typical examples were a Bank-assisted highway project in Rwanda in which the World Food Programme provided "food for work," joining the UNDP and several bilateral aid agencies; and the financing, by the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), of an experimental neighborhood as a component in the second phase of a Bank-aided sites and services project in Kenya. In other cases, though the cooperation involved no co-financing, it had practical operational significance—as illustrated by the dovetailing of work by the Bank and the UN Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) in Bangladesh and the Philippines; the parallel efforts of the Bank and the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) in several countries as a result of annual operational reviews; in the work of UNICEF, the UNDP, and bilateral agencies in paving the way for the Bank's Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project in Colombia; and in the International Civil Aviation Organization's assistance in improving the air transport system of several countries, as in Bolivia, thus providing the groundwork for Bank projects.
The Inter-agency Task Force on Rural Development, set up in 1975 to carry out an experiment in interagency planning in the field of rural development, proceeded with its work. In the first phase, those UN organizations active in economic and social development agreed to orient their programs so as to benefit, primarily, the rural poor. To test this approach, six countries (Bolivia, Lesotho, Liberia, Nepal, Somalia, and Western Samoa) were chosen as the loci for interagency programs in rural development at the country level. Under the leadership of the Liberian government, the Bank participated in preparatory work to launching the first such program.
In fiscal 1978, the Bank, the FAO, and the UNDP informed the World Food Council of their decision to terminate the Consultative Group on Food Production and Investment in Developing Countries (CGFPI), established under the co-sponsorship of the three agencies after the 1974 World Food Conference. In the view of the sponsoring agencies, the CGFPI's terms of reference proved unattainable, given the available resources. To the extent feasible, the three organizations are prepared to provide, on request, further technical assistance to those governments that have already prepared national food investment strategies and to other governments seeking to develop food and nutrition strategies.
As the UN system moves toward the beginning of the Third UN Development Decade, the Bank pursued interagency exchanges in several key areas of long-range economic development. Thus, the Bank participated in the Ad Hoc Interagency Working Group on the World Employment Conference to assess what is being done as a follow-up to the Conference's resolutions concerning a basic needs strategy; it is taking an active role in the ACC (Administrative Committee on Coordination) Task Force on Long-term Development Objectives. It participated in the UN system's preparations for several global conferences: the UN Conference on Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries, the Conference on Agrarian Reform and Rural Development, and the Conference on Science and Technology. The Bank was represented in a number of intergovernmental meetings organized by the UN Conference on Trade and Development. It was also represented at the UN Conference on Desertification, held in Kenya, as well as at the Tenth World Energy Conference, held in Turkey.
Extensive, as always, were the Bank's contacts with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and Bank participation in the work of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD on bilateral aid programs, projections of aid and its terms and purposes, and external debt. Consulta-
tions on population research and on project evaluation were held with the OECD Development Centre. Information on energy and commodity problems was exchanged with the OECD, as well as with the European Communities.
New national and international organizations were added to the list of regular recipients of Bank documents, bringing their number to over 80.
In addition to the official aid agencies, the Bank has relations with a number of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) concerned with aid to developing countries. Contacts with these organizations have been reinforced, and their focus shifted to operational matters. This shift in focus has resulted in more frequent instances of Bank projects and NGO aid programs proceeding in parallel, especially in the sectors of rural and urban development. Church-supported organizations are providing extension services in an IDA rural development project in The Gambia; a nonprofit lay organization is involved in the establishment of several training programs connected with Bank projects; and church-supported citizens' associations are facilitating the execution of an urban development project in the Philippines.
A concern to bring information on Bank procurement activities to all potentially interested parties has resulted in the Bank's cooperation in another interagency undertaking. The Bank joined the UNDP, UNICEF, UNEP, and UNFPA and some bilateral aid agencies in extending financial support to the UN publication, "Development Forum." An agreement was made with "Development Forum" to publish a fortnightly business edition in several languages that carries detailed information on Bank projects of interest to contractors, suppliers, and financiers.
International Agricultural Research
In the last several years, many of the developing countries have had unusually good harvests, due, in part, to exceptionally favorable weather. For the time being, food supplies have come closer to meeting needs. But, if production trends remain unchanged, this balance is unlikely to continue. All the evidence points to the fact that the population in most of the largest and poorest countries will increase faster than food production, giving rise to serious shortages of food. Improving the quality and quantity of agricultural production, and ensuring its stability against adverse climate, diseases, and pests, therefore, remain critical for most developing countries. For the poorer countries, development of agricultural technology appropriate to their resources and their physical and social environments is fundamentally important.
The Bank continues to serve as chairman, and
with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), as co-sponsor of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR).
The research programs and activities supported by the members of the CGIAR continued to expand in fiscal 1978. The 28 contributing members are expected to provide over $87 million in calendar year 1978 to the 11 research centers and programs funded by the Group. This is 11 % more than in the previous year.
The Bank's contribution, made out of its profits transferred to IDA, will be in an amount of up to $8.7 million, as authorized by the Board of Governors. This contribution is customarily made in two tranches—the first in February and the second in the latter half of the year—allocating, up to the total authorized, the amounts required to meet the needs of particular centers and programs after the other donors have made their commitments.
The centers and programs supported by the Group, together with the amounts—if any— granted to them by the Bank under the first tranche of its contribution for 1978, are:
—the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), based in Colombia: $500,000;
—the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), based in Mexico: $100,000;
—the International Potato Center (CIP), based in Peru: $100,000;
—the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources (IBPGR), based in Italy: $100,000;
—the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), based in Lebanon, Syria, and Iran: $1,200,000;
—the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), based in India;
—the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), based in Nigeria: $2,000,000;
—the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA), based in Ethiopia: $3,000,000;
—the International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases (ILRAD), based in Kenya: $700,000;
—the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), based in the Philippines; and
—the West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA), based in Liberia.
Some of the research carried on at the international centers has already achieved a dramatic impact on food production in developing countries. Well-known examples are the new varieties of rice developed at IRRI and now grown
in much of Asia, and new varieties of wheat developed at CIMMYT and adopted widely and successfully, for example, in India and Pakistan. However, most agricultural research is a long-term process aimed at constantly improving and adapting existing technologies, breeding varieties to withstand stresses such as drought and disease, and devising means whereby improved techniques can be effectively applied in farmers' fields. Research of this kind implies close cooperation between social and biological scientists, clear understanding of the constraints under which the poorest farmers labor, and thorough testing of the research results obtained.
Innovative agricultural development benefiting the people at the poorest levels in the developing countries can succeed only if founded on proven technology that uses a minimum of purchased inputs, such as fertilizer and pesticides, and that keeps as low as possible, a farmer's risk of crop failure. The research programs of the international centers supported by the Group are designed to promote significant increases in agricultural productivity through the development of this kind of technology.
Economic Research and Studies
The economic and social research conducted in the Bank is part of its contribution to the understanding of the development process. Over the seven years that the formal research program has been in existence, the Bank has built up an internal research capability to meet the objectives of the program; these objectives are designed to meet the Bank's own needs as well as those of its member countries as regards research on economic development. To date, 67 research projects have been completed and 87 are ongoing. In fiscal 1978, 17 research projects were started.
Research projects are normally initiated within the Bank and involve close collaboration and cooperation between Bank staff and with the research community outside the Bank. Collaboration is usually carried out with institutions in developing countries. Indeed, one of the most desirable by-products of the Bank's research program is that it has assisted the development of indigenous research capacity in member countries. In fiscal 1977, for instance, 13 projects involved collaboration with 26 institutions in 16 different countries; in fiscal 1978, research projects involved collaboration with individuals and institutions in 29 member countries, most of them in the developing world. The research program is addressed to several different audiences; they include the Bank's own policymakers and operating staff, planners and policymakers in member countries, and the international research community. Dissemination of Bank research is,
The Bank, WHO, and UNDP are participating in a long-range Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropica! Diseases. Control of six major diseases—fdariasis, leishmaniasis, leprosy, malaria, schistosomiasis, and trypanosomiasis—is a major objective. Here, mollascicide that kills snails which act as hosts for the parasite causing schistosomiasis is being sprayed in an Egyptian irrigation canal.
therefore, designed to reach all three groups. Publications resulting from the research program are listed in the World Bank Catalog, issued annually. Detailed information about current research projects may be found in the Abstracts of Current Studies, also published annually. The research program covers a large range of specialized areas. Since it is not possible to discuss these areas in detail, some illustrative examples are presented here.
Poverty-related research in the Bank includes work on disease control in developing countries. For example, schistosomiasis is a tropical parasitic infection that victimizes an estimated 250 million people in 71 developing countries. Due to its association with agriculture, it is considered as one of the major occupational hazards in the rural sector of developing economies. Strategies to improve the socioeconomic conditions of the poor in developing countries include disease control programs that are generally expensive and impose heavy demands on scarce health resources. A study currently under way in the Bank focuses on the problem of designing an economical control strategy for schistosomiasis.
Specifically, it is concerned with the construction of an optimal strategy of control using mollusci-cides and chemotherapy. The study addresses the problem for irrigated agricultural development in Egypt, Ghana, St. Lucia, Sudan, and Tanzania.
Without adequate and convenient supplies of safe water for drinking and washing associated with sanitation facilities, people cannot attain a reasonable minimum standard of existence. Consequently, a major research effort, now approaching the pilot project stage, is under way on the potential for use of low-cost technologies in these fields. Reports from the field studies and other inputs completed thus far indicate that there are many viable technological alternatives between the pit latrine and the complete water-borne sewerage system. Environmental sanitation can be significantly improved by the installation and proper maintenance of systems costing three to 10 times less on a per household basis than conventional sewerage. Similarly, water supply systems for standpipe service can help break the transmission process of most water-related diseases at significant savings in distribution costs. Such solutions are particularly
useful for rural areas, urban slum upgrading, and other types of projects designed to benefit the poor.
It is also increasingly realized that, if employment opportunities and low-cost goods and services are being sought for the poor, small-scale enterprises may represent a neglected potential that should be exploited. However, there is little systematic knowledge about the nature of this potential. The purpose of a current study is to start to remedy that deficiency. Several case studies of experiences will be conducted in selected countries. In addition, there will be a number of surveys of selected industries in urban and rural areas that will explore, in depth, the characteristics of the enterprises and the economic environment in which they operate.
In the field of agriculture and rural development, the Bank has invested significant resources to examine the economic conditions of the rural poor. One project is designed to assist in developing the informational and analytical base for regional development lending programs and to provide an analytical framework for assessing the role of tenure reform, technological innovation, and other elements of a development strategy in this area. Another project investigates farm household behavior and regional economic change to clarify the structure of the local economy of the Muda River Irrigation Project in Malaysia. In addition, it examines the project's secondary effects outside agriculture and the interactions between agriculture and other activities.
Developing countries are also regularly faced with the problem of investment planning in the industrial sectors where each individual project is subject to economies of scale. A research project, about to be completed, has developed a methodology that is useful for planning and for project identification. A series of manuals is being prepared illustrating the analytical framework and several case studies that have been conducted in the mechanical engineering and fertilizer subsectors in Korea and Egypt. The small size of many national markets may necessitate regional cooperation among developing countries. The manuals also present regional models that discuss the costs and benefits of cooperation in the fertilizer and forest industries subsectors in the ASEAN region and the Andean Common Market countries.
To understand the world supply and demand situation for various commodities, a global, rather than a regional, framework is necessary. Also, the Bank's periodic evaluation of the world economic situation involves a systematic framework for the compilation of data and analysis of commodity markets. The aim of Bank research in this area is, therefore, to provide the methodology and the data format to analyze global supply and demand conditions of impor-
tant natural resources and resource-based commodities. One research project comprises a number of subprojects, including the construction of a model of world energy economy; regional and global models of trade flows and of investment planning in the bauxite/aluminum industries; and research on the dynamics of commodity markets.
Considerable research in the Bank in the field of international trade has been prompted by the importance of trade prospects in the economies of the developing world. For example, a major study under way is designed to undertake a rigorous analysis of the subject through a cross-section investigation of the production of major export commodities and a time-series analysis of the effects of export promotion measures. It will evaluate the export promotion efforts of four developing countries: Brazil, the Republic of China, Greece, and Pakistan. The results will be used to formulate recommendations on the scope and methods of export promotion in developing countries.
The research program at the Bank has now completed one cycle in the sense that several projects, initiated at the start of the program, are now completed, or are close to completion. It was decided that this would be an opportune moment to review the program to assist the management of the Bank in determining the size and nature of the research program over the next cycle. To this end, a general panel of eminent individuals has been established. This panel will be assisted by seven panels, each of which is to review a specialized area of research. Two panels have already reported, the External Advisory Panel on Population and the Research Advisory Panel on Income Distribution and Employment. Five new ones have been planned to cover the following areas of research: Industrial Development and Trade, Education, Public Utilities, Transport, and Agriculture and Rural Development. The review is expected to be completed near the end of fiscal year 1979.
Operations Evaluation
The Bank's system for evaluating its operations has continued to develop. During this past year, particular emphasis has been placed on developing a stronger system for feeding experience from the audit process back to the operating departments; special efforts have been made to increase borrowers' interest and involvement in establishing their own evaluation functions; and the Bank has published, for the first time, an Operations Evaluation Department (OED) review of project performance audit results.
Some of the feedback process takes place as the operating departments prepare project completion reports—the culmination of the supervision process, and a major element of the per-
formance audit system. Another, and perhaps more important, element of the feedback system is the yearly review of project performance audit reports for individual sectors initiated by the Central Projects Staff. This review has been developed more fully during the year to include all sectors. Reviews of sets of audit reports for individual sectors are prepared, and the experience is discussed with staff from regional projects departments and from the OED. The purpose is to examine current Bank policies and practices for individual sectors in the light of lessons drawn from the audit reports, with particular reference to project design and implementation. The main conclusions of these reviews are intended to influence directly current and future practices of the operating departments. They are also being reflected in the OED's annual review of project performance audit reports, where an effort is made to distill from the experience in all sectors the most pertinent lessons for current and future operations.
The review and discussion of completed project reports by sectors complement the examination of current operating experience conducted by the operating staff during the regular semiannual review of implementation and supervision problems, a function which has been further developed during the year to provide an interim evaluation of selected recurring problems in project implementation.
In another dimension of the evaluation process, the Bank has been concerned to involve the borrowing countries, too. Support and encouragement are being provided, both with respect to the evaluation by borrowers, themselves, of projects the Bank has helped finance and also, and of greater potential consequence, to the establishment of a central function in borrowing countries to evaluate their own investment programs. In regard to the first, Bank loans and credits now require the borrower to produce a project completion report—a basic evaluation document— as a standard loan feature. Lending for projects in agriculture, education, and urban development—the more complex sectors—now regularly provides for the establishment of special units to monitor and evaluate the progress of projects. These systems are intended to assist the managers of the projects and to provide the basis for assessing the overall impact of the project on completion. On the establishment of a broader evaluation, discussions have taken place with a number of borrowing countries. In fiscal 1978, the Bank sponsored a seminar on evaluation for senior officials of a number of francophone African countries. The seminar evoked a positive response, and the desirability of establishing national facilities for evaluating public investment projects received strong support from the countries represented. Further regional seminars are planned.
The evaluation system in the Bank remains comprehensive in its coverage of completed projects, and over 100 projects were reviewed in fiscal 1978. In addition, broader reviews of Bank operations were also conducted. These reviews are part of the OED's continuing effort to contribute to the greater effectiveness of the Bank's work.
OED's annual review of project performance audit results was published for the first time. This review covered the experience with implementation of 70 projects, representing Bank lending of approximately $1,300 million, for which project performance audit reports were completed in 1976. Most of the projects reviewed have been implemented successfully, are in operation, and hold the prospect for economic returns similar to, or better than, those estimated at appraisal.
The review underlined the need for adequate understanding of the local conditions in which the Bank operates. It noted that several innovative projects did not achieve their institutional objectives because of insufficient understanding of local conditions by those charged with their design, a factor that directly contributed to some of the shortfalls observed. The review also noted the improvements that have since been introduced in Bank procedures to insure against failures in future projects.
The Joint Audit Committee of the Board of Executive Directors has maintained continuing oversight of this work program and of its effectiveness. The conclusions of the Joint Audit Committee, the report of the Director-General, Operations Evaluation, on the status of the Bank's evaluation system, and OED's annual review of project performance audit findings were all reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Internal Auditing
The Internal Auditing Department also performs an evaluation function within the Bank, with emphasis on the systems and procedures and related internal controls used in the conduct and management of Bank operations. Department directors and other levels of management are provided with periodic and independent audits and appraisals of activities within their respective areas of responsibility, including the identification of possible means of improving the efficiency and economy of operations and the use of resources.
The principal responsibilities of the Department are to: (a) review and determine the soundness, adequacy, and application of systems, procedures, and related internal controls, and to promote effective controls at reasonable cost; (b) review and determine the extent of compliance with various governing agreements or
instruments and related decisions, regulations, policies, plans, and procedures of the Board of Governors, Executive Directors, and Bank management; (c) review and determine the extent to which assets are accounted for and safeguarded from losses of all kinds, including, where applicable, the effective utilization of these resources; (d) review and determine the reliability and validity of significant accounting, financial, and other data used by management; and (e) recommend improvements in order to strengthen internal control, improve administrative efficiency, and eliminate any uneconomical use of resources. In order to maintain its independence and objectivity, the Department has no direct responsibility for developing and installing changes in systems, procedures, and internal controls which it would be expected to review.
The Department's overall work program covers a wide range of financial, accounting, administrative, and other Bank activities, some of which are reviewed on an annual basis, whereas others are reviewed biennially, or every three years. In carrying out each assignment, the director of the Department and members of his staff, as appropriate, have unrestricted access to all Bank records, documents, and personnel relevant to the activity under review. Where relevant, the Department coordinates its annual work program with the Bank's external auditors, and its working papers and reports are made available to the external auditors to assist them in planning and conducting their examinations of the annual financial statements of the Bank. Liai-
son also is maintained with the Bank's Executive Directors through its Joint Audit Committee.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
During the fiscal year, the number of Contracting States increased by four to 71. By June 30, 1978, an additional six States had signed the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States, but had not yet ratified it. Nine arbitration cases have been brought before the Centre. Four proceedings have been discontinued after amicable settlement; in one proceeding, an award has been rendered, and four proceedings are continuing. The Centre's own Annual Report provides details of its membership and activities.
Membership, Bank and IDA
Sao Tome and Principe, as well as Maldives, joined the Bank and IDA on September 30, 1977 and January 13, 1978, respectively, and Suri-name joined the Bank on June 27, 1978. Comoros, which became a member of the Bank in October 1976, became a member of IDA on December 9, 1977, bringing the total membership of the Bank to 132 and of IDA to 120.
At the end of the year, action was pending on membership in the Bank for Cape Verde, Djibouti, Dominica, and Solomon Islands, and in IDA for Cape Verde.
Borrowings and Finance
Income, Expenditures, and Reserves: Bank
Net income of the Bank was $238 million in fiscal 1978, up $29 million, or 13.9%, from net reported in the previous year.
The Bank does not trade in the currencies of its member countries for its account. Under present policies, adjustments arising from the translation of currencies to US dollar equivalents would not now, or in the future, result in realized gains or losses such as would result from the actual conversion of currencies into US dollars.
As a result of this policy, the General Reserve, rather than net income, was credited in an amount of $123.6 million in the fiscal year, representing translation adjustments arising from currency appreciations and depreciations. This compares with a debit of $10.3 million in fiscal
1977. Following the effectiveness on April 1, 1978 of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, the Bank has decided for purposes of the financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1978 to express its capital stock on the basis of the Special Drawing Right (SDR). As a result, the 1 % portion of the Bank's capital stock which was paid in US dollars, together with the 9% portion of the capital stock which has been released by certain member countries for lending in US dollars, has been revalued at the rate of exchange of the US dollar to the SDR at June 30, 1978. The compensating adjustment resulting from this revaluation amounting to $13.4 million has been charged to the General Reserve. An amount of $100 million, derived from net income in 1977, was allocated by the Executive Directors to the Bank's General Reserve in fiscal
1978.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board in the United States requires that foreign currency translation adjustments be included in the determination of net income for the period in which they occur. In view of the character of the Bank as an international organization and* its related policies, the Bank does not deem the statement of the Board to be applicable to it. On June 30, 1978, the General Reserve of the Bank amounted to $1,953 million.
The Bank's gross revenues increased $330 million in fiscal 1978 to a new level of $1,947 million. The level of gross revenues has con-
tinued to rise steeply during the past 10 years as loans and investments have expanded. The figure in fiscal 1978 was about five times greater than in fiscal 1969.
Investment income totaled $614 million, up $78 million, or 14.6%, in the year. The Bank's investments rose $943 million to a total of $8,776 million on June 30, 1978. Average realized total return on investments including capital gains or losses, was 7.0%, compared with 7.4% in fiscal 1977. This reflected lower interest levels in major capital markets.
In fiscal 1978, income on loans rose sharply to $1,325 million, compared with $1,073 million in fiscal 1977. The average return on outstanding loans in the period was 7.6%, compared with 7.4% the year before.
Virtually all of the increase can be attributed to the rising level of the loan portfolio outstanding resulting from higher loan commitments made during recent years. The Bank's lending rate formula now requires a positive spread of 0.5 % between the cost of funds borrowed by the Bank during the preceeding 12 months and the interest rate charged on the Bank's loans in member countries. The formula became effective on July 1, 1976 and applies only to loans granted after that date. In July 1976, the interest rate on Bank loans was fixed at 8.9%. It fell gradually throughout fiscal 1977, and for the last quarter of the fiscal year was 8.2%. The interest rate continued to drop during the past year, and, for the final quarter of fiscal 1978, it was set at 7.5%. The decrease in the interest rate charged on the Bank's loans reflected a decline in the cost of borrowings to the Bank during the past two fiscal years.
Other income of the Bank was $8 million.
Expenditures of the Bank amounted to $1,708 million, an increase of $300 million, or nearly 21.3%. A rise of $294 million in interest and issuance costs on the Bank's borrowings, to a total of $ 1,560 million, accounted for most of the increase in expenditures in the year. The successful continuation of the borrowing program that has added $7,955 million to outstanding borrowings in the last three fiscal years was the principal cause of the rise in fixed charges.
Continuing inflation and an expansion in some of the Bank's operations caused a further increase in administrative costs of the Bank during
the year. These costs totaled $148 million, up $7 million, after deducting $92 million received as a management fee charged to the International Development Association, and $2 million paid to the Bank by the International Finance Corporation for service and support.
The Bank's Board of Governors approved a transfer of $100 million from net income for fiscal 1977 as a grant to IDA.
Other Financial Operations: Bank
Loans held by the Bank on June 30, 1978 amounted to $37,796 million, including $4,731 million in loans not yet effective. Effective loans held by the Bank totaled $32,566 million after excluding $499 million of effective and outstanding loans to the International Finance Corporation, of which $422 million had been disbursed.
Loan disbursements to countries in the year aggregated $2,787 million, a new high, and $151 million higher than in fiscal 1977. Despite the increase in disbursements, however, the total for the year was substantially less than had been projected at the start of the 1978 fiscal year.
Aggregate disbursements to countries since the start of Bank operations stood at $25,033 million at June 30, 1978.
Repayments of principal on the Bank's loans aggregated $890 million in the year: $831 million repaid to the Bank and $59 million to investors who had purchased portions of loans. Cumulative repayments on loans by lune 30, 1978, were $6,480 million to the Bank and $2,425 million to purchasers of loans.
In fiscal 1977, sales of participations in new loans and of maturities from the Bank's loan portfolio were at the highest level in more than 10 years, totaling $183 million. In fiscal 1978, similar sales amounted to $189 million. Continuing liquidity in commercial banks around the world, the principal purchasers of these items, was the underlying reason for the high levels of loan sales in both fiscal years. Included in these sales during the period were participations of $20.5 million purchased by the Kingdom of Norway and converted to grants benefiting the borrowers. The participations were undertaken in connection with Bank loans to Botswana, Cameroon, and Senegal, and were taken under the terms of the Aid Cooperation Agreement between Norway and the Bank, which, by June 30, 1978, aggregated $38,167 million. After cancellations and adjustments for changes in value of nondollar currencies, the total of loan sales aggregated the equivalent of $2,931 million on June 30, 1978.
The level of the Bank's liquidity position is determined by an established policy that requires it to maintain liquid holdings at any given time, equal to a minimum of 40% of estimated bor-
rowings for the subsequent three years. The objective of this policy is to ensure that the Bank is in a position to meet adequately temporary downward fluctuations in cash flow. The Bank's liquidity position increased by $972 million in fiscal 1978 to a total of $8,857 million on June 30, 1978, net of commitments for settlement. The Bank's liquidity stands at the level of about 45% of the next three years' net cash requirements. It is intended to bring this ratio down to the 40% range over the next several years.
The Bank's Borrowings—Fiscal 1978
The borrowing program of the Bank for fiscal 1978 was set at the equivalent of $4,200 million. Of this amount, $600 million was borrowed in April 1977 as an advance in order to take advantage of favorable factors in the United States investment market. This issue was therefore included in the 1977 Annual Report.
Actual borrowings in fiscal 1978 amounted to the equivalent of $3,636 million, divided into 28 issues publicly offered or privately placed by the Bank. The aggregate of gross borrowings in the five fiscal years, 1974-78, was $17,531 million, compared with $6,794 million in the preceding five years. This higher rate of borrowing in the capital markets supported the growth in the Bank's financial requirements arising from the rapid expansion in its lending operations during the period.
For the third consecutive year, the investment markets were the main source of borrowed funds to the Bank. In the year, the Bank -sold 20 issues, equivalent to $2,398 million, on these markets, and equal to nearly two-thirds of all borrowings in the period.
Governments and central banks purchased $ 1.220 million equivalent of Bank issues in fiscal 1978, equal to about one-third of total issues, and an increase of $82 million over such purchases in the previous year.
The Bank borrowed the equivalent of $291 million in the petroleum-exporting countries in the period, a decline of $104 million from the level of such borrowings in fiscal 1977. The Central Bank of Libya purchased a Netherlands guilder bond issue from the Bank. The issue, f.100 million of 7.5% seven-year bonds, due 1984, was equivalent to $40.1 million. A further $251 million of the Bank's two-year US dollar bonds were placed with governments and official agencies of 14 petroleum-exporting countries, including Saudi Arabia, and with an OPEC fund.
Other governments and official agencies purchased $929 million equivalent of Bank obligations: Germany—DM500 million of five-year notes by the Deutsche Bundesbank to refinance an equal amount of maturing notes; Japan—¥60,000 million of six and one-half-year
obligation by The Bank of Japan that will refinance an equal amount of maturing obligations; and $449 million of two-year US dollar bonds by governments and official agencies in 70 countries and by several regional and international organizations.
Borrowing operations in the year were highlighted by the first public issues sold in the Japanese market since 1973 and by the first World Bank bond offering in the Eurobond market denominated in yen.
Sales of issues in the investment markets were limited to Germany, Japan, Switzerland, the United States, and the Eurobond market. Of the issues sold on these markets, $1,572 million was distributed by public offerings, and $826 million by private placements with financial institutions.
The investment market in Germany was the largest supplier of borrowed funds to the Bank in fiscal 1978. Nine issues were sold in the German market in the year. They totaled DM2,000 million, equal to $894 million, a decline of nearly $300 million equivalent below such marketings in fiscal 1977.
Included were two public offerings amounting to DM800 million: DM500 million of 5.75% 12-year bonds, the largest World Bank public issue to be sold in Germany; and DM300 million of 6% eight-year bonds. By private placements, the Bank sold seven issues, amounting to DM1,200 million, in the market in Germany. It placed a DM150 million note issue, due 1982, with the Deutsche Bank and the Dresdner Bank. Further, a DM100 million 6.25% loan, due 1987, was obtained from the Deutsche Bank, and a DM200 million 6.95% 15-year loan from the Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank, a cooperative institution.
The remaining four placements in Germany, aggregating DM750 million, were with representative institutions of the German savings banks sector. They included a DM200 million 6.90% loan, due 1988-92 from the Deutsche Girozen-trale-Deutsche Kommunalbank, as Manager, and Bayerische Landesbank Girozentrale and Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale as Co-Managers; a DM200 million 6.125% note, due 1985, with the Bayerische Landesbank Girozentrale; a DM150 million 5.15% loan, due 1979, from a consortium of members of the German savings banks association represented by the Deutsche Girozentrale-Deutsche Kommunalbank; and, from the same institutions, a DM200 million 4.20% loan, due 1979.
In Japan, the Bank raised ¥80,000 million, equal to 8317 million, by means of two public offerings. They included ¥30,000 million of 7% bonds, due 1983-92; and ¥50,000 million of 6.80% bonds, due 1983-92. The latter issue was the largest ever offered in the Japanese market by a nonresident borrower. Simultaneously with the offering of ¥30,000 million of 7% bonds on the Japanese domestic market, the World Bank made an offering on the Eurobond market; it consisted of ¥20,000 million of 6.25% seven-year bonds, due 1984.
Borrowings in the US market, all by means of public offerings, amounted to $750 million, divided into three $250 million tranches of 7.125% five-year notes, 7.75% 10-year notes, and 8.35% 25-year bonds. Indicative of the importance to the Bank of having access to the investment market in the United States is the record of such borrowings in the four fiscal years, 1975-78. Borrowings in these years aggregated $4,375 million in the US market, equal to about 28% of all borrowings in the period. Included in US borrowings for 1975-78 were $1,200 million of 25-year bonds, $1,600 million of 10-year
notes, $1,550 million of five-year notes, all sold by public offerings, and $25 million by placements with New York branches of foreign commercial banks.
Five issues aggregating SwF825 million, equal to $363 million, were sold by the Bank in Switzerland in the fiscal year, one by public offering and four by placements with private financial institutions in Switzerland. The public issue consisted of SwF150 million of 4.50% 15-year bonds, due 1992.
The SwF675 million in placements included SwF200 million of 5.375% notes, due 1984, with a group headed by Credit Suisse, Swiss Bank Corporation, and Union Bank of Switzerland; SwF300 million of 4.50% notes, due 1984, with Swiss Bank Corporation, Union Bank of Switzerland, and Credit Suisse; and two 5% loans due 1983—one amounting to SwFlOO million, and the other in the amount of SwF75 million.
The Bank further increased its borrowings from the Interest Subsidy Fund (Third Win-dow)(1) by $17.8 million, bringing the aggregate borrowings by the Bank from the Fund up to more than $184 million on June 30, 1978.
Borrowing operations in fiscal 1978 included $2,551 million that represented new borrowings, and $ 1,085 million that replaced maturing issues. In the previous year, issues sold to raise new money amounted to $3,805 million, and refund-ings to $916 million.
A total of $1,395 million equivalent of debt matured during fiscal 1978, with maturing two-year dollar bonds held by central banks and notes, placed with the Deutsche Bundesbank, accounting for the larger part of this sum. A further $235 million of market issues came due in the period: DM350 million of loans previously placed with a girozentrale in Germany; $50 million of 4.25% 21-year bonds sold in the US market in 1957 in an original amount of $100 million; and L<£75 million of 6.875% five-year bonds sold in the market in Lebanon in 1973.
Additional debt, aggregating $70 million, was retired by means of sinking fund and purchase fund operations.
Outstanding obligations of the Bank increased $4,124 million to $22,602 million as of June 30, 1978. On that date, estimates indicated that 26% of the Bank's obligations were held by investors in the United States, 24% in Germany, 13% in Japan, 11% in Switzerland, and 6% in Saudi Arabia. The remaining 20% of outstanding borrowings were held by investment institutions, including central banks and government agencies in more than 80 countries.
Borrowing Costs: Bank
The Bank's borrowing costs in the fiscal year, weighted by amount and maturity, averaged 6.95%, compared with 7.85% in the previous
year. Borrowing costs in fiscal 1978, weighted by amount only, were 6.74%. The average cost of all funds to the Bank, including paid-in capital and accumulated earnings, which are cost free, was about 6.02%.
Capitalization
In the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, the capital stock is expressed in terms of the United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944 (1944 dollars). Until 1971, the current United States dollar had the same value as the 1944 dollar and the Special Drawing Right (SDR), which was instituted in 1969. In 1972, the current dollar value of the 1944 dollar and the SDR increased to $1.08571 and in 1973 to $1.20635 as the result of the first and second devaluations of the dollar. Until mid-1974, both the 1944 dollar and the SDR continued to be valued in gold and had the same gold value. Thus on July 1, 1974, the value of the SDR, expressed in terms of United States dollars, was $1.20635. which was the equivalent of one 1944 dollar.
Since July 1, 1974, when a valuation method for the SDR was adopted based on a basket of 16 major currencies, the value of the SDR has fluctuated daily. The current dollar value of the 1944 dollar, on the other hand, was deemed to remain fixed at the rate established by the US par value legislation of 1973.
Since the effectiveness on April 1, 1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, currencies no longer have par values and the basis for translating the 1944 dollar into current United States dollars no longer exists. The Bank is examining the implication of this change on the valuation of its capital stock and the impact it will have on its financial statements.
For purposes of the financial statements for the year ended June 30, 1978, the Bank has expressed the value of its capital stock on the basis of the SDR in terms of United States dollars as computed by the Fund ($1.23953 per SDR) on June 30. 1978.
The Bank's subscribed capital was increased by SDR 1,070.7 million in the fiscal year. Included were the original subscriptions of Sao Tome and Principe (SDR1.4 million), Maldives (SDR600,000), and Suriname (SDR1 6.2 million), which became members during the year. The remaining SDR 1,052.5 million represented increases in the capital subscriptions of 15 member countries: Argentina (SDR96.8 million), Austria (SDR39.2 million), Canada (SDR 170.4 million), Colombia (SDR24.2 million), Cyprus (SDR5.6 million), Dominican Republic (SDR3.2 million),
<'> See the Bank's Annual Report for fiscal 1976. pages 7-8
Ecuador (SDR18.7 million), Korea (SDR62.4 million), Nepal (SDR3.4 million), the Netherlands (SDR175.6 million), New Zealand (SDR4.5 million), Philippines (SDR39.3 million), Somalia (SDR3.9 million), Sweden (SDR90.3 million), and the United States (SDR315.0 million).
The increases were received by the Bank under resolutions adopted by the Board of Governors which enabled the Bank to move ahead in the following three areas: to increase its authorized capital stock by SDR7,000 million, to accept special increases in subscriptions by 125 members, and to allow nine of these members to exercise, in lieu of the selective increases, preemptive rights as stockholders to maintain the proportion of their equity and voting power. As a result, an aggregate amount of SDR7,070 million has been allotted to member countries for subscription.
Legislative or other required action by the individual members in subscribing to additional capital may be taken up to October 1, 1980, or such later date as approved by the Executive Directors. The resolution covering the selective increases authorizes a maximum increase in subscription for each member country, which may be taken up by that member in whole or in part, from time to time throughout the subscription period, or not at all.
Finances: IDA
Credits amounting to $13,959 million were held by the Association on June 30, 1978, including credits not yet effective and exchange adjustments of $485 million. Effective credits totaled $12,349 million, including $3,881 million as yet undisbursed. Credits approved, but not yet effective, were $1,609 million at year's end.
Disbursements were $1,062 million. Aggregate disbursements on June 30, 1978 were $8,565 million.
The total of resources provided to IDA increased $6,294 million in the period, primarily from subscriptions and contributions to the Fifth Replenishment, which aggregated $5,980 million.(2) The value of resources provided by members in prior fiscal years also increased by $179 million. The World Bank granted SI00 million to IDA from its fiscal 1977 net income, of which $89.8 million was for the general purposes of the Association and $10.2 million for grants by IDA for agricultural research and onchocerciasis control.
Norway made $21.1 million available to IDA in fiscal 1978 by purchasing, on a grant basis, participations in credits to Cameroon, Chad, Madagascar, and Thailand. These participations were made under the terms of the aid cooperation agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and the World Bank and IDA. As of June 30,
1978, aggregate participations in IDA credits by Norway under the agreement totaled $43.5 million.
Other resources that became available to IDA during the fiscal year totaled $25 million, and were derived from releases by Part II countries and cancellations of and repayments on cred-its,(3) after taking into account a net decrease of $18.8 million in resources provided by operations.
Foreign and International Bond Markets— Calendar 1977
Borrowing in foreign and international bond markets'4' during 1977 totaled $34,900 million, slightly above the total of $34,300 million recorded in 1976. The increase in borrowing is considerably less than between 1975 and 1976 when borrowing increased by 50%, or from $22,800 million to $34,300 million. A $3,900 million increase in international bonds, $15,400 million to $19,300 million, was substantially offset by a $3,300 million decrease in foreign bonds issued in national markets, $18,900 million to $15,600 million.
Borrowing by industrialized countries and international organizations declined from $23,200 million to $22,100 million, and from $8,200 million to S7,000 million, respectively. Developing countries borrowed $4,400 million, almost double the 1976 total of $2,300 million. Borrowing by centrally planned economies increased from $100 million to $200 million. Borrowers unallocated by country borrowed $1,100 million, more than twice the amount raised in 1976 ($500 million).
Foreign Bonds: the United States
Foreign bonds issued in the United States totaled $7,539 million, 29% below the $10,632 million borrowed in 1976. During 1977, public offerings totaled $5,533 million and private placements, $2,006 million.
Borrowing in the US by industrialized countries amounted to $4,805 million, considerably less than the $7,669 million raised in 1976. Sixty-one percent ($2,933 million) of the amount borrowed by industrialized countries was in the
<2> The availability of $3,439 million of this latter amount for the extension of credits is subject to certain conditions (see page 12).
<3> If the SDR were to be substituted for the 1960 dollar, the amount repayable in SDRs would be determined on the basis of the currency disbursed as of the date of disbursement. The commitment would be adjusted on the basis of the SDR rate established by the IMF for the US dollar on that date. For determining the amount to be paid by the borrower with respect to principal and charges in a previously agreed currency, the SDR rate for that currency on the date payment is due would be used. The amortization schedules and service charges would be computed in SDRs.
(4> The terms "foreign" and "international" in this context refer to issues sold outside the country of the borrower: foreign, if sold in one national market; international, if in more than one.
form of public offerings. The decline in borrowing by industrialized countries was due to a decrease in borrowing by Canadian borrowers, down from $5,716 million in 1976 to $2,903 million in 1977. Other industrial countries which raised large sums in the US market were Sweden ($357 million), Japan ($350 million), and Norway ($315 million). During 1976, borrowers from France ($630 million), Australia ($415 million), and Japan ($293 million) had followed Canadian
borrowers in largest amounts raised in the US market. The average yield on publicly offered bonds by industrialized countries in the US increased from 8.18% in the first quarter to 8.76% in the fourth quarter.
Developing countries borrowed $817 million in the US during 1977, 19% above the $688 million they raised in 1976. Large amounts were raised by borrowers from Israel ($280 million), Venezuela ($250 million), and Mexico ($200
million). All US issues by developing countries were made by the central government or a government agency. The initial offering yield on publicly offered bonds by developing countries varied, and ranged from 7.90% to 9.31%.
International organizations borrowed $1,917 million in the US during 1977, somewhat lower than the $2,275 million raised in 1976. As in previous years, the World Bank borrowed the largest amount, raising $1,350 million; that sum accounted for two-thirds of all borrowing by international organizations. The average initial offering yield on publicy offered bonds by the World Bank was 7.70% during calendar 1977.
Foreign Bonds: Other Markets
Borrowing by foreign borrowers in the Swiss capital market during 1977 also declined, from $5,444 million in 1976 to $4,705 million. The decline was in private placements, which dropped over 20%, from S3,948 million to $3,088 million. Public offerings increased slightly, from $1,495 million to $1,617 million.
Almost three-fourths of all bonds issued in Switzerland during 1977 were by borrowers from industrialized countries. The largest sums were raised by borrowers from France ($520 million), Austria ($479 million), Norway (S379 million), and Japan (S362 million). During 1976, the largest amounts were borrowed by France ($871 million). Japan ($559 million), and Denmark ($427 million). The average initial offering yield on publicly offered bonds by industrialized countries declined from 5.38% in the first quarter to 4.61% in the fourth quarter of 1977.
Borrowing in Switzerland by developing countries increased from $171 million in 1976 to $455 million in 1977. Over three-fourths of all borrowing by developing countries was by borrowers from Mexico ($236 million) and Spain ($127 million). The average initial offering yield on publicy offered bonds by developing countries during 1977 was 5.37%.
International organizations raised $759 million in the Swiss market, 85% of which was by the World Bank ($644 million). Borrowers unallocated by country borrowed S57 million.
Foreign bonds issued in the Japanese capital market increased from $287 million in 1976 to $1,394 million in 1977. Foreign issues in Japan totaled $42 million in the first quarter of 1977, but had increased to S896 million by the fourth quarter.
Six industrialized countries borrowed a total of $406 million during 1977. Initial offering yields declined from the 8.6% obtained by the Canadian Province of Manitoba during the first quarter to the 6.83% initial offering yield secured by the Government of New Zealand in November. Developing countries secured $438 million, the largest amounts raised by borrow-
ers from Brazil ($119 million), Venezuela ($83 million), and Mexico ($78 million). All public offerings by developing countries were made during the fourth quarter, and the average initial offering yield was 6.97%. All foreign bonds issued in Japan by industrialized and developing countries were by governments or government institutions. International organizations borrowed $549 million in Japan, $434 million (79%) by the World Bank.
Funds were also raised by foreign borrowers in the following national markets: Germany ($1,148 million), the Netherlands ($274 million), Saudi Arabia ($270 million), Luxembourg ($71 million), France ($62 million), Belgium ($43 million), Libya ($41 million), Italy ($15 million), and Trinidad and Tobago ($11 million).
In national bond markets, international organizations borrowed $4,599 million (30%), the largest amount raised by any type of borrower. Large sums ($3,317 million) were borrowed by central governments (21%); public nonfinancial enterprises, $2,333 million, or 15%; and private nonfinancial enterprises, $2,112 million, or 14%. During 1976, the largest amounts were raised by public nonfinancial enterprises, $6,144 million, or 33% ; international organizations, $5,178 million, or 27% ; and private nonfinancial enterprises. $2,818 million, or 15%.
Over 60% of all foreign bonds were issued by borrowers whose main purpose was classified as general purpose ($4,937 million) and international organizations ($4,599 million). During 1976, half of all funds raised through foreign bond issues went to international organizations ($5,178 million) and public utilities ($4,966 million).
Over 90% of all foreign bonds ($14,649 million) were straight issues. Convertible bonds totaled S226 million and were almost all issued by Japanese borrowers. "Special" placements of international development institutions with central banks, monetary authorities, and governments totaled $347 million. Floating rate notes totaled $67 million and were issued in Germany ($13 million) and Switzerland ($54 million).
Over half of all foreign bonds issued during 1976 and 1977 had an original maturity of over 10 years. The highest concentration in 1977 was in the over 10-15 year range ($3,365 million), compared with 1976, when the highest concentration occurred in the over 15-20 year range ($3,923 million). The longer maturities in 1976 reflect the larger amount of funds raised in the US market during that year rather than a shortening of maturities during 1977.
International Bonds
International bonds issued during 1977 totaled $19,335 million, 26% above the $15,368 million recorded during 1976. The increase in
borrowing during 1977 was reportedly linked to the high liquidity of the market. Market reports also suggested that funds accruing to investors from interest and principal repayments of previously issued international bonds were often reinvested in new issues in the international market. It has been estimated that interest and principal repayments due in 1977 were about $6,300 million. Public offerings in the international market during 1977 totaled $15,425 million (80%); private placements amounted to $3,910 million (20%).
Two-thirds of all international bonds, $ 12,975 million, were issued by industrialized countries. In percentage terms, this is slightly below the 1976 amounts, when industrialized countries secured 70% of all international bonds ($10,829 million). Borrowers from six industrialized countries accounted for about two-thirds of the 1977 issues: Canada ($1,945 million), United Kingdom ($1,584 million), Norway ($1,366 million), the United States ($1,313 million), Japan ($1,165 million), and France ($1,113 million). During 1976, borrowers from Canada ($3,005 million), France ($1,316 million), and Japan ($1,156 million) raised the largest amounts. The largest single transaction recorded during 1977 for a borrower from an industrialized country was a two-tranche public offering of $300 million for Citicorp Overseas Finance Corp. N.V. (the Netherlands), guaranteed by its US parent company, Citicorp. The $100 million three-year tranche had an initial offering yield of 6.64%, while the $200 million tranche carried a 6.95% initial offering yield for four years.
Developing countries borrowed $2,689 million in the international market during 1977, more than double the 1976 total of $1,292 mil-
lion. Twenty-one developing countries borrowed during the year, compared with 15 in 1976, thus suggesting increased access to the international bonds market by developing countries during times of high market liquidity. It must be noted, however, that almost 50% of the funds developing countries raised in the international market went to borrowers from Mexico (S748 million) and Brazil ($581 million), borrowers who have made frequent use of the market in past years. Developing countries borrowing for the first time in 1977 were the United Arab Emirates ($42 million), Bolivia ($15 million), and Saudi Arabia ($10 million). The largest issues by developing countries were a $100 million public offering for the Mexican borrower, Nacional Financiera, at a spread of 1 % over London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for 15 years, and a $100 million offering by the Republic of Venezuela for seven years at 8% with an initial offering yield of 7.94%.
International organizations borrowed $2,382 million in the international market during 1977. 22% below the $3,063 million borrowed in 1976. The World Bank was the largest borrower, raising $725 million, of which $650 million was in the form of "special"' placements with central banks, monetary authorities, and governments. The largest single transaction by an international organization was a two-tranche, $500 million public offering by the European Economic Community. The $200 million tranche was for five years, with an initial offering yield of 7.60%. The $300 million tranche was for seven years at an initial offering yield of 7.79%.
Centrally planned economies and organizations raised $249 million during 1977, more than triple the $72 million borrowed in 1976.
Hungary borrowed $175 million and Poland $75 million.
Other borrowers, unallocated by country, raised $1,040 million, significantly higher than the $112 million borrowed during 1976. Eighty-five percent of this amount ($883 million) was borrowed by Shell International Finance N.V. with a joint guarantee by Shell Petroleum N.V. and Shell Petroleum Co. Ltd. The largest corporate issue ever offered on the international market was a 12-year $500 million offering in December by Shell at an initial offering yield of 8.22%.
The US dollar continued to be the most widely used currency in the international market, with $12,281 million, or 64% of the total market. The use of the US dollar in the international market declined during the fourth quarter to 50% of all international bonds ($2,096 million). This decline was reportedly linked to exchange rate uncertainties. Over 80% of all dollar-denominated international bonds were issued by industrialized countries ($8,425 million) or international organizations ($1,877 million). Developing countries issued 8% ($965 million) of all dollar-denominated bonds.
The average initial offering yield on publicly offered dollar-denominated bonds issued by industrialized countries declined from 8.23% in the first quarter of 1977 to 7.90% in the third quarter, before rising during the fourth quarter to 8.48%. The average initial offering yield of public bonds issued by developing countries in US dollars varied during the year from 8.61%, 9.03%, 8.86%, and 9.22%, for the first, second, third, and fourth quarter, respectively.
One-fourth of all international bonds, $5,104 million, were denominated in Deutsche marks. This Was significantly higher than the previous year when $2,821 million (18%) of all international bonds were denominated in Deutsche marks. During the fourth quarter of 1977, Deutsche mark-denominated bonds amounted to 39%^ ($1,628 million) of all international bonds. Developing countries issued $1,307 million, or 26%,of bonds.
The average initial offering yield on publicly offered Deutsche mark-denominated bonds by industrialized countries declined from 6.91% in the first quarter of 1977 to 5.93% in the fourth quarter. The average initial offering yield for similar bonds issued by developing countries declined over 100 basis points during the year, from 8.45% in the first quarter, to 7.08% in the fourth quarter.
The Japanese yen was used for the first time in the international market during 1977. The European Investment Bank and the World Bank made public offerings of ¥10,000 million ($36 million) and ¥20,000 million ($75 million), respectively. Initial offering yields were 7.12% on the EIB issue and 6.16% on the World Bank
issue. Both offerings had an original maturity of seven years.
The British pound sterling was used in the international market for the first time since 1974. All issues were public offerings and totaled $221 million. The offerings were made by the European Coal and Steel Community, the European Investment Bank, and several British borrowers. All issues carried an optional payment provision in US dollars.
Ten additional currencies were used in the international market during 1977. They were: Canadian dollar ($654 million); Netherlands guilder ($423 million); Hong Kong dollar ($160 million); Kuwaiti dinar ($109 million); Bahrain dinar ($104 million); Saudi Arabian riyal ($81 million); United Arab Emirates dirham ($37 million); the European unit of account ($34 million); Australian dollar ($11 million); and the Venezuelan bolivar ($5 million).
Private nonfinancial enterprises borrowed $5,397 million (28%) of all international bonds. Large amounts were also raised by public non-finajjcial enterprises, $2,800 million, or 14%; central governments, $2,519 million, or 13%; deposit money banks, $2,462 million, or 13%; and international organizations, $2,382 million, or 12%. During 1976, the largest sums were raised by international organizations, $3,063 million, or 20%; private nonfinancial enterprises, $2,989 million, or 19%; public nonfinancial enterprises, $2,207 million, or 14%; and deposit money banks, $2,003 million, or 13%.
Borrowers whose main purpose was banking and finance raised the largest amount of funds, $5,519 million, during 1977. Borrowers whose main purpose was industry borrowed $3,637 million, or 19%, and borrowers with a general purpose raised $3,126 million, or 16%. During 1976, the most active borrowers were those whose purpose was banking and finance, $4,855 million, or 32%; international organizations, $3,063 million, or 20%; industry, $2,848 million, or 19%; and general purpose, $2,228 million, or 14%.
Over half of all international bonds, $10,181 million, had an original maturity of over 5-10 years. During 1976, international bonds with an original maturity over 5-10 years totaled $8,983 million, or 58%. There appeared to be some lengthening in maturities in 1977. Bonds with an original maturity over 10-15 years increased from $1,665 million in 1976 (11%) to $3,820 million in 1977 (20%).
Four-fifths of all international bonds, $15,648 million, were straight issues. Convertible issues totaled $1,028 million, 36% above the $754 million issued in 1976. Floating rate notes amounted to $1,810 million, 50% higher than the $1,208 million recorded in 1976. Spreads ranged from the LIBOR on six-month Eurodollars to 1.25% above that rate.
Bond Markets—1978
Borrowing in foreign and international bond markets during the first half of 1978 totaled $18,828 million, 7% above the $17,496 million borrowed during the first half of 1977. Borrowing activity was fairly evenly split between the international market and national markets. Foreign bonds totaled $9,603 million, significantly above the $7,029 million raised during the first six months of 1977. International bonds amounted to $9,226 million, an 11% decline from the $10,468 million recorded during the first half of 1977.
Foreign bonds issued in the United States during the first half of 1978 totaled $3,640 million, about the same as the $3,689 million recorded in the first six months of 1977. Eighty-nine percent ($3,275 million) of all foreign bonds issued in the United States were by industrialized countries. Borrowers from Canada raised the largest amount of funds, $1,780 million. This amount includes a three-tranche public offering by the Government of Canada that totaled $750 million. Large amounts were also raised by borrowers from the United Kingdom ($525 million) and Norway ($350 million).
Forty-one percent ($2,453 million) of foreign bonds issued in other national markets were raised in Switzerland. This amount was 15% above the $2,127 million borrowed during the first half of 1977. Large sums were also borrowed in the Japanese market, where foreign borrowers raised $2,319 million, over 20 times the amount secured during the first half of 1977 ($115 million). Foreign bonds were also issued in the following national markets: Germany ($599 million); the Netherlands ($223 million); Saudi Arabia ($215 million); Luxembourg ($100 million); and France ($54 million).
International bonds totaled $9,226 million, almost two-thirds of which were issued by industrialized countries ($5,849 million). Borrowers from Norway ($816 million), Canada ($728 million), the United States ($557 million), and Japan ($525 million) raised the largest amounts. During the first half of 1977, the most active borrowers were from Canada ($1,273 million), Norway ($850 million), the United Kingdom ($726 million), and the United States ($674 million).
Developing countries continued to increase their use of the international bond market as a source of external funds. They raised $1,785 million during the first half of 1978, a 41% increase above the $1,261 million they borrowed during the first six months of 1977. The largest amounts were raised by borrowers from Brazil ($373 million), Venezuela ($301 million), Algeria ($275 million), and Mexico ($233 million). During the first half of 1977, the largest sums were borrowed by Brazil ($312 million) and
Mexico ($247 million).
International organizations borrowed $1,428 million during the first six months of 1978, roughly equivalent to the $1,404 million raised during the first half of 1977. The European Investment Bank was the most active borrower, raising $529 million. The World Bank borrowed 8350 million through a private placement of two-year notes with central banks and monetary authorities.
The most widely used currency in the international market during the first half of 1978 was the US dollar; continued exchange rate fluctuations, noted in the last few months of 1977, reduced the overall volume of dollar-denominated bonds, however. International bonds denominated in US dollars totaled $4,595 million, almost half of all international bonds. During the first half of 1977, two-thirds of all international bonds ($6,898 million) were denominated in US dollars. The second most widely used currency continued to be the Deutsche mark. Deutsche mark-denominated bonds totaled $3,600 million, 39% of the total. This amount is over 50% above the $2,352 million recorded during the first half of 1977. Developing countries secured 27% of all Deutsche mark-denominated bonds ($983 million). Only 11 % ($520 million) of dollar-denominated bonds were issued by developing countries.
Syndicated Eurocurrency Credits
Borrowings in the form of Eurocurrency credits totaled $34,149 million in 1977, a 19% increase over the 1976 total of $28,748 million. Of this total, developing countries accounted for 59% ($20,246 million), industrialized countries accounted for 32%- ($11,055 million), centrally planned countries and organizations accounted for 8% ($2,566 million), international organizations accounted for 1 % ($200 million), and other borrowers, unallocated by country, accounted for less than 1% ($100 million).
Developing countries borrowed $20,246 million in publicized Eurocurrency credits, an increase of $2,943 million, or 17%, over 1976. A large portion of this increase was accounted for by capital-surplus, oil-exporting countries,(r,) which borrowed $1,560 million in 1977, compared with $200 million in 1976. Six countries borrowing large amounts in 1977 were Mexico ($2,895 million), Brazil ($2,341 million), Spain ($1,880 million), Iran ($1,761 million), Venezuela ($1,650 million), and the United Arab Emirates ($1,037 million).
<¦'> The category, capital-surplus, oil-exporting countries, includes: Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.
Four countries—Cyprus ($30 million), Fiji ($10 million), Liberia ($30 million), and Mauritius ($37 million) raised syndicated loans in the Eurocurrency market for the first time.
Among the developing countries, public non-financial enterprises borrowed $7,221 million (36%). Large amounts were also raised by central governments, $5,541 million, or 27%; other public financial institutions, $2,949 million, or 15%; and private nonfinancial enterprises, $2,147 million, or 11 % .
Borrowers in developing countries whose purpose was classified as "general" raised the largest amount of funds during 1977, $6,500 million, or 32%. Borrowers whose purpose was banking and finance borrowed $4,369 million, or 22%. Large amounts were also raised by borrowers whose purpose was industry, $3,507 million, or 17%; public utilities, $2,539 million, or 13%; and petroleum and natural gas, $1,717 million, or 8%.
Industrialized countries borrowed $11,055 million in the Eurocurrency credit market, an increase of $2,748 million, or one-third above 1976. Three countries borrowed large amounts: the United Kingdom ($2,476 million), France ($1,865 million), and Sweden ($1,376 million).
Central governments borrowed $4,176 million (38%) of the total for industrialized countries. Large amounts were also raised by private nonfinancial enterprises, $2,406 million, or 22% ; public nonfinancial enterprises, $2,214 million, or 20%; and other public financial institutions, $1,195 million, or 11%.
Borrowers in industrialized countries with a general purpose borrowed the largest amount of funds,   $3,209  million,  during   1977. Large
amounts were also raised by borrowers whose purpose was public and community services, $1,973 million, or 18%; banking and finance, $1,726 million, or 16%; petroleum and natural gas, $1,364 million, or 12% ; and public utilities, $837 million, or 8%.
Centrally planned countries and organizations borrowed S2,566 million during 1977, an amount slightly above the $2,371 million borrowed in 1976. The largest amounts were raised by the International Investment Bank, $1,100 million, or 43 %, and the Democratic Republic of Germany, $692 million (27%). Smaller amounts were raised by Hungary ($350 million), Bulgaria ($245 million), Czechoslovakia ($150 million), Poland ($19 million), and Cuba ($10 million).
Other borrowings in 1977 included $197 million for international organizations (down $180 million from 1976), and $85 million for corporate borrowers whose activities could not be allocated by country (down $304 million from 1976).
Maturities on Eurocurrency loans appear to have lengthened in 1977. Over half of all the Eurocurrency loans raised during 1977, $22,218 million, or 65%, had an original maturity of more than five through seven years. During 1976, Eurocurrency loans with an original maturity in this range totaled only $11,125 million (39%), with a larger percentage of loans, $13,328 million (46%), having an original maturity of more than three through five years.
The interest rate for six-month Eurodollar deposits fluctuated between 5.44% and 6.06% during the first half of 1977; it then showed a steady increase through the remainder of the year to a 7.50% rate in December.
Executive Directors
Executive Directors
With the exception of certain powers specifically reserved to them by the Articles of Agreement, the Governors have delegated their powers for the conduct of the general operation of the Bank to a Board of Executive Directors, which performs its duties on a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters. There are 20 Executive Directors: as provided in the Articles of Agreement, five are appointed by the five members having the largest number of shares, and the rest are elected by the other members.
Policy is broadly decided by the Executive Directors within the framework of the Bank's Articles of Agreement. The Directors consider and decide on the loan/credit proposals made by the President. They are also responsible for presentation to the Board of Governors at its Annual Meetings of an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and the Annual Report on the operations and policies of the World Bank, and any other matter that, in their judgment, requires submission to the Board of Governors at the Annual Meetings or otherwise.
Policy decisions must be taken by the Directors in a number of major areas each year: allocation of the Bank's net income, the Bank's lending program, administrative budgets, staff compensation, and the Bank's research program. Among other policy matters in fiscal 1978, the Executive Directors dealt with policy on minerals and energy in the developing countries, lending for tourism, transfers to IDA, Bank liquidity, terms of Bank lending, and the role and use of consultants in projects; approved eligibility criteria and allocation guidelines for IDA's Fifth Replenishment period, grace periods and final maturities on fiscal 1978 Bank loans, and the five-year program of the Economic Development Institute; reviewed Bank disbursements, liquidity (notably the amount of liquid funds that the Bank should prudently hold), and the timing of Bank transfers to IDA.
During fiscal 1978, the Executive Directors met on 59 occasions in formal session. They reviewed and approved 137 Bank loans and 99 IDA credits, plus 14 grants for international agricultural research and one grant for control of onchocerciasis in West Africa. Also reviewed and approved were 24 borrowing transactions in Germany, Libya, Japan, Switzerland, and the United States, as well as one Euro-yen issue and
two issues of two-year US dollar bonds (offered only to governments, central banks, and official agencies) totaling $3,618.4 million. In view of the Project Preparation Facility's satisfactory performance in meeting, under special circumstances, a need to assist member countries in the preparation of projects for Bank and IDA financing, the Executive Directors approved a commitment authority of $10 million additional to the $12.5 million already authorized. They also met informally as frequently as required; topics covered included the future role of the Bank, valuation of the Bank's capital, and the Bank's policy and practices in the management of its liquid assets.
With the considerable broadening of interest among private financial institutions in the co-financing of projects with the Bank, the Executive Directors approved the quarterly publication of the operational summary of proposed Bank and IDA projects that have reached the stage of active consideration. The dissemination of this report to subscribers outside the UN system should be useful in mobilizing additional resources for the Bank's borrowers.
With their ongoing attention to operations evaluation in the Bank, the Executive Directors considered the second annual report of the Director-General, Operations Evaluation; the third annual review of project performance audit results; and approved the fiscal 1978-79 operations evaluation work program. Other annual reports with which the Directors dealt related to project implementation and supervision, the activities of the Joint Audit Committee, the Bank's financial statements, and the staff retirement plan.
The Executive Directors approved an agreement between IDA and the European Communities whereby IDA will administer, on behalf of the Communities and their nine member countries, a "Special Action Fund," totaling $385 million, designed to meet the immediate needs of low-income countries, especially those whose development is being hampered by the lack of foreign exchange. Also, they considered a proposed agreement between the United Nations Development Programme and the Bank, and a proposed agreement with the International Fund for Agricultural Development, and approved their dispatch to the Governors for their vote. Both proposals were later agreed to by the Governors.
The Directors participated in the Development Committee meeting held in Washington. They also participated in a meeting of Senior Officials in Mexico City, and in meetings of working groups of the Committee on Access to Capital Markets and on Development Finance and Policy.
The Directors received a current status report on a major study of development issues that the Bank is undertaking and which will be submitted to the Governors for the 1978 Annual Meetings. The study, entitled "World Development Report," is the result of discussions at various international fora about the need to undertake a comprehensive analysis of major development issues, strategies, and problems in order to promote a better understanding of them; a more coordinated international approach to development problems; and the coordination of policy actions. The report will be discussed by the Directors early in fiscal year 1979. As well, they received reports on the Tenth World Energy Conference and the Ministerial Meeting of the World Food Council.
The Directors also expressed their appreciation to the almost 4,500 men and women staff members of the Bank for their unswerving dedication to the institution's ideals. They noted that their continued professionalism has made it possible for the Bank to increase its operations without decreasing the attention paid to economic analysis and project appraisal, supervision, and evaluation.
A list of all Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors, showing their voting power and the countries they represent, with notations of changes since the last regular election of Executive Directors, appears on page 183.
Joint Audit Committee
The Joint Audit Committee was established in 1970, essentially to represent the Bank's shareholders in maintaining vigilance over the soundness of the Bank's financial practices and procedures. Its responsibilities include the duty
of nominating a firm of private, independent, internationally established accountants to conduct the annual audits of the Bank, IFC, and IDA, to discuss with them the scope of their examination, to review with them the annual audited financial statements and the opinions thereon, and to report to the Executive Directors. In addition, through frequent meetings with the Bank's senior financial officers, the Committee seeks to ensure that the Bank's financial affairs are properly conducted.
It is also charged with the responsibility of satisfying itself that the Bank's internal audit and operations evaluation are adequate and efficient. It reviews the work programs of the Internal Auditing and Operations Evaluation Departments, the work in progress, desirable standards, and procedures of reporting. In line with its expanded terms of reference, it reviews most papers produced by the Operations Evaluation Department, and identifies those giving rise to policy issues that can be considered by the Executive Directors. Since Project Performance Audit Reports are prepared on all completed projects, the volume of reports to be considered by the Committee is increasing. To facilitate its work, the Committee has established informal working groups, which can be attended by other interested Executive Directors, to review various reports or groups of reports.
The Committee provides a continuing channel through which the internal and external auditors may communicate with the Executive Directors should the need arise. The Committee also periodically reviews the adequacy of the flow of financial information to the Executive Directors in order that the Board may discharge properly its reponsibilities with respect to the financial policies of the Bank. It meets as frequently as necessary, but at least once a month. The Committee consists of six Executive Directors appointed by the Board for a term of two years after each regular election of Executive Directors. In December 1976, Jacques Henri Wahl was selected to serve a second term as Chairman of the Committee. He was succeeded in June 1978 by Timothy T. Thahane.