Cover: One of three experimental windmills on Lake Victoria that supply energy to nearby villages. The windmill was manufactured by a small-scale metalworks factory that has been assisted by the Kenya Industrial Estates, a beneficiary of a $10 million IDA credit.
Frontispiece: An agricultural extension agent checking a farmer's millet crop in Gusau, Nigeria.
The World Bank
The World Bank is a group of three institutions, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Development Association (IDA), and the International Finance Corporation (IFC).
The common objective of these institutions is to help raise standards of living in developing countries by channeling financial resources from developed countries to the developing world.
The World Bank, established in 1945, is owned by the governments of 139 countries. The Bank, whose capital is subscribed by its member countries, finances its lending operations primarily from its own borrowings in the world capital markets. A substantial contribution to the Bank's resources also comes from its retained earnings and the flow of repayments on its loans. Bank loans generally have a grace period of five years and are repayable over 20 years or less. They are directed toward developing countries at more advanced stages of economic and social growth. The interest rate the Bank charges on its loans is calculated in accordance with a guideline related to its cost of borrowing.
The Bank's charter spells out certain basic rules that govern its operations. It must lend only for productive purposes and must stimulate economic growth in the developing countries where it lends. It must pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Each loan is made to a government or must be guaranteed by the government concerned. The use of loans cannot be restricted to purchases in any particular member country. And the Bank's decisions to lend must be based only on economic considerations.
The International Development Association was established in 1960 to provide assistance for the same purposes as the Bank, but primarily in the poorer developing countries and on terms that would bear less heavily on their balance of payments than Bank loans. IDA's assistance is, therefore, concentrated on the very poor countries—mainly those with an annual per capita gross national product of less than $681 (in 1979 dollars). More than 70 countries are eligible under this criterion.
Membership in IDA is open to all members of the World Bank and 125 of them have joined
to date. The funds used by IDA, called credits to distinguish them from Bank loans, come mostly in the form of subscriptions, general replenishments from IDA's more industrialized and developed members, special contributions by IDA's richer members, and transfers from the net earnings of the World Bank. The terms of IDA credits, which are made to governments only, are 10-year grace periods, 50-year maturities, and no interest. An annual service fee of 0.75 percent is charged on the disbursed portion of each credit. Although legally and financially distinct from the Bank, IDA is administered by the same staff.
The IFC was established in 1956. Its function is to assist the economic development of less developed countries by promoting growth in the private sector of their economies and helping to mobilize domestic and foreign capital for this purpose. Membership in the Bank is a prerequisite for membership in the IFC, which totals 115 countries. Legally and financially, the IFC and the Bank are separate entities. The Corporation has its own operating and legal staff, but draws upon the Bank for administrative and other services.
While the World Bank has traditionally financed all kinds of capital infrastructure such as roads and railways, telecommunications, and ports and power facilities, its present development strategy places a greatly increased emphasis on investments that can directly affect the well-being of the masses of poor people of developing countries by making them more productive and by integrating them as active partners in the development process. This strategy is increasingly evident in the agriculture and rural development projects that the Bank and IDA help finance. It is also evident in projects for education and family planning and nutrition, and in the Bank's concern for the urban poor, who benefit from projects designed to develop water and sewerage facilities, as well as "core" low-cost housing, and to increase the productivity of small industries.
At the same time, lending for traditional projects continues, but it is being redirected towards becoming more responsive to the new strategy of deliberately focusing on the poorest segments of society in the developing countries.
Chapter One
The World Bank: Fiscal 1981, In Brief
In fiscal 1981' lending commitments by the World Bank, credit approvals from the International Development Association (IDA), and investment commitments by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) amounted to $13,102 million, up $940 million (8 percent) from the previous year.2
The Bank committed $8,809 million in support of 140 projects in fifty countries. In fiscal 1980, financial assistance from the Bank totaled $7,644 million for 144 projects in forty-eight member countries.
IDA credits approved during the year amounted to $3,482 million equivalent; of that amount, 75 percent was in the form of commitments. These credit approvals were in support of 106 projects in forty countries. In fiscal 1980, IDA commitments stood at $3,838 million, and 103 projects were assisted in forty countries.
World Bank loans and IDA credits helped finance about 35 percent of the cost of projects for which total amounts could be calculated.
IFC investments in fiscal 1981 were $811 million, up $130 million over fiscal 1980. A total of fifty-six investments were approved in thirty-four countries.
Other highlights in fiscal 1981 included:
—Disbursements by the Bank and IDA of $6,941 million, up $1^167 million (20 percent) over fiscal 1980. Bank disbursements were $5,063 million; IDA disbursements stood at $1,878 million equivalent. Fiscal 1980 disbursements by the Bank totaled $4,363 million; IDA disbursements for fiscal 1980 were $1,411 million;
—A net transfer of resources (disbursements minus repayments of principal, interest, and other charges) by the Bank and IDA to developing member countries of $3,362 million, a figure $730 million (28 percent) above that of fiscal 1980;
—Cofinancing of Bank-assisted and IDA-assisted projects of $4,038 million, down $2,478 million, or 38 percent, from fiscal 1980;
—An increase in the Bank's net income of $22 million (4 percent) to $610 million;
—Bank borrowings of $5,069 million, mostly in the capital markets of Europe and Japan. That amount does not include $646 million that had been borrowed in fiscal 1980 and credited to the fiscal 1981 borrowing program.
Presidential Succession
On June 30,1981, Robert S. McNamara retired as President of the Bank Group. Mr. McNamara had served as president for thirteen years.
On July 1,1981, A. W. Clausen became the sixth president of the Bank Group. He was elected to the position by the Bank's Executive Directors in December 1980.
Patterns of Lending
Trends in the pattern of lending by the Bank and by IDA have evolved as a direct result of Bank policies as periodically reaffirmed in numerous discussions by the Executive Directors over the past ten years. Discernible changes in the distribution of funds by country income group and by sector have not come about, therefore, by accident. The distribution of Bank and IDA funds in fiscal 1981 thus reflects decisions some of which were made years before.1
Distribution by Income Group. The extent of poverty in a member country is an important determinant in the allocation of Bank and IDA resources. Low-income countries (those with a per capita gross national product (GNP) below $371 as measured in 1979 U.S. dollars) have received a steadily increasing proportion of Bank and IDA lending. The major source of funds for these countries is IDA, and the severe structural weaknesses of most of their economies, and thus their limited capacity to service debt, imply continued reliance on IDA for most of their funds for the foreseeable future.
1 The fiscal year of the World Bank, as well as of its two affiliates, runs from July 1 to June 30.
2 Since the real value of loan commitments by the Bank and IDA is eroded to the extent that cost inflation occurs over the period of disbursements, it is the practice of the Bank to make allowances for inflation at the time of commitment. The deflator now used to express lending in real terms is a weighted average of the price levels assumed to be prevailing over the period of the execution of a project. If fiscal 1981 Bank and IDA commitments were to be expressed in terms of 1981) dollars, they would be SI 1.431 million.
' Significant variations may occur, however, from year to year in the pattern of lending. Such single-year variations most often reflect only a one-year step in the Bank's lending to its borrowing member countries rather than a change in its lending program.
Note on Dollar Amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of the Annual Report refer to current United States dollars. Where special drawing right (SDR) amounts are used for the capital of the Bank, one SDR equals 1.15060 current United States dollars at June 30, 1981 (one SDR equaled 1.32438 current United States dollars at June 30, 1980).
For a detailed discussion and the basis for SDR amounts used for IDA subscriptions and contributions, see IDA Appendices: Appendix F—Notes to Financial Statements.
In fiscal 1981, low-income countries received 35 percent of the combined commitments of the Bank and IDA compared with 27 percent through fiscal 1968. These countries accounted for 87 percent of IDA commitments during the year as compared with 78 percent through fiscal 1968. Low-income countries designated by the UN General Assembly as being the least developed accounted for 10 percent of combined Bank and IDA lending amounts in fiscal 1981 (and 33 percent of IDA commitments) as compared with 4 percent through fiscal 1968.
Efforts have been made in the past few years to expand Bank lending to all middle-income countries (those with a per capita GNP of between $371 and $1,895). This has been
accomplished especially through lending for structural adjustment. Increases in Bank lending have been justified on the grounds that availability of Bank resources could help these countries achieve a better allocation of their own resources, both through the careful selection of projects for Bank financing and through the Bank's policy analysis and institution-building advice. IDA funds do continue, however, to play an important though declining role for the "lower middle-income" countries, those with a per capita GNP of between $371 and $680 as measured in 1979 U.S. dollars.
Combined Bank and IDA lending to all middle-income countries amounted to 57 percent of total commitments in fiscal 1981 (76 percent of total Bank lending and 14 percent of all IDA commitments). In the period through fiscal 1968, lending to such countries accounted for 37 percent of combined Bank and IDA commitments. In contrast, lending to the higher-income countries has declined from 36 percent of total commitments in the period through fiscal 1968 to 8 percent in fiscal 1981.
Distribution by Sector. Before fiscal 1968, two thirds of total Bank and IDA lending went to the power and transportation sectors; agriculture, industry (including development finance companies), and program lending accounted largely for the rest. The main focus of Bank activities then
was to assist member countries in strengthening the basic infrastructure of their economies.
Subsequently, the sectoral composition of lending has shifted markedly in response to new perceptions about the development needs of its member countries. Lending operations have addressed broader development objectives, focused on institution building, and aimed at programs designed to improve the productivity of the rural and urban poor.
Disbursements
Disbursements on Bank loans to member countries in fiscal year 1981 were $5,063 million, an increase of 16 percent over the previous year. For IDA credits, disbursements were $1,878 million equivalent, up 33 percent from fiscal 1980. Part of the growth of disbursements was due to recent increases in nonproject lending.
The volume of annual disbursements on project lending is influenced by a variety of factors such as the complexity of the projects, economic conditions in borrower countries, the size of the undisbursed balances on approved loans and credits, and the sector and age composition of the undisbursed balances. There has been a general lengthening of the disbursement profile, caused by increased Bank lending to poorer member countries and to the more complex sectors to which lending increased beginning in the early 1970s. As a result, the share of faster-disbursing projects in the undisbursed balances dropped, affecting the growth of annual disbursements in the late seventies. In the last two years, however, disbursements on project lending have resumed a moderate growth, reflecting the stabilization of the share of faster-disbursing projects at a new level.
Currency Pooling
The currency pooling system, designed to equalize exchange rate risks among the Bank's borrowers, became operational on July 1, 1980, for all new loans negotiated on or after that date.4 In adopting this system, it had been agreed that the undisbursed portions of loans approved before July 1,1980 should also be eligible for inclusion in the new system at the borrower's option. Letters were sent to borrowers, therefore, recommending that they give consideration to the transfer of their undisbursed loan balances into the system. For those borrowers who indicated their intention to participate, letters of agreement were signed to permit the inclusion of such loans into the pool.
At the end of fiscal 1981, 222 loans were in the pool, of which 129 were loans negotiated on or after July 1, 1980. The total commitments of the 222 loans amounted to $1,602.5 million.
Seventy-seven of the 222 loans have had disbursements and, accordingly, the pool had attained a value of $294.9 million equivalent by the year's end. There were twenty-five currencies in the pool on June 30, 1981.
IDA: The Sixth Replenishment
The Sixth Replenishment of IDA, covering fiscal years 1981-83 and providing funding in an amount totaling the equivalent of $12,000 million, can only become effective when members, including at least 12 Part I (or developed country) members, deposit Instruments of Commitment and Qualified Instruments of Commitment totaling $9,600 million (or 80 percent) with the Association. As of the end of the fiscal year, this "trigger" amount had not been reached and therefore the Agreement on the Sixth Replenishment was not yet effective.
Notification of participation in the Sixth Replenishment by the United States is necessary in order to trigger the effectiveness of the Agreement.? The United States administration is working to ensure that its notification will be received as soon as possible. Congressional authorization and appropriation is being sought for the full U.S. share, of $3,240 million, in the three-year Sixth Replenishment period. However, the United States plans to rephase its commitments to IDA in graduated appropriations of $540 million in fiscal 1981, $850 million in fiscal 1982, and $1,850 million in fiscal 1983, rather than in three equal installments of $1,080 million each year. As of June 30,1981, authorization and appropriation measures in the two houses of the U.S. Congress were in various stages of advancement.
Pending the effectiveness of the Sixth Replenishment, the Association has been making credit commitments against advance contributions amounting to about SDR 1,837 million ($2,409 million) provided by twenty-two countries. A meeting of IDA deputies, representing donor countries, was held in March to review the situation. The deputies expressed concern at the delay in the effectiveness of the Replenishment and at the serious implications of this for development assistance to the world's poorest countries. They urged all donors who had not yet done so to complete their notification procedures as soon as possible.
At that March meeting, the deputies recognized the importance of minimizing the interrup-
4 For further details on the currency pooling system, see the World
Bank Annual Report (1979). pages 28-29 and the World Bank
Annual Report (1980). pages 70-71. ? the U.S. share in the Agreement is 27 percent of the total.
Without its notification of participation, therefore, the 80 percent
"trigger" amount is unobtainable.
tion in IDA's operations due to a lack of commitment authority. There was strong support for the view that additional advance contributions would provide IDA with further commitment authority for a temporary period. It was suggested that these contributions should be forthcoming from the largest possible number of countries and should reflect donors' full first installments.
The deputies also recognized that the budgetary rephasing contemplated by the United States would create a major problem with respect to IDA's commitment authority even after the replenishment became effective. Accordingly, it was agreed that a meeting of deputies would be held immediately following the effectiveness of the Sixth Replenishment to consider the steps that should be taken, consistent with equitable burden sharing, to provide IDA commitment authority at an adequate level.
Bank Staff
During fiscal 1981, the Bank continued its efforts to broaden the nationality distribution of staff and to increase the representation of women. During the year, 653 new members joined the staff of the Bank. Of these, 388 were secretarial, clerical, or other support staff at
similar levels. Of the remaining 265 recruited at higher levels, 114, or 43 percent, were from developing countries. By June 30, 1981, 2,552 staff at such higher levels represented 101 different nationalities; 98 had been represented at the end of fiscal 1980. Thirty-four percent were from developing countries; the percentage was 33.5 a year before.
A special effort has been made to increase the representation of women and of African countries in the Bank among these higher-level staff. Women at these levels now represent 12.6 percent of staff; the percentage was 12.0 at the end of fiscal 1980. The modest net increase is attributable to a limited market from which to recruit women as specialists with technical skills and experience. While African staff are now well represented in a variety of disciplines, women are found in fewer and are least represented in technical positions. During the past five years, the increase in total staff of the Bank was about 5 percent, the increase of women was 14 percent, and of African staff slightly more. During the past fiscal year, the number of women increased 8.8 percent and African nationals 15.2 percent, while total specialist staff of the Bank grew only about 3 percent.
In carrying out its objectives in institutional recruitment, the Bank is emphasizing the addi-
tion of younger staff members, especially through the Young Professionals Program. Candidates selected through the program are highly qualified, professionally flexible men and women thirty years old or younger, with strong backgrounds in economics or finance. The Program has made a distinct contribution to increasing the representation of women, African nationals, and the developing countries on the specialist staff. In fiscal 1981, forty-nine Young Professionals reported for duty. Of these, 51 percent were nationals of developing countries and 14 percent were from African countries. Women accounted for 33 percent of the Young Professionals recruited, whereas they made up only 17 percent of total recruitment by the Bank.
The World Bank Administrative Tribunal, an independent administrative tribunal established as an exclusive remedy for adjudicating staff grievances, commenced functioning during the year. It heard and decided several cases involving individual staff members as well as a case involving employment principles applicable to the staff at large.
Another activity that affects the staff should be noted: the Hay Survey. A report of Hay Associates on the survey of comparator compensation levels and practices as of March 1, 1980, was completed in fiscal 1981. It provided the basis for decisions on the changes in staff compensation that were agreed to by the Executive Directors in June 1981.
Membership
On July 21, 1980, Solomon Islands became a member of IDA; on September 29, 1980, Dominica and Zimbabwe joined the Bank and IDA and Seychelles joined the Bank; on October 1,1980, Djibouti joined the Bank and IDA, bringing the total membership of the Bank to 139 and that of IDA to 125.
At the end of the fiscal year, action was pending on membership in the Bank for Antigua and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and in IDA for the United Arab Emirates.
K SID
By June 30, 1981, 83 States had signed the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States, and 78 States had deposited their instruments of ratification.
The Annual Report of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) provides details of its membership and activities.
IFC
The International Finance Corporation (IFC) is the World Bank affiliate established to further
economic development by encouraging the growth of productive private enterprises. In addition to providing and helping raise loan and equity capital, the Corporation works to strengthen the confidence of investors and promote investment opportunities in the developing world. It uses its own resources to assist investors assemble the necessary financing, technology, and management needed for the establishment of productive enterprises.
The expansion of the Corporation's activities, which began four years ago with an increase in its capital resources, continued in fiscal 1981 despite the continuing economic difficulties throughout the world and the resultant pressures on the balance of payments of the developing countries.
The Board of Directors of the IFC approved fifty-six projects with an equity and loan commitment value of $811 million. This was an increase of 19 percent from the $681 million worth of commitments of the preceding year. Operating income for the current year increased more than 12 percent to $101 million, surpassing, for the first time, the $100 million mark. Syndications, most of them in the form of participations in IFC loans, which are a measure of the Corporation's ability to attract the assistance of others in financing projects with which it is involved, reached $374 million and involved more than fifty financial institutions; $267 million in syndications had been completed the preceding year.
The slowdown in worldwide economic activity, however, combined with operating difficulties in particular cases, had an adverse effect on net income of the Corporation. There were also a leveling of capital gains, higher administrative expenses, and an increase in repayment arrears, with the result that net income was $20 million; $20.7 million in net income had been reported for fiscal 1980.
Disbursements, which increased 88 percent from the total of the preceding year, reached $587 million (including disbursements for participants) as a result of the threefold increase in commitments during the past five years. At the end of the year, the Corporation's investment portfolio (including undisbursed balances) held for its own account was $1,647 million, up from the year-end balance of $1,404 million in fiscal 1980. In addition, $916 million was held for participants in IFC financing. The Corporation allocated $19 million to its Reserves Against Losses; $10.6 million was allocated the preceding year. The total now in the Reserve is $61.5 million.
With respect to the investments approved by the Board of Directors of the IFC, ventures in agroindustry, hotels, cement, and pulp and paper were more prominent than in the recent
past. Manufacturing made up about 46 percent of the total projects approved, compared with 44 percent in fiscal 1980.
The Corporation continued to place greater emphasis on its activities in some of the smaller, low-income countries, so that 29 ventures, or roughly half, were in countries in which per capita income is less than $626 a year.6 The Corporation made investments in thirty-four countries, in six of them for the first time.
The total cost of approved investments was about $3,340 million for the year, up from $2,377 million the preceding year. Thus, IFC contributed about 24 cents—of which about half, 11 cents, was raised from other financial institutions through syndications—of every dollar of project costs. Of the balance, $1,590 million was raised through other financial institutions—commer-
cial banks for the most part—and $951 million by the sponsors and by cash generation.
Member countries continued to take subscriptions in IFC's capital increase. By the end of the fiscal year, $373.2 million shares had been subscribed—about 80 percent of the $480 million allocated. Of this, S283 million had been paid in, increasing the Corporation's paid-in capital to $392 million—$85 million more than last year.
During the year, Djibouti. Dominica, the People's Republic of the Congo, Seychelles, Solomon Islands, and Zimbabwe became members of the IFC, bringing the total number of members to 119.
6 Measured on per capita GNP in 1979 equivalents.
Chapter Two
The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
The economic shocks of the 1970s discussed in last year's Annual Report continued to reverberate in the world economy during the past year. Recession in the industrial countries,' continuing high energy costs, inflation, high interest rates, volatile exchange rates, low growth of world trade, and declining prices of primary products other than petroleum, led to difficulties for many developing countries. The principal problems were thus similar to those of the 1970s, but there were some crucial differences. The current downturn came after years of relatively slow growth, mounting unemployment, and high inflation in the industrial countries. It was much milder than the sharp recession of 1974-75, but recovery is expected to be slower because of the difficulties of reducing inflation, now considered a major underlying cause of the weakness of many economies. There is thus not much cause for optimism in the global outlook for the near term.
The resilience shown by many developing countries in the face of so unfavorable an international environment was all the more remarkable. Developing country growth was 4.6 percent in 1980, once again substantially higher than the 1.3 percent growth of the industrial countries (Table 1). Many developing countries increased both their penetration of industrial country markets and their trade with each other. They were thus able to continue to borrow from the
international capital markets to support domestic development. In the low-income2 countries of South Asia high agricultural output led to record growth. The low-income countries of Africa south of the Sahara were the principal exception to the overall trend; their growth was so low that per capita incomes actually declined.3
Growth and Inflation in the Industrial Countries
The growth of real output of the industrial countries declined from an annual increase of 4 percent in 1976-79 to an increase of 1.3 percent in 1980. Growth in the United States and the United Kingdom was negative, and there was a marked slowdown in Canada, France, and Germany (see Table 2). The only large countries to attain a real growth rate of 4 percent or more in 1980 were Japan and Italy.
The economic slowdown in these countries was accompanied by an increase in inflation. The
1 Australia, Austria. Belgium. Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany. Iceland, Ireland, Italy. Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand. Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
2 Those countries with a 1979 per capita GNP of S400and below, as measured in 1980 U.S. dollars.
> These issues arc examined in greater detail in the World Bank's 1981 World Development Report.
average rate of inflation4 in the industrial countries was about 8.6 percent in 1980, up from an average of 7.0 percent a year between 1976 and 1979. Inflation in 1980 did, however, remain below the double-digit levels of 1974-75. Inflationary pressures were particularly strong in Canada, France, Italy, and the United Kingdom. In the last-named country, such pressures eased significantly in the second half of 1980, however. Germany and Japan, both of which adjusted rapidly to the second large increase in oil prices, were the only major industrial countries to bring inflation down to pre-1973 levels.
To help fight mounting inflationary pressures at home, the larger industrial countries adopted more restrictive monetary policies. In addition, most industrial countries achieved some fiscal restraint. Unemployment in the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD),which has been rising secularly in recent years, is now-expected to exceed 25 million by late 1981, representing nearly 7.5 percent of the labor force.
Restrictive monetary policies were accompanied in many countries by high and volatile interest rates. Fluctuating interest rates have been followed by large swings in exchange rates, introducing an element of uncertainty in international markets. For example, the dollar's rapid appreciation from the fall of 1980 to the spring of
1981 has substantially eroded the competitive position of the United States vis-a-vis Europe and, to a lesser degree, vis-a-vis Japan.
To judge from the experience of the first few months of 1981, it appears that slow growth will continue in the industrial countries through the year. Government fiscal and monetary policies remain restrictive because of widespread concern over inflation and trade deficits. Rates of inflation seem to be declining, partly helped by the easing of real prices of oil and other primary-products. In some countries, inflationary pressures are already lessening partly because of the willingness of employees in some countries to accept a reduction in real wages.
Growth in the Developing Countries
In 1980 the real growth in gross national product (GNP) of the developing countries (oil importers and oil exporters together) was much higher—4.6 percent—than the 1.3 percent in the industrial countries. Developing countries as a group grew less rapidly in 1980, however, than during 1974-79, which itself was a period of slower growth than the record years of 1966-73 (see Table 1).
Regions showed mixed results. Even within regions there were wide differences in growth rates. Many of the countries at the lower end of the middle-income5 spectrum experienced serious problems, particularly when primary-product prices began to decline. Others, particularly the semi-industrial exporters of manufactures, have been able to adjust quite rapidly to changing circumstances.
The gross national product grew so slowly in Africa south of the Sahara (excluding South Africa) that per capita income declined. In Korea, a precipitous decline of production pulled down the average growth rate in East Asia and the Pacific. Some of the other East Asian economies, notably the smaller export-oriented ones, however, continued to grow at 6 to 9 percent.
The countries of Latin America and the Caribbean maintained the previous year's fairly strong average growth rate of GNP. In North Africa and the Middle East, growth remained relatively high, also, with Syria and Egypt performing particularly well.
The growth in the purchasing power of the exports of most oil-importing developing countries was held down in 1980 by both a slower expansion of their export volume and a decline in
4 Inflation is measured as the weighted average of national currency gross domestic product (GDP) deflators. The weights used are the current year GDP shares expressed in 1978 U.S" dollars.
¦s Middle-income countries are defined as those developing countries with a 1979 GNP per capita abo\c S401). as measured in 1980 U.S. dollars.
their terms of trade. In the last two years, the oil-importing developing countries increased their foreign borrowings (with a greater reliance on short-term borrowing and reserve-related credit, primarily financing from the International Monetary Fund (IMF)), and many drew down, or at least stopped accumulating, international reserves. At the same time, the growth rate in the volume of their imports increased. Interest payments on their larger external debt also rose.
Recovery from the previous year's bad harvest was the main cause of last year's 7.4 percent increase in the gross national product of South Asia, but there has also been a long-term improvement of agricultural performance there that has boosted the region's income growth despite increases in the cost of imported oil. In contrast, low growth in Southern Europe brought down the total developing country-average.
The problems of structural adjustment confronting the oil-importing countries remain severe. These countries face a dilemma: if they rely heavily on external borrowings—presumably primarily from private sources—they may face problems in managing their debt, although continued prudent borrowing could help them avoid sharp economic downturns. On the other hand, if they rein in their import demand sharply so as to make the necessary economic adjustments, they will almost inevitably reduce their own growth rates, while contributing to the contraction of output in the industrial countries. If protectionism against products from the developing countries is permitted to rise, there
will be further damage to the developing countries and to the developed countries in the longer run; not only will their exports be hurt, but also the pattern of trade and the sectoral distribution of investment in both developed and developing countries will be distorted.
Current-Account Balances and Their Financing
During the past two years, the disturbances in the international economy—large increases in the price of oil, high rates of inflation, and sluggish growth in the industrial countries and in world trade—have been reflected in a widening of global surpluses and deficits in the balance of payments. The wave of oil price increases in 1979 and 1980 produced a sizable gain in the terms of trade for the oil-exporting countries. The consequent surplus of the six capital-surplus oil-exporting countries6 on current account, excluding official transfers, is estimated to have been more than $100,000 million in 1980. By contrast, in 1978, they had a surplus of only $19,000 million. The other oil-exporting countries7 were able to eliminate a deficit of almost an equal amount (Table 3).
The current-account deficit of the industrialized countries was $40,000 million in 1980; these countries had a surplus of $30,000 million in 1978. The current-account deficit of the oil-
6 Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.
7 Algeria. Angola. Bahrain. Bolivia, Brunei, Congo. Ecuador, Egypt, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria. Oman. Peru, Syria, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, and Venezuela.
importing developing countries is estimated to have been about $70,000 million in 1980, an increase of some $44,000 million from their 1978 deficit. Their deficit in 1980 was equal to 4.9 percent of GNP, up from 2.3 percent in 1978 and higher than in any year of the 1970s except 1975, when it was 5.2 percent.
The current-account deficit between 1978 and 1980 of the oil-importing developing countries was largely due to higher costs of imported oil, a heavier debt-service burden, and, for those countries that depend upon exports of cocoa and coffee, a decline in prices of primary products. Payments for net imports of oil rose by an estimated $44,000 million, or 141 percent, while the volume of net imports of oil remained at about their 1978 level, reflecting both increased domestic production and conservation of oil by the oil importers and their slower growth in GNP. For the oil-importing developing countries, interest payments on medium-term and long-term debt are estimated to have risen by more than $10,000 million (85 percent) during this same period; half the increase was caused by higher levels of debt and half was the result of higher average interest rates.
Other factors, however, partially offset the higher costs of imports and interest. For some developing countries (for example, Egypt, India. Pakistan, Portugal, and Yugoslavia), workers' remittances, particularly from Europe and the Middle Eastern oil-producing countries, are an important source of foreign exchange, reaching about $24,000 million in 1980. In addition, receipts of investment income from foreign-exchange reserves and other external assets increased as interest rates rose.
The changes in the current-account positions were accompanied by new patterns of financial flows. During 1979 and 1980, the capital-surplus oil exporters and the oil-exporting developing countries are estimated to have acquired about $165,000 million in net external assets. It appears that they deposited somewhat more than half that amount in banks, contributing to the pool available for recycling to the deficit countries through financial intermediaries. Most of the remainder of their surplus was used for direct lending to industrial country governments and for the acquisition of long-term assets in industrial countries, although direct loans and other flows to developing countries also increased substantially.
Medium-term and long-term net borrowing by the oil-importing developing countries from financial institutions and other private sources was only slightly higher in 1980 than in 1978, according to preliminary estimates. Borrowing plus direct investment flows, the latter having increased modestly in this period, totaled an estimated $33,000 million net. up from $31,000 million in 1978. Although the financial markets were not disrupted in 1980 by the strains of additional balance-of-payments financing for both developing and industrial countries, as some had feared, the spreads on publicized loans to some developing countries did increase noticeably. Private sources continued to provide the bulk of the flows of external capital to the developing countries as a group, however, if not to the low-income countries among them. It is estimated that concessional flows were equivalent to about two thirds of the current-account deficit of low-income oil importers in 1980.
Net official flows to oil importers are estimated to have been more than $22,000 million in 1980, an increase of almost $7,000 million from the 1978 level. Net concessional loans and grants, exclusive of technical assistance, accounted for about three quarters of total official flows for both years. Short-term borrowing and reserve transactions took on a larger role in financing the current-account deficits of the oil importers.
External Debt
The growth of the developing countries' medium-term and long-term debt8—from public and private sources, in foreign currency—has slackened. In 1979, that debt grew 17 percent, reaching $369,000 million, and in 1980 it grew by
13 percent, to approximately $416,000 million. The growth rates of 1979 and 1980 were well below the average annual growth of 23 percent between 1975 and 1978. This slowdown in the growth of developing country debt, however, has apparently already begun to reverse itself. By the last quarter of 1980, medium-term and long-term borrowing had stepped up, and gross publicized borrowing in the international capital markets during the first quarter of 1981 was double that of the first quarter of 1980.
The data on debt outstanding for 1979, the latest year for which detailed figures are avail-
* See General Notes to Annex Tables for country coverage. Note, however, that the discussion in the text includes private nonguarantced debt, whereas the Annex does not.
able, indicate a continuation of the growing importance of borrowing from private sources and the consequent hardening of average terms that was particularly evident in the later years of the 1970s. Medium-term and long-term debt owed to private creditors, principally commercial banks, increased 20 percent in 1979; its annual growth between 1975 and 1978 had been 27 percent. By the end of 1979, 63 percent of all debt was owed to private creditors; the percentage in 1975 was 56. The share owed to official bilateral sources declined from 33 percent in 1975 to 25 percent in 1979, while that owed to multilateral institutions remained more or less constant, at 11-12 percent.
Partly as a result of domestic anti-inflationary policies in the industrial countries, interest-rate rises have spread worldwide. There has been a hardening of average terms of new borrowing that has increased the debt-service payments of
the developing countries. Debt service, therefore, has absorbed a growing share of new borrowings. While gross disbursements increased only 8 percent in 1979, total debt-service payments increased 30 percent. This meant that there was an actual decline in net transfers of resources; in contrast, annual growth of net transfers between 1975 and 1978 had averaged 16 percent.
External debt and debt service remain concentrated in a few developing countries, typically those with relatively strong export sectors, large international reserves, or rapid growth. Most of the principal debtors are oil-exporting countries—Algeria, Egypt, Indonesia, Mexico, and Venezuela—or are major exporters of manufactures—Brazil, Israel, Spain, and Yugoslavia.
Most low-income oil-importing countries depend heavily upon official sources for financ-
ing, since few of them qualify for significant levels of borrowing from private sources on commercial terms. In 1979, their debt increased only 6 percent, to $43,000 million. Of this, 87 percent was owed to official creditors and fully 78 percent had been obtained on concessional terms.
The debt of the middle-income oil-importing countries increased steadily, a trend consistent with the expansion of their economies. By the end of 1979, the total debt of these countries amounted to $212,000 million, 70 percent of it owed to private creditors; 15 percent had been obtained on concessional terms. The significant increase in their debt service in recent years is the result of the growth of their debt, some prepayments, and the harder average terms of new borrowing.
Commercial banks now make most of their loans at variable interest rates. Although loans made in the financial market can have significant advantages, those with variable interest rates do require careful debt management. During a time of rapidly rising interest rates, as has been experienced in the past year, debt service can increase suddenly and dramatically. The converse is, of course, true when interest rates fall. For those countries with reserves invested in the capital markets, the effect of rising interest rates can at least be partially offset by virtue of the higher return they receive.
The oil-exporting developing countries9 have used their strong export bases to borrow heavily. In 1979, their total disbursed debt was $114,000 million, 68 percent of it owed to private creditors and 21 percent obtained on concessional terms,
the remainder being nonconcessional official lending.
Despite the general soundness of the debt position of most developing countries, several countries had to seek debt relief under the auspices of the Paris Club.10 Countries that have recently resorted to the Paris Club include Liberia"(1981), Madagascar (1981), Sudan (1980), Togo (1981), and Zaire (1980). Some countries have also recently had agreements with commercial banks (Nicaragua, Sudan, and Zaire), while Pakistan arranged, through the Pakistan Consortium , a rescheduling of its official debt to Consortium creditors. Generally, debt relief has been extended for periods of twelve to eighteen months, with repayment of rescheduled debt due over a period of seven to ten years. Interest charges are usually set at the rate of new loans of the type being refinanced.
Official Development Assistance
Net disbursements of Official Development Assistance (ODA)—grants and concessional loans—from member countries of the Develop-
9 The oil-exporting countries covered under the Bank s Debtor Reporting System are : Algeria, Bahrain. Bolivia, Congo, Ecuador, Egypt, Gabon, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Oman, Peru, Syria. Trinidad and Tobago. Tunisia, and Venezuela.
10 The Paris Club is the name given to the ad hoc meetings of Western creditor governments that, since 1956. have arranged, when necessary, for the renegotiation of creditor-guaranteed suppliers' credits. Since then, it has handled the majority of renegotiations of official and officially guaranteed debt. More than a dozen debtor countries have been involved through the years.
ment Assistance Committee (DAC)" to the developing countries reached an estimated S26,600 million in 1980. This amount represents a nominal increase of 19 percent from the 1979 level, reaching 0.37 percent of their aggregate GNP. In the 1970s, the percentage of ODA to GNP had remained fairly constant between 0.33 percent and 0.36 percent.12 Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden are the only members to have achieved the 0.7 percent target as set by the UN for the Second and Third Development Decades. In 1980, more than three quarters of new commitments and more than half of net disbursements were grants, and disbursements in 1980 appear to have continued the shift of the 1970s to the least developed countries,'3 with a more limited shift toward the low-income developing countries.
In 1980, net disbursements of ODA by the member countries of the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC)14 amounted to $7,000 million; in that same year, an estimated four fifths of commitments of ODA
were in the form of grants. Their ratio of aid to GNP is much higher (1.36 percent in 1980) than that of the DAC countries. The ratio of aid to GNP of the six capital-surplus members of OPEC was 2.68 percent in 1980. Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates were the biggest OPEC donors in dollar volume, and their aid accounted for 3.03 percent of their GNP.
11 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy. Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Commission of the European Communities.
12 The improvement in 1980 was to some degree a result of the bunching of letters of credit to the multilateral institutions; in addition, some DAC members have been increasing their assistance in recent years.
13 Afghanistan. Bangladesh, Benin. Bhutan, Botswana, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Guinea, Haiti, Laos, Lesotho. Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Nepal, Niger. Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Upper Volta, Western Samoa. Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
14 Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran. Iraq, Kuwait, Libya. Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela.
World Trade
In dollar terms, world merchandise trade increased by nearly 30 percent in 1980. In volume, the increase was less than 4 percent. The reduced growth in volume in 1980 was primarily a result of a decline in the amount of petroleum traded, although the growth of trade in manufactures also slowed.
The share of fuel in the total value of merchandise trade rose from 17 percent in 1978 and 20 percent in 1979 to almost 25 percent in 1980; in contrast, its share in the total volume dropped from 17 percent in 1978 and 1979 to 16 percent in
1980. in response to higher petroleum prices, conservation, and recession in the industrial countries.
Because of that recession and as a result of the significant appreciation of the U.S. dollar against most other major currencies, prices (in current U.S. dollars) of both primary commodities and manufactured goods, which had reached a peak in mid 1980, have recently declined. The World Bank monthly average price index of thirty-three commodities (excluding petroleum) declined almost 10 percent (in current dollars) in the first five months of 1981. Fluctuations in the prices of such commodities as sugar, copper, and tin have been severe.
Petroleum
The industrial countries entered calendar 1980 with record high inventories of petroleum. Oil prices weakened and premiums charged above the official selling prices (OSPs) tapered off toward the middle of the year. The situation changed in September 1980 with the outbreak of hostilities in the Persian Gulf. Damage to petroleum installations in both Iran and Iraq brought the combined exports of these countries almost to a standstill. Although several members of OPEC increased their production to compensate for this, world petroleum production declined about 3.8 percent in 1980—from 63.2 million barrels a day (mbd) in 1979 to 60.8 mbd in 1980—as did consumption. Average OPEC prices for crude oil rose by 63 percent in 1980 (46 percent in real terms), as compared to the previous year.
Aided by conservation measures, reduced economic activity, and favorable weather conditions, oil consumption in the industrial countries fell about 7 percent in 1980. In the first quarter of
1981, world consumption of oil (excluding the centrally planned economies) declined 4 percent from that in the first quarter of 1980. The decline was even sharper in the industrial countries. Overall petroleum prices have softened, as production remains relatively high and buyers seem reluctant to increase their stocks.
The supply situation facing the oil-importing developing countries, however, remains precarious. Since 1978, supplies of petroleum imported by the developing countries have been under considerable strain. Before December 1978, Iran and Iraq had supplied—on the average—almost 30 percent of the crude oil imported by the oil-importing developing countries. Some countries were even more dependent upon them: supplies from Iran and Iraq had met about 70 percent of the import needs of Turkey; 60 percent of those of Cyprus, India, Kenya, Morocco, and Tanzania; 50 percent of those of Chile, Yugoslavia, and Zambia; and 40 percent of those of Brazil and Spain. Many countries were forced to purchase supplies from the significantly higher-priced spot market.
World Food Situation
World production of cereals has been maintained at about 1,500 million tons in recent years, but cereal consumption continued to increase, in line with population and income growth. In
1980, as production declined somewhat, prices rose and world stocks of cereals were drawn down. The below-trend production levels largely resulted from reduced outputs in the temperate zone of the Northern Hemisphere, mainly in the U.S. and China; the developing countries did better, with the countries of South Asia, in particular, producing record crops in 1980/81. Prices began to ease in the early months of 1981 as a result of good crop forecasts in major producing regions, lower livestock production, and higher interest rates.
Cereal imports of the developing countries have risen rapidly in recent years. Net imports of grains by the developing countries totaled over 50 million tons in 1980/81, at a cost of about $10,000 million. This contrasts with their net grain imports of 20 million tons in 1970/71, at a cost of $2,000 million ($5,000 million in 1980 dollars). Almost all of the increase was accounted for by middle-income countries, which have been increasing their feedgrain imports by 10 percent per year. The low-income countries in South Asia improved their grain production and reduced their imports substantially in the 1970s. However, the food situation throughout much of sub-Saharan Africa has been deteriorating.
Overall, the world food situation has improved substantially in comparison with the early 1970s. However, it continues to be characterized by production instability in major importing countries, especially the USSR, together with lagging production and poor infrastructure and distribution capacities in many importing developing countries.
North-South Dialogue
The North-South dialogue continued in various international fora during the past year. The publication of the Brandt Report by the Independent Commission on International Development Issues (the Brandt Commission) contained a number of suggestions, including an "action programme" for the least developed countries, special efforts to increase production of food and energy in the developing world, and an economic summit of heads of state on North-South issues.
The United Nations. The Eleventh Special Session of the UN General Assembly began in August 1980 to consider a new International Development Strategy (IDS) for the Third Development Decade. The second major item of the Special Session was to reach agreement on an agenda for a special UN conference on global negotiations to be held under UN auspices in New York in 1981.
The Special Session agreed on a new IDS calling for a growth rate of 7 percent for the developing countries for the decade of the 1980s and a "rapid and substantial increase" in Official Development Assistance by donor governments "with a view to reaching, and where possible, surpassing" the target of 0.7 percent of the GNP of the donor countries. The new strategy was endorsed by the 35th Session of the General Assembly, and the Third Development Decade was thus launched. On the issue of global negotiations, however, agreement proved to be more elusive.
The delegates broadly agreed on negotiations to cover trade, energy, raw materials, development finance, and monetary issues. Questions of procedure and agenda have not, however, been fully resolved, particularly on the appropriate relationship between the proposed central negotiating body and the specialized agencies.
North-South Summits. In the meantime, preparations have begun for a North-South economic summit to be held in Cancun, Mexico, in October 1981 sponsored by President Jose Lopez-Portillo of Mexico and Chancellor Bruno Kreisky of Austria. The meeting, it is expected, will be attended by twenty-two heads of state and governments from the developed and developing countries.
Other international fora are also giving attention to North-South issues. The problems facing developing countries were among the main subjects discussed at the Western economic summit of seven major industrialized countries held in Ottawa in July 1981. The Commonwealth heads of governments also propose to focus attention on the problems facing developing countries at their meeting scheduled to be held in Melbourne, Australia, in September 1981.
South-South Cooperation. The events of the past year have given impetus to efforts at cooperation among the developing countries. Despite ideological differences, differing country-specific needs, and the geographic isolation of countries from one another, South-South cooperation has become an important objective of the developing countries. Following earlier meetings in Geneva and Vienna of developing countries represented by the Group of 77 (G-77), the Foreign Ministers of the G-77 met at Caracas, Venezuela, in May 1981 to consider measures to further the framework of economic cooperation among developing countries in the areas of trade, technology, food and agriculture, energy, raw materials, finance, and industrialization. Agreement was reached on the need to
29
increase efforts for a Generalized System of Preferences for trade among developing countries. It was also agreed to establish a mechanism for the coordination, implementation, and monitoring of programs for economic cooperation. For this purpose, a small technical group would be established through special arrangements with governments of developing countries.
The Development Committee. During the past fiscal year, the Development Committee (the Joint Ministerial Committee of the Boards of Governors of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund on the Transfer of Real Resources to Developing Countries) held three meetings. The first was in September 1980 in Washington, D.C. At the second, in October 1980, also in Washington D.C, David Ibarra Munoz, Secretary of Finance and Public Credit of Mexico, was elected Chairman to succeed Cesar E. A. Virata, Minister of Finance of the Philippines, whose term had expired. Hans E. Kastoft was selected Executive Secretary of the Committee. The third meeting was held in May 1981 in Libreville, Gabon.
At its September 1980 meeting, the Committee reviewed the prospects of the developing countries in the light of the World Bank's World Development Report and other background papers. Consideration was given to the proposals made by the Group of 24 in its Program of Immediate Action and by the Brandt Commission.
The Committee also reviewed a report of a task force on private foreign investment. The report recognized the significant role to be played by private foreign investments in economic development of the developing countries.
The Committee focused attention on means for financing the capital requirements of the developing countries by way of concessional and nonconcessional flows and private foreign investments. It urged an increased flow of concessional funds to the low-income countries, drawing particular attention to the gravity of the situation facing those countries with the delay in bringing the Sixth Replenishment of IDA into effect. A task force set up on nonconcessional flows by the Development Committee has been examining the possible means of enlarging the flow of nonconcessional funds to the developing countries, both through the medium of the international financial institutions and directly. The task force expects to continue its work at a meeting of the Development Committee in September 1981.
The Libreville meeting focused attention on the urgent and immediate plight of the develop-
ing countries facing greatly enlarged current-account deficits. In this context, the Committee urged the Executive Directors of the Bank to continue their efforts to reach a consensus on the scale of World Bank activity appropriate to the circumstances of the early 1980s and to seek means for future financing of that activity. The Committee also decided, in principle, to establish a task force to carry forward and widen the study of the continuing problems affecting the volume, quality, and effective use of concessional flows. The special problems of the oil-importing developing countries were particularly noted. The Bank's initiative in expanding lending operations in the energy sector was supported by the Committee as well as the need to examine ways to mobilize additional resources for energy development, both through existing mechanisms and through a possible new affiliate or facility.
At the Libreville meeting, the Committee also reaffirmed its desire to play an active role in regard to matters within its competence in the context of the United Nations global negotiations on North-South issues.
Law of the Sea. There had been some hope that the UN Law of the Sea deliberations might be successfully concluded on most issues of the proposed treaty. This was a natural expectation following the lengthy negotiations that produced compromises in 1979 on a number of key issues related to navigation rights, pollution control, and maritime boundaries, but particularly to the regime of seabed mining beyond national jurisdictions. This covered the basis and limitation for the production of manganese nodules, compensation to the developing countries adversely affected by nodule mining, and arrangements on the sharing of the "heritage of mankind" between those with the expertise and the resources to exploit such wealth and the developing countries.
Resolution of all issues proved premature, however, when the new United States administration requested a delay so that it could reconsider its approach. The Conference is expected to reconvene later in the year.
The Common Fund and International Commodity Agreements
The Agreement Establishing the Common Fund for Commodities was adopted in June 1980 by the Fourth Session of the United Nations Negotiating Conference on the Common Fund. Thirty-four countries had signed the Agreement by June 30,1981; it will go into effect when it has been ratified by ninety countries that account for at least two thirds of the $470 million in capital
directly contributed. Although March 31, 1982, is the deadline for approval and ratification of the Agreement, it is unlikely to begin operations before mid 1983.
The Common Fund has two accounts. Through the First Account ($400 million), it will contribute to the financing of internationally coordinated national stocks within a framework of International Commodity Agreements (ICAs). Through the Second Account ($350 million), it will attempt to improve the export earnings potential of the developing countries by-promoting research and development of commodities and through improvements in productivity, processing, and marketing.
The ultimate scope and size of the First Account will depend upon the number of current International Commodity Agreements that enter the Fund and on the number of new ones created under the Fund's aegis. Its effectiveness will depend upon the usefulness of the objectives of the Agreements and upon their success in meeting these objectives. Their primary objective is price stability. It must be recognized, however, that the attainment of price stability does not always ensure income stability, the latter being the main concern of both producers and governments.
Little progress was made during 1980 in bringing new Agreements into being. Following initial agreement in October 1979, the new International Natural Rubber Agreement came provisionally into force in October 1980. Its aim is to stabilize prices within a specified range through the operation of a buffer stock. So far, however, there has been no opportunity to stabilize prices, for the price of rubber has been higher than the ceiling price set under the Agreement. The Rubber Agreement is the first to provide for association with the Common Fund. Its novel feature is its sharing of the costs of buffer stocks equally between consuming countries and producing countries by means of direct contributions from their governments.
The basis for a new International Cocoa Agreement was established in November 1980, the previous Agreement having ended in March 1980. The Ivory Coast, a major producer, has been unwilling to sign, however, because of the provisions for automatic price adjustments.
On October 1, 1980, the economic provisions of the 1976 International Coffee Agreement
were reactivated, after a decline of 33 percent in coffee prices during 1980. A global export quota of 57.3 million bags was agreed upon, together with an intervention price range of 115/120 to 150/155 cents a pound. The Agreement will expire in September 1982.
Release of the special stocks held under the International Sugar Agreement had little effect on the sugar price rise of 1979-80. The effectiveness of the Sugar Agreement, signed in 1978, is restricted because the European Economic Community (EEC), which has become an important exporter, has not yet signed it.
Discussions on an International Tea Agreement, which have been going on since 1978, have made little progress. The sticking point has been the allocation of the shares of the export market and, hence, of export quotas. The potential for conflict between long-standing established producers and new, growing exporters whose costs are often lower—the source of many of the problems inherent in forging international commodity agreements—can be observed in these discussions.
The successive tin agreements have been the most successful of all the International Commodity Agreements. Implementation of the Sixth International Tin Agreement has been held up, however, because of disagreements between the United States and the producing countries on the size of the buffer stock and the extent to which exports are to be controlled.
Discussions of an ICA for cotton have taken place under the UNCTAD Integrated Programme for Commodities, but there has been no sign of agreement.
Lome II
The second Lome Convention came into effect January 1, 1981. Under the new convention, almost all exports of sixty countries of Africa, the Caribbean, and the Pacific (ACP) have free entry into the European Communities (EC), somewhat more than under Lome I.
The "Stabex" arrangement for stabilizing export revenues by income transfers in the event of shortfalls in export earnings has been extended to cover forty-four products; only thirty-four products were covered under the first Convention. The amount of aid for the period 1981-85 was increased from 54,300 million to $7,200 million.
Chapter Three 1981 Regional Perspectives
Eastern Africa
The review of economic development in Eastern Africa during the 1970s in last year's Annual Report painted a grim picture. A combination of a setback in the trend of farm output, deterioration in the terms of trade, and institutional weaknesses added up to a formidable array of constraints. In this Annual Report, the main focus is on the region's severe shortage of imports, the consequences on production and investment caused by the shortage, and the measures governments and the Bank are taking to secure recovery.
The scarcity of foreign exchange continued to plague many of the countries in the region, whose Bank membership now totals twenty-two, Djibouti, Seychelles, and Zimbabwe having become members during the fiscal year. Drought in several countries, which made it necessary to import food, aggravated the problem. Other imports were heavily constrained despite a substantial rise in the inflow of Official Development Assistance (ODA). The shortage of
imported fuel, raw materials, and machinery disrupted transport and limited production for both the home market and the foreign market. Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita fell in a number of countries and stagnated in several others. The Bank and IDA continued their efforts to assist members in facing up to trying circumstances by diagnosing policy problems, increasing the share of nonproject assistance, continuing emphasis on agricultural lending, increasing project lending to the energy sector, and mobilizing external financial support through consultative groups. Member governments have become aware that the foreign-exchange constraint is likely to persist through the 1980s. Economic recovery will require stringent reforms in policies and institutions.
Development of Imports
Imports tended to rise faster than real GDP in many countries in Eastern Africa during the sixties and early seventies. Examples of this trend
are to be found in Kenya, Malawi, Somalia, Sudan, and Tanzania. Several structural features of the economies of these countries were responsible. First, the dependence of investment on imports of machinery and equipment was growing. The average ratio of imported capital goods to gross domestic investment rose from 32 percent to 38 percent. The pattern of investment generally favored urban areas at the expense of rural development, necessitating a higher foreign-exchange component. Second, the process of production became more import-intensive as the output mix shifted toward modern industry, transport, and other services and away from traditional agriculture and other rural activities that did not use foreign inputs to any significant extent. The average ratio of imports of intermediate goods to GDP rose from 10 percent to 16 percent. Third, while most countries saved on imports of consumer durables, in some there was a large offsetting increase in cereal purchases abroad, reflecting the failure of food production to keep pace with a high and rising rate of growth of population.
The stagnation or decline in the volume of imports during recent years must be evaluated against this background of an increasing trend in the import-intensity of investment and production. Calendar 1979 saw a substantial reduction in imports in Kenya, Sudan, Tanzania, and Zaire
and a virtual standstill in Malawi and Mauritius. Preliminary, incomplete data for 1980 show no general improvement. Imports recovered somewhat in Kenya and Sudan, but they declined in several other countries, such as Botswana, Burundi, Madagascar, and Somalia. It is unlikely that calendar 1981 will provide much relief, for the region's foreign-exchange constraint can be expected to persist. It is also possible that a larger share of a depressed level of total imports in 1981 will be absorbed by essential purchases of about a million tons of cereals in Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, Tanzania, and Uganda. The effects of the drought of the last two years in large areas of these countries still continue to be felt, and the food supply remains precarious. Near-famine conditions prevail in some areas of Uganda and in parts of northern Kenya. In several countries, the problem of food supply has been compounded by conflicts in neighboring areas during recent years. Many displaced persons and refugees still live in relief camps in Djibouti, Ethiopia, Somalia, and Sudan, requiring emergency assistance. To the extent that the imports of food are not financed by emergency external assistance, there will be less foreign exchange available for imports of intermediate or investment goods.
Imports were constrained in 1979 and 1980 despite a substantial increase in the prices of
regional exports, because the volume of exports stagnated or declined. The composite export price index for the region rose 28 percent in 1979 and 24 percent in 1980.1 Copper prices rose to a level two thirds higher than the low level of 1978, but export tonnages have remained low in Zambia and Zaire compared to levels reached in earlier years. Cotton prices went up 29 percent in 1980 from the 1978 level, but Sudanese exports declined steeply, because accumulated stocks had already been exported and current production was down as a result of poor weather, labor unrest, and lack of critical imported inputs. Sugar prices also skyrocketed in 1980, but Mauritius could not benefit from the windfall because of heavy cyclone damage and the commitment to sell most of the 1980 crop to the European Economic Community (EEC) at set prices that were lower than world market prices. Coffee prices increased 12 percent in 1979, but exports from Kenya and Tanzania declined; coffee prices declined again in 1980 and 1981.
Quite apart from the effects of bad weather and other exceptional circumstances, there were long-run adverse trends in output that held down agricultural production and export supplies in many countries, as discussed in last year's
Annual Report. Superimposed on these trends was the negative influence on the export sector of the shortage of foreign exchange. In some countries, such as Sudan, Tanzania, and Zaire, the point had been reached at which severe rationing of imports had deprived the export sector of the means—essential fuel, equipment, and inputs— for normal operation and thereby compounded the scarcity of foreign exchange in fiscal 1981.
In addition to their inability to take advantage of rising export prices, the countries oftheregion were adversely affected by increases in the cost of imports. The composite import price index for the region increased 18 percent a year in both 1979 and 1980. About a third of this increase was the result of movements in petroleum prices. The remainder of the increase was due mainly to the rise in prices of manufactured goods, particularly capital goods, imported from the industrialized countries. Petroleum imports absorbed roughly 25 percent to 33 percent of the 1979 export earnings of individual countries in
'These increases largely reflect the fact that, in 1978, prices of major exports, particularly of copper, which has a large weight in the index, were very depressed.
Women learning farming techniques at a one-week seminar run by a training center in Lilongwe, Malawi.
the region, whereas they had absorbed only about 10 percent in 1970. This share rose further as a result of the steep increase in petroleum prices in 1980.
Imports would have declined more than they did had it not been for a substantial rise in ODA. Net disbursements from countries that are members of the Development Assistance Committee and from multilateral agencies to nineteen Eastern African countries amounted to about $2,500 million in 1978, or 28 percent of the value of merchandise imports. In the following year, total aid amounted to 83,400 million, or 37 percent of the value of imports. Especially large increases in inflows of aid were received by Kenya, Malawi, Sudan, Tanzania, and Zambia. A predominant share of aid, however, is tied to specific projects or currencies of donor countries and is thus not freely available to finance the most urgent items of imports, such as spare parts.
Also, in some instances, the increase in official assistance merely offset a contraction in the inflow of funds on nonconcessional terms; it did not augment import capacity.
In 1980, most countries of the region— Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Sudan, Tanzania, and Zambia, for example—incurred large deficits in the current accounts of their balance of payments, despite the depressed level of imports. Several countries financed part of the deficit by drawing down their foreign-exchange reserves further, thereby enhancing the vulnerability of their economies to further shocks. These reserves now stand at levels that represent less than two months' imports.
The Effect of Lessened Imports on Economic Activity
In some countries constrained imports were undermining exports, as mentioned earlier. In many more countries, the rationing of imports reduced supplies for agricultural and industrial enterprises, including public firms, that cater to the domestic market. The reduction in imports of intermediate goods sharply reduced the use made of existing production capacity and increased unemployment in the modern sector. Even general government services such as agricultural extension, schools, and health facilities were deprived of critical imported items in many countries. Recurrent budgetary allocations to many agencies for maintenance and operations were cut as government tax revenues, heavily dependent on foreign trade, failed to keep pace with requirements.
The state of maintenance and operations of the modern transport sector was already poor in many countries owing to institutional weak-
nesses and lack of trained personnel. This sector was hurt further by the inadequacy of foreign exchange for fuel, vehicles, and spare parts. The volume of oil imports had been growing briskly at around 12 percent a year in most countries until the early 1970s. But after the oil price hike, the rate of growth was negative in all but a few countries. This decline caused a severe deterioration in transport and contributed to a disruption of traffic in key commodities in Ethiopia, Sudan, Tanzania, and Zaire.
Altogether, the import constraint and other factors have combined to slow the expansion of GDP in the region. In 1979, per capita income declined again in Uganda, Zaire, and Zambia. It also declined in Kenya and Zimbabwe. In Malawi, Mauritius, Sudan, and Tanzania, there was an increase of less than 1 percent in per capita income. Data for 1980 that are available so far suggest that adverse trends in income persisted in many countries.
Efforts to Adjust and Activities of the Bank
Member governments of the Bank realize the urgent need to resolve the severe economic problems that they face, for they recognize the extent to which these problems will adversely affect the implementation of their medium-term and long-term plans for increasing investment and welfare. The aim in the near term must be to reduce deficits in the balance of payments to levels that can be sustained through external assistance without recourse to excessive commercial financing. This objective can be secured through a combination of demand-management and supply-augmentation policies, especially those concerned with the recovery of exports and the output of food. Some decisions have already been made, but the situation varies from country to country. A number of policy areas— pricing of petroleum products, tariffs on transport and power, exploitation of energy resources, removal of bottlenecks in the development of infrastructure and skills—will be reviewed here in order to assess the present status of adjustment policies and their relation to Bank lending.
The sharp increase in the price of imported oil has been passed on fully to the retail level in Burundi, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Rwanda, and Tanzania, where the price of regular gasoline, including tax, in 1980-81 was about $3.00 a gallon at the official rate of exchange. In Botswana and Swaziland retail prices are at a comparable level and there may not be much subsidy involved. By raising oil prices 56 percent in March 1981, Ethiopia has moved in the same direction. In several other countries, however, prices of gasoline remain far below border prices.
Partly because local prices of petroleum products have lagged behind international costs and partly for other reasons, transport and power tariffs also have not been adjusted fully to reflect the central fact that energy has become much more expensive. Some instances of sharp increases should be noted, however. Railway tariffs rose an average of 300 percent between 1972 and 1980 in Sudan and 120 percent in Kenya. In Burundi, the official tariff for road transport rose 47 percent between 1977 and 1980. Between 1974 and 1979 average tariffs on electricity increased 111 percent in Mauritius, 88 percent in Malawi, and 70 percent in Botswana.
The Bank has responded to the new energy situation by mounting a program of energy-studies and by apportioning a larger part of its project lending to this sector. A review of the coal sector was completed in Madagascar. Energy studies are under way in Burundi, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Rwanda, and Zimbabwe. More than 12 percent of project lending was for energy in fiscal 1980 and 1981, while during the preceding five years it had been less than 9 percent. Predevelopment work in oil and gas in Somalia and Madagascar is being supported by the Bank, as are exploratory oil drilling and consultant services for further engineering and economic studies in Tanzania. A petroleum development and distribution project is being prepared in Sudan. A geothermal project has been initiated in Kenya, and hydroelectric schemes in Madagascar, Sudan, and Swaziland have been assisted. A further hydroelectric project in Kenya is under active consideration. The Bank is also acting as the executing agency for a United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) project in which photovoltaic cells and solar-thermal power are being demonstrated and tested in small irrigation pumps in Sudan. In fiscal 1980, the Bank financed a rural development project in Malawi that contained a component intended to meet the requirements of the rural population for firewood and charcoal through the establishment of community woodlots and homestead planting. Recent rural development projects in Burundi, Madagascar, Rwanda, and Tanzania also had fuel-wood and energy components.
In the transport sector, the emphasis of Bank lending has been on the maintenance and rehabilitation of existing capacity rather than on adding to such capacity. In three fiscal years, 1979,1980, and 1981, loans or credits were made to eleven countries for the rehabilitation of roads and motor vehicles and to five countries for the rehabilitation of railway tracks, locomotives, and wagons. The rising price of oil should lead to diversion of some traffic from road to rail, since the latter can be more energy efficient. Electrifi-
cation of rail lines in Zimbabwe may also increase.
In order to ease acute, economy-wide shortages of skilled personnel that continue to prevent efficient operation of existing capacity, the Bank has in recent years placed greater emphasis on technical, commercial, and management curricula in education projects and on training components of other projects. While such training components were included in about 50 percent of the projects approved before 1974, the proportion has risen to 75 percent in recent years.
A number of governments have drawn up economywide or sectoral adjustment policies that have been supported by nonproject lending by the Bank and IDA. Actions taken by Kenya and Sudan in this context were summarized in last year's Annual Report. They were joined in fiscal 1981 by Malawi, Mauritius, and Tanzania. The emphasis of the Malawi program is on the diversification of exports, the exploitation of local energy resources, and the rationalization of public expenditures. Similarly, the emphasis of the Mauritius policies is on restraining public investment, reducing the capital/output ratio, and stimulating the revival of manufactured exports. Finally, the aim of the Tanzania program is to rehabilitate primary exports by improving incentives to producers and earmarking the limited supply of foreign exchange for the purchase of critical imported inputs. In all these countries, policies recently initiated will have to be sustained throughout a substantial period if they are to produce the desired results. It will also be necessary to design supplementary policies in related fields to strengthen and broaden the effects of the entire program.
Altogether, nonproject financing by the Bank and IDA constituted 22 percent of total lending to Eastern Africa during fiscal 1980 and 1981; the share had been only 4 percent in the preceding five years. Although the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has made available substantial additional resources in support of structural-adjustment policies that governments have put into effect, the financial needs are considerably larger than can be met by the World Bank and the IMF. To help coordinate the use of resources from external donors in the face of rapidly changing circumstances, the Bank presided over meetings of Consultative Groups on Mauritius (newly founded in fiscal 1981) and Zaire during the fiscal year.
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1981
Total Bank and IDA lending in the region in fiscal 1981 amounted to $874.1 million, some $59.1 million above the fiscal 1980 level. A total of 40 loans and credits was approved. Lending
for agriculture and rural development and nonproject lending accounted for 29 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of total lending in the region in dollar terms.
Funds committed under cofinancing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached S179.8 million, or 59 percent below last year's level. Each cofinanced project attracted an average of $12 million in cofinancing during the year, compared with about $29.5 million in fiscal 1980.3 (See table on page 80.)
Disbursements on Bank loans to borrowing countries of the region were $126.0 million during the fiscal year. Disbursements of IDA credits stood at $326.5 million for the same period. The figures for Bank and IDA disbursements in fiscal 1980 were $171.1 million and $208.9 million, respectively.
2 Cofinancing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
Western Africa
The review in last year's Annual Report of major economic trends during the seventies noted that the turbulence that arose from sudden energy price increases, enormous fluctuations in commodity prices, droughts, increases in prices paid for imported capital goods, and recession in the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), combined with insufficient or misdirected policy responses, had left many countries of Western Africa in a condition of economic weakness: very large external deficits, mounting external debt, and, on the whole, a poor growth record.
External factors during the first eighteen months of the new decade have not been of a kind to allay the fears that the eighties would be a difficult, perhaps a decisive period for the long-term future of African countries. During 1979 and 1980 the petroleum import bill of oil-importing Western African countries jumped sharply; prices of most of the commodities exported from
Western Africa, excluding oil, have remained depressed or have declined further; in most parts of the Sudano-Sahelian region, rains in 1980 were insufficient or irregular and, in several countries, export crops, groundnuts in particular, were poor or very bad; food crops—millet and sorghum—were generally mediocre. With indications that in the 1980s prospects for substantial Official Development Assistance flows, particularly from countries that are members of the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD, are not bright, and that import prices would continue to increase, though at a slower pace than in the 1970s, and with a distinctly more reserved attitude on the part of private sources of capital and only cautiously optimistic forecasts of economic recovery in the industrial countries, it has become clear to Western African governments that serious efforts at domestic adjustment have become necessary. Countries vary greatly in the magnitude of the internal and external imbalances that need to be corrected.
They vary also in resource position and therefore in the capacity to resume or accelerate growth. And they differ significantly in the degree to which their governments are determined to take the necessary action and in the degree of social consensus needed to withstand the sacrifices that the process of structural adjustment entails in the short and medium term. It appears that, except in a very few cases, to repair the damage suffered during the 1970s will require years rather than months of effort to improve the management of demand and promote supply.
Most visible, however, is the much wider gulf between the oil-exporting countries and the others created by the last round of oil price increases. Also, as a result of greatly intensified oil exploration since the mid seventies the outlook is that a few more countries may become net exporters of oil in the course of the eighties. For still others, a greater measure of self-sufficiency is in sight.
The "traditional" exporters of oil—Nigeria, Gabon, the Congo—are very different from each other in population, income level, resources other than oil, and policy regimes. As noted in last year's Annual Report, however, all three reacted to the sudden jump in oil revenues in 1973-74 by enormously increasing the level of public spending, especially public investment in
Nigeria, public consumption in the Congo, and a mixture of both in Gabon.
Thanks to a set of forcefully applied measures of demand control, the external imbalances have largely been corrected in the course of the last twenty-four months, especially in Gabon and Nigeria. The recent increment in resources derived from the latest oil price increase has been a great help, of course, and the three governments now seem determined to avoid repeating the excesses in public spending of the previous cycle. There remain in these three countries the structural problems of long-term preparation for a future with much less oil. The complex issues involved are related in concept as well as in practice to the desirable long-term pattern of public and private expenditures in the face of a set of relative prices largely determined by one product—oil. The governments are very much preoccupied with the problems involved, which are at the center of the Bank's economic and sector work in these countries.
Of all the countries in the region, Cameroon has managed best to attenuate the effects of external factors on its economy. It has become, furthermore, a net, though still modest, exporter of oil with a potential for significant growth in its oil sector, and at the same time is perhaps the only economy with both a reason-
Maintaining the railroad line from Douala to Ngaoundere in Cameroon.
able growth record during the 1970s—an average 5 percent a year—and no serious financial difficulties. This is the result of prudent fiscal management and government encouragement to market forces in productive activities.
In contrast, 1980 and 1981 will be marked for the Ivory Coast, whose historical growth record is among the best in Africa, as a period of much-needed adjustment: actions taken by the government since 1978 include pruning of the public investment program, more rigorous selection of projects on the basis of their contribution to growth, closer attention to unit costs in public expenditure, restraint in foreign borrowing, and reform of parapublic enterprises. The success of its adjustment program during the next few years will depend on the basic institutional and pricing reforms envisaged primarily in agriculture, but also in other sectors, the judicious allocation of
the revenues from newly discovered and potentially important oil reserves, and on avoidance of the kind of excesses that followed the coffee-cocoa boom of 1976-77.
Similarly, the government of Togo has taken action to steer the economy through a period when service on the foreign debt contracted during the phosphate boom will absorb an uncomfortably high proportion of both government revenue and export proceeds. Part of the public debt was rescheduled through the Paris Club in February 1981 after agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a stabilization program.
During the last eighteen months, in order to alleviate the burden of too much debt, Liberia and Sierra Leone also availed themselves of the mechanism of the Paris Club following similar stabilization programs with the IMF. As in many
other cases, the governments have also undertaken to make better use of funds from foreign borrowing in recognition of the fact that a primary cause of the so-called debt problem had been the allocation of such funds to unproductive projects.
The program of structural adjustment undertaken by Senegal since the middle of 1980, with support from the Bank, the IMF, and bilateral donors, illustrates the extent of the reforms that may be needed when, as is frequently the case, the problem is rooted in an historic pattern of policies and institutions that were not always appropriate. The program seeks to increase public savings. Expansion of credit is to be severely limited, as is foreign borrowing. The public investment program for 1981-84 is to be trimmed and its composition tilted toward more directly productive sectors, and projects will be selected according to more rigorous cost-benefit analysis.
Major parts of the incentive system are to be revised: higher and more nearly uniform import tariffs and export subsidies are being introduced on a limited scale; consumer prices are to be gradually decontrolled and producer prices made more remunerative. The parapublic sector has undertaken to prepare "program contracts" designed to clarify objectives, internal structures, and financial relations with the government.
This comprehensive program of structural adjustment is meant to cut the external deficit on current account and lay the foundations for sustained growth. What may have been the worst groundnut crop since independence, however, has greatly compounded the difficulties. While the government will need to remain committed to the objectives of the rehabilitation program, more time than was foreseen will be needed to achieve them.
In countries facing serious structural problems in other parts of the Sahel, it is often less clear what the governments' programs are. The situation remains unsettled in Chad; in November 1980 a new military government came to power in Upper Volta; in Niger the cereal crop was rather good, but a decline in uranium prices and uncertain prospects for the future required a reduction in the public investment program and made apparent the need for the government to strengthen its financial management, especially with respect to foreign borrowing. In Mali, the government has determined that reforms are seriously needed in the public sector, especially liberalization of the marketing of cereal and more stringent employment policies for the public sector as conditions for achieving a measure of internal and financial equilibrium and for stimulating agricultural production.
In countries that are comparatively well endowed with natural resources, such as Ghana and Guinea, but that have suffered from profound and persistent weaknesses in organization, politically difficult steps will be required to remove the deep-seated distortions that pervade the system of incentives and to move their economies away from the historical trend toward stagnation.
Faced with the imperative of rehabilitating their economies, the vast majority of Western African countries are likely to take the critical internal policy measures needed, and the Bank is prepared to assist them. As mentioned earlier, the Bank has provided support to the structural-adjustment program in Senegal; discussions are under way with a few other countries in the region with a view to devising reform programs at both the macroeconomic and sectoral levels. It would be unrealistic to expect, however, that with the present level of external assistance domestic adjustment alone will accelerate the pace of growth throughout the region. In the long term, inflows of public and private capital at higher levels and a more favorable trade environment are also essential ingredients.
Lending Focus on Rural Development
With respect to agriculture, the 1980-81 crop year in the region has not given any indication that it will reverse the total food situation. Imports of wheat and rice by all countries in the region probably exceeded the 3.2 million tons recorded in 1978-79 and could reach 5 million tons by 1985. While weather has had something to do with food production, two important reasons for the deteriorating situation continue to be inappropriate pricing and support policies and resource constraints.
Pricing and import policies have channeled demand toward consumption of wheat and rice, which are becoming more popular in urban areas, replacing locally produced foods that are more expensive. Inadequate allocations of foreign exchange and funds to meet subsidies elsewhere in the economy have caused inputs to be insufficient, and they are often delivered too late by state corporations. These policies are also encouraging poor use of land and are preventing the development of better techniques of land management. In the drier areas and also in the more populous areas, soil and water conservation problems are increasing with deforestation. As more crop wastes are burned for domestic purposes, less is available for feeding livestock and for retaining the fertility of the soil. Declines in agricultural production may also be attributed to the attitude of farmers who are reluctant to risk growing crops that have perennially been lost to drought and pests.
To help rectify these problems, the focus of Bank lending in Western Africa has continued to be on rural development and on policy discussions with governments, particularly in Mali, Nigeria, Senegal, and Upper Volta. Lending for agriculture, including food production, increased 71 percent in fiscal 1981 and continues to claim the largest share of total lending to the region. Afforestation, improved land use, and agricultural research are receiving more attention in the planning of possible projects for the future. While rural development projects themselves cannot turn the tide, there is evidence that they are improving food supplies in the project areas and that their examples are encouraging some governments to consider more favorable policies. Nigeria is a case in point as it attempts to implement its 1980 National Food Strategy, the main elements of which are to provide the small-scale farmers with production inputs, such as fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, and farm equipment; to offer critical services consisting, for instance, of rural feeder roads, crop and input storage facilities, extension services, and so on; and to adopt a package of incentives, such as crop-pricing policies, investment incentives, and import tariffs that encourage food production while minimizing the direct activities of the government in food production.
Developing Energy Potential
With respect to energy, the Bank's response is to help the oil-importing countries to explore and develop their own energy potential, particularly in petroleum, but also including energy from renewable sources, such as hydropower, fuel wood, biomass, and solar energy, and to set up comprehensive national planning and policies for energy so as to ensure more efficient use of this key resource.
Bank strategy with respect to petroleum is to promote exploration. Bank-assisted exploration projects typically comprise reevaluation of existing data and the gathering of new geological and geophysical data and strengthening of national planning capacity in the oil sector for carrying out further collection and analysis of data, negotiation of exploration contracts, and monitoring of exploration activities. Bank-assisted exploration activities are now being considered or carried out in three basins: the onshore Taoudeni basin in Mali and Mauritania and two offshore basins—one involving The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania, and Senegal, the other Benin, Ghana, the Ivory Coast, and Togo. During fiscal 1981, the Bank and IDA assisted petroleum-exploration projects in Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, and Mali, for a total of $15.5 million, whereas they had assisted
only one such project, in the Congo, in fiscal 1980. In addition, $2.8 million of Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advances were granted for the preparation of seven oil-exploration projects, while only $0.8 million, for three projects, had been advanced in fiscal 1980. Bank lending for technical assistance in the petroleum sector increased more than 400 percent in fiscal 1981.
In the area of renewable energy, an IDA credit of $9.3 million was approved in fiscal 1981 for a forestry project in Senegal featuring 5,000 hectares of rainfed tree plantations to renew and expand natural sources of fuel wood and building poles. A similar project in Cameroon is in an advanced stage of preparation, as are a gasohol project in Mali and hydroelectric projects in Benin, the Ivory Coast, Sierra Leone, and Togo. Hydroelectric projects in Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Niger, and Upper Volta are being examined.
During fiscal 1981, preliminary energy-sector reviews were undertaken for Cameroon, Ghana, and Sierra Leone. In these, an attempt was made to examine, to the extent possible, resources, supply, demand, investment, institutions, and policies. In addition to the preliminary identification of project opportunities, policy issues requiring consideration were flagged, and ways and means, including technical assistance, of improving national energy planning and management were suggested. Similar studies of other countries are planned.
In the transportation sector maintenance, rehabilitation, and upgrading of existing infrastructure, extending feeder road networks, and institution building have been given priority over new investments in high-standard roads. In fiscal 1981 alone, seven road projects were approved with those priority objectives in mind, including a $100 million Bank sector loan to the Ivory Coast that emphasizes rehabilitation and construction; an $11.3 million IDA credit to Benin for rehabilitation and maintenance; a $20 million IDA credit to Togo featuring institution-building components; and a $17 million IDA credit to Mali for maintenance. Further projects are being prepared along the same lines. Transport ranked second in the overall distribution of Bank lending to the region and, in addition, was able to muster considerable amounts of cofinancing funds.
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1981
Total Bank and IDA lending in the region in fiscal 1981 amounted to $938.3 million, some $207 million above the fiscal 1980 level. A total of 35 loans and credits was approved. Lending for agriculture and rural development and transpor-
tation accounted for 43 percent and 26 percent, respectively, of total lending in the region in dollar terms.
Funds committed under cofinancing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached $178.8 million, or 71 percent below last year's level. Each cofinanced project attracted an average of $15 million in cofinancing during the year, compared with about $34 million in fiscal 1980.' (See table on page 80.)
Disbursements on Bank loans to borrowing countries of the region were S245.5 million during the fiscal year. Disbursements of IDA credits stood at $183.2 million for the same period. The figures for Bank and IDA disbursements in fiscal 1980 were $233.3 million and $142.0 million, respectively.
; Cofinancing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time
East Asia and Pacific
With their rapidly growing and generally open economies, the countries in the region that borrow most heavily from the Bank have been deeply affected by recent events in the international economy, which are discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report. The changes were adverse for the three large petroleum-importing countries: Korea, the Philippines, and Thailand. The approximate doubling of nominal petroleum prices between mid 1979 and mid 1980 cost these countries some 4-6 percent of their real incomes. In contrast to the situation in 1974-75 these losses were not compensated for by increased prices of other commodities exported by countries in the region: although prices of sugar and grains increased, those of some metals and vegetable oils declined. The net effect on the balance of payments was positive for Thailand and mixed for the Philippines. The effect of the loss in the terms of trade for the three large petroleum importers came on top of already
substantial initial deficits in current accounts, which meant that policies were needed to reduce these deficits, if not immediately, then at least in the medium term.
The deteriorating climate of world trade has, however, made it difficult to effect the adjustment by increasing exports. In the case of Korea, a major exporting country, the efforts to diversify to a technologically more advanced mix of output and exports—such as automobiles and heavy machinery—proved to be more difficult than had been anticipated. These difficulties were exacerbated by the inflationary pressures brought on by the high rates of growth in gross domestic product (GDP), which averaged 11 percent a year during 1976-78, and rapidly rising labor costs, which were caused by the tightening labor market. The declining competitiveness in exports necessitated a 36 percent devaluation of the won in 1980, which, while improving the balance of trade, brought on another inflation-
ary price push. With international inflation also accelerating. Korea's domestic inflation rate peaked at 29 percent in 1980 before beginning to abate in 1981.
In the Philippines and Thailand, domestic inflationary pressures were less strong, but still the rate of inflation in these two countries accelerated to 18 percent and 20 percent, respectively, in 1980. Control of inflation—principally by means of tight monetary policy and selective price freezes in the Philippines and by means of cuts in subsidies and other budgetary expenditures in Thailand—and a reduction of balance-of-payments deficits therefore became important objectives of policy in 1980 and 1981. The deflationary policies that were adopted led to some reduction in the growth momentum in both countries. In Korea, the effects of a very bad harvest, the political uncertainty and civil unrest that followed the assassination of President Park, and of restrictive policies for combatting inflation worked together to reduce GDP nearly 4 percent in 1980, and in the course of the year, the government resorted to measures by which it hoped to stimulate the economy, although these were tempered by concern for resurgent inflation.
For Indonesia, as a petroleum exporter, the oil price increase has led to a large improvement in its balance of payments, and it is expected that the present surpluses in current accounts will
persist for several years. Inflation is also an important constraint for Indonesia where the government has succeeded in bringing the rate of inflation down to about 15 percent a year from the rate of 30 percent reached in the wake of the 1978 devaluation. The only larger country in the region that has succeeded in keeping inflation below the double-digit level during the last several years is resource-rich Malaysia, which had an inflation rate of 7 percent in 1980 due partly to the conservative fiscal and monetary policies pursued by that country.
Of the countries of the region, the most seriously afflicted by oil price increases were the small, oil-importing countries such as landlocked Laos. To avoid a worsening of its economic situation and further deterioration in living standards, Laos introduced in fiscal 1981 several sweeping measures, including partial elimination of price and subsidy distortions and an austere stabilization program. Devaluation of the kip had occurred in the previous fiscal year. In consultation with the Bank, more resources were committed to irrigated rice production, livestock, and forestry. As a result of these measures, the economic situation in the country improved markedly.
These various issues must be considered against the background of the continuing need to redress poverty and to increase the welfare of large segments of the population, a task that will
not be easy. Two countries, Korea and Thailand, have been successful in this respect since the 1960s. But the situation may be changing for the worse, for Korea may find new trade restraints in the path of its export-led strategy, Thailand can no longer count on the availability of additional land reserves, and both countries are wrestling with scarcity of budgetary resources.
The absence of a foreign-exchange constraint created opportunities for the alleviation of poverty for the two petroleum exporters, Indonesia and Malaysia. Those two countries have manpower development programs under implementation—programs supported with external assistance, including that from the Bank—to meet the growing demand for skilled manpower so as to enable programs of poverty alleviation to be designed and carried out. The skilled-manpower constraint is, of course, a phenomenon common to many developing countries. The same general problem exists in copper-rich Papua New Guinea, where the critical constraint is the shortage of skilled and trained manpower. Judging from improvements in some economic and social indicators, the inci-
dence of poverty in the Philippines probably declined a few percentage points toward the end of the 1970s. There is, however, a danger that increasing poverty will assert itself in other countries, unless governments can effectively counter the less favorable economic conditions that prevail now and are expected to prevail in the future.
Government Policies and Bank Assistance
Although at varying rates of intensity, all countries are attempting to address these problems, and the Bank is assisting them in their efforts. The three countries with the largest current-account deficits—Korea, Thailand, and the Philippines—especially are moving across a broad front to induce structural adjustments in their economies. Areas of special importance are appropriate pricing policies and trade policies, mobilization of resources, monetary policy, conservation of energy, import substitution, industrial and financial reorganization, rural development, alleviation of poverty, management of foreign debt, and improved public administration. Within the space of the Annual
A student learning welding techniques at the Vocational Training Institute in Pusan, Korea.
Report it is not possible to cover all these areas in all countries, so a few examples must suffice.
With respect to energy, the government of Thailand has moved rapidly for more than a year to bring prices into line with international levels. This will not only tend to improve efficiency in the use of energy but will also reduce public-sector subsidies and budget deficits. The government is also preparing a program for conservation of energy by the large industrial users of energy. The transport sector was induced to become more energy-efficient by means of several massive increases in excise taxes on gasoline during 1979-80, in effect doubling its price within one year. In the field of energy-import substitution, domestic gas and lignite resources are rapidly being developed. On the assumption that these resources will largely replace fuel oil, attention is also being given to an appropriate adjustment in Thailand's refinery product mix.
In all these areas, the Bank is offering support. Specifically, several loans have been made for a gas pipeline (fiscal 1979 and 1980), lignite development (fiscal 1980), and power subsector development (fiscal 1978, 1980, and 1981). All energy issues are being addressed comprehensively in the context of several possible loans that are now being discussed by the government and the Bank.
Similar approaches are being followed in the work on Korea, which has fewer domestic energy supply options than Thailand. In the Philippines, the Bank carried out an energy-sector survey in collaboration with the Asian Development Bank (AsDB). In Indonesia, the Bank is assisting the government in undertaking an energy-sector survey, with a view to improving the efficiency of domestic energy use. A coalmining project is in advanced stages of preparation; this coal will be used to fire power generators, the construction of which is being financed by the Bank. In fiscal 1980 the Bank helped to finance a hydropower project in Fiji, which will make possible substantial import substitution of petroleum products. A similar project is being prepared in Solomon Islands, to be cofinanced with the AsDB.
In industrial and financial policy, sector studies have been carried out for Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Korea, and the Philippines, and the governments have given serious attention to the recommendations.
In the specific case of the Philippines, the Bank's structural-adjustment lending in fiscal 1981 is based on a comprehensive set of industrial and trade policy reforms being implemented by the government. In that country the Bank has also followed a new approach to the financing of industrial development by channeling its lend-
ing—together with cofinancing by private banks—through one institution, the Apex Development Finance Unit, created by the Central Bank of the Philippines in consultation with the World Bank; the funds are onlent to other domestic banks according to criteria previously agreed upon, with industrial lending as the ultimate purpose.
Industrial reorganization is also expected to be included in the structural-adjustment loans to Korea and Thailand that are now being prepared. In Indonesia and Malaysia, where no structural-adjustment lending is contemplated, industrial and financial policy reform is also high on the Bank's agenda for policy discussions with the government.
In the interest of improving efficiency in the use of resources, several countries have been looking to the Bank for assistance in planning and institutional reform. In Korea and Thailand, the Bank has managed planning-assistance projects financed by the United Nations Development Programme, the results of which are being used extensively in the analysis being carried out for the preparation of structural-adjustment lending. At the request of the Thai government, the Bank has also been advising on a number of issues in the management of development, including functional and geographic decentralization of decisionmaking and strengthening of the links between the planning and budgeting processes. The latter issue has also been dealt with in the Philippines and Indonesia.
Finally, in the general concern for alleviation of poverty, both rural and urban, and provision of basic needs, the Bank has, as part of its research program, done significant analytical work on poverty and its determinants in Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand. In addition, many special contributions to the alleviation of poverty are being supported by the Bank. In Indonesia, for example, special studies have been undertaken in the areas of transmigration and the training of manpower in agriculture. In the same country, projects have been undertaken for agricultural research (fiscal 1980), swamp reclamation (fiscal 1981), smallholder tree-crops development (fiscal 1981), small-enterprise development (fiscal 1981), slum improvement (fiscal 1981), and higher education (fiscal 1981). In other countries projects that will help to alleviate poverty have been undertaken in fiscal 1981 for agricultural credit or support services (Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Solomon Islands, and Western Samoa), watershed management (the Philippines), and primary education (Papua New Guinea and the Philippines). In the case of Solomon Islands and Western Samoa, a new initiative has been introduced to cofinance
selected projects with the Asian Development Bank in the lead. In the urban sector, where the lending is focused specifically on the poor, loans were approved for projects in Indonesia and Korea.
New Directions in Lending and Other Assistance
To varying degrees, the governments of the countries in the region are recognizing to a growing extent the importance not only of the investment strategy but also of the policy framework for economic development. The Bank is actively supporting this evolution. The new approaches are perhaps most evident in the lending for structural adjustment, which is now firmly established in the Philippines and for which preparations are now under way in Korea and Thailand. Even where structural-adjustment lending is not being undertaken because the economic conditions for it do not exist, as in Indonesia and in Malaysia, the trend is in the direction of the same type of very specific analytical work in preparation for and support of policy adjustments that will benefit the country in the long run. This approach is now also being used in areas of general policy, such as the alleviation of poverty, where the Malaysian government, for example, is using price measures, such as support-price policy for small farmers' crops and subsidized basic inputs, and budgetary support of a variety of specific development schemes, such as land-development and settlement programs, which are primarily for the benefit of the poor. These programs and policies are having substantial influence on the character of the economic and sector work, which is becoming more selective and is moving from the general to the specific. This work is being undertaken to an increasing extent in close cooperation with researchers in the borrowing countries.
Recognizing that the Bank can finance only a relatively small part of the investment programs of these countries, the trend in the design of projects has been to make maximum use of the Bank's limited financial and technical resources by ensuring that the investments are embedded in an effective policy framework. This can, but does not necessarily have to be, accomplished through sector lending. Recent examples of the use of this approach are an education loan to Korea, a power loan to Thailand, and a financial sector loan and a primary-education loan to the Philippines.
Through these and similar approaches the Bank hopes to make its assistance more effective in the socioeconomic development of the region, as the resources that it can, at present, make available to the established borrowers have
ceased to grow. In fact, excluding the first loan to China, the total lending program to the region for fiscal 1981 actually declined marginally from the amount lent in fiscal 1980.
China and the Bank: the First Year
On May 15, 1980, the Executive Directors of the World Bank decided that the government of the People's Republic of China would represent China in the Bank and in IDA. The Chinese government and the Bank adopted for the first year of the relationship a program having two aspects. First, heavy emphasis was placed on economic and sector work, in an attempt to understand the principal factors that have determined the social and economic development of China during the last decades. Some of these factors are discussed briefly in this chapter. Second, preparation of a small group of high-priority projects was started immediately, and an appraisal of a university development project, approved by the Executive Directors in June, and preappraisal work on two other projects— agriculture and ports—were completed.
China has a varied climate and terrain, large energy resources, a largely self-sufficient and diversified production base, and a highly literate, disciplined population. During the past three decades, most of its development efforts have had two objectives: industrialization, with an emphasis on heavy industry, and elimination of the worst aspects of poverty. Chinese development strategy has been constrained by an extreme shortage of cultivable land and a high degree of international isolation.
Efforts directed toward alleviation of poverty began with an initial phase of land redistribution, followed by agricultural programs and widespread provision of social services, for the most part using local resources and initiatives. Despite slow growth of agricultural production in relation to population, the effects on human welfare have been impressive. At the same time, a massive infusion of centrally mobilized capital led to rapid industrialization, using technology most of which dated from the 1950s. Growth of gross national product (GNP) per capita was well above the average for low-income countries— 2.7 percent a year from 1957 to 1979. Consumption has grown significantly, although more slowly than total output, owing to the emphasis given to investment growth. Nevertheless, China's most remarkable achievement has been to meet far more of the basic needs of low-income groups than have been met of their counterparts in most other poor countries. During the past decade, the country has also been quite successful in reducing its population growth.
In the last two years, the government has initiated a wide range of economic reforms in the
system of economic planning and management. Most of those are meant to improve the efficiency of the use of physical and financial resources and to effect a better match between supply and demand, specifically with respect to consumer goods, production of which is now given higher priority as a development objective. The government has taken steps to increase the share of consumption in the economy by reducing the share of investment in budget expenditures and to spend more on housing, education, health, agriculture, and light industry. Urban wages and agricultural procurement prices have been increased substantially. Agricultural production, light industrial output, and real consumption per capita rose sharply between 1978 and 1980.
The new policies have been less successful in other respects. Some unforeseen effects on the budget and on the balance between aggregate demand and supply occurred, mainly because the planned reduction in investment was not entirely achieved. There were large unplanned budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, coupled with inflationary pressure that was only partly suppressed by the price-control system. This led in early 1981 to a switch in emphasis from medium-term adjustment to short-term stabilization. Price controls were tightened, some recentral-ization of economic decisionmaking was introduced, and expenditures for capital construction were to be cut 40 percent from 1980 to 1981, causing the postponement of many large projects, including those financed from foreign sources. Efforts are being made to continue investment programs in high-priority sectors, notably energy, in order to ease critical constraints on further expansion of domestic production.
The Bank's introductory analysis of China's economy, covering China's past development
performance, its economic system, its medium-term prospects, and the development, performance, and prospects of the energy, agriculture, education, transport, and industry sectors, was completed in May 1981. The analysis was the basis for extensive discussions with the government, during which general agreement was reached on an operational country work program that would address the critical constraints of lagging energy production, inefficient use of energy in the industrial sector, limited agricultural land, lack of foreign exchange, and shortages of trained manpower.
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1981
Total Bank and IDA lending in the region in fiscal 1981 amounted to $2,358.4 million, some $10.5 million below the fiscal 1980 level. A total of 35 loans and credits was approved. Lending for agriculture and rural development and development finance companies accounted for 27 percent and 18 percent, respectively, of total lending in the region in dollar terms.
Funds committed under cofinancing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached $1,027.7 million, or 12 percent above last year's level. Each cofinanced project attracted an average of $114 million in cofinancing during the year, compared with about $70 million in fiscal 1980.' (See table on page 80.)
Disbursements on Bank loans to borrowing countries of the region were $1,349.9 million during the fiscal year. Disbursements of IDA credits stood at $90.9 million for the same period. The figures for Bank and IDA disbursements in fiscal 1980 were $1,052.0 million and $74.5 million, respectively.
Cofinancing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
South Asia
The economies of most South Asian countries in 1980 enjoyed an encouraging expansion in total output and per capita growth, recovering substantially from the drought-induced declines in 1979. What made this growth notable was the fact that it occurred despite another sharp rise in the prices of the petroleum products upon which the region depends heavily. During 1979 and 1980 the petroleum-import bill of South Asian countries jumped 80 percent; in these two years the share of earnings from merchandise exports absorbed by oil imports increased from around 45 percent to 70 percent. Agriculture in much of the region benefited from favorable weather, while government policies and strong agricultural growth have lent an impetus to growth in other sectors as well. Although sharp rises in petroleum prices aggravated the balance-of-pay-ments problems of a number of countries and the inflationary tendencies of several of them, development assistance, to some extent, helped
most countries of the region to maintain their investment rates and in a few instances to raise them.
The generally favorable growth experience through fiscal 1981 has taken place against a setting of structural obstacles to development. The region faced both external and internal problems that constrained its development efforts. Most countries suffered from the rise in energy prices and world inflation, while the economic slowdown in industrial countries impeded expansion of exports. Growth in domestic savings generally failed to keep pace with investment, upsetting the overall resource balance. The region continues to suffer from inadequate economic infrastructure. The poverty that pervades South Asia makes it almost inevitable that improvement in social services can take place only at a very slow pace; this underscores the importance of reducing the rate of population growth if severely depressed standards of living are to be
improved. While it is always hazardous to base long-term judgments on the events of a year or two, it is clear that the profound deterioration in the balance of payments of countries of the region calls for intensifying efforts for reorganizing their economies and stepping up support by the international community to facilitate the necessary process of change that has come to be called structural adjustment.
Country Developments
Following a poor monsoon and a generally disappointing performance the previous year, the economy of India rebounded in fiscal 1981, with growing strength in the latter part of the year. Aided by a good monsoon, agricultural production more than recovered from the depressed level of the preceding year. Though slower to recover, industrial output gained some momentum, so that growth in gross national product (GNP) was expected to be between 7 percent and 8 percent. Production of food grains in fiscal 1981 approximated the fiscal 1979 record of 132 million tons. Some easing of supply constraints occurred in coal production and port clearance. Against these significant gains, several economic indicators lagged: power and rail transport remained in short supply; the annual rate of inflation remained high at 16 percent; and the balance of payments presented a serious
problem as the current-account deficit increased sharply. Imports rose more than 3 percent, fueled primarily by sharp increases in the volume and prices of imported petroleum and fertilizer. This situation was exacerbated by a fall in domestic production of crude oil owing to political agitation in Assam. Although export performance improved somewhat, growth was insufficient to counter the deterioration in the terms of trade.
Stepping back from these recent developments and making a long-term appraisal suggests that the Indian economy today is substantially stronger than it was a half decade earlier, and it should therefore be better able to weather the effects of the harsher external environment. The country's agricultural and industrial bases are considerably broader and more diversified than they were in the past; imports of food grains have been gradually eliminated, while substantial buffer stocks of grain have been established; rates of gross investment and national savings have climbed to impressive levels, reaching about 22 percent of GNP; substantial foreign-exchange reserves have been built up; and external debt is at very low levels.
A number of difficulties of a structural nature remain, however, that require sustained action if soundly based development is to be possible in the future. The more serious problems include a
very low level of per capita income ($190) with an attendant high incidence of poverty; a severely strained economic infrastructure; inadequate domestic production of commodities, such as edible oils, fertilizer, cement, and steel; inadequate growth of exports; and continuing population pressure. However, significant changes in economic policies are taking place in India in response to the changing resource position and in preparation for another period of balance-of-payments difficulties. The ambitious sixth five-year development plan (fiscal 1981-85) addresses itself to all these challenges.
During fiscal 1981, Bank assistance to India continued to emphasize agriculture. The Bank has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in providing direct support to major and minor irrigation schemes. Marketing, seed development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural activities supported by the Bank. The Bank has also been active in helping to finance the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through its sizable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium-scale
and small industrial enterprises. IDA assistance in financing industrial raw materials and components for selected sectors of high priority has been instrumental in facilitating better use of capacity in industry. The Bank has also contributed to the alleviation of infrastructural bottlenecks through its support of the power sector, telecommunications, and railways. The further development of India's reserves of oil and natural gas has also received Bank support.
Following unfavorable weather and poor harvests in 1979 and 1980, agricultural production in Bangladesh, under the stimulus of good weather, enjoyed a strong recovery in 1981, increasing by about 7 percent, and the country's position in food grains improved considerably. As a result, gross domestic product (GDP) also expanded about 7 percent. Apart from the effects of favorable weather, the growth in agricultural output was also attributable to government policies, reflected in increased investment in irrigation, better use of existing irrigation facilities, improved delivery of inputs, and price-support measures. Progress was also made in raising administered prices to reflect costs and in containing current expenditures while maintaining a high level of government investment.
Learning about family planning in Bangladesh.
Along with these favorable developments, however, fiscal 1981 witnessed a serious deterioration in public finances and in the balance of payments, continuing a situation that had been aggravated in fiscal 1980. The budgetary difficulties were associated with large expenditures for food procurement and a reduced inflow of commodity aid. Notwithstanding the conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the balance of payments deteriorated because of declining jute prices, higher petroleum prices, and a shortfall in commodity aid.
Viewed in long-term perspective, Bangladesh has made considerable progress in recent years in laying a foundation for the country's development. Among noteworthy gains that have been made are the rehabilitation and expansion of the physical infrastructure, better use of capacity, improved performance in public investment—all laying the foundation for future agricultural and industrial growth—and greater development activity on the part of the private sector.
This evidence of sustained recent progress must be seen, however, against the backdrop of the massive development problems that the country faces: low food production, widespread illiteracy, increasing pressure of population on a small land area, and shortage of energy. Indeed, agricultural development, education, family planning, and energy have been identified in the new second five-year plan as the country's top development priorities.
Activities of the Bank are designed to help the government address these problems. In agriculture, IDA credits are helping the government to implement its ambitious, yet technically feasible, Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan, the aim of which is food self-sufficiency by 1985. Toward this end, credits have been provided for minor irrigation, agricultural extension, agricultural credit, and the production and transport of fertilizer. With a group of other donors the Bank is continuing its support of the family-planning program and has been discussing with the government ways of improving the management of the program. In energy, the Bank is supporting both development of the country's natural gas resources and the formulation of a national energy policy. To help broaden the industrial base and increase nontraditional exports, members of the Bank staff have been aiding the government in developing the basis for a comprehensive set of industrial policies along with direct lending for industrial projects.
In fiscal 1981, for the fourth consecutive year, the economy of Pakistan showed continued growth, although at a somewhat slower pace than in fiscal 1980. Indeed, an annual growth rate
of about 5 percent seemed within reach. Agricultural output increased by between 3 percent and 4 percent; in addition, industrial output also revived as capacity and its use grew and as the availability of imported inputs increased. The expansion was facilitated by good weather, continued growth in exports and migrants' remittances, and favorable economic policies that both encouraged the private sector and provided general economic stability. The government has enjoyed considerable success in its efforts at management of demand: the general budgetary situation, public and national savings, and inflationary pressure improved considerably in both 1980 and 1981. Balance-of-payments pressures, which have been severe in recent years, were moderated through the conclusion of an agreement with the IMF for an Extended Fund Facility, the largest granted by the Fund so far, and an eighteen-month rescheduling agreement on external debt with bilateral creditors of the Pakistan Consortium.
In industry, various incentives have begun to stimulate private investment and exports, while a concerted attempt to introduce reforms, including greater flexibility of management and tougher standards of financial performance, has reduced inefficiency in the public manufacturing sector. Agricultural production benefited from investments in quick-yielding projects, improvements in support services, and higher crop prices. Some progress has also been made in developing the country's energy capacity through new exploration, investments in generation and transmission facilities, and encouragement of the use of domestic fuels by means of appropriate price adjustments.
These recent achievements represent only the beginning of an attack on the country's principal development problems. These include low productivity in agriculture, an inefficient public industrial sector, slow growth in large-scale private industry, heavy dependence on imported energy supplies, a low level of domestic savings, and a high rate of population growth. The Bank has worked closely with the government in attacking several of these problems. In agriculture, studies by the government and the Bank of water management in the Indus basin and other aspects of agricultural productivity have been responsible for significant policy reforms, including efforts to rationalize agricultural input and output prices and a redirection of agricultural investment. Bank-supported projects include seed improvement, the introduction of the training-and-visit extension system, and agricultural research. A program of joint Bank-Pakistan investigations of the industrial sector is expected to improve efficiency in both private and public industry.
The economy of Nepal in recent years has exhibited little growth, largely reflecting the inability of the agricultural sector to expand output. GDP and agricultural growth since fiscal
1976 have averaged less than population growth, and per capita production of food grains has fallen steadily. While investment has expanded, growth in productivity has lagged. Largely as a result of the slow growth in agriculture, the current-account deficit in the balance of payments has increased sharply in recent years.
The obstacles to development in Nepal are severe; they include its difficult natural topography, inadequate infrastructure, institutional weakness, rapid population growth, and progressive deterioration in the physical environment as a result of steady deforestation and erosion.
The Bank has assisted in developing infrastructure in Nepal through credits for highways, power, and telecommunications. Now the assistance of the Bank is being directed toward the lagging agricultural sector through a number of projects in irrigation, rural development and farming in the hills, grain storage, and credits for forestry and erosion control. The Bank routinely incorporates technical assistance in virtually all its projects in the country in order to strengthen project implementation and institutional capacity.
Resurgence in Sri Lanka
The principal policy reforms of 1977 in Sri Lanka were followed by dramatic improvements in economic performance as import liberalization, external assistance, and a rationalization of prices led to an upsurge of private and public investment and large increases in production and employment.
Although growth in GDP decelerated in 1980 to about 5.5 percent, this was still twice the rate that had prevailed during the period 1970-77. The slowdown was largely attributable to declines in tree crops, manufacturing, construction, and mining. Paddy production, however, grew more than 10 percent during 1979, reaching a record high level and bringing the country close to self-sufficiency in rice.
A striking feature of Sri Lanka's recent growth has been a massive increase in capital formation. Important projects in the public sector include the Accelerated Mahaweli Program and housing and urban-renewal programs. Private investment has also increased sharply, with total gross investment increasing from 14 percent of GDP in
1977 to 35 percent in 1980. Foreign savings financed most of this large increase in investment.
Beginning in 1980 and continuing into 1981, claims on resources—especially demands by the
public sector for the completion of important projects that require long gestation periods— brought severe pressures on public finances and the balance of payments, leading to rapidly rising prices and a reassessment, supported by the economic and sector work of the Bank, of the government's development program. This reassessment has led to a decision to reduce general expenditures and readjust spending priorities.
The resurgence in the Sri Lankan economy and the accompanying pressures on resources had, by early 1981, reached the stage at which major stocktaking and policy actions were essential in order to preserve the gains reached in the period since 1977. The central problem was excessive spending on long-gestation or low-yielding projects, coupled with stagnation in exports of tree crops. A reversal of the deterioration in the overall economic situation requires a reform of public finances, including better performance of corporations in the public sector, reevaluation of the public investment program, improvements in the tree-crop sector, and rectification of the trade deficit by stimulating exports and containing imports.
The Bank is working closely with the government in attacking these problems. The Bank is giving substantial support to the Mahaweli Program, which consists of ambitious, multiple-purpose projects for river-basin development. Lending to expand productivity in the tree-crop sector is an important contribution to export development; joint studies of export-incentive policies by the World Bank and the Sri Lankan government have the same objectives.
Agricultural production in Burma recorded steady progress in the late 1970s as investment priorities shifted toward the primary producing sectors. Use of higher-yielding varieties of rice, coupled with favorable weather and attractive fertilizer price incentives, led to rapid increases in paddy output. Industrial performance, however, was less consistent. Real GDP, nevertheless, increased 6 percent a year in the late 1970s, in sharp contrast to performance in earlier years, and is expected to have increased 8 percent in fiscal 1981.
While Burma has thus made substantial economic progress in recent years, the level of economic activity is far below the country's potential. There is substantial scope for further increases in production of paddy and other primary products, but this will require improvements in incentives to producers. An additional major issue is the need to strengthen efforts at mobilization of resources, both because the politicoeconomic system of the country calls for the state to fulfill a pivotal function, and for public investment in particular, and because resources devoted to meeting needs in the social
sectors have been declining in real terms for a number of years.
Through its economic work the Bank has advised the government on various aspects of the allocation of public investment and mobilization of public revenues. In addition, the Bank has tried to encourage a more vigorous export program. With respect to investment allocation the Bank has analyzed the desirability of an appropriate balance between quick-yielding agricultural and industrial investments and the slow-maturing heavy industry that has required a large amount of investment and foreign exchange. In line with the government's own priorities, IDA lending to Burma primarily seeks to support directly productive sectors— agriculture and mining—and, thereby, growth in export earnings. In addition, IDA credits aid in the development of the country's infrastructure through lending for transport and telecommunications, for example.
With earnings from fish production and tourism doing very well and with the impetus of favorable government policies, the economy of the Maldives grew quite rapidly in 1979 and 1980. Capital formation, including further development of capacity in the fishing industry, tourist facilities, and the shipping fleet, increased.
The country's development requires continued expansion of foreign-exchange earnings, strengthening of the fishing industry, the geographical diversification of economic activity, solutions to the problem of supply and conservation of energy, and further strengthening of the planning process. The Bank has
endeavored to assist the government both through economic advice—on public investment programming and administration, for example—and in its project financing, through assistance with modernization and expansion of the fishing industry.
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1981
Total Bank and IDA lending in the region in fiscal 1981 amounted to 52,531.2 million, some $94.7 million above the fiscal 1980 level. A total of 38 loans and credits was approved. Lending for agriculture and rural development and energy accounted for 36 percent and 19 percent, respectively, of total lending in the region in dollar terms.
Funds committed under cofinancing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached $610.5 million, or 63 percent above last year's level. Each cofinanced project attracted an average of $51 million in cofinancing during the year, compared with about $29 million in fiscal 1980.1 (See table on page 80.)
Disbursements on Bank loans to borrowing countries of the region were $200.5 million during the fiscal year. Disbursements of IDA credits stood at $1,091.1 million for the same period. The figures for Bank and IDA disbursements in fiscal 1980 were $181.8 million and $866.5 million, respectively.
1 Cofinancing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
The developing countries in the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa region vary considerably in both economic characteristics and social and political institutions. The underlying economic diversity is reflected in the developments that have taken place in the countries of the region during the past fiscal year. Yet there has been a common denominator for most countries: an intensified emphasis on adopting policies and measures aimed at adjustment to the international economic developments of 1979 and 1980—sharply higher energy prices, higher food prices, rising inflation and slower growth in the industrial countries, a slowdown in exports, and significantly higher interest rates on external loans.
Structural Adjustment
Among the higher-income countries of the region, Romania and Yugoslavia both experienced a general slowdown in the past year, as
rates of growth in gross domestic product (GDP), consumption, and investment fell noticeably. Poor export performance and deteriorating terms of trade, together with a poor harvest and an earthquake in Montenegro, led to a significant increase in Yugoslavia's current-account deficit in 1979. The country's short-term response was to adopt a stringent stabilization program and a major devaluation. Despite a further deterioration in terms of trade and a sharp rise in interest costs, these actions significantly reduced imports, boosted exports, and lessened the current-account deficit. For the medium term, both Yugoslavia and Romania are taking steps to conserve energy and reduce dependence on imported oil; both countries are also stressing increased agricultural production as a way of promoting agricultural exports.
The Bank's economic work program for both Yugoslavia and Romania includes a review of the two countries' adjustment policies and meas-
ures. A special report on Yugoslavia's export performance and policies, particularly as related to manufactures, was completed in 1980 and provided a disaggregated analysis of Yugoslav export performance in the seventies; a review of Romania's investment priorities and adjustment measures in the context of the country's Sixth Development Plan (1981-85) was started late in fiscal 1981.
Portugal, another "higher-income" borrowing country, experienced healthy growth—estimated at 5.8 percent in 1980—led by recovery of output of manufacturing and construction industries, inventory accumulation, and export performance. The country faces a higher current-account deficit in 1981, however, primarily because of a significant decline in the rate of its export growth that stems from the weakness of demand in the countries of the European Economic Community (EEC). Portugal is developing proposals for reorganizing its industry in preparation for entry into the EEC in the mid 1980s. The measures being designed will have the purpose of improving efficiency and the quality of products in certain important subsec-tors, such as textiles and engineering. The Bank continues to assist this effort with the financing of some of the subsectoral studies under loans for industrial development.
In the late 1970s, Morocco faced a rapidly deteriorating position in its external payments and its budget, largely as a result of a rapid increase in public investment after the phosphate price boom of 1974-75 and because imports grew sharply while exports stagnated. In 1978 the government introduced a three-year stabilization program with the aim, among other things, of reducing investment expenditures and imports. Economic growth was impressive— about 6 percent—in 1980, in part because of the recovery of the agricultural sector, and the current-account deficit was held essentially to its 1979 level. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has supported a three-year program of financial adjustment and growth starting in 1980. The measures adopted in 1980 include adjustments in the exchange rate, in interest rates, and in controlled prices of foodstuffs, electricity, and petroleum products; limits on borrowing at commercial terms; and a shift in investment priorities in favor of energy, rainfed agriculture, export-oriented, labor-intensive industries, and projects that require shorter gestation periods. The retrenchment in Morocco, however, as in several other countries of the region, is exacerbating the unemployment problem.
More than any other country in the region, Turkey has, in recent years, faced serious
Workers in the Yemen Arab Republic lashing steel reinforcements to the wooden forms before cement is poured at a dam that is under construction.
economic difficulties. The crisis in Turkey had its roots in both inadequate and long-delayed domestic policy responses to the external developments of the early 1970s and the diverse international developments of 1979 and 1980, particularly rising world prices for imports, including oil, and declining migration opportunities for Turkish workers, caused by the deepening recession in Western Europe. Faced with stagnant growth in GDP, a massive balance-of-payments crisis, and high and accelerating rates of inflation that reached 65 percent in 1979 and topped out at 108 percent in 1980, Turkey in January 1980 adopted a far-reaching program of economic reforms, followed in the succeeding months by additional measures, such as flexible exchange rates and deregulation of interest rates. The Bank has actively supported the efforts of the government through a series of structural-adjustment loans, project lending, and economic and sector work. A supplement of $75 million to the first structural-adjustment loan was approved in November 1980, and a
second structural-adjustment loan in the amount of $300 million was approved in May 1981. Turkey's domestic adjustment efforts have also been strongly supported by assistance from the IMF, a rescheduling of public debt by member countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and in 1981 the extension of official loans, totaling $960 million, from these countries and loans from Saudi Arabia, as well. Significant progress has been made in implementing structural reforms, but in the face of the country's deep-rooted economic difficulties, continued domestic efforts and sustained support from the international community will be necessary before Turkey can return to a path of economic growth with a sustainable balance-of-payments position.
The capital-importing, oil-exporting countries of the region—Egypt, Syria, Tunisia, and Algeria (which has significantly larger export revenues from oil and gas)—benefited in varying degrees from the 1979-80 increases in oil prices. The effect of increased oil revenues has been
particularly significant for Egypt, which is the poorest country in the group. Reflecting a doubling of petroleum-export revenues, higher earnings from the Suez Canal, and sizable inflows of remittances, Egypt's foreign-exchange earnings have risen rapidly during the past two years, and the growth in GDP has been about 10 percent a year since 1976. While continuing its efforts to develop its natural-resource base further, the favorable position of Egypt in external payments provides an opportunity for it to intensify its efforts to improve its performance in agriculture and industry, which is essential for diversification of its productive base, and to meet the basic needs of its population. In support of such a strategy, the Bank is assisting the government in a variety of fields, particularly agricultural development, energy, and manpower development.
In addition, the Bank's economic and sector work, undertaken to an increasing extent in collaboration with the country itself, is designed to address key issues of development strategy and economic reform. An example of the recent economic work carried out is a study of mobilization of domestic resources that was presented to the Aid Donors meeting in Aswan in January 1981 under the auspices of the Egyptian government.
In Tunisia, the nearly twofold increases in the value of petroleum exports between 1978 and 1980 led to a substantial increase in the country's savings performance and allowed it to reduce foreign borrowing by nearly half while maintaining its investment rate at a high level. With a decline in oil production, and consequently in petroleum exports, likely for the medium term, there is renewed emphasis on improving the country's export performance. Tunisia's efforts to diversify its exports were assisted in June 1981 with a Bank loan of $18.6 million for the rehabilitation of export-producing textile industries.
Energy Development and Policies
Oil-importing countries in the region have responded in diverse ways to the higher energy prices they have faced during 1979 and 1980, broadening the variety of energy sources used and pursuing stricter policies toward management of demand and conservation. On the supply side there has been intensified exploration for new oil and gas deposits in Egypt, Portugal, and Turkey and improved secondary-recovery techniques in Turkey. Concurrently, there has been continued expansion in the supply of electrical power, supported by Bank loans, in Jordan, Romania, Tunisia, and the Yemen Arab Republic. Within the context of its project-lending operations, structural-adjustment loans—in
Turkey—and country economic and sector work, the Bank is reinforcing the emphasis that most of the countries in the region, including some of the oil exporters, such as Egypt, Syria, and Tunisia, are placing on appropriate pricing of energy. Too often domestic energy prices had fallen far out of line with international prices, giving rise to burdensome subsidies and to distortions in relative prices, which encourage inefficient use of energy and impede the development of new sources of energy. In some cases the needed price adjustments are substantial, requiring some time-phasing in view of the far-reaching effects of higher energy prices, particularly on production costs in many areas of economic activity.
Increasing Food Production
In generation of employment and in contribution to GDP, agriculture continues to be a principal sector in the majority of the borrowing countries in the region, in some instances absorbing half or more of the respective national labor forces. Nevertheless, with the exception of Turkey, the low-income and middle-income countries continue to be deficient in the production of food grains, while in several—Egypt, Syria, the Yemen Arab Republic, and the Maghreb countries—food imports bulk large in total imports. In the higher-income countries, particularly Cyprus, Romania, and Yugoslavia, agricultural exports make an important contribution to foreign-exchange earnings. While in a number of countries the dependence on imports of food is primarily a reflection of poor natural resource endowment, in others it is the result of low productivity, inefficient use of resources, and inappropriate producer-pricing policies.
With an intensified need to reduce deficits in external payments, many of the countries in the region are making greater efforts to remove or correct the impediments to more rapid agricultural growth. The Bank's lending program and sector work in agriculture are supporting the efforts of these countries to increase food production. Thus, new irrigation projects in Egypt and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen will expand the areas in which improved techniques of farming can be promoted by the technical-assistance services included in these projects. Production and processing of high-value crops will be promoted under projects in Cyprus, Turkey, and Yugoslavia, which include components of agricultural credit and marketing. Under the structural-adjustment lending operations in Turkey, the authorities intend to improve policies for the pricing of farm products and to strengthen the extension system.
Capital-Surplus Oil-exporting Countries
Except for Iran and Iraq, whose production and exports of petroleum were sharply reduced during the past year because of war, the export revenues of the principal oil exporters of the region increased sharply in 1980. These countries have continued their massive investment programs in physical and social infrastructure as well as in directly productive activities in an effort to achieve rapid diversification of their economies. The scarcity of indigenous manpower and administrative and technical skills in these countries, however, continues to be a serious obstacle to the effective planning and implementation of investment policies and projects. The Bank is providing reimbursable technical assistance to some of these countries— Saudi Arabia and Kuwait in particular—to analyze these problems. Assistance has also been provided in the form of sector planning, project analysis, institution building, and training. The technical assistance offered during fiscal 1981 included assistance with the preparation of the Third Development Plan in Saudi Arabia and a series of planning studies in Kuwait that are expected to be completed in the near future.
During the past decade, the principal oil exporters of the region have emerged as major donors of aid, both through regional financial institutions and funds and from government to government. Total Official Development Assistance (ODA) from the capital-surplus, oil-exporting countries of the region reached approximately $6,700 million in 1980; it had been about $5,700 million in the preceding year. As in the past, a portion of the flows of aid was in the form of cofinancing with the Bank; some twenty-four Bank-assisted projects were supported by cofinancing from bilateral and multilateral agencies of the region's oil exporters in fiscal 1981. Their cofinancing amounted to $401 million.
The prosperity of these countries has had a favorable indirect effect on the economic development of much of the region, particularly through remittance flows from expatriate labor, which are substantial and of crucial importance to such countries as Egypt, Jordan, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and the Yemen Arab Republic. (Remittance flows to many countries outside the region are substantial, as well.) As noted in last year's Annual Report, however, migration does have its economic and social costs. The labor-exporting countries, in certain cases, have lost up to 30 percent of their labor force and an even higher proportion of their qualified manpower. As the pattern of demand for labor in the host countries shifts toward more skilled jobs, some of the labor-
exporting countries may encounter a significant slowdown in demand and perhaps even some reverse flows in the future. This points to the need for designing the manpower-training programs in the exporting countries not only to meet the evolving internal demand but also to meet the external demand for skills. Accordingly, Bank lending for manpower development is addressing vocational and technical training in labor-exporting countries such as Egypt, Jordan, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and the Yemen Arab Republic. Bank technical assistance in the manpower planning field has also been provided to some labor-importing countries such as Oman, where, in fiscal 1981, support was given to that country's Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs. Furthermore, the Bank recently completed a comprehensive projection of the demand for and international migration of labor in the Middle Eastern and North African countries of the region. The study identified likely trends in the demand for various skills and provides a valuable background for sector policy discussions with member countries. A manpower study for the Yemen Arab Republic was also completed in 1980. This study is expected to assist the country in formulating its manpower development strategy and policies in connection with its Second Five-Year Development Plan (1982-86).
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1981
Total Bank and IDA lending in the region in fiscal 1981 amounted to $2,435.8 million, some $9.9 million below the fiscal 1980 level. A total of 45 loans and credits was approved. Lending for agriculture and rural development and development finance companies accounted for 25 percent and 18 percent, respectively, of total lending in the region in dollar terms.
Funds committed under cofinancing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached $510.9 million, or 66 percent below last year's level. Each cofinanced project attracted an average of $28 million in cofinancing during the year, compared with about $80 million in fiscal 1980.' (See table on page 80.)
Disbursements on Bank loans to borrowing countries of the region were $1,486.6 million during the fiscal year. Disbursements of IDA credits stood at $118.2 million for the same period. The figures for Bank and IDA disbursements in fiscal 1980 were $1,311.1 million and $83.9 million, respectively.
1 Cofinancing data have been complied from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
Latin America and the Caribbean
In the face of a deteriorating international environment, the countries of the Latin America and the Caribbean region maintained the pace of economic activity in calendar 1980; the rate of growth in the region's gross national product (GNP) remained at about the same level in calendar 1980 (5.4 percent) as in 1979 (5.5 percent). However in the first half of 1981 the rate declined. This performance compares well with that of other developing regions and of the industrial countries. The relative resilience of the Latin American economies under adverse conditions reflects in part the fact that, by and large, governments are responding with realism to the problems facing them.
Although the region as a whole is a net exporter of petroleum, these exports are concentrated in a few countries—Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela. Most countries, therefore, rely heavily on petroleum imports. Brazil, Chile, and the smaller countries
of the Caribbean and Central America are most severely affected by the high cost of these imports, which in 1980 absorbed between a fourth and half of the value of their exports.
To reduce this burden, the Brazilian government has formulated a national energy-development program that includes an extensive exploration effort for fossil fuels, acceleration of the development of hydroelectric projects, and an aggressive and innovative effort to substitute other domestic energy resources for imported petroleum, while encouraging conservation of energy through fiscal incentives and appropriate pricing policies. The National Alcohol Program (PROALCOOL)—substitution of alcohol as automobile fuel—has already increased the alcohol/gasoline average blend ratio from 1 percent to 6 percent in the mid 1970s to about 20 percent in 1980. About 250,000 cars were manufactured in Brazil in 1980 with modified engines designed to run on straight alcohol. This
program, costing more than $5,000 million and supported by a $250 million loan from the Bank in fiscal 1981, has the aim of replacing about 45 percent of Brazil's gasoline consumption with alcohol by 1985. Practically all other countries in the region are also adopting energy-pricing and incentive policies for the purpose of conserving energy, accelerating the development of hydroelectric and other sources of energy, and intensifying exploration for coal, oil, and gas.
Fiscal 1981 saw the initiation of disbursements from the oil facility of Mexico and Venezuela and from a similar facility sponsored by Trinidad and Tobago. The former scheme, with potential assets set at 30 percent of the value of oil exports of the two countries to the oil-importing nations of Central America and the Caribbean, was set up to provide loans at concessional rates to the central banks of those countries. Whenever these funds are used to finance development projects, especially in the energy sector, the maturity of the loans is changed to a twenty-year period with an interest rate of 2 percent. The oil facility of Trinidad and Tobago also provides loans on concessional terms to the oil-importing countries of the Caribbean region.
Another response to the current economic climate is the opening up and liberalization of trade in which several countries are now engaged. This process involves varying degrees of liberalization in the financial markets of these countries and, more generally, growing reliance on the market system to set prices and allocate resources. Such measures have already begun to show positive results. Higher energy prices are encouraging conservation and development of alternative fuels, whereas more remunerative prices to farmers are leading to greater and more diversified agricultural production, notably in the southern "cone" countries—Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay—of South America. The countries that have adopted a policy of positive real interest rates have increased domestic savings that are channeled through the financial system, have stemmed capital flight, and have encouraged inflows of private capital from abroad. In some cases, liberalization of trade is already being reflected in more efficient industrial production and expansion of nontradi-tional exports.
Progress toward liberalization of trade in Latin America is hampered, however, by the recession that has affected most of the industrial countries and by the threat of protectionist pressures in some of them. To some extent, the countries in the region are trying to compensate for these factors by intensifying efforts to expand exports to other developing countries, both outside and within the region. In order to remove some of the obstacles to the progress of
intraregional trade, the eleven signatory countries of the Montevideo Trade Treaty of 1960 agreed, in 1980, on a new treaty and the replacement of the existing Latin American Free Trade Association (ALALC) by a new intergovernmental organization, the Latin American Integration Association (ALADI). The new entity will have more flexible rules, in keeping with the changing needs of the countries, and will rely on bilateral negotiations more than on broad, multilateral agreements.
The value of the exports from the region rose by a third in 1980 to more than $94,000 million. The bulk of this increase was accounted for, however, by the five oil exporters, whose exports rose 49 percent in value and 3 percent in volume. The value of total exports of the other countries reached almost $48,000 million, up 19 percent from 1979, or about 5 percent in real terms. Brazil and Chile experienced the largest export growth—more than 10 percent in real terms. In contrast, Argentina's exports fell 15 percent in volume. The volume of exports of Central American countries also declined or stagnated in 1980.
The worth of the imports of the oil exporters rose by a third, well below export growth, leading to a doubling, to $1,700 million, of their trade surplus. The trade deficit of the countries that do not export oil rose from $2,300 million in 1979 to $7,700 million in 1980, an increase caused more by the higher cost of imports—24 percent—than by their increase in real terms, which was about 6 percent. Except for the oil exporters, the terms of trade of the region are estimated to have deteriorated by about 8 percent between 1979 and 1980.
The Latin American countries as a group are continuing to make a strong effort at saving, and more than four fifths of the region's capital formation is financed out of domestic savings. Still, the requirements for external borrowing are large in absolute amounts because of the heavy burden imposed by expensive imports of petroleum and high service payments on the foreign debt. For example, the fifteen countries with the largest bills for imported oil are now spending, on the average, the equivalent of two thirds of their export earnings on debt service and fuel imports. The resultant external constraint, combined with the inflationary effect of rising oil prices and the needed corrective increases in the prices of food, public services, and energy-related goods and services in most countries, makes internal economic management a difficult task.
Inflation, in particular, remains a seemingly intractable problem in many countries. The consumer price index is estimated to have risen at an average rate of more than 50 percent in 1980,
with the lower inflation rates—between 10 percent and 25 percent—in the countries of Central America and the Caribbean and the most acute cases ranging from about 60 percent to about 100 percent in some countries of South America.
As a result of massive urbanization and the increased attention given by the governments to family planning and the provision of social services, the rate of population growth has leveled off or is even beginning to decline; it is still high, however. The annual rate of natural increase is estimated to be about 2.3 percent as of mid 1980. In addition, 42 percent of the population are less than fifteen years old. These young people continue to enter the labor force at a rapid rate, particularly in the urban areas, presenting multiple challenges. The first challenge is to maintain a fast pace in economic growth and job creation so that, at least, the present levels of unemployment and underemployment may be prevented from increasing at a time of rising expectations and social tensions. A second challenge is created by the need for heavy expenditures to provide tolerable levels of housing and social services to the increasing population, the bulk of which will be concentrated more and more in the cities. This particular problem is analyzed in the next six paragraphs.
Latin America and the Caribbean is the developing region with the highest level of urbanization. In 1950, less than half the popula-
tion of the region lived in towns and cities; in 1980, the region's urban population of some 200 million made up almost 60 percent of the total. By the end of the century, there may be nearly 400 million urban dwellers, and the level of urbanization may rise to more than three quarters. In the 1950s and 1960s, urban growth was for the most part a function of migration from rural areas, as the rural poor, frustrated in their attempts to secure a decent living, sought a better life for themselves and their families in urban areas. In the 1970s, urban growth was primarily a result of the natural increase of an already urbanized population; nonetheless, the rate of urbanization in the 1970s showed little diminution from the rate in earlier years, and it exceeded 3 percent in most countries and 4 percent in several.
Within this general framework, there are important contrasts. The present level of urbanization, for example, exceeds 80 percent in Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay, whereas it is still less than a third in such countries as Bolivia, Haiti, and Trinidad and Tobago. The degree to which the urban population is concentrated in the largest city also varies—from more than half in Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Panama, and Uruguay to less than 20 percent in Brazil. Some of these cities are now among the world's largest; Mexico City, which grew from a city of 3.6 million people in 1950 to
Constructing an irrigation system in Aguas Caliente, Mexico.
one whose metropolitan area has an estimated population of 14 million in 1980, and Sao Paulo, whose estimated 1980 population of 12.6 million represents more than a threefold increase since 1950, are outstanding examples.
In the developed world, urbanization generally accompanied industrialization and economic development. In Latin America and the Caribbean, the pace and magnitude of urbanization have greatly exceeded the growth of full-time jobs in many countries, as inward-oriented industrialization ran into the limits imposed by the size of the domestic markets. Furthermore, in many countries, incentives for private investment in capital-intensive machinery, legislation that restricts an entrepreneur's ability to control labor-related costs, and insufficient attention to the development of human capital and skills have contributed to discourage most of the creation of new job opportunities. This situation is reflected in considerable underemployment.
Given existing standards and supply constraints, many households are unable to afford shelter and basic services, municipal administration is often given low priority, and the problems of city management are without historical precedent. Planning and expansion of urban infrastructure become extremely difficult under these
circumstances, while adequate financial administration is complicated by the fact that most cities receive only small shares of the revenues collected within them.
Price distortions in the markets for land and public services in an environment of rapid and massive urban spread generate patterns of land use that are neither efficient nor equitable. The patterns of land use, lack of funds, and poor organization also hamper public transport, which often fails to meet the needs of poor neighborhoods.
In one way or another, all these issues reflect serious imbalances between the need for jobs, shelter, services, and facilities and the capacity of the public and private sectors of the urban economy to provide them. The result is a familiar pattern of human misery in slum areas, a growing concern about how cities can be managed, particularly as they grow larger, and a realization that inefficiently managed cities may retard national economic growth.
The Response of the Bank
The Bank has chosen a selective approach to alleviation of the problems in this area. Many aspects of the urbanization process are still imperfectly understood, and the magnitude and
complexity of the issues have made it necessary to proceed slowly while the lessons of experience are being absorbed.
The first element of Bank support in the region was the provision of electricity, water supply, and sanitation in low-income areas of cities through a variety of projects, followed, in fiscal 1974, by an attempt to find direct solutions to the problems of increasing the availability of shelter for the urban poor, such as in the First Urban Development project in El Salvador. Despite much progress, however, a quarter of the urban population of the region still lack water supply, two thirds lack sewerage services, and nearly a third lack adequate housing. There is much demand for low-cost solutions affordable by those of the poor who can contribute labor and limited cash payments from earnings in the informal sector. But the public and private sectors have been slow to adapt their activities to help meet this demand. The Bank, therefore, has sought to assist governments in designing and financing projects that would institutionalize and standardize solutions to the challenge of providing housing, services, and infrastructure.
Many of the urban projects assisted by the Bank are designed to provide serviced sites— lots with water, sanitation, and other facilities— and basic infrastructure that can be afforded by those whose incomes are low. One recent example, from fiscal 1980, was the provision of serviced plots at two sites as part of the Guayaquil Urban Development project in Ecuador, which emphasized the use of realistic and affordable design standards. Because of the scale of the problem, most projects of this kind cannot hope to reach more than a few of those in need. They can, however, be considered pilots for large-scale programs and help provide the institutional framework necessary to operate on a larger scale.
Serviced sites are a valuable means of providing shelter, but many families are too poor to afford even the modest solutions they offer. Recognizing this, the Bank has helped finance several projects that are concerned with areawide slum improvements, such as drainage and paving, and has sought to reach the poor through financing construction-materials credits or home-improvement loans. Following earlier projects in several countries, a loan in fiscal 1979 to Colombia provided for such improvements in the Cartagena slums.
Direct efforts to improve living conditions through sites-and-services and upgrading schemes have achieved some success, particularly in establishing more realistic design standards and housing norms and developing national or local institutions to expand the scale of such operations. Yet for as long as jobs are
scarce and regular incomes are low there will be many to whom these solutions are not accessible. Several Bank loans for urban development have therefore incorporated components intended to create employment opportunities. In one project, for example, a Bank loan for housing and urban infrastructure was cofinanced by a loan of $80 million from a private bank to expand industrial and commercial free zones, thereby generating new employment. More frequently, direct efforts to generate employment opportunities have been incorporated in credit programs for small enterprises, commercial as well as industrial, and often on a very small scale indeed.
Experience with shelter, urban services, infrastructure, and employment components in urban lending has led to the conclusion that the development of urban institutions is critical to the successful efforts to adjust to the consequences of urbanization. Thus, the third loan to Brazil for urban transport and the second urban development loan to Mexico focused on institutional growth and development of capacity to identify, appraise, and supervise urban infrastructure and paving programs in medium-sized cities.
While many Bank-assisted urban projects stress the search for direct ways of alleviating poverty and the correction of market imperfections, others emphasize improvement of the efficiency of urban economies, notably urban transport, administration, and city management. In addition, some of the Bank's work in the urban sector—most recently in Peru and Brazil—has been focused on the issues of national urban and spatial policy and on assisting governments to consider objectively the costs and benefits of alternative patterns of spatial organization.
Many of the Bank's urban operations in the region of Latin America and the Caribbean are complex and some have multiple objectives. The greatest challenge of project design is to create a balance between the need to resolve urgent and interrelated problems and the need to strengthen many of the agencies that are responsible for urban operations.
The Caribbean Countries
The past decade has been a difficult one for the nations of the Caribbean. Many are newly independent and most are small islands, with fragile economies. The problems of adjustment to being independent states in a world economy would have been immense even if the world economy of the 1970s had been as stable as that of the 1960s. Events since 1973—uncertain prices for the few primary products that they export, declines in earnings from tourism, dwindling
foreign investment, higher energy costs, global recession, and hurricane-caused destruction— have served to exacerbate the situation.
The magnitude of the problems facing these countries grew in 1980. Eastern Caribbean countries, struggling to recover from the worst storm of the century, hurricane David, in 1979, were heavily hit by hurricane Allen in 1980. Oil prices escalated rapidly. A scarcity of foreign exchange during the late 1970s has meant that applications of fertilizers, insecticides, and fungicides have been fewer than were needed; in 1980, producers of bananas and sugar, whose crops were not devastated by hurricanes, suffered significant losses to diseases. Intensified recession in the industrial countries caused sharp drops in tourism during the 1980-81 season, a drop exacerbated by a sharp increase in air fares and, for some islands, a decline in the availability of charter aircraft. Although sugar prices were higher than usual, few countries had bumper crops, and increased earnings were small compared with shortfalls in foreign exchange in other sectors.
Almost all Caribbean countries have extremely difficult development problems. With some exceptions—the smaller islands of the Eastern Caribbean are prime examples—well-developed export sectors mean statistically high incomes per capita. The countries' small size, however, limits their scope for increased production and makes them, by necessity, heavy importers. In most of the recently independent countries their colonial heritage has left the people with high levels of education but, paradoxically, with relatively low levels of marketable skills in the labor force. Significant development in this area of the world will of necessity take a long time and be quite difficult to achieve. Foreign private investment, as well as Official Development Assistance, will continue to be needed.
Perhaps the most promising trend during the fiscal year has been the slow but clear movement toward responsible economic management in several countries of the Caribbean. Most countries are beginning to take steps toward significant structural adjustments to the realities of the world economy. While the overall economic situation remains difficult and shows little sign of rapid improvement, the countries themselves seem willing and ready to undertake corrective measures. In response to one such change, the Bank extended structural-adjustment assistance of $22 million to Guyana in February 1981. This support emphasizes the evolution of the economy through the long term and the economic policies that must be followed if real development is to take place. Typically, the Bank is trying to help countries to concentrate on issues such as energy conservation, agricultural devel-
opment, export industries, and mobilization of domestic resources.
The Bank continues to preside over the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development. This group, founded in 1977 as a response to the growing economic problems of the subregion, provides a basis upon which external donors can understand the economies and can consider, in a coordinated fashion, the appropriate financial and technical assistance to support the long-term economic programs of the countries in the area.
During the year, a subgroup meeting was held in Barbados to seek ways to meet the external financing needs of Dominica, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. A similar meeting was held in Kingston for Jamaica. In addition, a subgroup meeting, held in Antigua, discussed ways to further economic development and cooperation among the small islands that are members of the group.
Bank and IDA Lending, Fiscal 1981
Total Bank and IDA lending in the region in fiscal 1981 amounted to $3,153.2 million, some $469 million above the fiscal 1980 level. A total of 53 loans and credits was approved. Lending for agriculture and rural development and energy accounted for 29 percent and 23 percent, respectively, of total lending in the region in dollar terms.
Funds committed under cofinancing arrangements with the Bank and IDA reached $1,530.3 million, or 42 percent below last year's level. Each cofinanced project attracted an average of $118 million in cofinancing during the year, compared with about $156 million in fiscal 1980.1 (See table on page 80.)
Disbursements on Bank loans to borrowing countries of the region were $1,654.6 million during the fiscal year. Disbursements of IDA credits stood at $68 million for the same period. The figures for Bank and IDA disbursements in fiscal 1980 were $1,414.2 million and $35.3 million, respectively.
After a hiatus of six years, the Bank convened a Consultative Group Meeting in Paris, France, during the year to help mobilize cofinancing for the 1981-85 public investment program of Peru. At the government's request, the Bank also agreed to provide logistical and technical support for a meeting sponsored by the government to enlist backing from private financial sources for the program.
1 Cofinancing data have been compiled from World Bank reports of projects at the time of their Board approval and do not reflect changes in amounts since that time.
Chapter Four
Bank Policies and Activities, Fiscal 1981
Bank Policies
In Chapter Six, "Executive Directors," mention is made of all those policy and operational issues examined and discussed by the Bank's Executive Directors during fiscal 1981. Some of those issues, such as the Bank's lending rate, are reviewed at least annually. On other issues, such as the possible expansion of lending by the Bank and IDA beyond levels now planned for fiscal years 1982-86 and the valuation of the Bank's capital, the review is continuous (and oftentimes informal) and no decisions have been reached.1 On still other matters affecting the Bank's operations, however, the Directors reached a general consensus, the consequences of which are likely to have an impact on the Bank's investment portfolio in the years ahead. Three of those issues are discussed in the pages that follow. They concern energy, structural-adjustment lending, and agricultural research.
Energy
The energy work of the World Bank is designed to help developing countries maintain economic growth at a reasonable level of about 6 percent a year and to ensure that their energy demands are met without causing additional strain in world markets. The main requirement for accomplishing this aim is a combination of greater indigenous energy production and more effective management of energy demand.
On the supply side, the increase in the real price of oil has made attractive the exploitation of reserves of oil, gas, coal, and hydroelectric power that was formerly thought to be uneconomical. Shortages of fuel wood are common in many of the poorest oil-importing developing countries, and for them rapid deforestation is as severe a constraint to development as dependence on imported oil; reforestation programs are thus clearly needed. On the demand side, rationalized pricing policies for energy supported by effective fiscal and regulatory measures could bring about substantia] conservation of energy and increase the efficiency with which it is used.
The Bank has estimated that the oil-importing developing countries, through a concerted program of maximizing their production of energy and improving efficiency in the use of energy, could reduce their bill for imported oil in 1990 by
a fourth, or by approximatelv $25,000 million to $30,000 million (in 1980 dollars).
The investment costs of a comprehensive energy program, including development of both nonrenewable and renewable energy sources, for all the oil-importing developing countries during the decade (1981-90) would be at least $450,000 million (in 1980 dollars). The $45,000 million-a-year average over the decade contrasts sharply with the approximately $25,000 million requirement estimated for 1980.
Despite massive efforts by these countries to mobilize the necessary financial resources, they still require external technical and financial assistance. Many are constrained from obtaining the needed assistance by lack of creditworthiness for commercial finance, uncertainty about their domestic energy-resource bases, and inadequate domestic policies and institutions. Commercial banks and oil companies, aware of these constraints, have further inhibitions of their own: the banks show little willingness to provide the large sums needed to finance construction of the infrastructure that would be required for exploitation of indigenous reserves of gas, coal, and hydroelectric power; the oil companies, particularly the large ones, are often more interested in oil for world markets, and they seek protection against political risks, including nationalization. The Bank is well placed, as the largest source of public support for the development of energy resources in developing coun-
'On the first-named issue, the Directors noted that changes in the environment in which the Bank operated constituted a powerful case for expansion of lending. But many of the same factors underlying the case for expanded lending had also served to increase the pressure on budgetary expenditures in many countries that were important suppliers of capital to the Bank. The conflict between evident needs and constrained budgets was the crux of the problem facing the Bank. It was a subject that could be dealt with conclusively neither in fiscal 1981 nor in the near future. Furthermore, it is a problem that could likely preoccupy the Board for the decade of the 1980s.
On the second issue, the Directors agreed that the Bank should, to an appropriate extent, make use of the special drawing right (SDR) as its unit of account. A staff study is to be prepared in fiscal 1982 on the steps that could be taken to this end; that study will be submitted to the Directors for their consideration before July 11, 1982, so that appropriate changes in the Bank's practices in this respect might be implemented beginning on that date. The Directors also agreed to address promptly the question of the valuation of the Banks capital with a view to achieving a final solution by July 1. 1983. In the meantime, however, capital subscriptions to the Bank will be accepted at 1.20635 current United States dollars equal to one 1944 gold dollar, subject to the possibility that adjustment may be required when the standard of value issue is settled.
"Rapid deforestation is as severe a constraint to development as dependence on imported oil."
tries, to act as a catalyst for the mobilization of financial resources in addition to its own assistance and to facilitate contracts between oil companies and developing countries.
Involvement of the Bank. The evolution of Bank policies designed to help assist the development of energy resources in the Bank's developing member countries has been detailed in the Annual Reports for 1978. 1979. and 1980.
In August 1980, a comprehensive review of the energy situation in developing countries was discussed by the Executive Directors. The Directors approved at that time a further broadening of the Bank's activities in the energy sector to emphasize management of demand for energy in all sectors, to give greater attention to energy-needs in rural areas, to support the development of renewable sources of energy, and to increase the use of gas to meet the energy needs of developing countries.
Energy Subsector Lending. Lending by the Bank for oil and gas has grown rapidly from one
project in fiscal 1977—$150 million for development of the Bombay High discovery in India—to twelve projects, for a total of $649.5 million in loans during fiscal 1981.
Strong interest in such lending has been shown by member developing countries and by many oil companies, which value the presence of the Bank as an objective party and appreciate the need for preparatory work. Eighteen private oil companies are now working with the Bank on projects that have been approved or are in preparation in seventeen member countries.
Electric power, a sector to which the second largest volume, after agriculture, of lending by the Bank has gone, will continue to dominate the Bank's lending for energy as it dominates the public investment programs of developing countries. On the basis of the Bank's current estimates of least-cost programs, hydroelectricity will receive strong emphasis, as will geothermal energy, resources for which are promising, and the Bank will continue to stress cofinancing and
mobilization of internal resources through sound financial management and rational tariff policies. In fiscal 1981, seventeen electric power projects were assisted with $1,323 million in Bank loans and IDA credits.
Accelerated lending by the Bank for coal must be preceded by early emphasis on exploration and preinvestment work, including substantial technical assistance to familiarize the governments of the thirty or more developing countries that have coal resources with the technical, economic, and managerial aspects of coal mining, handling, and use. Priority is therefore given to exploration and preinvestment work, rehabilitation and expansion of existing mines, and the development of the production of coal on a small, medium, or large scale for domestic consumption and on a large scale for export. In all instances the Bank supports the development of the associated transport infrastructure. In fiscal 1981, one loan, for $10 million, was approved for the development of coal.
Lending by the Bank for energy from renewable sources—in addition to its lending for hydroelectric power—is primarily to assist developing countries to meet their critical needs for fuel wood and to develop their potential for producing alcohol from biomass as a substitute for gasoline, and, possibly, for use as chemical feedstocks. It is estimated that a fivefold increase in the present rate of planting would be needed to ensure a reasonable balance between the demand for fuel wood and supplies of it in developing countries by the year 2000. The B ank hopes to continue to expand its lending for fuel wood so as to help the developing countries to at least double the present rate of reforestation by 1985 and to create the technical and institutional infrastructure that larger planting programs in the future would require. Lending for fuel-wood development has risen substantially in recent years; in fiscal 1981, total forestry lending amounted to $114 million. Of that total, funds for fuel-wood development accounted for about $50 million. Lending for the production of alcohol will be encouraged where it is economically promising—that is, in countries, such as Brazil, that have the potential for producing low-cost biomass or in those that have "surplus" biomass, usually molasses, that can economically be converted to alcohol. (In fiscal 1981, a $250 million loan was approved by the Bank to support Brazil's National Alcohol Program.) Such projects presage a more aggressive approach to other alternative and synthetic fuels as proven technology for producing them becomes available and appropriate and their economic implications are better understood. During 1981-85, however, lending for energy from
renewable sources other than hydroelectric power is unlikely to be more than 5 percent of total lending for energy.
Trends through the 1980s. The $13,000 million lending program of the Bank for fiscal 1981-85 for energy-related development of all kinds reflects these factors and policies. The "desirable" program, discussed by the Board in August 1980—of some $25,000 million—could not be financed by the Bank without upsetting the overall sectoral balance of its lending.
In June 1981, the Executive Directors of the Bank met to discuss ways by which additional resources could be channeled by the Bank, or possibly, through an energy affiliate of the Bank, to the oil-importing developing countries so that the production of indigenous energy supplies might be expanded.
Discussion focused on aspects of the Bank's role in support of expanded energy investments; the need to mount a comprehensive program of support for energy investment that was fully integrated into the reoriented development strategies made necessary by high-cost energy; the need for the program to serve as a catalyst to mobilize additional finance for this purpose from all sources and, in particular, private capital; and the need for the Bank to act as a lender of last resort to finance investments that are not attractive to private capital.
There was agreement that the oil-importing developing countries were faced with a serious challenge in maintaining the pace of development at a time of persistently high energy costs and that a major increase in their investments in indigenous sources of energy is required. The Directors of the Bank also agreed that it was essential that momentum be maintained in defining the role of the Bank in helping the oil-importing developing countries overcome their energy problems. The Directors therefore agreed to continued discussions on the Bank's program to assist the oil importers and the means of financing that program.
Structural Adjustment Review
In fiscal 1980, the Executive Directors approved the initiation by the Bank of structural-adjustment lending—that is, lending designed to support major changes in policies and institutions of developing countries that would reduce their current-account deficits to more manageable proportions in the medium term while maintaining the maximum feasible development effort. They also agreed to review this initiative during the course of fiscal 1981 in the light of an evaluation of loans already approved and of possible changing circumstances in the world economy.
The review concluded that Bank operations in this area can be helpful in accelerating policy reforms designed both to achieve a minimum level of development and to restore balance-of-payments viability. This is because structural-adjustment lending consists of financial support for specified programs of monitorable and time-bound policy action by governments. It is therefore unlike project lending, in which the needs of the project tend to dominate the timing of preparation and appraisal of an operation and in which disbursement of Bank funds is linked to project implementation. Project lending, however, must complement structural-adjustment lending. Policy and institutional changes agreed to under structural-adjustment lending operations, for example, have been supported further by Bank loans for agricultural research in Senegal, loans to state economic enterprises in Turkey, and loans to the industrial sector of the Philippines.
Because structural-adjustment assistance is meant to help developing countries reestablish workable balance-of-payments positions in the medium term while maintaining the maximum feasible development efforts, it is, of course, still too early to draw any firm conclusions about the effectiveness of the programs agreed upon for achievement of these objectives. Fewer than a dozen and a half countries, moreover, have adjustment programs that are either being supported under already approved structural-adjustment loans or for which preparatory work and discussions have begun—a number far smaller than the number of countries that need to implement such programs. The difficulty that governments find in gaining political acceptance for the adoption and implementation of structural-adjustment programs has been and continues to be the single most important obstacle to rapid progress by the Bank with structural-adjustment assistance. Often the need for structural adjustment is greatest in those countries that find it most difficult to adopt effective programs. In some of these countries, the Bank has supported policy improvements on a more limited sectoral basis in the hope that they could be broadened gradually. The emphasis in these operations has been on reform of policies and institutions in priority sectors and subsectors of an economy—agricultural rehabilitation in Sudan and export rehabilitation in Tanzania, for example.
Lending for structural adjustment programs must be found from within the total resources available to the Bank and IDA. Thus, the amounts devoted to such programs inevitably restrict the amounts available for normal project lending. It is not, however, expected that the total lending for structural adjustment or other
forms of program lending will reach 10 percent of the Bank's overall lending program in the immediate future.
It has been recognized that structural-adjustment lending by the Bank is complementary to support for adjustment programs provided by the International Monetary Fund, particularly in those countries that have agreed upon a three-year program with the Fund. This has required the development of procedures for ensuring closer collaboration between the staffs of the two institutions while they retain their independent responsibilities. These procedures are now in effect.
During fiscal 1981, seven structural-adjustment loans, totaling $717 million, or about 7 percent of the lending program of the Bank and IDA, were approved. Recipient countries included Guyana, Malawi, Mauritius, the Philippines, Senegal, and Turkey (two loans).
Because adjustment policies that are needed to support changes in the structure of the growth of output in the medium term vary from one country to another, the Bank's structural-adjustment lending policy has been designed to be flexible, so that the content of structural-adjustment assistance can vary according to country circumstances.
Most programs supported by assistance from the Bank, however, have included policy changes designed to initiate corrections of biases in incentive systems that deter exports and promote uneconomical import substitution. Structural-adjustment lending to the Philippines, for instance, has provided support for the beginning stages of a five-year program to correct such biases. Import liberalization and export incentives are features in the programs for both Turkey and Kenya; a moderately higher and more nearly uniform rate of import duties and a limited system of export subsidies form a part of the policies of Senegal.
Some of the schemes to reduce the bias against exports have been extended to agricultural exports, as well. Country examples include Senegal, where the government has increased the price of groundnuts, the principal export crop; Bolivia, where producers of beef, dairy products, and poultry are receiving higher prices; and Guyana, where improvements in incentive prices have been given to producers of rice and sugar.
Most structural-adjustment programs supported by the Bank have also included appropriate institutional changes. In Senegal, reforms of the public-sector institutions responsible for agricultural development are at the heart of the program; improvement in the efficiency of state economic enterprises is also an important feature of Turkey's program; improvements in
institutional support to nontraditional exporters are a part of programs supported by the Bank in Guyana, Kenya, the Philippines, and Turkey.
Other common features of structural-adjustment operations include a review by governments of the level and composition of public investment expenditure and of government recurrent expenditure and measures to increase the mobilization of private savings in the face of falling rates of growth of real national income.
Agricultural Research
As reserves of arable land that can be put to the plow decline, much of the food for a growing population will have to come from increases in yields on land that is now under cultivation.
In the mid 1960s, largely as a result of international research, several varieties of improved seeds were developed that, when combined with fertilizer and appropriate water conditions, were capable of increasing the yields of rice and wheat substantially. Despite these convincing advances in research, however, and the subsequent expansion in the area under cultivation in these two cereals, many developing countries continue to attach low priority to agricultural research. Two significant indicators of this low priority are:
—The money spent on agricultural research in Africa, Asia, and Latin America, while increasing steadily through the years, still accounts for no more than a fourth of the estimated $5,000 million now spent on agricultural research throughout the world.
—The number of agricultural research scientists in the developing countries is grossly inadequate; their number—about 23,000, excluding those in China—corresponds roughly to the total number in Japan alone.
Partly because of inadequate funding and a lack of trained manpower, some research projects, particularly in the low-income countries, are poorly designed and slow to be implemented. Many of the national programs are limited in scope and they are typically the weakest links in the global research effort.
Despite wide diversity in research capabilities among countries, a number of those weaknesses have been identified. There is a general lack of appreciation by governments of the role that effective research plays in agricultural growth and development; deficient organizational structures for research and extension result in fragmentation of effort and weak linkages between research and extension and the generation of research results that have practical value to farmers; and training programs for research scientists and technicians are generally deficient.
There is an urgent need, therefore, to strengthen the administrative and technical capabilities of many national research institu-
tions. Whenever it can be done, the number of staff should be increased in such cases, training programs should be expanded, and qualified managers recruited. No less important are serious efforts to reduce the gap between laboratory research and its extension to the farmers' fields. Substantial progress in this direction has been made through new approaches to agricultural extension.
For more than a decade, the Executive Directors of the Bank have supported the efforts of member developing countries to build up their national research institutions. They have recognized that funds allocated for agricultural research can be an efficient source of agricultural growth and can yield greater economic returns than other possible investments in rural areas. Consequently, research and extension have been among the most rapidly growing activities in the agricultural and rural development portfolio of the Bank; in fiscal 1980, they accounted for about $400 million, or roughly 9 percent of the nearly $3,460 million in lending for agricultural and rural development. An additional $11.7 million was granted to the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) for support of international agricultural research.
Bank assistance for agricultural research has generally been of four types:
—agriculture and rural development projects that have adaptive research and extension components;
—national or statewide research and extension projects—by far the largest and fastest-growing category;
—education projects that include agricultural components; and
—grant funds for the CGIAR.
In approving these projects—some thirty in number and $721 million in cost, between fiscal 1971 and fiscal 1980—the Executive Directors have tried to ensure that the principal objectives of research are the improvement of food crops and the development of simple technologies that small farmers can afford. Nevertheless, the Executive Directors realize that better technologies suitable for use by low-income producers, especially those living in agriculturally marginal areas, are still needed.
As the need for food grows, many developing countries will be required to increase food production by about 3 percent to 4 percent a year. Many of these countries will have to increase their investment in agricultural research substantially if these production goals are to be achieved. An annual increase of about 10 percent in investment for research would be appropriate in many countries. For these countries, an expenditure for research equal to about 2 percent of agricultural gross domestic product
Scientists selecting high-yield corn seeds at Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University (Pant Nagur, India).
would not be unreasonable; the average for all the developing countries was 0.31 percent in 1975.
In preparing guidelines for the future, which are outlined in the June 1981 publication, Agricultural Research Sector Policy Paper, the Executive Directors have recognized that the World Bank must take the lead among international institutions in supporting national research. They have approved steady increases in the Bank's five-year lending program for agricultural research and extension—from about S330 million in fiscal 1979 to more than S550 million in fiscal 1984 (in constant U.S. dollars).
The present emphasis of research on food crops, low-income groups, and low-cost technologies will continue. The aim of projects supported by the Bank will be to achieve a proper balance in funding between research and extension; an appropriate linkage between national efforts and local activities and between the work of international research institutions and that of national organizations will be encouraged. While the emphasis will be on applied research, support for more basic research will be offered selectively where potential benefits seem to warrant long lead time and commitment of substantial resources.
Bank Activities
Economic Development Institute
The Economic Development Institute (EDI) has been concerned for more than twenty-five years with the training of senior officials of the member developing countries of the Bank, helping them to improve the management of their economies and to increase the efficiency of their investment programs. The target group for training comprises officials of ministries of finance and planning, agencies dealing with various sectors of development, and central banks and development-finance institutions. A particular feature of the intensive courses and seminars given by the EDI is that they draw on the working experience, policy analysis, studies of comparative development, and other empirical research of the World Bank.
The training materials produced by the EDI are in English, French, and Spanish, and the subjects that they cover range from macroeco-nomic planning, pricing, and development policy to the design, appraisal, execution, and evaluation of the effects of investment projects; most of the courses that deal with projects are now organized sectorally. Since the mid 1970s the EDI has greatly extended its training activities in the developing countries, in collaboration with selected regional and national institutions. The aim is to make them able eventually to continue and extend training courses of the same type on their own. This is the main direction of the Institute's current growth.
Fiscal 1981 marked the third year of the EDI's five-year program, which covers the fiscal years 1979-83. In keeping with the aims of the program, reviewed annually by the Executive Directors, the EDI continued its emphasis on giving more short seminars, primarily in Washington, for senior officials, specialists, and trainers. The fiscal 1981 program in Washington included eight courses and nine seminars for more than 400 participants and twenty-five regional and eighteen national courses and seminars for more than 1,200 participants.
The Washington program included a new course on the management of rural development projects and a seminar on the design of rural projects. On the basis of this experience, courses on the organization and management of rural projects are expected to become a regular feature of the program of the EDI. Two new seminars, one on the monitoring and evaluation
of national economic management, the other on the design and implementation of projects for meeting basic needs, gave an opportunity to explain Bank policies and discuss some recent Bank research. The EDI organized the first of three seminars on preinvestment work for resident representatives of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and their deputies and continued its collaboration with the United Nations Institute for Training and Research on a bilingual (English and French) seminar on economic development and its international setting for members of national delegations to the United Nations.
The EDI and the Association of Development Financing Institutions in Asia and the Pacific (ADFIAP) offered a seminar in Washington for the training of directors of development banking institutions. Another seminar on training methodologies, in Spanish, was also held. One course in Spanish, on rural development projects, and two courses in French, one on national economic management, the other on education programs and projects, were held. Fiscal 1981 marked the beginning of participation by the EDI in the training of Chinese officials with a seminar on project planning for senior officials held in Washington, followed by a course on general project planning in Shanghai.
In Africa, the EDI cosponsored six regional courses and one regional seminar, in addition to a railway course for francophone African countries, organized with the International Center for Management Development in Romania, and a seminar on regional development planning for francophone countries, held in France in cooperation with the Agence Francaise Cooperation et Amenagement. The EDI continued its program of regional courses given in cooperation with the United Nations Center for Human Settlements with two courses on the design and execution of urban projects, one in French, given in Senegal, the other in English, given in Kenya. Also as part of a continuing program in development banking in cooperation with the African Development Bank and the Association of African Development Finance Institutions, two courses were given in the Ivory Coast, one in English and the other in French. Two regional French-language courses in the rural sector were held: a course on rural development projects in the Sahel was cosponsored by the Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest and the
Institut du Sahel in Senegal, and a course on management of rural projects, cosponsored with the Pan-African Institute for Development and the African Development Bank, was held in Cameroon. The EDI conducted a regional seminar for senior transport officials in Kenya, similar to seminars held earlier in Asia. In Nigeria, the EDI and the Ministry of Water Resources conducted a workshop for Nigerian officials on management of planning for water-supply and waste-disposal agencies. The EDI also cosponsored, with the Bank's Africa departments and the Commonwealth Secretariat, two seminars in London on structural adjustment policies in Africa. The EDI plans similar seminars in fiscal 1982 for francophone African countries, proposed to be held in Yaounde, Cameroon, and Dakar, Senegal.
In Egypt, the EDI and the Institute of National Planning continued their collaboration with a senior seminar on agroindustrial project analysis, a course on agroindustrial project analysis, and a course on design and implementation of agricultural projects. Also in Egypt, the seminar for senior transport officials and the transportation projects course, cosponsored by the Transport Planning Authority of the Ministry of Transport, were repeated.
In Asia, the first of a series of regional courses on the organizational and financial aspects of power projects was held in Thailand in cooperation with the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand. The regional program of training for development banking officials requested by the ADFIAP last year continued with four courses, two given in India at the Management Development Institute and two given in the Philippines, one at the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines, the other at the Development Bank of the Philippines. The program is being supported by the UNDP, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, and the German Foundation for International Development. Other regional courses cosponsored by the EDI included a transportation projects course with the Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies (BIDS); two courses on industrial projects with the International Development Center of Japan, to which participants were invited from selected countries in Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America; and a course on rural development projects with the University of the Philippines at Los Banos and the Southeast Asian Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture. A new seminar on metropolitan management, cosponsored by the Asian Development Bank, was given for senior officials from Asian countries.
National courses and seminars included two courses given in Bangladesh cosponsored by
BIDS, one on population and health, the other on project management; and two courses given in Pakistan—project management and agricultural project analysis, and a seminar on investment analysis, decisionmaking, and implementation—in cooperation with the Planning Division and other government departments. The EDI, the government of India, and the Administrative Staff College cosponsored a seminar on development policy analysis as it is related to investment decisions.
In Latin America and the Caribbean, the EDI continued its regional program in cooperation with the training unit of the Association of Argentine Banks (ADEBA) and the Centra de Treinamento para o Desenvolvimento Econo-mico (CENDEC) in Brazil. The EDI cosponsored two courses with ADEBA, on development banking and agroindustrial projects, and two with CENDEC, on national economic management and rural development projects. A fifth regional course, on education programs and projects, given for officials from Latin America and Spain, was cosponsored by the Spanish Ministry of Finance. The EDI and the Centro de Capacitacion y Desarrollo cosponsored two national courses in Mexico, one on rural development projects, the other on managing urban growth, of which the Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works was also a cospon-sor. The EDI helped to organize the third meeting of representatives of Ibero-American training institutions held in Barcelona, Spain.
The EDI also assisted with the design of curricula and the identification of lecturers and training materials, and in some instances it provided one to two weeks of teaching support for a number of regional and national courses conducted by other institutions.
During fiscal 1981, the EDI responded to more than 1,000 requests a month for training materials such as case studies and course notes— five times as many as in fiscal 1980. Approximately 41,000 items were distributed during the year. A number of manuscripts that have grown out of teaching activities of the EDI were completed, one was published, and two others have been accepted for external publication. An increasing number of teaching materials is being produced in Spanish and French to meet the expansion of the EDI's teaching program in these languages.
The EDI continued its efforts to evaluate its effect on the training programs of institutions with which it is cooperating. In fiscal 1981, work on an evalution of the cooperative program in Indonesia was completed and evaluation of two programs, one in Pakistan and one in Argentina, was begun.
Technical Assistance
"The demand for Bank-supported technical assistance, especially for the development of local capabilities, has grown in recent years, as a result of the expansion and diversification of the Bank's portfolio of projects, the intensification of institution-building efforts, and the increasing complexity of development tasks addressed by the Bank's operations. The Bank's approach to technical assistance needs has been both pragmatic and flexible; there has been a wide variety of approaches to meet the differing needs of individual countries." So reads, in part, a document prepared for the Executive Directors on the volume and types of technical assistance provided by the Bank during the decade of the 1970s.
Technical assistance has long been an integral part of World Bank operations, and the volume, scope, and diversity of mechanisms used by the Bank in providing it to member governments continued to expand in fiscal 1981. The primary way of providing technical assistance continued to be in loans made for specific sectors and in components of loans made for other capital purposes. In fiscal 1981, the amount of this technical assistance, including funds provided for supervision, implementation, and engineering services, totaled $979 million, compared to $807 million allocated for this purpose in fiscal 1980. Loans extended for technical assistance in specific sectors totaled $50 million in energy, $33 million in power, $14 million in transportation, $17.7 in water supply and sewerage, and $14.7 in industry. Among the large technical assistance components were $30 million approved in the China University Development loan and credit of $200 million, $40.1 million of a $359 million loan to Colombia for hydroelectric power, $26.3 million of a $60 million loan to Brazil for agricultural research, and $12.8 million of an $85 million loan to Bangladesh for a gas development project. In addition, the Bank extended thirteen free-standing technical assistance loans and credits for a total of $131.1 million. These went to Bangladesh, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Egypt, Guyana, Madagascar, Malawi, Nigeria, Senegal, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire. By comparison, in fiscal 1980, four such loans and credits totaling $13 million, were made.
A key stage in the project cycle at which the Bank is called upon to assist its borrowers with technical assistance is during preparation. The Bank has been responding to that need through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF), created in 1975, under which the Bank advances funds to prospective borrowers to meet gaps in project preparation and for institution building. During fiscal 1981 advances from the PPF amounted to
$25.1 million, up from $20.4 million in fiscal 1980. In response to the increasing demand for assistance from the PPF, its commitment authority was increased in October 1980 by $30 million to $87.5 million.
The Bank continued to serve as executing agency for projects financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP); the number of these that were in progress at the end of the year stood at 138, up from 97 a year earlier. The technical assistance being provided under these projects exceeds $149 million. Fifty-eight new projects, involving commitments of $41.7 million, were approved during the year; the number in fiscal 1980 was 45, involving commitments of $20 million.
The new projects include a $3.4 million project to assist sixty participating countries in assessing their needs for assistance in their energy sectors, the first project of the Bank and the UNDP in the People's Republic of China— an "umbrella" project for the preparation of investment projects—and a technical-assistance project in Bolivia, set up specifically to help the government carry out the program for which the Bank has made a structural-adjustment loan. Near the end of the year, the Bank also signed, with the UNDP and the government of Pakistan, a project document for design work on the Kalabah Dam. This project, for which the UNDP will contribute $8 million, will be the largest single UNDP-funded project for which the Bank has served as executing agency.
One of the growing features of the World Bank's association with the UNDP is the frequency with which borrowers from the Bank are combining the proceeds of Bank loans and credits with the grant funds of the UNDP for the financing of technical assistance. By the end of the fiscal year there had been sixteen such arrangements in which the World Bank was the executing agency and fifteen in which some other UN organization served as executing agency.
Efforts to associate technical-assistance grants from bilateral sources with Bank lending continued. A new arrangement was worked out with Norway whereby the Norwegian government will set aside 5 million kroner (about $1 million equivalent) a year for financing technical assistance needed in connection with Bank lending. An arrangement with Japan for similar preinvestment assistance to potential Bank borrowers was reaffirmed, and a review was undertaken with Japanese authorities of studies that might be undertaken in the coming year.
Demand for planning assistance has continued to grow. Specific objectives of planning and projects range widely, from reorganization of national economies to strengthening of invest-
ment-preparation capacities in an individual ministry or at the provincial level. All projects, however, have the general goals of promoting self-sufficiency in trained manpower and improving the efficiency of systems for development planning and implementation.
During fiscal 1981 the Bank continued as executing agency for UNDP-financed planning projects in thirteen countries concentrated in three regions. Projects were completed in the Maldives and Zaire; others were initiated in Comoros, Djibouti, Rwanda, and the Yemen Arab Republic. The Bank also supervised components of several IDA credits that involved the use of technical assistance in developing planning capability. In Djibouti and Sierra Leone, the Bank supervised planning components of IDA and UNDP projects.
Training programs carried out in association with technical assistance were designed for about 200 individuals, who represented twenty nationalities. Trainees participating in these programs improved their technical and managerial skills at institutions in both developed and developing countries.
The Bank also provides an array of technical assistance outside conventional Bank operations. Examples include short-term training; secondment of advisers; transfers of technology, such as computer expertise; service on evaluation and monitoring panels; and demographic, financial, and economic advice on project preparation. Reimbursable technical assistance to capital-surplus, oil-exporting countries of the Middle East is detailed on page 59 of this Annual Report.
Inter-Organizational Cooperation
Because the activities of the Bank cover most of the sectors in development assistance, its relations with other organizations concerned with development, including those that specialize in particular sectors or geographical areas, are extensive and varied. With the growing need to improve coordination among aid-giving agencies, the Bank's relations with other institutions have continued to grow in volume and frequency. Only a fraction of this extended network of contacts can be mentioned here.
Like cooperation among sectors, cooperation with other organizations, both within and outside the United Nations, was particularly active in the energy field in fiscal 1981, in view of the importance of developments in that field within the Bank's own programs. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), for example, is providing financing for energy-sector assessments to be carried out by the Bank in sixty developing countries during three to four
years, at an estimated cost of $3.4 million. For this purpose, the Bank made arrangements with the Natural Resources and Energy Division of the UN Department of Technical Cooperation for Development to obtain consultants to participate in missions to seven countries. The Bank and the UN also agreed to exchange information on the assessments undertaken by each institution. Exchange of information on the same subject will take place between the Bank and the African Development Bank (AfDB) and as a result the AfDB may also participate in Bank energy-assessment missions to Africa.
The Bank has participated in the preparatory work for the UN Conference on New and Renewable Sources of Energy and will attend the conference to be held in Nairobi, Kenya, in August 1981. It will also participate in the September 1981 UN Symposium on Energy Planning to be held in Stockholm, Sweden.
Energy was one of the principal subjects of analytical work and policy discussions with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and its Development Assistance Committee. The Bank and the European Development Fund (EDF) also exchanged information on energy policy and investments.
Cooperation between the Bank and certain other international organizations is based on formal agreements such as the Cooperative Programs (CPs) between the Bank and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (Unesco), the World Health Organization (WHO), and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). These CPs continue to assist governments in the identification and preparation of projects and to engage in sector surveys. The Bank bears 75 percent of the costs of these programs. Its aggregate share in fiscal 1981 was $11,321,000.
The seventeen-year-old CP between the Bank and the FAO remains the largest of the four. In fiscal 1981 the program fielded 122 agriculture and rural development missions in thirty-eight countries. It assisted countries in the preparation of more than a fourth of all agriculture and rural development projects approved for financing by the Bank during the year.
The Bank-Unesco CP, also launched seventeen years ago, carried out analysis missions in the education sector or subsector in ten countries and provided assistance with project preparation to twelve borrowers. In addition, it assisted in the completion phase of project work and, to that end, organized missions to four countries in the course of the year. Outside the CP, the Bank drew on the Statistical Office of Unesco, exchanged views with its Science Policy
Division, and exchanged information with Unesco on population education and communication work.
The CP with the WHO, initiated in 1971, concentrated on sector work in its early years. In the mid 1970s project preparation and specialized subsector work, such as tariff studies and manpower-development programs, were added. During the past several years, the CP has assisted governments by preparing rapid assessments and sector digests in connection with the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade. So far, 105 rapid assessments, 116 sector digests, and 57 sector reports have been prepared. As a member of the Decade Steering Committee, the Bank is involved in policy development, promotion, and coordination of Decade activities and undertakes special tasks, such as the development of project preparation guidelines for use by governments and multilateral and bilateral agencies, with the objective of easing the burden of project preparation of governments suffering chronic staff constraints in the water and wastes sector.
To improve cooperation and to promote the health effects of development projects in the water-supply and sanitation sector, the Bank organized a Basic Needs Workshop for agencies active in that sector, held in Easton, Maryland, in October 1980. This workshop and others that are planned are designed to expand the cooperation and joint project activities that already exist with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) to appropriate nongovernmental organizations that are better able than the Bank to operate at the grass-roots level and that have more experience in community organization, health education, and the like. Where governments agree, these organizations could become executing agencies for Bank-assisted projects.
In further support of the Decade, and in an effort to develop projects that are more cost effective, the Bank is executing a number of UNDP-financed projects. The first one, begun in 1978, involves the design of low-cost water supply and sanitation projects using appropriate technologies affordable even to low-income groups. Activities, including extensions of applied research earlier completed by the Bank, are going on in fourteen countries. Total project value is about $100 million; the first projects are now being accepted for financing by IDA and bilateral agencies.
The CP with UNIDO continued to emphasize support of employment-intensive artisanal activities and small-scale enterprises in manufacturing and construction industries. In addition, studies for small-scale hydropower equipment and of industrial policy issues in the least-
developed countries were initiated. Staff of the Bank-UNIDO CP carried out or took part in missions in support of Bank-initiated sectoral studies and project work in various countries. They also provided support for activities in connection with the Investment Cooperation Program of UNIDO and its consultations for fertilizer and petrochemical industries. The Bank and UNIDO will review the CP toward the end of calendar 1981 to identify outstanding problems and consider possibilities for future cooperation.
The Bank also has an agreement with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) that provides for assistance by the Bank in the preparation and appraisal of agricultural and rural development projects for financing by the IFAD and for cofinancing. In fiscal 1981 the Bank assisted in the appraisal and supervision of sixteen projects; eleven projects involved Bank and IFAD cofinancing during the year.
Finally, among agencies with which the Bank has formal relations, mention must be made of the UNDP, for which, as noted in the section on Technical Assistance, the Bank acts as executing agency for preinvestment projects.
With the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the Bank continued to hold informal consultations in the education sector, particularly in the field of training, through visits to and from ILO staff and staff of the International Center for Advanced Technical and Vocational Training, in Turin, Italy. In addition, the Bank took part in the FAO-Unesco-ILO Inter-Secretariat Working Group on Agricultural Education and Training.
The Bank is considering with the ILO the possibility of developing or adapting ILO Modules of Employable Skills for use in Bank-assisted components of projects or sector-related training. The two organizations have agreed to collaborate in the evaluation of data concerning income distribution. Common definitions of income and household will be used, and the household will be the basic income unit in these data. Duplication of coverage of any country will be avoided, and the findings of the country studies will be discussed periodically. By July 1981, studies of fifteen countries had been completed by the Bank. The staff of the Bank and the ILO collaborated in the Living Standards Measurement Study, which is part of the research program of the Bank's Development Research Center.
In the field of population, health, and nutrition, the Bank cooperated actively with several organizations. The Director of its Population, Health, and Nutrition Department is now chairman of the Sub-Committee on Nutrition of the
UN Administrative Committee on Coordination (ACC); twelve international and nine bilateral agencies are represented on the Sub-Committee.
As fiscal agent for and cosponsor with the UNDP and the WHO of the Special Program for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases, the Bank continued its support of research into new and better methods of treatment and control of six major tropical diseases. It will contribute $2.48 million to the financing of the Special Program during calendar 1981. With the WHO, it participated in the design of a research and development program for the control of diarrheal diseases through more effective methods of preparation, dissemination, and use of oral rehydration therapy and by providing environmental and personal health services. The Bank also participated in the meetings of the Health 2000 Resources Group sponsored by the WHO the aim of which is to monitorthe mobilization of resources and the use of resources in the light of investment experience.
A Committee of International Development Assistance Institutions on the Environment was established in 1981, with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) as the Secretariat, to give effect to the Declaration of Environment Policies and Procedures Relating to Economic Development, which the Bank and other agencies adopted last year. Further harmonization of environmental policies, programs, and performance will be sought through linkage with bilateral development aid agencies. The Bank's Office of Environmental Affairs also held consultations with other agencies on the Regional Seas Programme of the UNEP, on control of desertification. and on such other subjects as the management of tropical forests and the use and regulation of pesticides.
In the field of research, the Bank continued to expand its already considerable relations with other multilateral and national institutions. It collaborates, for example, with the FAO, in reassessing methodologies for estimating the prevalence of nutritional deprivation. With the International Food Policy Research Institute a review of financial arrangements for food security is under way. With the International Development Research Centre in Ottawa, Canada, the Bank cooperates in and jointly funds a five-year program of evaluation of urban shelter projects in selected developing countries; the evaluations are carried out in collaboration with local institutions.
Members of the Bank staff seconded to the UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) assisted in the drafting of the basic-documents on policies and procedures required for the operations of the Common Fund for Commodities. Bank staff also collaborated with
UNCTAD in providing economic and social data on certain of the least-developed countries as background for the thirty individual country-review meetings leading up to the UN Conference on the Least Developed Countries, to be held in September 1981.
Bank staff also participated actively in the deliberations of the UN Committee on Development Planning and the ACC ad hoc Task Force on Long-Term Development Objectives.
Borrowers from the Bank are turning more and more to UN agencies for assistance in the preparation and implementation of Bank-supported projects. In fiscal 1981 total disbursements to UN agencies through Bank loans and IDA credits amounted to approximately $16 million. Funds provided to borrowers through Bank loans allow governments to supplement UNDP financing for projects executed by other agencies of the United Nations. For two civil aviation projects in Latin America, for example, the Bank deposited approximately $2.3 million with the UNDP for activities to be undertaken by the International Civil Aviation Organization as executing agency for those projects.
In line with efforts made in the past to develop closer links with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) engaged in development assistance, a program was initiated to systematize and expand cooperation with those organizations. Types of cooperation may include, with the approval of borrowers, contractual participation of NGOs in Bank-assisted projects as consultants or as executing agents for project components, exchange of information between the Bank and NGOs in the various phases of sector and project work, and coordination when it may be appropriate, between Bank and NGO projects already planned or under way. A workshop was organized with selected NGOs from Europe, Japan, and the United States on assistance to small-scale enterprises, thrift institutions, and institution building in developing countries. In order to promote further cooperation, a Bank-NGO liaison committee was established.
Cooperation in Agricultural Research. Sound long-term programs of agricultural research are a vital part of efforts to improve agricultural productivity and increase the supply of food in developing countries. The Bank's agricultural development projects include ever greater provision for the strengthening of the borrower's national agricultural research capacity. At the international level, the Bank joins with the FAO and the UNDP in sponsoring the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), an informal association of donor countries, private foundations, international and regional development institutions, and
countries representing the various regions of the developing world. The Group's purpose is to support research to develop technology that will make it possible for the developing countries to produce more food. Its thirty-three donor members will be providing grants amounting to nearly $140 million in calendar 1981 to support thirteen international agricultural research institutions.2 Following authorization by the Board of Governors in September 1980, the Bank is expected to contribute some $14.6 million of this amount during calendar 1981.
The network of activities supported by the Group includes nine international research institutes, all based in developing countries and staffed and equipped to high international standards. These institutes carry out research on all important food crops, on livestock, and on farming systems, and they also maintain an important training function. In addition, the Group supports a worldwide effort to collect, conserve, and use genetic materials and supports research on rice by an association of Western African governments, research on food policy, and technical assistance to developing countries in the design and implementation of their own agricultural research systems. No additions to the system are envisaged for the coming year, but the Group, advised by its Technical Advisory Committee, remains alert to possible new research activities of high priority that might contribute significantly to the fulfillment of its objectives.
The CGIAR has grown rapidly since its formation in 1971, and it is now an established and significant part of the international development community. In the immediate future, it expects the rate of expansion to be moderate, though there is no question as to the high priority that donors continue to give to the research being supported. Donors have accepted an indicative financial plan that envisages steady but conservative growth. The Group is now engaged in a comprehensive evaluation of the scope of its activities and its present policies and procedures in order to define its objectives and plan its program for the next decade.
The Group's organization is unique in a number of respects. It operates by consensus, without any formal legal framework. The flexibility thereby provided has been a source of strength and has enabled the Group to move rapidly in the establishment of its present array of activities. Although the total resources channeled through the CGIAR are modest in relation to the investments being made in agricultural research throughout the developing world, the international centers will continue to perform a critical function in the development of
agricultural technology for the foreseeable future. Donors recognize the long-term nature of their commitment, while remaining determined to ensure that the resources provided are used to achieve the maximum effectiveness.
Cooperation in Aid Coordination. At the request of both donor and recipient governments, the Bank has continued to take the lead in organizing various aid coordination mechanisms for a number of developing countries that receive assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources. During the year, eleven aid coordinating groups held formal meetings that were sponsored by the Bank. These were the country groups for Bangladesh, Burma, the Caribbean nations, India (twice), Mauritius, Pakistan, Peru, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Zaire. The Bank also participated in a meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia, sponsored by the Netherlands, and the Turkey Consortium, chaired by the OECD.
The many projects that the Bank and IDA help to finance jointly or in parallel with other national and multilateral organizations is an indication of the close cooperation that exists among the various development-assistance agencies. The numerous national and multilateral organizations that joined the Bank in helping to finance projects approved in fiscal 1981 are noted in the project summaries, to be found on pages 99 through 119.
In an effort to strengthen its cooperation with regional development banks, the Bank and the Asian Development Bank (AsDB) reached an understanding on cofinancing projects in three South Pacific islands that are members of both institutions, namely, Fiji, Solomon Islands, and Western Samoa. For projects in these countries that the Bank and the AsDB have agreed to cofinance. the AsDB will act as the lead institution and will carry out project appraisal on behalf of the Bank, taking responsibility for project implementation and supervision. In fiscal 1981, this cooperation agreement was applied
Ccntro Intcrnacional dc Agricultura tropical (OAT). C'ali. Colombia: Ccniro Intcrnacional dc Miiioramienlo dc Maiz y Trigo (CIMMYT). El Balan. Mexico; the International Institute ol 'Tropical Agriculture (IITA). Ibadan. Nigeria; the International Rice Research Institute (1RRI). Los Banos, the Philippines; the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA). Addis Ababa. Lthiopia; the International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases (II.RAD). Nairobi, Kenya: the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources (IBPGR). Rome. liah: the Interna, tional Center for Agricultural Research in the Drv Areas (ICARDA). Beirut. Lebanon, and Aleppo. Syria: the West African Rice Development Association (WARDA). Monrovia. Liberia: Ccntro Intcrnacional de la Papa 1CIP). Lima. Peru: the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid tropics (ICRISAT). Hyderabad. India: the International Pood Policv Research Institute (IFPRI). Washington. D.C".. United States: and the International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR). the Hague, the Netherlands.
to the Second Western Samoa Agricultural Development project and a credit to the Development Bank of Solomon Islands, which were cofinanced by the two institutions. In the Caribbean Region, a similar technique has taken the form of lending to the Caribbean Development Bank for onlending to some of the smaller states. Such informal arrangements are examples of the Bank's efforts in recent years to explore ways of serving more effectively some of its smaller borrowers, and they represent a further step toward appropriate division of labor.
On a regional basis, the Bank continued its active participation in the country reviews sponsored by the Permanent Executive Committee of the Inter-American Economic and Social Council. It also maintained close working relationships with regional development banks and with the Commission of the European Communities, which helped assure the coordination of development-assistance activities.
Economic Research and Studies
The World Bank devotes roughly $12 million a year, or 3 percent of its administrative budget, to economic and social research. Since the formal inception of the research program ten years ago, about 110 research projects have been completed, while about the same number are in progress. Thirty new projects were started in fiscal 1981.
The program of research is shaped by the Bank's own needs as a lending institution and as a source of policy advice to member governments and by the needs of member countries. Its main purposes are to gain new insights into the development process, to introduce new techniques or methodologies into country, sector,
and project analyses, to provide the analytical bases for Bank policy statements, such as the World Development Report, and to help strengthen indigenous research capacity in member developing countries. Research projects in progress are described in an annual publication, World Bank Research Program: Abstracts of Current Studies. The results of completed research projects appear in a variety of formats, including articles in professional journals, books published under World Bank auspices or by independent publishers, and World Bank Staff Working Papers. The Catalog of World Bank Publications provides detailed information on publications issued by, or on behalf of, the Bank.
Research is undertaken by the Bank's own research staff, usually in collaboration with outside researchers. Except for such collaborative projects, the Bank does not provide funds to outside institutions or individuals for economic and social research.
During the past year, research activities have evolved further in pursuit of three objectives recommended by the external advisory panel that evaluated the research program in fiscal 1979: more collaboration with institutions in developing countries; closer links with Bank operations; and greater efforts to disseminate and apply the results of research. As the examples presented here will show, these three objectives have often been mutually reinforcing.
Collaborative Research. The Bank has been financing collaborative research with nationals of developing countries for many years, but the proportion of collaborative projects has recently increased. Of the research projects approved since the beginning of fiscal 1980, for example, 60 percent include collaborative arrangements,
while only 46 percent of those approved between fiscal 1975 and fiscal 1979 included such arrangements. Those recently approved include several for which institutions in developing countries have taken the initiative and are largely responsible for design and execution; examples are a study of employment and sources of income at the household level in Peru, a study of the evolution of living standards of different socioeconomic groups in Colombia, and a study of land tenure in Indonesia. A separate allocation of funds from the Bank's research budget to encourage this type of collaborative research is now being made.
Links with Operations. Links between research and operations of the Bank have been strengthened. This is partly through a natural process whereby as the research program matures, results are increasingly made available for use in operations. In addition, more efforts are being made to disseminate the results of research to operating staff, and the latter are also becoming more involved in identifying issues for research, deciding on the content of the research program, and managing research projects. Six sectoral Research Steering Groups are now at work, defining research priorities, advising on the design of new proposals, and evaluating completed projects. The newest of these groups—on Population and Human Resources and on Energy—were created in 1981.
An increasing proportion of research projects is being initiated by regional offices. Some of these projects address quite narrowly defined problems encountered in operations; others are broader ranging and more speculative. Those approved in the last year include research on the effects of Bank-assisted dairy projects for small-scale producers on incomes, agricultural production, household consumption, and nutrition and a case study of the efficacy of the training-and-visit system of agricultural extension—now in use in member countries on all continents—in promoting innovations and increasing productivity and incomes. Other new studies sponsored by regional offices include a project to evaluate traditional and new technologies for animal-powered agriculture and the factors that encourage or hamper their use and a study in Brazil to test the validity of using the poverty line, or income threshhold, to distinguish the poor from the nonpoor in the planning of urban projects.
Methods and findings derived from earlier research are being applied to an increasing degree in project operations and country economic analysis of the Bank. An example of research that has supported project and sector analysis is the Bank's research on the pricing of and investment in electric power. In this research the existing practices of the Bank were assessed.
alternatives based on marginal-cost principles of pricing were developed, and case studies to demonstrate the practicability of the new methodology were conducted. As a consequence of this research and the vigorous dissemination of its results, marginal-cost pricing principles are now routinely incorporated in power-tariff reforms conducted by client public utilities in developing countries.
A current example of applications at the country level is a study of trade policies and incentive policies, to be undertaken as part of current work on structural-adjustment lending to Turkey. The Bank's research on the structure and consequences of trade protection in developing countries began in the late 1960s and has had a powerful influence in favor of more open trade policies and industrial policies in developing countries. This influence has been channeled in a variety of ways, including the assumption of advisory functions by researchers in member developing countries, changes in the content and rigor of analyses of trade incentives and policies, and discussion in public documents, notably the World Development Report. In some instances, the findings of case studies undertaken in Bank research projects have influenced trade policies and incentive policies directly; in others, regional offices of the Bank have mounted their own studies of the incentive framework to provide the basis for discussions with governments.
Application and Dissemination of Research. The Research Committee of the Bank now makes a separate provision for funds to support the application of research results, quite apart from those applications that are made in the context of operations and are funded from the budgets of Bank operations. During fiscal 1981 the Research Committee approved several projects in which analytical techniques developed in previous research are being transferred for use in other countries and are being developed further in the process. These projects will yield information useful for policy planning and are also designed to enhance local capacity for analytical work. In the first of these, a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model of the economy of Yugoslavia is being constructed for use in reviewing the 1981-85 plan and for subsequent routine country analytical work by Bank staff. CGE modeling techniques are already well known in the research literature, though there are few instances of their application. Sponsorship by the Bank has been important in their development. A researcher in the Yugoslavia project is one of the principal authors of a similar model of the Turkish economy now in use in the Bank and being transferred to the Middle East Technical University in Ankara. Two other new projects in which research results are being
applied—one in Cyprus and one in Egypt— make use of social-accounting techniques and associated models as tools for economic planning. Much of the literature on the application of these techniques to policy analysis and planning is the result of research done at the Bank or sponsored by it.
Efforts to make information on the Bank's research program and its products more widely available are continuing. The thrice-yearly bulletin "World Bank Research News" is now in its second year. It is distributed to all operations staff within the Bank and to more than 5,000 individuals in governments, research institutions, and other international institutions. In fiscal 1981 a large set of staff working papers was issued in which up-to-date digests of research results in a variety of fields were given, and a report was published on the scope of the research program, its effectiveness, and the issues being discussed for the future.
Operations Evaluation
During fiscal 1981 the World Bank's system for evaluating its operations continued to develop along the lines set out in earlier annual reports. In particular, the objective of increasing the involvement of borrowers in the postevaluation of their Bank-..ssisted projects has continued to be pursued. The high proportion noted last year of project-performance audits that include the comments of borrowers has been maintained. Significant involvement of borrowers in the preparation of project-completion reports has increased. The Bank has also continued to encourage and support the establishment of borrowers' own evaluation capacities. Members of borrowers' staffs have visited the Operations Evaluation Department (OED), and sessions on evaluation have been incorporated into courses given by the Economic Development Institute (EDI). The first EDI course devoted exclusively to monitoring and evaluation was given in December 1980 with assistance from the OED staff. Efforts by operational staff to develop more effective systems for the monitoring and evaluation by borrowers of urban and rural development projects were continued.
One of the most important objectives of Bank evaluation is to identify and disseminate lessons that can contribute to improvements in the design and implementation of future Bank-supported projects. By bringing together experience with similar projects, lessons can be more readily drawn and more effectively confirmed and disseminated. The Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results was, as in the past, a valuable mechanism for summarizing
experience sector by sector and, through a process of review with operating staff, bringing that experience to bear on the designing of future projects.
The Bank's evaluation system remains comprehensive; all completed projects are covered. By the end of fiscal 1981 a total of 658 projects had been reviewed; 94 were reviewed during the 1981 fiscal year. As reported earlier, the points of special interest noted on each project performance audit report are maintained in a computerized memory-and-search system to facilitate prompt access to these elements of the project experience. An expansion of the system to include a wider range of proj ect information is to be initiated in fiscal 1982. It will greatly increase the range of easily accessible project experience and will provide a means of making more effective use of it.
To supplement the performance audit reporting system, OED has introduced a "second look" series to review the experience of selected projects some years after completion, when it is possible to make a better assessment of their larger development effects. Several such reviews were completed during fiscal 1981, and more are planned for the future.
OED's "Sixth Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results," the fourth to be distributed to the public, was published in November 1980. The Review dealt with the experience of 130 operations supported by Bank loans and IDA credits. The total amount of Bank finance in support of these projects was approximately $2,800 million; the total cost of the projects assisted was approximately $10,200 million. Like earlier reviews, the Sixth Review concluded that these projects were, with only few exceptions, successful or on their way to being successful in achieving their main objectives and that they had contributed substantially to the development of both material and human resources in the countries concerned.
This particular review provided the first opportunity to look at a significant number of projects that originated in the early 1970s and reflected the Bank's growing concern with the distribution of benefits to poorer sections of society. The results reported were encouraging.
The fairly large number of agricultural projects in this group that were intended to benefit small farmers generally involved a greater-than-usual decentralization of effort and extensive participation of individual farmers. They were implemented smoothly and on the whole quickly, economic returns were comparable to those of other agricultural projects, and it is estimated that a larger number of farmers benefited than had been expected. Some 4.5 million rural
dwellers were estimated to have benefited from the thirty-nine agricultural projects reviewed. The findings provide support for the Bank's present policy of concentrating its assistance on small farmers.
The Joint Audit Committee of the Executive Directors maintains continuing oversight of the OED work prograrh and of its effectiveness. The conclusions of the Joint Audit Committee, the report of the Director-General, Operations Evaluation, on the status of the Bank's evaluation system, and OED's Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results were all reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Internal Auditing
The Internal Auditing Department (IAD) performs an independent appraisal function within the World Bank by examining and evaluating the Bank's activities, with particular emphasis on the maintenance of an effective system of internal control, the quality of performance in carrying out assigned responsibilities, and the adequacy of related systems and procedures used in the conduct and management of Bank operations. The Department's overall objective is to assist department directors and managers at other levels in the effective discharge of their responsibilities by furnishing them with periodic independent audits and appraisals of activities within their areas of responsibility and by identifying possible means of improving the efficiency and economy of operations and the use of resources.
The work program designed to achieve these objectives covers a broad range of activities— financial, accounting, administrative, and data processing—and the supervisory aspects of Bank loans under disbursement. Some of these activities are reviewed annually, others biennially or less frequently, depending upon the materiality, volatility, or risk aspects of the activity. IAD is also requested by the management of the Bank to undertake special assignments from time to time.
In addition, the review work of the IAD has included visits to selected countries to review the auditing standards applied by borrowers' external auditors, to review internal auditing and financial reporting standards of selected borrowers, and to recommend appropriate technical-assistance programs to upgrade national
auditing and accounting education and practices in countries where they might be needed.
IAD's examination and evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems, procedures, and internal controls used in the conduct and management of an activity include review and determination of the reliability and integrity of significant financial and operating data and the accounting and reporting of such data; of the extent of compliance with various governing agreements, instruments and related decisions, regulations, policies, plans, and procedures of the Board of Governors, Executive Directors, and Bank management; and of the means of safeguarding Bank assets from various types of losses and appraisal of the efficiency and economy with which resources are used.
The audits of project supervision and electronic data-processing systems (EDP) form an important part of the Department's work program. Project-supervision activities are selected for audit on a sector/region basis and are reviewed in the light of existing policies and guidelines established by the Bank. The EDP system audits include the review of controls, security, and efficiency of computer facilities and information systems in operation and those under development.
IAD has no direct responsibility for developing and implementing changes in systems, procedures, and internal controls that it would be expected to review in a subsequent audit.
In carrying out each assignment, the Director and staff of the Department have unrestricted access to all Bank records, documents, and personnel relevant to the activity under review. Where relevant, the IAD coordinates its work with the Bank's external auditors and makes its working papers and reports available to assist them in planning and conducting their examinations of the annual financial statements of the Bank.
The IAD reports to the Senior Vice President, Finance, but in order to enhance its independence, the Director also has direct access to the President and to the Joint Audit Committee of the Executive Directors. The results of each audit undertaken are reported to the department directors, vice presidents, and others concerned as it is considered appropriate. Liaison is maintained with the Joint Audit Committee, which also reviews selected reports of the IAD, reviews the Department's annual work program, and receives periodic briefings on its activities.
Chapter Five Borrowings and Finance
Income, Expenditures, and Reserves: Bank
The gross revenues of the Bank, which are generated primarily from its loans and investments, reached a total of $2,999 million in fiscal 1981, up $199 million, or 7.1 percent, from the preceding year. Gross revenues have risen steadily during the past decade as loan and investment balances have continued to expand.
The total of the outstanding loan portfolio stood at $25,958 million at the end of the fiscal year. The average rate of return on outstanding loans, together with commitment charges on undisbursed loan balances, yielded 8.1 percent on the loan portfolio, producing income of $2,164 million. The rate in fiscal 1980 was 8.0 percent and the income was $1,945 million.
The Executive Directors have approved a policy, put into effect in January 1980, according to which the lending rate would be determined on the basis of a general guideline rather than of the strict formula that had been in effect since July 1976. The guideline provides for a spread of 0.5 percent above the cost of borrowing, which is estimated for a twelve-month period, using the actual cost of borrowing for the preceding six months and the estimated costs for the succeeding six months. According to this policy, the lending rate is reviewed at least once a year, normally at the middle of the fiscal year, and more often, if necessary. It rose from 9.25 percent during the first half of fiscal 1981 to 9.60 percent on loans submitted to the Executive Directors after January 12, 1981.
It is the aim of the Bank to maintain a liquid position in marketable short-term assets equal to 40 percent of estimated net cash requirements for the subsequent three years. This liquidity policy is designed to permit the Bank to meet its net cash requirements adequately without borrowing new funds for prolonged periods, thus making it independent of temporary adverse conditions in the capital markets. On June 30, 1981, the Bank's liquid position stood at 40.3 percent of estimated cash requirements for the next three years.
At June 30, 1981. aggregate liquid assets were $8,371 million net of commitments for settlements. These assets are fully invested, liquid, and marketable: they are limited to obligations of governments and of certain United States government instrumentalities and to time deposits and other unconditional obligations of
banks and financial institutions. In fiscal 1981, they yielded an average realized rate of return of 9.3 percent and generated $813 million of investment income. This compared with an 8.8 percent rate of return in fiscal 1980. Additional revenues of $22 million were derived from other income.
Total expenditures of the B ank, which include administrative expenses, interest, and the costs of issuance of borrowings, were S2,389 million, up 8.0 percent from fiscal 1980; the increase during fiscal 1980 had been 10 percent. Costs associated with the increased borrowings of the Bank—interest of $2,104 million, bond-issuance charges, and other financial expenses of $30 million—were by far the largest expenditures. Total administrative costs were $255 million, up $57 million, after deducting $180 million for the management fee charged to the International Development Association and $2.9 million for the service-and-support fee charged to the International Finance Corporation.
In fiscal 1981 the net income of the Bank was $610 million, an increase of 3.7 percent over the $588 million earned the preceding year.
Of the net income of $588 million earned in fiscal 1980, $118 million was allocated by the Board of Governors as a grant to IDA; the remaining $470 million was allocated to the General Reserve.
The Bank does not trade in the currencies of its member countries for its own account. Adjustments arising from translation of currencies to U.S. dollar equivalents do not bring realized gains or losses as would actual conversions into U.S. dollars. The General Reserve, therefore, rather than net income, is charged or credited annually with the amount of adjustment made necessary by currency depreciations or appreciations. In fiscal 1981 the result of that translation of currencies into U.S. dollar equivalents was a debit to the General Reserve of $582 million; in fiscal 1980 there had been a credit of $104 million. (A more detailed explanation is provided in Bank Appendices: Appendix G—Notes to Financial Statements.)
When gold was abolished in 1978 as a common denominator of the monetary system, the Bank began expressing its capital stock, for purposes of its financial statements, on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR). As a result, the 1 percent paid-in portion and the 9 percent portion of the capital stock released by certain member countries for lending in U.S. dollars are
revalued at the rate of exchange of the U.S. dollar to the SDR. The adjustment made necessary by this revaluation is also charged against or credited to the General Reserve. In fiscal 1981, the result of these adjustments was a credit of S79 million to the General Reserve; in fiscal 1980 there had been a debit of $16 million.
Other Financial Operations: Bank
As of June 30, 1981, the Bank held loans valued at $54,090 million. This amount included $6,552 million in loans approved but not yet effective and $528 million in loans to the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The total of loans disbursed and outstanding was $25,958 million, including $474 million to the IFC.
Total disbursements on loans to countries amounted to $5,063 million in fiscal 1981, up $700 million from last year. Since the Bank began operations, it has disbursed a total of $38,064 million to its borrowing member countries.
Repayments of principal on the Bank's loans, based on exchange rates at the time of disbursement, amounted to $1,419 million in fiscal 1981. This included $147 million to investors who had purchased portions of loans. Cumulative loan repayments as of June 30, 1981, were $12,466 million—$9,571 million to the Bank and $2,895 million to purchasers of loans.
Borrowings: Bank
The World Bank's borrowings in international capital markets constitute the principal source of funds for financing its lending operations. The borrowings are supplemented by the other principal financial resources of the Bank, which are its paid-in capital, accumulated earnings, and loan repayments.
The Bank borrowed the equivalent of $5,068.8 million in fiscal 1981. This does not include $646 million that was borrowed at the end of fiscal 1980 and credited in advance to the borrowing program for fiscal 1981. This amount was included in the 1980 Annual Report. The advance borrowings for fiscal 1981 included two issues, totaling $500 million, of Eurodollar notes, marking the first borrowing by the World Bank in the Eurodollar bond market, a public issue in the amount of SwF 100 million, equivalent to $61.3 million, and a private placement in the amount of DM 150 million, equivalent to $84.8 million. During fiscal 1981, the Bank also considered borrowing operations that were subsequently postponed because of volatile market conditions.
The World Bank sells its securities in two categories of market: First, it places bonds and notes directly with its member governments,
government agencies, and central banks. Second, it offers issues to investors and in the public markets through investment-banking firms, merchant banks, and commercial banks. Of the forty-four borrowing operations that the Bank conducted during fiscal 1981. twenty-eight were public issues or private placements throughout the world and accounted for S3.322.6 million, or 66 percent of total funds borrowed. The other sixteen issues, totaling $1,729.1 million, or 34 percent of the funds raised, were placed with official sources— namely, member governments of the World Bank, central banks, and government institutions.
The basic borrowing policy of the Bank is to diversify the markets for its obligations in order to avoid undue dependence on one particular market. Its securities have been placed with investors in more than a hundred countries in Africa, Asia. Australia. Europe, the Middle East, and North and South America. The Bank is the largest nonresident borrower in virtually all countries in which its issues are held.
The $5,068.8 million borrowed by the Bank in fiscal 1981 consisted of the following currencies and included the Bank's first public borrowing in sterling since 1971, and the first public borrowing in guilders since 1976.
Of these borrowings, $3,860.5 million represented new funds and $1,208.3 million represented refinancing of outstanding borrowings.
A total of $2,722.0 million equivalent of borrowings was retired during the year, including both debt maturities and sinking-fund and purchase-fund operations.
At June 30. 1981, outstanding obligations of the Bank amounted to $27,797.8 million. These obligations were denominated in 17 different currencies and were placed with investors, including central banks and government institutions, in more than a hundred countries. A summary classification of outstanding borrowings by-principal source at June 30, 1981, is as follows:
Borrowing Costs: Bank
The total cost of all borrowings by the Bank in the fiscal year, weighted by amount and maturity, averaged 9.1 percent; the corresponding percentage in the preceding year had been 8.1. The cost in fiscal 1981, weighted by amount only, was 9.6 percent, compared to 8.2 percent in fiscal 1980. The average cost of all funds to the Bank, including paid-in capital and accumulated earnings, was about 6.1 percent. The cost of the Bank's average outstanding borrowings was 7.4 percent.
The cost of the Bank's average outstanding borrowings for each of the past six fiscal years is here summarized:
Capitalization
The capital stock of the Bank and the subscriptions of its members to it are expressed, under the Articles of Agreement, in U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944 (1944 dollars). Until 1971, the current U.S. dollar had the same value as the 1944 dollar and the SDR, which was instituted in 1969. In 1972, the current dollar value of the 1944 dollar and the SDR increased to SI.08571, and in 1973 to SI.20635, as the result of devaluations of the dollar. Until mid 1974, both the 1944 dollar and the SDR continued to be valued in gold and had the same gold value. Thus on July 1, 1974, the
value of the SDR, expressed in U.S. dollars, was SI.20635, which was the equivalent of one 1944 dollar.
Since July 1, 1974, when a method of valuing the SDR that was based on a number of major currencies was adopted, the value of the SDR has fluctuated daily. The current-dollar value of the 1944 dollar, on the other hand, was deemed to remain fixed at the rate established by the U.S. par value legislation of 1973.
Since April 1,1978, when the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) took effect, currencies no longer have par values, and the basis for translating the 1944 dollar into current U.S. dollars no longer exists.
For purposes of the financial statements, the Bank has expressed the value of its capital stock on the basis of the SDR in U.S. dollars as computed bv the IMF on June 30,1981 ($1.15060 per SDR).
The subscribed capital of the Bank was increased by SDR 1,650.3 million in fiscal 1981, bringing the total of subscribed capital to SDR 31,822.1 million as of June 30, 1981. The increases in subscriptions during the year came from the following countries:
On January 4,1980, the Board of Governors of the Bank adopted a resolution that increases the authorized capital stock of the Bank by 331,500 shares; this represents an increase of approx-
imately $40,000 million. The resolution provides that the paid-in portion of the shares authorized to be subscribed under it will be 7.5 percent; the paid-in portion of existing capital stock is 10 percent. Subscribing members will be required to pay 0.75 percent of the subscription price in gold or U.S. dollars and 6.75 percent in their respective currencies. The Governors also adopted a resolution that increases the authorized capital stock by an additional 33,500 shares—representing a further increase of approximately $4,000 million—and that authorizes each member to subscribe to 250 shares of this additional capital, none of which will be paid in. Subscriptions authorized by these resolutions will be accepted after September 30, 1981.
Finances: IDA
The International Development Association (IDA) held a total of $23,842 million in credits on June 30, 1981, including $2,226 million approved but not yet effective. Of the $21,616 million of effective credits. S8,740 million was undisbursed at the end of the year.
Total disbursements in fiscal 1981 were $1,878 million; the fiscal 1980 total was $1,411 million. As of June 30, 1981, cumulative disbursements by IDA were $13,076 million. The total resources provided to IDA increased $1,684 million during the period, primarily from advance contributions to the Sixth Replenishment, which totaled $2,187 million equivalent as of June 30,1981. The value of resources provided by members in earlier fiscal years decreased by $981 million, mostly as a result of currency depreciations. The World Bank granted $118 million to IDA from its fiscal 1980 net income, of which $98 million was for the general purposes of the Association and $20 million was for grants by IDA for agricultural research and control of onchocerciasis and other tropical diseases.
The total of other resources that became available to IDA during the fiscal year was $92 million; these were derived from releases by Part II countries and cancellations of and repayments on credits. For further information, see "IDA Appendices: Financial Statements."
Foreign and International Bonds: Calendar 1980
Fluctuating interest rates in the United States and in the Eurodollar market and associated movements in exchange rates were the main causes of the unstable conditions that prevailed in the bond markets during 1980.
Total borrowing in the foreign and international bond markets during 1980 was $38,259 million, somewhat higher than the $37,764
million raised in 1979.' Borrowing in the foreign bond markets declined from $19,965 million in 1979 to $15,753 million in 1980 because of a decrease in activity in the Swiss and Japanese capital markets. International bonds, on the other hand, increased during the same period from $17,799 million in 1979 to $22,506 million in 1980, primarily because of an increase in the dollar-denominated sector of the market.
Foreign Bonds. The total of foreign bonds issued during 1980 was $15,753 million, 21 percent less than the $19,965 million raised in 1979. Total public offerings were $9,011 million and private placements were $6,742 million. About 55 percent of all foreign bonds, $8,700 million, were issued by industrial countries, while developing countries raised $1,205 million (8 percent), international organizations $5,797 million (37 percent), and borrowers unallocated by country, $51 million (less than 1 percent).
The U.S. Market. The total of foreign bonds issued in the United States was $2,637 million. About two thirds of total borrowing in the United States market, $1,705 million, was completed by industrial countries. Canadian borrowers raised $1,220 million, while Swedish borrowers raised $485 million. Developing countries raised $382 million, of which $326 million was secured by Israel and $56 million by Mexico. The European Investment Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank were the only two international organizations to borrow in the U.S. market; they raised $450 million and $100 million, respectively. The average ini-
tial offering yield for public offerings by industrial countries was 12.8 percent.
The Swiss Market. Foreign bonds issued in the Swiss capital market totaled $7,441 million, 22 percent less than the $9,517 million borrowed during 1979. About three fourths of total issues in the Swiss market, $5,526 million, were raised by industrial countries. Japanese borrowers, who raised $1,935 million, were the most active. About three fourths of all issues by Japanese borrowers were private placements. Large amounts were also raised by borrowers from Austria ($884 million), Sweden ($493 million), Norway ($359 million), and France ($334 million). Developing countries raised $517 million, of which $218 million was secured by Spain, $156 million by South Africa, $50 million by Argentina, $23 million by Morocco, and $12 million each by Costa Rica and Yugoslavia. International organizations borrowed $1,344 million, of which $725 million was raised by the World Bank and $259 million by the European Investment Bank. The average initial offering yield on public offerings was 5.68 percent for industrial countries.
The Japanese Market. A total of $1,616 million was raised in the Japanese capital markets during 1980; the figure in 1979 was $3,055 million. The twelve issues completed were raised by the
The terms foreign and International in this context refer to issues sold outside the country of the borrower—foreign if sold in one national market, international if sold in more than one.
World Bank ($708 million), Sweden ($119 million), France ($96 million), the Asian Development Bank ($95 million), Brazil ($92 million), Argentina ($89 million), Canada ($84 million), Finland ($82 million), the European Investment Bank ($70 million), Ireland ($70 million), Spain ($66 million), and Thailand ($46 million).
The German Market. The total of foreign bonds issued in the German capital markets during 1980 was $3,496 million, up from $1,834 million in 1979. The principal borrowers were the World Bank (SI,756 million), the European Investment Bank ($742 million), Australia ($221 million), Sweden ($164 million), and the European Coal and Steel Community ($162 million). Early in November, in a move to stem the capital-account outflow that accompanied the country's growing deficit in current accounts, German banks agreed to hold back temporarily on their long-term lending to foreign borrowers. This agreement supplemented the moratorium on new foreign bond issues in deutsche mark, after a rapid deterioration in the market caused by the rise in U.S. interest rates and the weakness of the mark.
Other National Markets. During 1980 foreign bonds were also issued in the capital markets of the United Kingdom (S178 million), Luxembourg ($159 million), France ($94 million), Austria ($81 million), and the Netherlands ($31 million).
Original maturities of foreign bonds were concentrated in the over seven- to ten-year range ($6,200 million), the three- to five-year range ($3,282 million), and the five- to seven-year range ($3,004 million).
International Bonds. The total of international bonds issued during 1980 was $22,506 million, 26 percent more than the $17,799 million raised in 1979.
Seventy-eight percent of all international bonds ($17,570 million) were issued by industrial countries. The largest amounts were raised by borrowers from the United States ($4,307 million), France ($1,933 million), Japan ($1,746 million), and Canada ($1,380 million).
Total borrowing by developing countries during 1980 amounted to $1,662 million, 17 percent less than the SI,989 million raised in 1979. Eighteen developing countries raised funds during the year; the largest amounts were obtained by borrowers from Mexico ($265 million), Brazil ($224 million), and South Africa ($215 million).
A total of $3,080 million was raised by six international organizations in 1980; the amount
raised in 1979 had been $2,831 million. The most active borrowers were the World Bank ($1,493 million), the European Investment Bank ($736 million), and the European Coal and Steel Community ($532 million); other borrowers included the European Economic Community ($191 million), the Asian Development Bank ($107 million), and the Nordic Investment Bank ($20 million).
The Nordic Investment Bank brought into being the Eurokrone bond market when it launched an international bond issue of NKr 80 million in January 1980. A further issue for NKr 20 million was made in February 1980.
The volume of international bonds denominated in United States dollars increased from $10,615 million in 1979 to $13,664 million in 1980. Because of high short-term interest rates in the United States at the beginning and end of the year, however, there was a noticeable decrease in new straight Eurodollar bond offerings during these periods. Around the middle of the year, nevertheless, there was a swift recovery in this market. The change in sentiment was brought about as short-term interest rates declined from their previous high of 20 percent to the 13 percent to 14 percent range. There was a boom in new issues in floating-rate notes in 1980. This was the result of the disarray in the fixed-rate dollar markets and a general reluctance to enter into long-term contracts with uncertainty attributable to the persistent high rate of inflation. The total of floating-rate notes issued by industrial countries was $3,370 million. Spreads for these countries ranged from the average of the three-month London bid-and-offered rates to 0.25 percent higher than the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and original maturities from two to fifteen years. The total of floating-rate notes issued by developing countries was $807 million. Spreads were from 0.25 percent to 0.875 percent higher than LIBOR and original maturities were from five to ten years. The average initial offering yield on straight dollar-denominated public offerings by industrial countries during 1980 was 11.50 percent.
During 1980, the total of international bonds denominated in deutsche mark was $4,254 million, 9 percent less than the $4,654 million issued in 1979. The largest amounts were raised by borrowers from Austria ($710 million), Japan ($538 million), and Sweden (S434 million). The average initial offering yield on public offerings denominated in deutsche mark by industrial countries was 8.07 percent.
Other currencies used in the international market during 1980 were the Australian dollar ($50 million), the Austrian schilling ($235 million), the Canadian dollar ($270 million), the French franc ($968 million), the Japanese yen
($416 million), the Kuwaiti dinar ($26 million), the Luxembourg franc ($61 million), the Netherlands guilder ($1,038 million), the Norwegian krone ($100 million), the British pound sterling ($1,089 million), the Swiss franc ($236 million), the European unit of account ($80 million), and the special drawing right ($20 million).
Original maturities of international bonds in 1980 were concentrated in the seven- to ten-year range ($6,500 million) and in the five- to seven-year range ($5,650 million).
Syndicated Eurocurrency Credits: Calendar 1980
Publicized Eurocurrency credits amounted to $70,386 million in 1980, a marginal increase from the $70,249 million raised in 1979.
Although developing countries accounted for 54 percent of the total, borrowing by these countries dropped 19 percent from last year's level. The share of the industrial countries increased from 27 percent in 1979 to 42 percent in 1980, and these countries raised 57 percent ($10,826 million) more during the year. Countries with centrally planned economies reduced their borrowing 53 percent.
Despite the increased requirements of the developing countries for external funding during the year because of larger interest payments and deteriorating current accounts, the decline in their borrowing in the medium-term Eurocredit market indicates the possibility that alternative sources of financing were used. These include privately arranged bank loans, short-term borrowing, drawdown of international reserves, and previously arranged lines of credit. Among the deterrents to a high level of financing through the Eurocredit market were higher interest rates, especially with the U.S. prime rate rising to a peak of 21.5 percent, and generally stricter conditions imposed upon most lending to developing countries that are not exporters of oil.
Countries with centrally planned economies faced not only economic problems but also political conditions that intensified the wariness of international bankers in lending to them.
Activity among borrowers in the Eurocurrency credit market was concentrated to a significant degree among a relatively small group of active participants. The ten largest borrowers,2 for example, accounted for 57 percent of all the Eurocredits arranged during the year. The ten most active borrowers among the industrial countries1 accounted for 91 percent of the $29,868 million raised by these countries. Of the $37,673 million raised by developing countries, 69 percent was accounted for by the ten largest borrowers.4
The distribution of Eurocredits between private and public sectors within industrial and developing countries showed a greater concentration in the public sector, albeit in varying proportions—60 percent in developing countries and 55 percent in industrial countries. The private nonfinancial institutions accounted for 45 percent of total credits in industrial countries and 21 percent in developing countries.
The economic situation during 1980 was marked by growing severity of the problems faced by developing countries, principally those that are not exporters of oil. As interest rates climbed, debt-service obligations also increased, compounding the balance-of-payments difficulties caused by high energy-import bills and reduced exports to industrial countries, whose own economies were beset by recession and wide balance-of-payments deficits.
This situation was also of significant concern to bankers, whose lending behavior depicted the so-called flight into quality. The preference for lending to the more creditworthy borrowers brought into being a two-tiered market structure, in which there was a borrowers' market for prime debtors, most of them industrial countries, and a lenders' market for less creditworthy debtors, most of them developing countries that do not export oil. Accordingly, two divergent sets of spreads were applied.
The conditions upon which developing countries could borrow deteriorated as the year progressed. Although average spreads increased only slightly throughout the first three quarters—from 0.79 percent during the first quarter—the average jumped to 1.04 percent in the final quarter. Average maturities shortened from 9.4 years during the first quarter to 8.1 years during the final quarter.
For industrial countries average spreads did not vary substantially throughout the year; the increase was from 0.56 percent during the first quarter to 0.57 percent during the final quarter. Average maturities declined from 8.6 years during the first quarter to 7.6 years in the fourth quarter.
Although the LIBOR has predominated as the base upon which a spread is added to determine the interest on syndicated Eurocurrency credits, the U.S. prime rate has had a growing influence on the pricing of Eurocredits.
2 United States, Italy, Mexico, Brazil. Spain, Canada. Venezuela. Belgium, Argentina, and France.
3 United States, Italy, Canada, Belgium, France, Australia, Denmark, Sweden. Finland, and United Kingdom.
4 Mexico. Brazil. Spain, Venezuela, Argentina, Korea. Yugoslavia, Greece, the Philippines, and Indonesia.
Unlike banks that must raise funds in the Eurodollar market, banks that have deposit bases in the United States have access to funds at a considerably lower cost. It is thus possible that the U.S. prime rate could provide a comfortable profit margin to these banks. While loans based on the U.S. prime rate might offer an economic advantage to some bankers, borrowers who chose this rate over LIBOR might find that they were paying interest at a higher rate, even if they received the usual reduction of 0.125 percent in spread from the U. S. prime rate. Historically the U.S. prime rate has often been higher than LIBOR; consequently the reduction in spread on the prime-based loan is in fact merely cosmetic. Actual costs of a prime-based loan could be higher, especially when the differential between LIBOR and the U.S. prime rate widens. At one point in December, for example, when the U.S. prime rate stood between 20 and 21.5 percent, the six-month LIBOR was 17.25 percent.
During the second half of 1980 several "jumbo" loans were arranged. Among them was the $3,000 million credit package for Joseph E. Seagram and Sons, Inc., which consisted of a limited recourse facility of $1,625 million and a revolving credit of $1,380 million. Both tranches carried a spread of 0.5 percent, with maturities ranging from five and a half years to nine years. The proceeds were to be used to finance the firm's takeover plans. The Province of Quebec also signed a credit of $1,000 million, with an 0.375 percent to 0.5 percent split spread over ten years. One of the largest loans arranged for a developing country was the $1,800 million Eurocredit to the Republic of Venezuela. The proceeds were intended for consolidation of short-term debt. The loan carried a seven-year maturity and a split margin of 0.625 percent and 0.75 percent.
Zimbabwe initiated its entry into the Eurocurrency credit market with an $11 million credit for the Air Zimbabwe Corporation and a $17.6 million loan for the National Railways Corporation of Zimbabwe. Both loans carried five-year maturities and split margins of 1.125 percent and 1.25 percent and the guarantee of the Republic.
The Eurocurrency credit market seems likely to remain an important, although relatively costly, source of financing for developing countries. Many countries will need to reduce their dependence on energy imports and improve economic growth in addition to meeting their high debt-service obligations and bolstering their reserve positions. Achievement of these ends will require development financing that will generate export earnings and improve domestic production of energy, which means a further recourse to the international capital markets.
Syndicated Eurocurrency Credits: First Half, 1981
A total of $32,774 million was raised in the Eurocurrency credit market during the first six months of 1981. Industrialized countries accounted for $12,458 million, developing countries $19,181 million, and centrally planned economies $1,135 million. The aggregate level of borrowing during the first six months increased by 13.2 percent over the comparable period in 1980. Industrialized and developing countries increased their borrowing by 19.9 percent and 15.1 percent, respectively, while centrally planned economies decreased their borrowing by 10.4 percent.
The most active borrowers among the industrialized countries (Italy, France, Australia, Sweden, and the United States) and the developing countries (Spain, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, and Nigeria) each raised more than $1,000 million and accounted for 56 percent of the total raised.
Financing in the Eurocurrency credit markets during the first half of 1981 was characterized by declining spreads for several developing countries, the introduction of SDR-denominated syndicated credits, the continued presence of the LIBOR/U.S. prime rate loan-pricing option, and the completion of several "jumbo" loans.
During the first and second quarters of 1981, spreads on developing countries' Eurocredits averaged 0.72 percent and 1.09 percent, respectively. Actual spreads varied widely among the developing-country borrowers. At one extreme, Brazilian private banks' external financing (Resolution 63 loans) carried margins of 2.25 percent over LIBOR. At the other, some Asian borrowers obtained significantly finer terms on their loans. India's National Aluminum Company's $680 million, ten-year credit at an 0.5 percent-0.625 percent split spread over LIBOR was followed by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission's $200 million, seven-year credit that carried an 0.375 percent-0.5 percent split margin over LIBOR. Other borrowers in the region that were able to obtain similar spreads included the Federation of Malaysia ($300 million, ten years, 0.375 percent-0.5 percent split margin), Bank Indonesia ($400 million, ten years, 0.5 per-cent-0.625 percent split spread), and the Kingdom of Thailand ($55 million, eight years, 0.5 percent-0.625 percent split margin). Countries outside Asia, such as Greece and Portugal, also saw an improvement of credit conditions on their Eurocredits.
These fine terms are similar to those obtained by many borrowers from industrialized countries. The improvement in credit conditions in
the Far East region has been attributed to a high level of liquidity and competition.
Several tax-spared loans were launched by developing countries. These included Malaysian Airline System's $30 million, ten-year credit priced at LIBOR (no spread), Cyprus Development Bank's $15 million, eight-year credit (0.25 percent over LIBOR), and the Federation of Malaysia's $150 million, ten-year credit (0.03125 percent over LIBOR).
Average spreads on industrialized countries' borrowing during the first and second quarters of 1981 were 0.89 percent and 0.46 percent, respectively. The first quarter average was affected by the $1,400 million project-financing loan for Woodside Petroleum (Australia), which carried spreads ranging from 1.25 percent to 1.875 percent' over a period of twelve years. Most of the French Eurocredits included an 0.25 percent spread, the lowest available on any Eurocredit.
The Kingdom of Sweden's SDR 500 million credit marked the introduction of the SDR-denominated Eurocredits. This was followed by other SDR-denominated credits for Ivory Coast ($50 million equivalent) and the Republic of Ireland ($90 million equivalent).
There continues to be an availability of the LIBOR/U.S. prime rate option as the basis of loan pricing. Aside from being able to obtain a spread over the U.S. prime rate that is usually 0.125 percent lower than a comparable one over LIBOR, borrowers use this option to draw the participation of U.S. regional banks. Many borrowers, including those from Chile, Mexico, and Spain, have been offering the LIBOR/U.S. prime rate pricing option on their Eurocredits.
Several "jumbo" loans were signed during the first six months. Aside from the Woodside Petroleum $1,400 million loan, there were: Electricite de France's $1,200 million, ten-year stand-by facility (0.5 percent-0.375 percent split margin over LIBOR), the Kingdom of Sweden's $1,400 million loan package ($800 million and SDR 500 million, both of which carried an 0.375 percent-0.5 percent split margin), and Italy's Cassa per il Mezzogiorno $1,000 million "earthquake" loan3 (ten years, 0.375 percent-0.5 percent split spread over LIBOR or 0.25 percent-0.375 percent over the U.S. prime rate).
Foreign and International Bonds: First Half, 1981
During the first half of 1981, borrowing in the foreign and international bond markets totaled $19,559 million, a figure above the $18,865 million raised in the first half of 1980 and also above the $19,394 million raised during the
second half of 1980. Borrowing in the foreign bond market increased from $7,930 million in the first half of 1980 to $8,212 million during the same period in 1981. Similarly, borrowing in the international capital markets increased from $10,935 million in the first six months of 1980 to $11,347 million during the first half of 1981.
Foreign Bonds. Foreign bonds issued in the U.S. market during the first half of 1981 totaled $1,150 million. Borrowers from Canada were the most active, raising $850 million. Other borrowers were from Sweden ($200 million) and from Venezuela ($100 million).
Foreign bonds issued in Switzerland amounted to $3,868 million, or 47 percent of all foreign bonds. Borrowers from industrialized countries raised $3,120 million, or 81 percent of all foreign bonds issued in Switzerland. The largest amounts were secured by borrowers from Japan ($1,044 million), Austria ($466 million), and France ($321 million).
Borrowing in the Japanese capital markets totaled $1,316 million. The largest amounts were raised by borrowers from New Zealand ($165 million), France ($139 million), and Australia ($126 million).
Foreign bonds were also issued in these national markets: Germany ($687 million), United Kingdom ($683 million), the Netherlands ($175 million), Nigeria ($145 million), Luxembourg ($102 million), and Libya ($86 million).
International Bonds. Over 70 percent of all international bonds ($8,627 million) were issued by borrowers from industrialized countries. Borrowers from the United States ($2,371 million), Canada ($1,889 million), France ($1,278 million), and Japan ($979 million) were the most active.
Developing countries raised $1,027 million in the international capital markets during the first half of 1981, or 42 percent above the $722 million borrowed during the equivalent period in 1980. Eight developing countries obtained funds; the largest amounts were secured by borrowers from Mexico ($735 million) and Spain ($100 million).
International organizations borrowed $1,662 million in the first six months of 1981. The largest amounts were raised by the World Bank ($1,018 million) and the European Investment Bank ($277 million).
Eighty-two percent ($9,342 million) of all international bonds were denominated in U.S. dollars. This contrasts sharply with the last half
5 To finance reconstruction work following the November 1980 earthquakes.
of 1980, when U.S. dollar-denominated bonds amounted to S6,788 million or 60 percent of all international bonds.
Other currencies used in the international market during the first six months of 1981 were: the French franc ($517 million), the pound sterling ($326 million), the Netherlands guilder ($.309 million), the special drawing right ($206
million), the Japanese yen ($167 million), the Euro composite unit ($97 million), the Swiss franc ($79 million), the Singapore dollar ($70 million), the deutsche mark ($69 million), the Canadian dollar ($41 million), the European unit of account ($40 million), the Norwegian krone ($36 million), the Kuwaiti dinar ($26 million), and the Luxembourg franc ($22 million).
Chapter Six Executive Directors
Executive Directors
Although the growing volume and complexity of Bank operations have necessarily been accompanied by detailed consideration and determination of an increasing number of policy matters in recent years, the Articles of Agreement are general enough to give the Executive Directors sufficient flexibility to adjust Bank policies to the realities of a changing world.
With the exception of certain powers specifically reserved to them by the Articles of Agreement, the Governors have delegated their powers for the conduct of the general operations of the Bank to a Board of Executive Directors that performs its duties on a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters. There are twenty-one Executive Directors: as provided for in the Articles of Agreement, five are appointed by the five members having the largest number of shares of capital stock and the rest are elected by the Governors representing the other members. The President of the Bank is Chairman of the Board.
The Executive Directors fulfill dual responsibilities. They represent their constituents' interests and concerns to the Board and management when determining policy or considering individual projects, as well as the interests and concerns of the Bank to the country or countries that appointed or elected them. The Directors, therefore, act as a two-way channel of communication between the Bank and the member countries. Since the Bank operates on the basis of a philosophy of consensus (formal votes are rare), this dual role involves frequent communication and consultations with governments so as to reflect accurately their views in Board discussions.
Policy is decided by the Executive Directors within the framework of the Articles of Agreement. The Directors consider and decide on the loan and credit proposals made by the President. They are also responsible for presentation to the Board of Governors at its Annual Meetings of an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, the Annual Report on the operations and policies of the World Bank, and any other matter that, in their judgment, requires submission to the Board of Governors. Matters may be submitted to the Governors at the Annual Meetings or at any time between Annual Meetings.
In fiscal 1981, the Executive Directors met on seventy-one occasions in formal session, during which they reviewed and approved 140 Bank loans totaling $8,809 million and 106 IDA credits totaling $3,482 million. They also approved a Bank loan of $100 million to the IFC. The Directors approved Bank borrowings of $6,100 million. Also reviewed and approved were 20 grants for international agricultural research, a grant for the control of onchocerciasis in Western Africa, and a grant to further the work of the Special Programme on Research and Training in Tropical Diseases.
There was general recognition by the Executive Directors that the external financial requirements of the developing countries during the fiscal years 1981-85 had changed since the formulation of the "Future Role of the Bank" paper in 1977, because of such factors as higher-than-expected rates of inflation, the substantial increase in the rates of return on domestic production of energy in the oil-importing developing countries, the addition of structural-adjustment lending, and the representation of China by the People's Republic of China. In view of the complexity and importance of the subject matter, they considered early in the fiscal year a report from the President on energy in the developing countries; they agreed that the developing countries required additional technical and financial assistance for energy investments, and they endorsed the proposal to study the feasibility of providing additional financing for energy development in the developing countries through an energy affiliate. It was also agreed that the report would be published in a suitable form. Separately, they approved arrangements with the United Nations Development Programme for the financing of energy-sector assessments in developing countries.
Before the end of the fiscal year, the Directors had considered a further report from the President and agreed that discussions should be continued on the Bank's program to expand the production of energy in the oil-importing developing countries and on ways by which those countries' requirements for capital might be financed. ( For further details, see page 67.)
In their examination of possible expansion of lending by the Bank and IDA beyond the levels now planned for fiscal years 1982-86 and the means of financing such expansion, the Direc-
tors concluded that, because of the severity of the financial problems facing the developing countries, especially the poorest countries, there was a need for enlarged financial intermediation and that the Bank should take part in this process of intermediation. They also discussed the policy issues that affect the basis for allocating the lending program of the Bank and IDA among member countries, according to per capita income levels, sectors, and geographic areas, separately from the annual review of the Bank's financial and operating programs. The Directors authorized IDA to accept advance contributions from governments in order to assure that it will have commitment authority pending the effectiveness of the Sixth Replenishment, which provides for $12,000 million equivalent in additional funds to IDA, and which will be used to assist development of high priority in the poorest developing countries, with commitment authority for the three-year period July 1, 1980, to June 30, 1983.
Following their decision that the government of the People's Republic of China represents China in the Bank and its affiliates, the Executive Directors approved a supplement to the fiscal 1981 administrative expense budget to support the work program for China and a draft report and resolution to the Governors, who voted affirmatively to increase China's subscription to the Bank's capital.
Another important policy action dealt with interim procedures on the valuation of Bank capital subscriptions. Also, with respect to the invitation of observers to attend the Annual Meetings of the Board of Governors, the Executive Directors advised the Board of Governors that they would report to it at the earliest possible date, pursuant to Board of Governors Resolution No. 359.
Reaffirming the need for greater efforts to develop research capacity in developing countries, they considered a sector policy paper on agricultural research systems and generally endorsed the approach of establishing in the developing countries national agricultural research institutes that would be linked to international research institutes and agreed that the sector paper should be disseminated widely.
In a broad variety of specific operational policy measures, the Directors examined the issues concerning the existing guidelines on the use of consultants by borrowers and the need for their revision. They approved an increase in the commitment authority of the Project Preparation Facility of the Bank and IDA by $30.0 million to $87.5 million; modifications of the Bank's General Conditions to facilitate new techniques of borrowing and also modifications applicable to loan agreements and guarantee
agreements that were necessary to cover the currency pooling system; grace periods and final maturities on loans in fiscal 1980 and 1981 and new amortization periods for engineering loans and credits; and an innovative arrangement with the Asian Development Bank (AsDB) for project cofinancing based on appraisal reports prepared by the AsDB.
Major policy decisions that the Executive Directors make annually, or more frequently as necessary, include those concerning the Bank's lending rate, allocation of its net income, staff compensation, and the research program.
Following the approval by the Board of Governors of the establishment of a World Bank Administrative Tribunal to adjudicate staff grievances, the Directors approved the appointment of the candidates for members of the Tribunal, effective July 1,1980, when it came formally into being.
In a general amendment of the By-Laws of the Bank and of IDA, the Executive Directors approved draft reports and resolutions to the Governors, who voted affirmatively.
Annual reports with which the Directors dealt had to do with project implementation and supervision, the activities of the Joint Audit Committee, the financial statements of the Bank and IDA, the Economic Development Institute, and the Staff Retirement Plan.
In addition to formal, regular Board meetings, the Directors meet as the Committee of the Whole for discussion of certain matters prior to their submission to the Board for formal action. They also meet informally as frequently as required. Periodically, the Executive Directors hold seminars that permit more informal discussion than can take place at regular Board meetings. Topics discussed included consulting services, World Bank technical assistance, possible courses of action on valuation of Bank capital subscriptions, and the World Development Report, 1980.
As a result of the structural changes in the working of the Development Committee, the involvement of the Executive Directors in the determination of the Committee's work program, and in its work generally, has continued to increase greatly. In July and August they discussed the World Development Report, 1980, staff papers on concessionary assistance and on prospects for capital flows to developing countries, a progress report on those of the Brandt Commission proposals that are of relevance to the Bank, and a progress report on items concerning the Bank from the Group of 24 Program of Immediate Action, and they agreed that the report should be submitted to the Development Committee for its September 1980 meeting in Washington, D.C. In April 1981 they completed
the review of structural-adjustment lending that they had called for in their 1980 discussions, and they also considered documentation, including the report on selected issues by the Task Force on Non-concessional Flows, for the meeting of the Development Committee in May in Gabon. The Directors participated in these meetings as on previous occasions. In accordance with a resolution adopted by the Governors of the Bank and the International Monetary Fund at the 1979 Annual Meetings, to again review the performance of the Committee and take such actions as they deemed appropriate, taking into account the views and recommendations of the Executive Boards of the Bank and the Fund expressed by June 30, 1981, the Directors prepared a report, jointly with Fund Directors, for consideration and action by the Boards of Governors at the 1981 Annual Meetings. Budgets of the Committee are submitted to the Executive Directors for approval.
During the year, the Executive Directors considered the fifth annual report of the Director-General, Operations Evaluation, the sixth "Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results," and the fiscal 1981-82 operations evaluation work program and manpower budget. The Director-General, Operations Evaluation, is directly responsible to the Directors and is outside the regular staff structure of the Bank but is linked administratively to the President. They continued to support the Operations Evaluation Department in its efforts to enlarge the involvement of borrowers in the evaluation process.
A list of the Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors, showing their voting powers and the countries they represent, with notations of changes since the last regular election of Executive Directors, appears on page 205.
Joint Audit Committee
The Joint Audit Committee was established in 1970, essentially to represent the shareholders of the Bank in maintaining vigilance over the soundness of the Bank's financial practices and procedures. In pursuing its responsibilities during fiscal 1981, the Committee nominated a firm of private, independent, internationally estab-
lished accountants to conduct the annual audits of the Bank, IDA, and the IFC, assured itself that the Bank was getting the best possible services from its independent accountants, discussed with them the scope of their examination, and reviewed with them the annual audited financial statements and the opinions thereon. In addition, through meetings with the Bank's senior financial officers, the Committee sought to ensure that the Bank's financial affairs are properly conducted.
The Committee is also charged with the responsibility of satisfying itself that the Bank's internal audit and operations evaluation are adequate and efficient. It therefore reviewed the work programs of the Internal Auditing and Operations Evaluation Departments, the work in progress, desirable standards, and procedures of reporting. Through a subcommittee, it gave special attention to Project Performance Audit Reports to determine how well the Operations Evaluation Department carries out its assessment of individual projects. The Committee itself reviewed most other papers produced by the Operations Evaluation Department and identified those giving rise to policy issues that may be considered by the Executive Directors. The Committee decided to establish a second subcommittee to examine a number of reports of the Internal Auditing Department.
Of continuing concern to the Committee is the adequacy of the flow of financial information to the Executive Directors in order for the Board to discharge its responsibilities properly with respect to the financial policies of the Bank. Accordingly, the system for providing financial information to the Board is reviewed periodically by the Committee.
The Committee provides a continuous channel through which the internal and external auditors can communicate with the Executive Directors should the need arise. It meets as frequently as necessary, normally once a month. During the year the membership of the Committee was increased from six Executive Directors to eight in order to meet the Committee's expanding workload. Members are appointed by the Board for a term of two years after each regular election of Executive Directors. Since December 1980, Anthony IJ. A. Looijen has served as Chairman of the Committee.
Projects Approved for Bonk and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1981, by Sector
Acronyms Used in This Section
ADAB—Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADF—African Development Fund AfDB—African Development Bank AGCD—Belgium Administration for
Development Cooperation AsDB—Asian Development Bank BADEA—Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa CCCE—Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique CDB—Caribbean Development Bank CDC—Commonwealth Development
Corporation CIDA—Canadian International
Development Agency DANIDA—Danish International
Development Agency EDF—European Development Fund E1B—European Investment Bank FAC—Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation FAO—Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations FINN IDA—Finnish International
Development Agency
GTZ—German Technical Assistance
Corporation IDB—Inter-American Development Bank IFAD—International Fund for Agricultural
Development IsDB—Islamic Development Bank KFAED—Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development KfW—Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau LAFB—Libyan Arab Foreign Bank NMDC—Netherlands Minister for
Development Cooperation ODA—Overseas Development
Administration, United Kingdom OECF—Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund
OPEC—Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries SDC—Swiss Development Corporation SFD—Saudi Fund for Development SIDA—Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP—United Nations Development
Programme USAID—United States Agency for
International Development WFP—World Food Programme
Agriculture and Rural Development
BANGLADESH: IDA—$40 million. This agricultural credit project—including funds for the installation of tube wells, grain-storage facilities, equipment, technical assistance, and training—will help establish a replicable long-term credit delivery system and increase agricultural production, incomes, and employment opportunities in rural areas. Total cost: $62.4 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$18 million. Some 180,000 farm families will benefit from the increase in agricultural production and incomes made possible through the development of hand irrigation from tube wells. The project will also ensure a safer domestic water supply and encourage the local manufacture of irrigation equipment. Total cost: $30.1 million.
BENIN: IDA—$20 million. By strengthening and supporting agricultural institutions and
by providing improved extension, training, and social services, the production of cotton and food crops in Borgou province will be expanded, increasing the incomes and raising the standards of living of some 39,000 farm families. Cofinancing ($14 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $37.8 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$60 million. To assist the country's national agricultural research agency in expanding its current research programs and to support several new programs, funds will be provided to train scientific manpower and upgrade existing research facilities. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $150.1 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$56 million. About 60,000 farm families and more than 1,000 small-scale entrepreneurs will benefit from a second rural development project in the northeastern state of Ceara that includes agricultural extension services, development
of cooperatives, assistance to small enterprises, construction of feeder roads, marketing facilities, and irrigation systems, and education, health, and sanitation services. Cofinancing ($25 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $163.2 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$29 million. The incomes of some 11,300 poor families living in rural and coastal areas of the state of Piaui will be improved through a project that includes the acquisition and allotment of 200,000 hectares for redistribution, land tenure, agricultural research and extension services, basic education, marketing facilities, small-scale irrigation schemes, fisheries, feeder roads, and improved water-supply systems. Total cost: $84.4 million.
BURMA: IDA—$32 million. The use and efficiency of the country's forests and forest industries sector will be enhanced through the modernization and rehabilitation of two teak sawmills and two plywood mills, allowing for increased production of wood products, such as furniture, teak veneer, and flooring products. About $17 million in annual revenues will be generated. Cofinancing ($1.9 million) is being provided by FINN I DA. Total cost: $63.8 million.
BURMA: IDA—$23 million. By providing new permanent storage facilities for rice, rehabilitating existing facilities, and improving pest control and transport services, rice storage losses—valued at about $6.3 million annually—will be reduced, the quality of the rice will be improved, and annual foreign-exchange earnings may increase by about $7 million. Total cost: S39.1 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$19.3 million. Some 28,000 farm families will benefit from a project that will increase the production of coffee and food crops through the provision of agricultural extension services, afforestation and erosion-control measures, improved road and water-supply networks, and the construction and equipping of six coffee-washing stations and twelve hand pulping centers. Total cost: $21.4 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$25 million;
IDA—$12.5 million. The incomes of 163,000 farm families living in Northern province will be increased through improved rural infrastructure, effective extension and credit services, training, and research. In addition, financial and technical assistance will be extended to local agencies to plan, monitor, and evaluate a wide range of rural development activities. Total cost: $66 million.
CHILE: Bank—$36 million. A second agricultural credit project will provide investment credit and technical assistance to small and medium-sized farmers and ranchers and to ninety agroindustrial enterprises to help increase agricultural output and earnings and to improve the living conditions of some 3,000 farmer and rancher families. Total cost: $90 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$37 million. The project will provide for the rehabilitation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage systems in eight districts covering 47,000 hectares. Productivity, employment, and incomes will be increased on about 4,700 farms, including nearly 1,500 that are farmed by beneficiaries of land reform. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $86.3 million.
CYPRUS: Bank—$14 million. A four-year development program for the horticultural and viticultural subsectors, including farm development, processing and marketing facilities, improved extension service and research, and the establishment of an export promotion facility, will be financed. Total cost: $32.9 million.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Bank—$24 million. Cocoa and coffee farms, affected by a hurricane in 1979, will be rehabilitated, crops will be replanted, nurseries will be established, and technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Bank in order to improve the productivity and incomes of small-scale producers whose output is mainly for export. Total cost: $40 million.
ECUADOR: Bank—$20 million. The productivity, incomes, and general living conditions of some 10,000 poor rural families living in the western foothills of the Andes will be improved through the financing of agricultural support services and through the regularization of land tenure, the construction and improvement of rural roads, and the provision of potable water, primary health-care services, and school facilities. Total cost: $57.1 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF. IDA—$80 million. About 4,000 low-income farm families living in West Nubariya will benefit from the reclamation of desert land, including irrigation and drainage works, construction of economic and social infrastructure, and provision of farm machinery, consultant services, and training. In addition, a bilharzia control program will be supported. Cofinancing is being provided by the ADF ($10 million) and the WFP ($3.1 million). Total cost: $193 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$14 million. The aim of the project—which includes fish-farm facilities, housing for workers, facilities and equipment for training and collection of mullet fry, fish-marketing and project-preparation studies, and technical assistance—is to increase fish production, thereby improving nutrition and reducing dependence on imports, and to improve the incomes and job opportunities of the rural population and contribute toward institution building in the fisheries sector. Total cost: $26.3 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$40 million. About 1.6 million farm families are expected to benefit from a second agricultural "minimum package" project, the aim of which is to increase the productivity and incomes of small farmers by providing fertilizer, improved seeds, and other agricultural inputs, and through an expansion of soil and water conservation efforts and assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture. Cofinancing is being provided by IFAD ($18 million) and SIDA ($900,000). Total cost: $77.2 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$17.5 million. Through a livestock development project—including vaccinations, provision of drugs, medicines, and mineral licks, and upgrading of the livestock husbandry and veterinary support services—milk and meat production will be increased, nutrition improved, and the standard of living of cattle owners upgraded. In addition, a planning unit for livestock development will be established. Total cost: $21 million.
HAITI: IDA—$3.2 million. By providing fertilizer, extending credit for labor and farm inputs, expanding coffee nurseries, purchasing tools, and building regional farm-development centers, food production will be restored and part of the coffee crop affected by the 1980 hurricane will be salvaged. About 10,000 farmers are expected to benefit. Cofinancing ($1.6 million) is being provided by USAID. Total cost: $5.2 million.
INDIA: IDA—$140 million. During a five-year period, production of food grains in Madhya Pradesh state will be increased by more than 200,000 tons and the standards of living of local farmers will be raised through the irrigation of some 107,000 hectares and by improvements in planning, design, construction, and operation of medium irrigation projects. Total cost: $232.1 million.
INDIA: IDA—$1 25 million. Funds will be provided through the National Cooperative Development Corporation for relending through state cooperative banks for
cooperative warehouses and cold storage and marketing facilities in nine states. More than 3.2 million farm families are expected to benefit. Total cost: $267 million.
INDIA: IDA—$83 million. Two barrages will be constructed in Orissa state across the Mahanadi and Birupa rivers to ensure the continued irrigation of 167,000 hectares. The income of farmers and the employment of agricultural laborers will thus be safeguarded. In addition, a drainage master plan designed to improve water-management practices throughout the Mahanadi delta area is included. Total cost: $110.3 million.
INDIA: IDA—$54 million. About 8,000 farm families will benefit from the construction of 120 to 160 tank-irrigation schemes on 25,000 hectares in Karnataka state. In addition, the government will be assisted in creating an improved hydrological data base, and a study of ways to make more efficient use of irrigation water will be conducted. Total cost: $77.4 million.
INDIA: IDA—$37 million. Agricultural extension services will be reorganized and strengthened in thirty districts of Madhya Pradesh state to increase crop production and the incomes of some 3.8 million farm families. Total cost: $60 million.
INDIA: Bank—$30 million. The incomes of about 23,000 farm families and owners of livestock who live in the foothills of the Himalayas will be increased through reforestation and soil-conservation measures and the development of agricultural land in five watershed areas. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $60.8 million.
INDIA: IDA—$28 million. Crop production is expected to increase throughout the fifteen agricultural districts of Tamil Nadu state through the introduction of the training-and-visit system of agricultural extension. About 3.8 million farm families will benefit. Total cost: $45.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$23 million. By providing better agricultural extension services in Maharashtra state through the introduction of the training-and-visit system, some 5.8 million farm families will benefit from increased crop production and higher incomes. Total cost: $38.2 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$161 million. More than 19,000 families will be resettled in West Java and West Kalimantan with the intention of improving their livelihoods through the establishment of about 53,000 hectares of tree crops, food crops, and home gardens. Total cost: $322 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$46 million. The incomes of some 40,000 smallholder
families—20 percent of whom have incomes below the absolute poverty line—will be increased by expanding coconut production to meet the rising domestic demand for coconut oil and reducing imports of it and by strengthening the organization of the national smallholder coconut development program. Training and technical assistance are included. Total cost: $95.2 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$22 million. Some 9,000 hectares of swampland in South Sumatra will be reclaimed and new farms and associated settlements will be created for 3,200 transmigrant families as a first step in supporting the government's swamp-reclamation program. In addition, the loan will finance the preparation of future investments in swamp reclamation, an ecological impact study, and an investigation of the possibility of using groundwater for drinking and will support project monitoring. Total cost: $44.6 million.
KENYA: Bank—$25 million; IDA—$10 million. The Agricultural Finance Corporation, a primary source of medium-term and long-term credit to farmers, will be strengthened and its performance improved to enable it to serve the growing credit needs of the country's farmers more effectively. Total cost: $50 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$50 million. Through a four-year period, credit will be provided to small farmers and agricultural cooperatives for the construction of greenhouses, a sprinkler irrigation system, on-farm storage facilities, spraying equipment, and related activities to help increase the production of high-value fruits and vegetables, increase farm productivity, and provide opportunities for off-season employment. Total cost: $114.2 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$20 million. A second forestry project includes the establishment and maintenance of about 18,000 hectares of pine and 500 hectares of eucalyptus plantations in the Mangoro valley, the maintenance of 70,000 hectares of existing plantations, the construction of roads and buildings, and research, training, and project-preparation studies. Cofinancing is being provided by BADEA ($4.2 million) and the UNDP ($900,000). Total cost: $30.2 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$11.5 million. The policy of the government to extend credit for smallholder agricultural development will be supported by providing funds to the National Bank for Rural Development (BTM) for onlending to farmers and cooperatives. Training for BTM staff is included, as is a feasibility study for the establishment of a
data base management system. Total cost: $14.2 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA   52.3 million.
Preinvestment studies to define an integrated flood-control and development program for the Antananarivo plain and improvement of the research stations for erosion and soil protection and the hydrological and flood-alarm network will be supported. Total cost: $2.9 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$50 million. About 35,000 people will benefit from a development program in Perak state that includes the construction of irrigation and drainage infrastructure, roads, housing, community facilities, and palm-oil and cocoa mills, the development of new land for rice and tree crops, and support services for agriculture and community development. Total cost: $200 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$40 million. The incomes of about 24,000 smallholder rice farmers living in southeastern Pahang state will be increased and their standards of living raised by developing new land and by providing flood and salinity control, irrigation and drainage infrastructure, and integrated agricultural support services. Total cost: $141 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$37 million. The incomes of about 12,000 low-income rural households will be increased through land rehabilitation and development schemes on some 34,000 hectares. Two palm-oil mills will also be built and staff" housing, vehicles, and equipment will be furnished. Total cost: $139.1 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$30 million. The project will make funds available for about 8,000 medium-term and long-term loans to farmers, fishermen, and enterprises in the rural sector. About 80 percent of these loans will go to smallholders and will enable the poorest farmers to participate in a large rubber-replanting program. Total cost: $79.4 million.
MALAYSIA: Bank—$25 million. The incomes and living conditions of some 7,500 low-income, rural families participating in the land-settlement schemes of the Kelantan Land Development and Rehabilitation Corporation (TAKDIR) will be improved by rehabilitating 10,530 hectares of existing perennial crops and planting 11,340 hectares of additional perennial crops, completing basic infrastructure on the schemes, and strengthening TAKDIR through the provision of additional staff and facilities. Total cost: $70.2 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$15 million. Through the construction of a concrete dam, a
conveyance canal, irrigation and drainage networks, service roads, and related buildings, some 3,620 hectares for the cultivation of rice, corn, sorghum, and vegetables will be developed. Cofinancing is being provided by the EDF ($15.8 million), IFAD ($10 million), the SFD ($10 million), LAFB ($10 million), the KfW ($8.5 million), the Abu Dhabi Fund ($6.4 million), the IsDB ($6 million), and the FAC ($5.4 million). Total cost: $93.2 million. MEXICO: Bank -S325 million. About 140,000 rural families will benefit from increased income and employment opportunities generated by an agricultural credit project that includes medium-term and long-term credit for investment in crop development, livestock production, fisheries, and agroindustries. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $1,179 million.
MEXICO: Bank--$280 million. By establishing programs for agricultural research, extension services, soil and water conservation, forestry, short-term and medium-term credit, and a rural works program, including the construction of farm-to-market roads, irrigation schemes, and drainage facilities, some 162,000 farm families living in rainfed areas will benefit from increased agricultural production and higher incomes. Total cost: $797 million.
MEXICO: Bank—-$23 million. About 2,000 farm families will benefit from intensive irrigated agriculture on 10,000 hectares in the Ocoroni valley. Studies for future development of irrigation and drainage in Ocoroni and in two other river basins will also be financed. Total cost: $54.6 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$17.5 million. Agricultural extension services will be strengthened and reorganized and adaptive research upgraded to provide improved services to eight of the twenty districts of the Terai. By supporting low-cost, labor-intensive agricultural practices, and by adopting improved varieties of seeds and providing fertilizer, the production of food grains will increase for some 360,000 farm families. Cofinancing ($650,000) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $20.85 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$8 million. By providing extension services for undertaking low-cost farming practices in four western hill districts, about 76,000 farm families will benefit from increased food production, better animal-health services, increased availability of livestock feed and fertilizer, an improvement in irrigation services, and the upgrading of local trails and bridges to
enable year-round access to the project area. Cofinancing ($850,000) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $9.7 million. NEPAL: IDA—$6.2 million. Grain-storage facilities will be built and the management and organization of the Nepal Food Corporation and the rice export companies will be strengthened in order that the government may be able to meet requirements for the procurement, distribution, and export of food grains and reduce storage losses. Studies of marketing and pricing of food grains and of future needs for facilities for storage and processing of food grains will be undertaken. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $8.04 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$3.5 million. The government will be assisted in the preparation of final designs, tender documents, and evaluation of tenders for a proposed irrigation project to cover 13,500 hectares in the Babai river area. The proposed project would provide farmers with a more reliable supply of water, reduce dependence on erratic monsoons, and increase production of food grains. Total cost: $3.55 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$142 million. Support services and physical infrastructure for farms will be financed to help increase the production of food crops and the incomes of some 600,000 smallholder farm families living in Kano state. Total cost: $482.2 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$132 million. Some 425,000 smallholder farm families living in Bauchi state will benefit from a package of support services, including extension advice, better seeds, and crop-protection measures and from the construction of feeder roads and a rural water-supply system. Total cost: $350.6 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$41 million. The project—including civil works required for the renovation of about 2,000 watercourses and heavy cleaning and minor improvement of 16,500 other watercourses, research on integrated water-management activities, training, and technical assistance—is designed to increase agricultural production and the incomes of some 800,000 families. Cofinancing ($12 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $111.58 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$32 million. The project will assist the government in the implementation of its food-grain policy by providing additional storage facilities and improving the efficiency of provincial food departments. Technical assistance is
included. Cofinancing ($7.7 million) is being provided by the SDC. Total cost: $68 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$24 million. The project is designed to improve the institutional arrangements for the national planning, monitoring, funding, and implementing of agricultural research programs by providing the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council with additional staff and facilities, by supporting subprojects conducted by other research agencies, and by providing technical assistance and training for research personnel. Total cost: $40.05 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IDA—$15 million. During a three-year period, a share of the Papua New Guinea Development Bank's planned agricultural lending will be financed in order to improve the standard of living of about 4,000 farm families. Total cost: $28.6 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank—$30 million. A countrywide agricultural-credit and technical-assistance program with the aim of increasing the production of livestock and agricultural crops will help improve the living standards of small farmers and will assist the sector in making better use of its land resources. Total cost: $60 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$45 million. The government's policy of increasing the supply of animal protein through provision of medium-term and long-term credit through the Development Bank of the Philippines to both the livestock and fisheries subsectors will be supported. Technical assistance designed to strengthen institutional capability for planning and implementing the current and future programs is included. Total cost: $140.66 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$38 million. The project—including reforestation in two watersheds, construction and maintenance of forest roads, construction of charcoal ovens, pilot programs in range management and smallholder agroforestry, and the initiation of pilot programs of forest protection in two provinces—will help preserve and enhance the productive capacity of the catchments and provide a permanent and better livelihood for the local population. Total cost: $75 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$80 million. The
project—including the modernization of dairy farms, production farms, beef-fattening units, pasture units, processing and storage facilities, and technical assistance—is part of a five-year plan to increase the production of milk and beef to meet the domestic demand for these products and to generate additional
foreign-exchange earnings. Total cost: $412.2 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$80 million. Through the construction of irrigation and drainage systems and through control of soil erosion and reclamation of sandy land for agricultural use in the areas of Caracal and Titu. crop production will be increased on more than 130,000 hectares, and it is expected that annual farm incomes will more than double. Total cost: $379.3 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$75 million. The construction of four irrigation and drainage systems and related facilities in the southeastern part of the country is expected to increase the average annual income from crop production from about $106.1 million to about $242.8 million. Total cost: $375.3 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$15 million. About 75,000 farm families living near Lake Kivu will benefit from an increase in the production of coffee and food crops made possible by the improvement of extension services, better planting methods and seeds, a program to improve and protect the soil, coffee-processing equipment, the rehabilitation of landing points on the lake, and crop research. Cofinancing ($600,000) is being provided by the SDC. Total cost: $16.6 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$9.3 million. To meet the steadily growing demand for fuel wood and forest products in Dakar and the surrounding rural areas, state-managed tree plantations will be established and maintained; rainfed tree plantations will be established; measures to improve the productivity and management of 10,000 hectares of existing natural forests will be instituted; an applied forestry research program will be financed; and a training center for forestry agents will be constructed. Cofinancing is being provided by the CCCE ($3.4 million), the FAC ($1.8 million), and the UNDP/FAO ($800,000). Total cost: $17.1 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$12 million. About 12,600 farm families who live in Eastern province will benefit from a project that includes the provision of agricultural inputs, credit, extension services, feeder roads, village wells, and technical assistance. Cofinancing is being provided by BADEA ($8.5 million) and the UNDP ($1.9 million). Total cost: $25 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$8.5 million. About 13,500 farm families living in Northern province will benefit from the provision of agricultural inputs, credit, extension services, feeder roads, village wells, and technical assistance. Cofinancing is being provided by
the ADF (S8.5 million), I FAD ($6 million), and the UNDP ($2 million). Total cost: $27.7 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$90 million. About 28,000 farm families will benefit from the development of some 28,000 hectares in the Mahaweli river basin, including irrigation facilities, the clearing of land, social and managerial infrastructure, and fuel-wood and cashew plantations. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing is being provided by the OECF ($45 million) and the KFAED ($45 million). Total cost: $201.8 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$33.5 million. About 130.000 farm families will benefit from a second rural development project for the purpose of increasing productivity, employment, and incomes and raising standards of living. Irrigation facilities, agricultural credit, water-supply services, and the development of crops, forestry, livestock, and fisheries are included. Total cost: $50.01 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$30 million. Agricultural production and farm incomes will be increased by rehabilitating some 1,200 village irrigation schemes, strengthening the principal government institutions that are involved in village irrigation, initiating a systematic program of water management, and establishing an evaluation program designed to assist project implementation and the preparation of future village irrigation schemes. Total cost: $43.7 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$35 million. During a five-year period, some 174 pump schemes on the White Nile will be rehabilitated to increase crop production, expand cotton exports, increase the incomes of some 28,000 tenant families and help place the schemes on a sound financial footing. Total cost: $54.7 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$32 million. Rehabilitation of the irrigation system in the Shasheina region and other areas along the Blue Nile will benefit some 17,000 farm families through increased production of cotton, peanuts, sorghum, and vegetables. Cofinancing ($10 million) is being provided by the AfDB. Total cost: $67.3 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$6.8 million. A firm base for the rehabilitation of the coconut industry will be prepared during a five-year period by financing trials to determine the most appropriate varieties of coconut for each region, a seed garden for the production of hybrid seed nuts, soil and hydrological surveys, the preparation of a feasibility study, and technical assistance, consulting services, and staff training. Total cost: $8.5 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$57 million. A twelfth irrigation project will assist the Royal Irrigation Department in its continuing program to improve and expand the country's irrigation facilities. Some 6,800 farm families, 40 percent of whose incomes are below the level of absolute poverty, will benefit directly from increased agricultural production, and jobs will be created for about 2,000 landless laborers. Total cost: $115 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$30 million. Most of the country's 5 million farm families will benefit from increased crop production and incomes through the strengthening of the capacity of the Department of Agriculture (DOA) to implement research programs and provide new and improved technology. Included are a training program and the development of nineteen research centers, reorganization and decentralization of the DOA, and establishment of a stronger link between research and extension. Cofinancing is being provided by IFAD ($15 million) and the ADAB ($2 million). Total cost: $91.5 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$24 million. A five-year phase of the government's fifteen-year development program to increase the incomes and improve the nutrition, health, and education of people living in the Northwest region will be financed. The aim of the program is to create jobs, develop local energy resources, and increase agricultural productivity. Cofinancing ($1.7 million) is being provided by the GTZ. Total cost: $61.5 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$40 million. This first phase of a program to increase the production of fruits and vegetables for export includes the establishment of seven nurseries, 2,000 orchards, 100 vineyards, and 150 greenhouses, the provision of credit to existing farms and orchards, extension services, four regional marketing corporations and a central marketing organization, and the preparation of a master plan for further horticultural development. Total cost: $107 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$16 million. More than 200,000 poor people will benefit from a second Bougouriba agricultural development project, the aim of which is to consolidate the experience of a first-phase project and increase agricultural and livestock production further. Extension services, a supply and credit service, animal-health services, a forestry component, and technical assistance and evaluation studies are included. Total cost: $17.5 million.
WESTERN SAMOA: IDA—$2 million. A second agricultural development project will assist the government in increasing agricultural production and export earnings, saving foreign exchange, and providing better incomes and employment opportunities in the rural sector. Cofinancing is being provided by the AsDB ($3 million) and the ADAB ($2 million). Total cost: $7.8 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$17 million. The incomes and quality of life of about 60,000 rural families will be improved by a project that includes expansion of agricultural extension services, social services, and livestock-health and production services; provision of credit for agricultural investment through the Agricultural Credit Bank; technical assistance; construction of water-supply systems; extension of a bilharzia control program; and completion of feasibility studies for future agricultural development projects. Cofinancing is being provided by IFAD ($14 million), the Abu Dhabi Fund ($10 million), and the SDC ($6 million). Total cost: $81.6 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$8 million. By rehabilitating the irrigation network and improving the groundwater irrigation system, by providing technical assistance, farm inputs, and agricultural equipment, and by constructing feeder roads, agricultural production and incomes in the Beihan subgovernorate will be increased. Cofinancing ($6 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $18.1 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—S90 million. Funds will be relent through the Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina for agricultural and agroindustrial projects designed to increase the productivity and incomes of farmers and laborers living in Kosovo, the country's least developed region. Total cost: $270 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$87 million. Funds will be made available to Investbanka of Serbia for onlending to agricultural enterprises and cooperatives, including about 11,000 individual farm families. Agricultural productivity, employment opportunities, and farm income in the Morava region—one of the country's poorest rural areas—are all expected to rise as a result. Total cost: $288.4 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$26.4 million. Through the rehabilitation and extension of an existing sugar plantation, as well as the provision of equipment for the transport of sugarcane, civil works to expand processing facilities and construct offices and staff housing, and the implementation of a research program, sugar
production is expected to increase about 70 percent during the next four years. In addition, the project provides for a data-processing and management-information system, staff training, and a number of pilot projects. Cofinancing ($27.4 million) is being provided by the CCCE. Total cost: $80.4 million.
ZAMBIA: Bank—$11 million. The incomes of about 26,000 smallholder farm families living in Eastern province will be increased through the establishment of agricultural research and extension services and the construction of facilities for storage and processing of crops. In addition, technical assistance, a line of credit to smallholders, and a program for the control of the tsetse fly are included. Cofinancing ($1 1 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $28.1 million.
Development Finance Companies
BANGLADESH: IDA—$50 million. Foreign exchange will be provided through the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank to finance the costs of capital goods and services for projects in the industrial sector in order to assist the government in expanding the activities of the private sector in industrial investment in nontraditional, export industries, efficient import-substitution industries, and projects in less developed areas.
HAITI: IDA—$7 million. Medium-term and long-term credit will be made available through the Fonds de Developpement Industriel to finance industrial projects. Total cost: $11 million.
JAMAICA: Bank—$37 million. An increase in the resources available to the Export Development Fund Jamaica Ltd. and financing of the import of raw materials, intermediate goods, packaging materials, and spare parts will support the government's program to expand nontraditional manufactures and banana exports. Technical assistance is included.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$100 million. Funds will be made available to cover the foreign-exchange requirements of industrial subprojects to be financed by the Korea Development Bank during the next two years.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$90 million. As part of a comprehensive reform of the country's financial system, funds will be provided through the Korea Long-Term Credit Bank to support industrial projects during the next two years.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$60 million. Funds will be made available to help cover the foreign-exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by the Small and Medium Industry Bank during the next two years.
MOROCCO: Bank—$100 million. The project—including the development of tourism, for the most part hotels financed by the Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) under loans to be made through 1983, a cost-benefit study of tourism investments, and a training program for CIH staff—is expected to generate net foreign exchange in the amount of $128 million annually by 1987, create about 21,000 new jobs, and produce net fiscal revenues of $37 million a year within five to ten years.
NICARAGUA: Bank—$30 million. By financing raw materials, spare parts, equipment, civil works, technical assistance, and training, industrial and mining enterprises that suffered physical and financial damage during the 1979 civil war will be able to regain prewar levels of output, exports, and employment. Total cost: $43 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$20 million. Funds will be provided through the Corporacion Financiera Nacional (COFINA) to finance subloans for projects in the industrial sector and for technical assistance, staff training, and the services of consultants to strengthen the management of COFINA and improve its efficiency and promotional activities.
PERU: Bank—$60 million. Funds will be provided through the Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo to help finance projects in the industrial, mining, and tourism sectors.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$150 million. Funds will be onlent through the specially created Apex Development Finance Unit in the Central Bank of the Philippines to accredited financial institutions for the financing of projects in the industrial sector. Cofinancing ($400,000) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $250.4 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$100 million. Funds will be provided to the Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN) to support the development of industrial projects, to assist the BFN in strengthening its export investment promotion and service capabilities, and to contribute to the industrial reorganization of the country in preparation for its entry into the European Economic Community.
SOLOMON ISLANDS: IDA—$1.5 million. Funds will be provided through the Development Bank of Solomon Islands for medium-term and long-term loans to support projects in the agriculture, manufacturing, and transport sectors. Cofinancing ($2 million) is being provided by the AsDB.
THAILAND: Bank—$30 million. Funds will be made available to the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand to cover part of the foreign-exchange costs needed for industrial subprojects during the next two years.
TURKEY: Bank—$70 million. Funds will be provided to the State Investment Bank for relending to three state economic enterprises for the completion of six high-priority projects for rationalizing and increasing the production of sugar, iron, and copper. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $187.4 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$40 million. Foreign exchange will be provided to the Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi to finance labor-intensive projects undertaken primarily by small and medium-scale enterprises for imported and locally produced equipment. The project, which will create about 5,000 jobs in twenty-three urban centers, is expected to provide a model for replication, on a larger scale, in other high-unemployment areas.
URUGUAY: Bank—$30 million. Funds will be onlent through commercial banks for industrial, agroindustrial, and tourism projects and to help establish capacity for promotion and formulation of projects within participating private intermediary banks. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $66.14 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$12 million. Funds will be provided to the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY) to cover about 50 percent of the resources that it will require through 1983. Technical assistance to help the IBY improve its capability in identifying, appraising, and supervising viable industrial projects is included.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$110 million. Funds will be provided to four local banks for onlending to small and medium-sized industrial enterprises to help promote economic development in four low-income regions. About 11,000 jobs will be created.
ZAMBIA: Bank—$15 million. Funds will be provided to the Development Bank of Zambia to support medium-scale and large-scale industrial, agroindustrial, and agricultural projects through March 1982.
Education
ARGENTINA: Bank—$58 million. Thirty vocational training centers will be constructed and equipped, five more will be equipped, fifty mobile units will be purchased, and curricula will be developed in order to improve the effectiveness of vocational training, increase the supply of
skilled labor, and improve the mobility of labor. Technical assistance is included to help strengthen planning and operating capabilities of the National Council for Technical Education. Total cost: SI49.5 million.
BAHAMAS: Bank—$7 million. The project—including the construction, equipping, and furnishing of an industrial training center, educational workshops and laboratories, facilities for the College of the Bahamas, a hotel-training college, and a department of nursing education—will help increase the number of skilled graduates in technical and vocational fieids qualified to assist in the development of tourism and other industries in the islands. Total cost: $18.4 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC:
IDA—$900,000. Supplementary financing is being provided for the completion of an education project, approved in fiscal 1972. (The original credit was for $3.9 million.)
CHINA: Bank—$100 million; IDA—$100 million. The initial phase of a program to strengthen higher education and research activities in science and engineering will be supported by this first Bank operation in the country. Civil works, furniture, equipment, the services of specialists, and fellowships will be financed to help increase the number of graduates and the volume of research work at twenty-six leading universities; improve the quality of graduates and research work; and strengthen management at universities and in the Ministry of Education. Total cost: $295 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$40.1 million. Financial and technical assistance will be provided to twenty-five new and thirty-five existing vocational, agricultural, and handicrafts training centers to alleviate acute shortages of skilled manpower in the agricultural and industrial sectors, thereby improving the employment prospects of the urban poor, increasing agricultural productivity and rural incomes, improving health services, and upgrading secondary and university teaching skills. Total cost: $56.9 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$35 million. This three-year phase of the government's plan to provide primary education to all within a decade includes the construction of primary and secondary schools, the strengthening of the Ministry of Education's capacity to coordinate project activities, and the establishment of a school of veterinary medicine and several district centers to provide in-service training for teachers and
advice on curricula and teaching materials. Total cost: $53.65 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$45 million. This first phase of a long-term university development program has the aim of increasing the output of high-level manpower in the fields of engineering, science, agriculture, and economics, improving the quality of university education, and strengthening the management of the whole university system. Total cost: $65.2 million.
KENYA: IDA—$40 million. A fifth education project will provide training for staff in school management and administration, technicians in agriculture and development of water resources, and skilled industrial workers. In addition, the project will assist in identifying the country's need for business education and training. Total cost: $53.2 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$10 million. Some 150 primary-school classrooms will be constructed, 1.9 million textbooks and workbooks will be provided, and permanent facilities for trainees at two vocational training centers will be built. Total cost: $13.1 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$41 million. Through the building and furnishing of five new secondary schools and the expansion of six existing schools and through the provision of similar facilities for a training college for teachers, secondary education will be expanded and improved. About 47 percent of the secondary school places will be made available to girls, thus providing better educational and employment opportunities for women. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $51.3 million.
NIGER: IDA—$21.5 million. This project comprises a five-year program to improve the planning and preparation of education projects and planning for civil service upgrading and training of rural development workers. Cofinancing ($2.5 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $27 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$25 million. Vocational training will be expanded in order to produce the skilled manpower needed for industrial development and to overcome shortages caused by the emigration of skilled workers. Construction, furniture, and equipment for the National Training Development Institute and six new training centers are included, as are the rehabilitation of existing centers, training materials, and salary increments and training for staff. Cofinancing ($1.6 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $47.3 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Bank—$6 million; IDA—SI2 million. Through the provision of in-service training for 430 teachers, administrative staff development, and educational materials to 150,000 children and through the improvement and expansion of physical facilities, the management of educational resources will be improved and primary education will be upgraded and expanded in the provinces. Total cost: $37.7 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank—$17 million. About 80,000 rural students will benefit from the construction and equipping of about 500 schools, the establishment of better in-service training programs for teachers, evaluation and revision of curricula for primary and secondary education, and the upgrading of staff and facilities in the departments of planning and personnel of the Ministry of Education. Total cost: $30.23 million.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$100 million. To strengthen policies, management, and instructional programs in elementary education, some sixty subprojects will be undertaken during the next three years. Educational materials, buildings, equipment, training for managers, planners, and school staff, and a revised curriculum are included. Total cost: $448.1 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$10.2 million. The project covers a five-year program designed to improve the quality and efficiency of teaching in primary and secondary schools by upgrading teacher-training facilities and providing more equitable opportunities for secondary education in rural areas. Technical assistance for the long-term planning of manpower requirements and a review of the civil-service system are included. Total cost: $12.7 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: Bank—$15.6 million. The government will be assisted in expanding vocational and technical training for the agriculture, construction, and health sectors; extending current programs that offer health services to school children; improving the quality of primary and secondary education; and studying ways of upgrading management skills in the public sector. Cofinancing ($2.7 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $48.1 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$25 million. Primary and secondary education will be made available to students from remote areas of the country (about 24,000 new places), local school buildings will be constructed in some 2,000 villages, and the quality of education will be improved through the provision of teaching
materials, better training facilities for teachers, and fellowships. Cofinancing ($20 million) is being provided by DANIDA. Total cost: $55 million. TUNISIA: Bank—$26 million. To help meet the need for skilled workers, craftsmen, and supervisors, seven new vocational centers will be built and furnished, thirty new sections will be added to existing centers, five centers will be re-equipped, and technical assistance will be provided to help establish a long-term strategy for the development of vocational training and apprenticeships. Total cost: $47 million.
Energy
ARGENTINA: Bank—$10 million. Financing of a drilling program, seismic surveys, geological reconnaissance, and prefeasibility studies will enable evaluation of coal reserves in the Austral basin, and the government will be able to establish investment priorities for the long-term development of the country's energy sector. Total cost: $20 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$85 million. The country will be assisted in reducing its dependence on imported oil in the course of a three-year period through the replacement of liquid hydrocarbons with indigenous natural gas. Gas to use as a feedstock for production of fertilizer will also be made available, thereby making possible substantial savings in foreign exchange. The project includes the drilling of wells, facilities for the gathering, transmission, and distribution of gas, and technical assistance. Cofinancing is being provided by the OECF ($26 million) and the OPEC Fund for International Development ($21 million). Total cost: $164 million.
BARBADOS: Bank—$6 million. To help meet the country's needs for electricity through 1984, the existing generation, transmission, and distribution systems will be expanded, plant efficiency and the institutional capability of the Barbados Light and Power Company Limited will be improved, and an energy-conservation program will be undertaken. Cofinancing will be provided by the CDC ($11.7 million), the EIB ($7.1 million), and the CDB ($6 million). Total cost: $121.7 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$125 million. Through the construction of transmission lines, substations, and auxiliary facilities and the provision of the services and training of consultants, the Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A. will be able to expand its high-voltage transmission system in the states of Parana, Santa Catarina, and Rio Grande do
Sul during the period 1980-84. Total cost: $265.31 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$54 million. A part of a national program for the supervision and coordination of the country's interconnected electric power systems, the project consists of the provision of components for the system that are at an advanced stage of preparation, including training and the construction of facilities. Total cost: $140.3 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$359 million. A 1,000-megawatt hydroelectric plant, the largest yet to be constructed in the country, will provide about 15 percent of the country's need for electricity by 1988. An environmental-protection study and a training program for the staff of the Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota are included. Cofinancing ($100 million) is being provided by the IDB. Total cost: $1,303 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$85 million. A 65-meter earth-fill dam and spillway, a 200-megawatt underground power station, a substation, transmission lines, and related works will be built in order to help meet the increasing demand for power in Medellin and its surrounding areas and to expand the supply of electricity in rural areas of Antioquia and in the North Atlantic region, which are now entirely dependent on thermal generation. Cofinancing ($85 million) is being provided by the IDB. Total cost: $364.4 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$36 million. The project represents the first stage of a fifteen-year rural electrification program to bring electricity to more than 43,000 rural households and to agroindustries in the country's poorest region. Total cost: $68.7 million.
COSTA RICA: Bank—$3 million. The project will support the efforts of the government to evaluate and explore its petroleum resources and analyze future choices in the energy sector by conducting seismic surveys and geological studies and by providing the services of consultants to help develop a national energy data base and prepare a national energy plan. Total cost: $3.9 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$25 million. Seismic surveys, exploratory drilling, and extensive testing and data processing in the western desert will be financed to assist the country in developing petroleum resources to meet the increasing demand for oil and natural gas. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $40 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$28.5 million. The project is part of a program to rehabilitate and expand power facilities in Conakry and the surrounding areas and to strengthen the
management and operations of the Societe Nationale d'Electricite. A training program, technical assistance, and consulting services are included, as are the rehabilitation of the power distribution network and construction of related facilities. Total cost: $32.5 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA—$6.8 million. Technical assistance will be provided to the National Corporation for Petroleum and Mineral Research and Exploration for gathering and evaluating geological and geophysical data, negotiating exploration contracts with oil companies, and devising an accounting system for the petroleum industry and a system for monitoring the accounts of oil companies. Total cost: _$6.9 million.
GUYANA: Bank—$8 million. A power-demand study, prefeasibility and feasibility studies of various hydropower sites, and engineering studies will assist the country in meeting its future power requirements through the development of renewable sources of energy that will substitute for imported oil. Technical assistance is being provided the Guyana Electricity Corporation to improve its management. Total cost: $10.4 million.
INDIA: Bank—$400 million. The development of the southern and central areas of the Bombay High offshore oil field will be continued by drilling sixty-four wells and constructing fifteen production platforms, a processing platform, and a platform for living quarters. The production potential is expected to reach 12 million tons of crude oil a year by mid 1982. Cofinancing ($30 million) is being provided by the OPEC Fund for International Development. Total cost: $858.2 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$250 million. A 700-megawatt hydroelectric power facility and related works will be built in Java to help meet the island's growing demand for electricity and reduce domestic consumption of oil. Services of consultants to assist the national electricity authority in carrying out power-market surveys, analyses of power systems, and management of civil works contracts are included. Cofinancing ($136.6 million) is being provided by the OECF. Total cost: $726.7 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$33 million. Some 315,000 people will benefit from a project that forms part of the country's 1981-84 rural electrification program, the aim of which is to extend power to forty-three small towns that are today supplied with electricity by diesel stations, to 633 towns that now have no electricity, and to new and existing agroindustries. Total cost: $46.5 million.
JAMAICA: Bank—$7.5 million. The project will enable the Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica to participate as an equity partner in offshore hydrocarbon exploration. In addition, seismic surveys, technical assistance, and a feasibility study are included. Total cost: $8.4 million.
JORDAN: Bank—$25 million. The project is part of the 1981-84 program to provide adequate facilities for transmission and distribution of power to five municipal and industrial centers, as well as to about fifty villages and three low-cost housing areas, thereby benefiting some 51,000 people. Cofinancing ($18 million) is being provided by the KFAED. Total cost: $81.12 million.
LIBERIA: Bank—$5 million. Offshore seismic surveys will be conducted to help determine oil reserves, consulting services for the negotiation of new exploration permits will be made available, and technical assistance will be provided in order to improve planning in the energy sector and attract foreign investment in oil exploration. Total cost: $6 million.
MALI: IDA—$3.7 million. Technical assistance will be provided to the government to help evaluate the hydrocarbon potential of the Taoudeni basin and to strengthen institutional capabilities for energy planning. Total cost: $4 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$6.5 million. The
government will be assisted in accelerating oil exploration, improving energy planning, and investigating the potential for development of alternative sources of energy in an effort to attract investments in the energy sector by oil companies. Total cost: $8 million.
PERU: Bank—$25 million. Prefeasibility studies, feasibility studies, bidding documents, and final designs will be prepared for twelve hydroelectric projects, a proposed project that will provide power and irrigation, a power-transmission line to serve the northern part of the country, and a thermal-generating plant for Lima. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $40.7 million.
PORTUGAL: Bank—$20 million. The country will be assisted in evaluating its petroleum and heavy oil prospects through seismic surveys, exploratory drilling, laboratory analysis services, and the provision of technical assistance to the Petroleos de Portugal to strengthen its technical capabilities. Total cost: $26 million.
ROMANIA: Bank—$125 million. As part of the country's 1980-85 power expansion program, thirty-one hydroelectric generation
plants, seventeen thermal power and heat-generation plants, twenty-seven transmission substations, six thermal generation plants, and 1,569 kilometers of transmission lines will be built. An expansion of the existing distribution systems will be financed as well. Total cost: $3,011.5 million.
SWAZILAND: Bank—$10 million. A twenty-megawatt hydroelectric generating facility will be built on the Little Usutu river as a first step in a program designed to meet the country's demands for power during the next fifty years and to help reduce its dependence on imports of electricity. Cofinancing is being provided by the EIB ($8.8 million), the AfDB ($8.2 million), the KfW ($8.1 million), and the CDC ($7.6 million). Total cost: $59.2 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$100 million. Funds will be provided the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand to help finance its expenditures for selected subprojects during the next three years. A program of energy conservation and an environmental training program are included. Cofinancing is being provided by the AsDB ($133 million), the OECF ($89.8 million), and the KFAED ($20 million). Total cost: $1,621.4 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$41.5 million. Electric service will be extended, for the first time, to more than 30,000 people living in rural areas and 2,100 pumping stations and 300 commercial and small industrial consumers will also receive these services, and the quality of service will be improved for 150,000 existing urban consumers. Total cost: $89.6 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$62 million. The
project—including the testing of improved techniques of oil recovery in a large producing oil field, the drilling of new wells and installation of associated equipment in a newly discovered oil field, evaluation of the production potential of a gas field, and technical assistance to the Turkish Petroleum Company—will expand recoverable oil reserves in operating fields and increase short-term production of crude oil in new fields. Total cost: $102 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$25 million. To accelerate the exploration and development of the country's petroleum potential and attract investments in the sector by foreign oil companies, geological studies and seismic geophysical surveys will be undertaken, exploratory drilling will be financed, technical assistance and training will be provided, and a program of energy audits will help identify the areas with strong
potential for efficiency and conservation of energy. Total cost: $45 million. YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$12 million. The project—including the extension of electricity to about seventeen villages and to three principal farmers' markets— represents the first phase of the country's eighteen-year national electrification program, the aim of which is to extend electric service throughout the country. An energy-pricing study and an electricity-tariff study will also be financed. Cofinancing is being provided by the Kf\V ($4 million) and the NMDC ($4 million). Total cost: $21.5 million.
Industry
BRAZIL: Bank—$250 million. This three-year phase of the government's 1981-85 National Alcohol Program is designed to increase annual production of alcohol for use in gasoline and chemical feedstocks to about 10.7 billion liters by the end of 1985 (equivalent to 148,000 barrels a day of petroleum). Total cost: $5,115 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$4 million. The aim of the project—which includes nickel exploration, trial peat production, engineering studies, and technical assistance—is to analyze the data needed to establish an economically and financially sound project for developing the nickel deposits at Musongati. Cofinancing is being provided by FINN IDA ($1.8 million) and DAN I DA ($900,000). Total cost: $7.3 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$64 million. The HADISOLB steelrnaking facilities—the country's largest producer of steel—will be rehabilitated by providing equipment and computer facilities to help remove technical bottlenecks in production and by making substantial improvements in operation and maintenance practices. Total cost: $105.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$400 million. It is estimated that the construction of a fertilizer plant in Gujarat state that will produce 2,700 tons of ammonia and 4,400 tons of urea a day will cause foreign-exchange savings from reduced imports of fertilizer to increase to more than $3,440 million during the next twelve years. Cofinancing is being provided by the ODA ($104.5 million) and the OECF ($98.7 million). Total cost: $1,276.9 million.
PERU: Bank—$5 million. Technical assistance—including assistance with project management and operating practices, training of personnel, and the preparation of a feasibility study and other related studies—will be provided to the Empresa
Siderurgica del Peru, a state-owned steel company, to enable it to install and manage a two-stage 400,000 metric-tons-a-year expansion of an important steel mill. Total cost: $6 million.
SENEGAL: Bank—$19.3 million. The safest and most economical solution for transporting raw materials, supplies, and products to a major fertilizer plant will be provided through the upgrading, renewal, and construction of railway track, the procurement of locomotives, spare parts, and equipment, and the construction and equipping of a maintenance workshop. Total cost: $23.4 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$8.9 million. A feasibility study, including trial mining operations, will be executed in order to determine the feasibility of developing a potash project in the country. Financial and legal assistance will be provided to assist the government in negotiating with private investors in the sector, and the formulation of potash-development policies will be supported. Total cost: $10.4 million.
TOGO: IDA—$5.7 million. A feasibility study and related geological, engineering, and infrastructural studies will be undertaken in order to evaluate the country's phosphate deposits and determine the technical and economic feasibility of developing a phosphate fertilizer project that would support the manufacture of phosphoric acid and fertilizers for export. Total cost: $8.9 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$18.6 million. The project is the first phase of a program to rehabilitate the country's textile industry by expanding and improving production at the largest operating company in the country and by completing preparatory work for the rehabilitation of three other large companies. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing ($1.5 million) is being provided by Switzerland. Total cost: $32.9 million.
TURKEY: Bank—$110 million. The provision of finance for rehabilitation and rationalization investments in three companies and four plants in the fertilizer industry and the training of staff, fulfillment of a marketing study, provision of technical assistance, and improvement of plant operations and management will make it possible to increase production of fertilizer and allow the plants to become more energy-efficient. Total cost: $236.6 million.
Nonproject
BANGLADESH: IDA—$65 million. Foreign exchange will be provided for the import of
raw materials, components, and equipment to enable the industrial, construction, and agriculture sectors to reach their full production potential. Government programs to increase the production and equity of distribution of food grains and thereby improve the country's general economic condition will also be supported.
FIJI: Bank—$18 million. A thirty-two-kilometer section of highway and drainage works that was damaged during the cyclone of April 1980 will be reconstructed. Technical assistance is included. The UNDP is providing grant funds for technical assistance. Total cost: $31 million.
GUYANA: Bank—$14 million; IDA—$8 million. Structural-adjustment assistance will help stimulate economic growth in the country and restore balance-of-payments equilibrium by providing foreign exchange for critically needed inputs to industrial and agricultural operations in both the public and private sectors.
MALAWI: Bank—$45 million. A structural-adjustment loan, to be disbursed in two tranches, is designed to diversify the country's export base, encourage efficient import substitution, adjust incentives and income policies, improve the financial performance of the public sector, and strengthen the economic planning and monitoring capability of the government.
MAURITIUS: Bank—$15 million. A structural-adjustment loan will provide funds through the Bank of Mauritius to finance the import of essential goods mainly for the industrial and agricultural sectors. The loan provides balance-of-payments support while the government implements an adjustment program whose main aims include developing export earnings, increasing the economic return from the public sector investment program, and improving efficiency in key areas of public expenditure.
NICARAGUA: IDA—$5 million. Funds will be provided to the Financiera de Preinversion for relending for the services of consultants to help identify and prepare high-priority investment projects in key productive and social sectors. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $6.2 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$50 million. To help meet the demand for fertilizer, support various agricultural policy reforms, and thereby increase agricultural output, imports of fertilizer will be financed and the services of consultants provided to review staffing and organization of the larger fertilizer manufacturing plants in the public sector
with a view to improving their production capacity.
PHILIPPINES: Bank—$200 million. A structural-adjustment loan will support the implementation of a comprehensive program of industrial development designed to accelerate industrial growth, expand employment, maintain the rapid growth of nontraditional exports, and stimulate industry outside the metropolitan area of Manila. Proceeds of the loan will be used to finance the acquisition of industrial raw materials, intermediate and investment goods, and spare parts, in addition to technical assistance for implementation of the program.
SENEGAL: Bank—$30 million; IDA—$30 million. Structural-adjustment assistance, to be disbursed in two tranches, will support the government in its efforts to carry out its program of economic stabilization and rehabilitation for the medium term, concentrating on four principal areas: money and finance, prices and incentives, investment programs, and agricultural policies.
TANZANIA: IDA—$50 million. Funds will be provided to cover the costs of essential imports of agricultural machinery and materials and spare parts for vehicles so as to improve the production and marketing of principal export crops and food crops.
TURKEY: Bank—$300 million. This second structural-adjustment loan will give further support to the country's January 1980 stabilization program and will help restore economic viability. Finance will be provided for high-priority imports, such as fertilizer raw materials and intermediate products for agriculture and industry.
TURKEY: Bank—$75 million. This
supplement to the first structural-adjustment loan will provide support for a program of economic measures that the government plans to carry out to restore the viability of the economy. Measures include the promotion of exports, efforts to improve mobilization of domestic resources, formulation and pursuit of rational public investment policies, and better management of external debt. Foreign exchange is being made available to finance high-priority imports for agriculture and industry.
ZIMBABWE: Bank—$50 million; IDA—$15 million. High-priority import requirements for raw materials, spare parts, and equipment for the manufacturing sector will be financed to increase the production of manufactured goods, increase exports, and provide more employment opportunities. Cofinancing ($10 million) is being provided by the OPEC Fund for International Development.
ZIMBABWE: Bank—$42 million. Funds will be provided to help meet high-priority import requirements of spare parts, track-maintenance equipment, and tools for the railways. Technical assistance is included.
Population, Health, and Nutrition
TUNISIA: Bank—$12.5 million. The project supports the efforts of the government to extend basic health care to the entire population by 1990 by providing family-planning, nutrition, and health services to about 2.25 million low-income residents and by strengthening the management capacity of the Ministry of Public Health. Total cost: $41 million.
Small-Scale Enterprises
BANGLADESH: IDA—$35 million. A third small-scale industry project will help increase productivity, employment, and exports of cottage industries and other small industries by providing both financial assistance and technical and marketing services to small industries and transport operations, exporters and manufacturers of handicrafts and light industrial products, and agricultural enterprises. Total cost: $50 million.
CAMEROON: Bank—$15 million. Technical and financial assistance will be provided to artisans and to small and medium-scale enterprises during a four-year period to promote industrial growth and encourage a better geographical distribution of industrial activities in the country. About 1,800 permanent jobs will be created. Total cost: $21.3 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$106 million. About 70,000 subloans will be extended through Bank Indonesia to small-scale enterprises (SSEs) in several sectors, creating some 140,000 new jobs. Funds will also be provided to the Ministry of Industry for strengthening technical support services to SSEs. Total cost: $605.3 million.
LIBERIA: IDA—$4 million. Funds will be provided through the National Bank of Liberia to finance small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs) and to make technical assistance available to the National Investment Commission to promote and assist the development of SMEs. Total cost: $5 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$30 million. A line of credit will be onlent through the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan for the refinancing of subloans by five commercial banks for the development of small-scale industries and to provide extension services to enterprises in woodworking and leather
goods, support export promotion of selected handicrafts, and initiate project development activities in Baluchistan. Total cost: $60 million.
SENEGAL: Bank—$6.5 million; IDA—$2.5 million. Funds will be provided to the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de 1'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT) and the Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle (SONEPI) to finance investments in industrial, fisheries, and tourism projects and to improve the promotion of small and medium-scale enterprises. Total cost: $17.9 million.
TUNISIA: Bank—$30 million. The government program to assist small industries will be supported in an effort to help them reach their potential in generating employment, improving intersectoral linkages, developing industrial managers and technicians, and alleviating regional imbalances. Cofinancing ($900,000) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $60.55 million.
Technical Assistance
BANGLADESH: IDA—$16 million. Technical assistance will be provided to help strengthen the government institutions that are responsible for identification, preparation, and implementation of projects and to develop a pipeline of projects suitable for financing.
CAMEROON: IDA—$10 million. A second technical-assistance project will support improvements in the organization and operation of the present systems of national planning and management of external debt, help define policies and investment programs in key sectors, and generate sound projects and improve project management. Total cost: $13.8 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: IDA—$4 million. Technical assistance will be provided for project preparation, sector studies, and a review of the civil service, and funds will be made available to pay for vehicles, resident advisers, and further studies to help improve the capacity of the country to finance development projects and to stimulate private investment in key sectors of the economy. Total cost: $4.2 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$6.9 million. Technical assistance will be provided for preinvestment planning, feasibility and engineering studies, and related work toward the creation of permanent institutional capabilities for sector planning and project
preparation in the agricultural ministry. Total cost: $9.4 million.
GUYANA: Bank—$1.5 million. To support related financing for structural adjustment, technical assistance will be made available to establish an export development fund, to carry out export-market studies, to provide advisory services in industrial development and export promotion, and to strengthen the monitoring of the investment program of the public sector and improve systems of expenditure control. Total cost: $2 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$1 1.5 million. The project will assist the government in establishing an appropriate instructional program to provide qualified professionals in accounting and auditing, to provide industrial management consulting and audit services, and to create a suitable legislative framework for the sector. Total cost: $14.2 million.
MALAWI: Bank—$1 million. For a period of thirty months, a technical-assistance project will provide the services of consultants to study the livestock, meat, and dairy industries, to review the financial position of the Malawi Development Corporation and strengthen its export-marketing capabilities, and to undertake studies that are needed in support of a related structural-adjustment loan. Total cost: $1.17 million.
NIGERIA: Bank—$47 million. Technical assistance will be provided to help establish an administrative structure and organization that can coordinate the development and implementation of the government's food-production plan developed in an effort to ease the country's serious food shortage. Total cost: $120.1 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$5.3 million. Technical assistance will be made available to support and strengthen the ability of the government to identify, select, prepare, monitor execution of, and evaluate in retrospect its portfolio of development projects and to improve the monitoring of public finance. Total cost: $6.2 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$6 million. This project will support a three-year program designed to improve the ability of the government to implement its current strategy of economic stabilization by providing technical assistance in the areas of project preparation, project implementation, and macroeconomic management. Total cost: $6.8 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$11 million. Technical assistance will be provided to identify, plan, and implement projects in areas where there is little expertise in the country. Special studies will be undertaken to improve the use of production facilities in order to increase
output, as well as studies to identify potential export products and markets and develop a more export-oriented industrial sector. Training to upgrade accounting and auditing skills is also included. Total cost: $14 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$8 million. Technical assistance will be provided to help the government prepare a series of rehabilitation and development projects suitable for outside financing. Prefeasibility, feasibility, and other studies are included, as are support to local agencies and training for project planning and preparation.
ZAIRE: IDA—$2.9 million. Technical assistance will be provided to establish a subregional development authority to provide the institutional framework needed for the implementation of a long-term agricultural development program designed to increase production of food crops, livestock, and fish. Cofinancing ($1 million) is being provided by the GTZ. Total cost: $5.9 million.
Telecommunications
BURUNDI: IDA—$7.7 million. Telecommunication services will be expanded through 1984 by means of an improvement in the long-distance transmission networks in Bujumbura and various provincial towns and by extending coverage to about forty villages through the installation of public call offices. Technical assistance and training and vehicles, tools, and related equipment will be provided. Total cost: $9.1 million.
INDIA: IDA—$314 million. Through the provision of additional direct-exchange lines, public call offices, telex facilities, and related equipment and by upgrading and modernizing the production facilities of three major manufacturers of telecommunications equipment, the country's telecommunications network will be expanded in four metropolitan areas and extended to about 40 million people living in small towns and villages who have never had access to public telephones. Total cost: $1,619.4 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$7.5 million. Expansion of the urban cable network in several towns, by installation of a new exchange at Rwamagana and replacement of ten existing exchanges, and expansion of the telex exchange at Kigali will reduce the geographical isolation of the country from other African countries, improve the internal telecommunications network, and extend service to several additional rural and urban areas for the first time. Cofinancing is being provided by the FAC ($1.95 million), the CCCE ($1.95 million), and CIDA ($4 million). Total cost: $17.5 million.
Transportation
ALGERIA: Bank—SI 10 million. To reduce transport costs and increase access to rural areas, the foreign-exchange costs of road-maintenance equipment, the training of maintenance personnel, the reconstruction of a seven-kilometer section of a national road, and consultant services will be financed. Total cost: $206.3 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$25 million. Improvement of the landing and storage facilities at river ports and channel dredging at Chittagong and rehabilitation of railroad wagons, construction of transit-storage facilities, and establishment of a control center for fertilizer operations will make fertilizer more readily available to farmers, reduce the price, and enhance crop production. Total cost: $40.8 million.
BENIN: IDA—$11.3 million. About 400,000 people are expected to benefit from a fourth highway project that includes rehabilitation and maintenance of roads, improvement in the management of the Directorate of Roads and Bridges, staff training, and the institution of axle-load control and road-safety programs. Cofinancing ($6 million) is being provided by the OPEC Fund for International Development. Total cost: $20.3 million.
BENIN: IDA—$7 million. A three-year program of feeder-road construction and maintenance will be financed to enable farmers to have year-round access to markets and to reduce overall vehicle-operating costs. Total cost: $8.7 million.
BOTSWANA: Bank—$17 million. Paving of the north-south road to the Zimbabwe border will be completed, and three other roads will be improved to two-lane bituminous standards. In addition, a soils-and-materials laboratory and road-maintenance depots will be built and consulting services and two instructors will be provided to complete the staffing of the Roads Training Center. Total cost: $23 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$25 million. A third highway project will help improve communications and reduce the costs of operating vehicles between Bujumbura and the regions of Ngozi and Muyinga; a better transport connection to the Indian Ocean will be created; and the road-improvement capability of the Ministry of Public Works will be strengthened. Cofinancing is being provided by the OECF ($2 million), the AGCD ($1 million), the UNDP ($500,000), and France ($300,000). Total cost: $35 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC:
IDA—$4.5 million. Supplementary financing will be provided for the completion of the Third Highway Project, approved in fiscal 1979. (The original credit was for $15.5 million.)
CHILE: Bank—$42 million. About 250 kilometers of badly deteriorated sections of the country's only continuous north-south trunk road will be reconstructed. Some 950,000 people, most of them rural and urban poor, will benefit directly from better access to markets and lower vehicle-operating costs. Total cost: $91.7 million.
COLOMBIA: Bank—$33 million. To reduce transport costs and improve the access of the rural population to markets, schools, and health facilities, more than 1,400 kilometers of rural roads will be constructed or rehabilitated and tools and spare parts will be provided for maintenance purposes. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $63 million.
GHANA: IDA—$29 million. Through maintenance of tracks, rehabilitation of locomotives and rolling stock, modernization of workshops and depots, improvement of telecommunications facilities, technical assistance, and staff training, the management, operations, and facilities of the Ghana Railway Corporation will be improved. Cofinancing ($13 million) is being provided by the AfDB. Total cost: $64 million.
HAITI: IDA—$11 million. Rehabilitation and expansion of the international port at Cap Haitien and the building of five new coastal shipping ports and the rehabilitation of two others are expected to increase earnings from foreign cruise ships and give better access to isolated seacoast communities that are not now connected by roads to the rest of the country. Cofinancing ($6 million) is being provided by the KfW. Total cost: $23.7 million.
HONDURAS: Bank—S28 million. About 350 kilometers of feeder roads will be built in selected agricultural valleys; 115 kilometers of secondary roads, serving rural areas, will be improved; maintenance and workshop equipment and spare parts will be purchased; and technical assistance will be provided for maintenance management and training. Total cost: $40.8 million.
INDIA: IDA—$35 million. About 2 million people are expected to benefit from the construction and rehabilitation of 700 kilometers of rural roads in Bihar state and from improved road maintenance that will
permit all-weather transport between farms and markets and facilitate rural development. Total cost: $52.9 million.
IVORY COAST: Bank—$100 million. Part of the foreign-exchange costs of the 1981-83 highway investment program will be financed, including road construction and rehabilitation of roads, the purchase of road and laboratory equipment, and technical assistance and training for various directorates of the Ministry of Public Works.Total cost: $166 million.
KENYA: Bank—$58 million. To increase the efficiency and reliability of the Kenya Railways Corporation and to expand the use of rail transport, the purchase of essential track rehabilitation equipment and improvements in operation will be financed. Cofinancing is being provided by the KfW ($16.7 million) and the AfDB ($7.5 million). Total cost: $133.8 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$33 million. During a five-year period, large sections of the country's principal north-south road will be constructed or improved in order to achieve a more balanced distribution of resources between the rural and urban areas, particularly the less-developed northern region. Consulting services and training are included. Total cost: $39.2 million.
MALI: IDA—$17 million. To prevent the deterioration of the country's road-maintenance capability, a two-and-a-half year program of routine maintenance covering more than 6,000 kilometers of national, regional, and feeder roads will be undertaken. Periodic maintenance of about 900 kilometers of paved and gravel roads and a program of axle-load control will also be undertaken. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing ($10 million) is being provided by the SDC. Total cost: $43.3 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$150 million. The project—including rehabilitation of tracks, the provision of machinery, equipment, locomotives, and freight cars, and the installation of a central traffic-control system—has the aim of enabling the National Mexican Railways to meet the increasing demand for railway transport. Cofinancing ($94 million) is being provided by the U.S. Export-Import Bank. Total cost: $1,527 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$14 million. The services of consultants will be provided for the planning, study, and design of industrial development at five principal ports in order to decentralize economic activity and growth to areas outside the central plateau and to provide local
industries with access to international maritime transport. Total cost: $24 million.
PANAMA: Bank—$19 million. During a four-year period, some 400 kilometers of paved roads and 50 kilometers of gravel roads will be rehabilitated; a road-maintenance program will be established; and technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy to strengthen transport planning. Total cost: $31.7 million.
PERU: Bank—$58 million. To increase the efficiency and security of civil aviation and improve service to the eastern jungle and jungle highland regions, one airport will be built, three others will be improved, and communications, navigation, and aviation equipment will be provided throughout the country. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing ($19 million) is being provided by the KfW. Total cost: $127.6 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$10 million.
Equipment, spare parts, technical assistance, and training will be provided to strengthen and improve the efficiency of the country's road-maintenance organization, to reduce transportation costs, and to increase the accessibility of remote agricultural areas. Cofinancing is being provided by the ADF ($8.2 million) and the OPEC Fund for International Development ($7 million). Total cost: $29 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$13.5 million. To increase the supply of trained manpower and improve the level of technical management expertise in the construction industry, training will be provided to about 45,000 unskilled workers, 9,600 skilled workers, 1,800 mechanical equipment operators, and 1,000 supervisors and managers. Equipment and technical assistance are included. Total cost: $25 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$53 million. Development of the inland waterways and coastal ports that serve the country's north and central corridor will provide about 11 million people with cheaper transportation for the export of rice and corn and for imports, such as petroleum products. Total cost: $80.4 million.
THAILAND: Bank—$47 million. Port facilities at Bangkok and Sattahip will be improved and expanded through the construction of freight stations and warehouses, procurement of necessary mechanical equipment, and civil works. Total cost: $109.2 million.
TOGO: IDA—$20 million. A fourth highway project includes a three-year training program for road-maintenance personnel, the procurement of equipment and spare parts,
preinvestment studies, and technical assistance to improve transport planning and railway operations. Cofinancing (S7.4 million) is being provided by the OPEC Fund for International Development. Total cost: $31.2 million. UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$46 million. During a four-year period, more than 6,000 kilometers of paved and gravel roads will be rehabilitated and maintained and about 1,640 kilometers of feeder roads will be constructed and maintained to provide better access to rural areas. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing ($8 million) is being provided by the NMDC. Total cost: $73 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$12.5 million. To promote the social, economic, and administrative integration of the country, a ninety-two-kilometer, two-lane paved road will be constructed that will improve access to three towns in the isolated Shabwah governorate. Cofinancing is being provided by the KFAED ($10.5 million) and the OPEC Fund for International Development (SI0.5 million). Total cost: $42.8 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bank—$34 million. The three-year project—including reconstruction of an important junction, installation of modern signaling and telecommunications equipment, procurement of rolling stock and related equipment, and training and technical assistance—represents one phase of a plan for improving the capacity and efficiency of the rail network in Kosovo, the weakest part of the country's rail system. Total cost: $67.5 million.
Urbanization
BRAZIL: Bank—$90 million. By strengthening the Brazilian Urban Transport Company through institution building and technical assistance and by supporting transport-investment progams and a low-cost paving program, transport services will be improved in the low-income areas of several cities. Total cost: $257 million.
INDIA: IDA—$42 million. A second urban development project in Madras includes the development of about 15,000 residential and 200 industrial plots on two sites, the provision of basic infrastructure and land tenure to 50,000 slum households, home improvement loans and grants to 80,000 slum households, the procurement of 550 buses, construction and maintenance of roads, and an improvement in management of solid wastes. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $84 million.
INDONESIA: Bank—$43 million. Basic infrastructure—including water supply, sanitation, roads, footpaths, schools, and health facilities—will be provided to about 800,000 people who live in low-income areas of nine cities, and training equipment and materials will be made available to more than 400 community health workers. Technical assistance and consulting services are included. Total cost: $86.1 million.
JORDAN: Bank—$21 million. This first Bank-assisted urban development project in the country includes a provision for housing on seven sites in the Amman region for 41,000 low-income residents and, in addition, community facilities, maintenance equipment, assistance to small businesses, manpower training, and services of consultants for project management, supervision, and related studies. Total cost: $57.6 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: Bank—$90 million. About 380 hectares of urban residential land in ten cities will be developed, including the construction of 8,500 housing units and community and commercial facilities for low-income households and technical assistance for staff training, professional services, and project preparation. Total cost: $240 million.
MAURITIUS: Bank—$15 million. Funds will be onlent through four local institutions to support land development for housing and community facilities, housing credit for home improvement and construction, rehabilitation of housing and urban services damaged by cyclones, and the improvement of public transportation and sewage facilities. Cofinancing ($4.5 million) is being provided by the SFD. Total cost: $24.5 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$164 million. Urban and regional development will be supported in three southeastern states through the provision of shelter-related facilities, citywide infrastructure, municipal facilities and services, credits to artisans and small-scale enterprises, industrial estates, and through various studies and support activities. Total cost: $468 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$36 million. The efforts of the government to improve the standards of living of some 66,000 low-income residents of the cities of Meknes and Kenitra will be supported by upgrading squatter settlements, constructing serviced residential plots and community facilities, providing credit for home improvement, providing technical assistance, and financing studies for the preparation of new urban development projects. Total cost: $81.1 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
BENIN: IDA —$5 million. To help meet the water-supply and sanitation needs of Cotonou—the largest city and economic center of the country—master plans will be prepared for water supply and sanitation and urban development, the tariff and accounting systems will be reviewed, bidding documents will be prepared, and the water-distribution system will be extended by about eighty-two kilometers to low-income areas. Total cost: $6.3 million.
BRAZIL: Bank—$180 million. Piped water will be provided to some 2.5 million people and sewerage to 600,000 people living in five states and in the Federal district to help improve general health conditions and reduce the incidence of disease. Total cost: $589 million.
COSTA RICA: Bank—$26 million. To alleviate water shortages in San Jose and improve services throughout the country, a twenty-seven-kilometer transmission pipe will be constructed, water mains in low-income areas of San Jose will be replaced, 30,000 new water meters will be installed, and a water-supply master plan will be prepared for San Jose and three other cities. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing ($13.8 million) is being provided by the CDC. Total cost: $55.3 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$56.6 million. This project, the aim of which is to expand and rehabilitate water-supply facilities in Beheira, will lend support to the government's policy to decentralize responsibility for basic services to the governorates. In addition to improving supplies for more than the present 2 million consumers, about 800,000 people—including 600,000 low-income residents—will be provided with safe drinking water. Total cost: $1 18.38 million.
MEXICO: Bank—$125 million. Water supply will be provided to about 1.2 million people and sewerage to nearly 1.3 million people in several cities through the construction of water-distribution networks, sewage-treatment plants, and related facilities. In addition, a technical-assistance program to improve the operation and service capabilities of local companies is included. Total cost: $318 million.
MOROCCO: Bank—$87 million. Some 1.6 million people living in low-income areas of
several of the larger towns and smaller centers will have better access to a safe water supply through a third water-supply project that includes the construction of water-supply systems, a revolving fund to finance credit to low-income households for house connections, a line of credit to the Office National de l'Eau Potable to expand water-supply facilities, and technical assistance and training. Total cost: $169 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$27 million. About 720,000 people will benefit from a third water-supply and sewerage project that is intended to help meet the government's goal of providing safe water to all the urban population by 1990. Water-supply and sewerage works initiated by two earlier projects will be improved and expanded, and water-supply systems in six additional towns will be upgraded. Cofinancing ($600,000) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $33.3 million.
NICARAGUA: Bank—$3.7 million. Final designs, technical specifications, and contract documents will be prepared for the development of a groundwater aquifer near Managua to provide the least-cost solution for meeting that city's needs for water during the next two decades. Cofinancing ($100,000) is being provided by the IDB. Total cost: $5.06 million.
PARAGUAY: Bank—$11.8 million. Basic water-supply and sanitation services will be provided to some 73,000 people living in villages in the southeastern part of the country. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $20.8 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$9 million. The government will be assisted in completing preparation for urban water-supply investments in seven towns so that water and sanitation services can be extended to about 1.5 million people. Feasibility studies, a tariff study, and a manpower training study will be undertaken and water meters, vehicles, and staff housing will be provided. Total cost: $18 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$3.5 million. The existing water-supply system of Al Mukalla will be rehabilitated and plans for new water-production facilities will be prepared in order to expand the water-distribution network into the poorer sections of the city and to help meet the demand for water through 1984. Total cost: $4.4 million.
General Notes to Annex Tables
The tables ot this Annex present data on selected economic indicators, external public debt, and international capital markets. As in past Annual Reports, most of the tables are organized on geographic lines.
In Table 1, the basic series on selected economic indicators is based on data stored in the IBRD Socioeconomic Data Bank, which are mainly obtained from World Bank country economic reports, supplemented by data from national and other international publications. The indicators presented in this table are the same as those of last year.
In Tables 2 through 7, the principal source of data on external debt is information received by the World Bank from its member countries. These data are checked with and supplemented by information from several other sources, primarily reporting by creditor countries on their lending and publicized Eurocurrency credits. The notes on the debt of the Philippines and Yugoslavia in Table 2 apply to all Tables 2 through 7.
The 96 countries or other areas included in the debt tables are those for which reporting on external public debt is sufficient for a reliable presentation of debt outstanding and future service payments. The classification by geographical region is as follows:
Africa South of the Sahara—Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo (People's Republic of the), Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia (The), Ghana, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Upper Volta, Zaire, Zambia (and the East African Community).
East Asia and Pacific—Fiji, Hong Kong,1 Indonesia, Korea (Republic of), Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan (China).
Latin America and the Caribbean—Argentina, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico,
Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela.
North Africa and Middle East—Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt (Arab Republic of), Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Yemen Arab Republic, Yemen (People's Democratic Republic of).
South Asia—Afghanistan,2 Bangladesh, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka.
More advanced Mediterranean countries—Cyprus, Greece, Israel, Malta, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, Yugoslavia.
Not all of the 96 countries or other areas have been reporting for their full historical period, 1973-79, covered by the tables. Where individual reports are lacking for certain years, estimates have been made by the World Bank's staff in order to present a consistent series of data.
For the purpose of these tables, external public debt is defined as debt repayable to external creditors in foreign currency, goods, or services, with an original or extended maturity of more than one year, which is a direct obligation of, or has repayment guaranteed by, a public body in the borrowing country. Most military debts are not reported, although a few countries have included such obligations in their data.
The World Bank continues to work in cooperation with its member countries toward the improvement of debt statistics. This effort results in many cases in a broadening of the coverage of the data for both current and past periods. Therefore, a comparison with debt tables in the 1980 Annual Report will show changes in data given for past years. The current Annual Report should be regarded as the more reliable. Users of the
1 Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory n respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Bank's Articles of Agreement.
2 Note that in these tables Afghanistan is classified under South Asia, while in the discussion of the year's activities by region, it is classified under Europe, Middle East, and North Africa.
tables on external public debt should be particularly careful in making comparisons with past Annual Reports, as the coverage has changed over the years.
!n Table 4, debt-service ratios represent service payments (amortization plus interest) on external public debt as a percentage of the exports of goods and all services. The debt-service figures used in the present table are those for actual debt service paid during the year. If the entire amount of contractual debt service was not paid during a year, this is reflected in a lower debt-service ratio than would have been the case had contractual debt service instead of actual service been used in computing the ratio. Likewise, the prepayment of debt service may result in a higher debt-service ratio.
The debt-service ratio, by itself, is an inadequate and incomplete indicator of the debt situation, and international comparisons of these ratios have only limited meaning. Many other factors must also be considered, such as the stability and diversification of the export structure, the extent to which imports can be reduced without adversely affecting the prospects for future growth, the size of foreign exchange reserves and available compensatory financing facilities, and the debt-service record. Further, external public debt constitutes only a part of the total indebtedness and, thus, considerably understates the burden of indebtedness in some cases. Therefore, the debt-service ratio is only an indication of the importance of debt and debt service in the total foreign exchange situation.
In Table 6, net flow is defined as disbursements on loans, grants, and grantlike loans minus amortization on loans. Net transfer is net flow minus interest on loans.
In Table 7, grant element is defined as the face value of loan commitments less the discounted present value of the future flow of repayments of principal and interest expressed as a percentage of face value. The discount rate used is 10 percent, the conventional rate used by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in assessing terms.
In Tables 6 and 7, the source of data for grants is OECD. For grantlike loans, the data sources are OECD and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Grants consist of grant and grantlike (loans repayable in local
currency) contributions; they are on a disbursement basis in both tables. The grants included in these tables comprise: (1) contributions by countries that are members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD; (2) grants by multilateral agencies as compiled by OECD; (3) disbursements by IDB on loans repayable in local currencies. Grants for technical assistance have been excluded. Data for grants do not include grants from bilateral donors other than DAC countries, although grants from other sources may have been large in some cases. However, debt data include obligations to creditors of all nationalities.
Table 8 deals with foreign and international bond issues. "Foreign bonds" are those issued in a single national market. "International bonds" are those which are sold in two or more markets simultaneously. During the period under review, foreign bonds have been issued in the following national markets: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Japan, Libya, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and United States.
In Tables 9 and 10, "Eurocurrency credits" are credits granted by private banks out of funds on deposit with them or borrowed by them in the Eurocurrency market. The term "Euro" is used to refer to "offshore" markets outside, as well as inside, Europe. The term "credit" is used to refer to loans, lines of credit, and other forms of medium-term and long-term credit.
Data on external public debt are converted to US dollars at current market rates. Capital flows and service payments are converted to US dollars at end—1978 rates. However, debts repayable in multiple currencies, goods, or services, and debt which has a provision for maintenance of value of the currency of repayment, are shown at their book values.
Information about foreign and international bonds and Eurocurrency credits, denominated in national currencies, is converted to US dollars using monthly average market exchange rates of currency units per US dollar, series "af," from the IMF's International Financial Statistics (IFS) File. For loans denominated in composite currencies (e.g., European unit of account), the conversion is made using rates derived by the World Bank.
Notes to Financial Statements Appendix g
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
June 30, 1981 and June 30, 1980
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Capital Stock
From 1973 until March 31,1978, the Bank's capital stock, which is expressed in the Bank's Articles of Agreement in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944" (1944 dollars), has been translated by the Bank for purposes of its financial statements into current United States dollars at the rate of $1.20635 per 1944 dollar. Since the effectiveness on April 1,1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (the Fund), currencies no longer have par value in terms of gold. The Bank is examining the implications of this change on the valuation of its capital stock. No decisions on this matter have been taken. However, for purposes of the financial statements since June 30,1978, the Bank has expressed the value of its capital stock on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR) in terms of United States dollars as computed by the Fund, $1.15060 per SDR on June 30,1981 ($1.32438 per SDR on June 30,1980). (See Note B. This note also shows what the value of the Bank's capital stock would have been if expressed in terms of $1.20635 per 1944 dollar.) For the time being payments on account of subscriptions will continue to be accepted at the equivalent of $120,635 per share of capital stock.
Translation of Currencies
The financial statements are expressed in United States dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing the Bank's financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
The Bank is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. The Bank's resources are derived from its capital, borrowings and accumulated earnings in the various currencies of its members and Switzerland and are held, invested or lent in those same currencies. The Bank matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by holding, or lending the proceeds of its borrowings in the same currencies in which they are borrowed. Borrowed funds are sometimes temporarily converted into other currencies and at the same time, forward exchange contracts are entered into in order to recover the currency converted. The Bank maintains a neutral currency position with respect to its other resources by not converting one currency into another except for small amounts required to meet certain obligations and operational needs of the Bank.
In general, the Bank translates its assets and liabilities in currencies otherthan United States dollars at market rates of exchange to the United States dollar with the exception of buildings and certain deferred charges which are translated at exchange rates in effect when the buildings were acquired or the charges incurred. Income and expenses otherthan depreciation and amortization charges are translated at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect during each month.
Under the Bank's present policies, adjustments arising from the translation of currencies to the current United States dollar equivalent would not now or in the future result in realized gains or losses such as would result from the conversion of the various currencies into United States dollars. Accordingly, translation adjustments, with the exception of those relating to capital subscriptions described in Note B, are charged or credited to the General Reserve rather than income, (See Note A.) In those few instances where currencies are converted to another currency, the resulting gain or loss, if any, is included in the determination of net income.
Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by the difference between average cost and proceeds of sales, are recorded as an element of income from investments.
Loans
All of the Bank's loans are made to, or guaranteed by, members with the exception of loans to the International Finance Corporation, The principal amounts of loans are repayable in the currencies lent. Interest on loans is accrued in the currencies lent.
Effective July 1,1980, the Bank adopted a currency pooling system for its lending operations as a means of equalizing exchange rate risks among borrowers. All loans negotiated after that date have been included in the system, and borrowers under earlier loans are being given the option of having the undisbursed balances of their loans included in the system. The pool will consist of all currencies disbursed and not yet due for repayment under all loans or portions of loans included in the system (pooled loans). The principal amount withdrawn and outstanding under each pooled loan will consist of a portion of each of the currencies in the pool from time to time. The amount of each currency allocated to a loan will bear the same relation to the total amount of that currency in the pool at the time as the amount disbursed and outstanding on that loan bears to the total amount disbursed and outstanding on all pooled loans. The currency composition of the pool, and of each pooled loan will change as currencies are added to or retired from the pool. The borrowers of loans and portions of loans not included in the system will remain obligated to repay the Bank the currencies used by the Bank in making disbursements on their loans.
The Bank has not suffered any losses on loan receivables and it has a policy of not participating in moratoria or reschedulings. No losses on loan receivables are anticipated and, accordingly, no reserve for loan losses has been established; however, should such losses arise they would be included in the determination of net income.
Administrative Expenses
A management fee is charged to the International Development Association and a service and support fee to the International Finance Corporation representing their respective shares of the administrative expenses of the Bank.
Disposition of Income and General Reserve
The Bank has not declared or paid any dividends to its members. Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the accumulated net income has been allocated to the General Reserve. (See Note D.)
Since 1964, it has been the Bank's policy to transfer to the International Development Association part of the year's income which was not needed for allocation to reserves or otherwise required to be retained in the Bank's business and accordingly could have been prudently distributed as dividends. Such transfers are accounted for as a charge to accumulated net income.
Note A—Translation of Currencies
A Statement issued in 1975 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board in the United States requires that foreign currency translation adjustments be included in the determination of net income for the period in which they occur; however, in view of its character as an international organization and its related financial policies described previously, the Bank does not deem this Statement to be applicable in the circumstances. Had the Bank complied with this Statement, net income for the fiscal year ended June 30,1981 would have decreased by $503,379,000 (increased by $88,090,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1980) and the General Reserve would have increased (decreased—1980) by the same amount,
Note B—Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies and Maintenance of Value
Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of the Bank is expressed in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944" (1944 dollars).
On April 30, 1976, the Board of Governors of the Fund approved proposed amendments to the Fund's Articles of Agreement (the Second Amendment) which entered into force on April 1, 1978. Under the Second Amendment, currencies no longer have par values, gold is abolished as a common denominator of the monetary system and all calculations for the purposes of the Fund's Articles are made on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR). When the SDR was introduced into the Fund's Articles in 1969, it was expressed in terms of a specified weight of gold equal to the gold content of the 1944 dollar. Since July 1,1974, the value of the SDR in terms of United States dollars has been based on the weighted relative values of a number of major currencies (the basket), including the United States dollar. The value of the SDR on July 1, 1974, expressed in terms of United States dollars, was $1.20635, which was the equivalent of one 1944 dollar. On March 31,1978, the Fund made certain changes in the basket of currencies effective July 1,1978. On September 18,1980, the Fund further revised the basket, effective January 1, 1981, by reducing the number of currencies from 16 to five, and a method of further adjustment at five-yearly intervals was established. These revisions have been, and are to be, done in a manner that ensures that the value of the SDR in terms of any currency is the same immediately betore and after the revision.
As a result of the Second Amendment and the simultaneous repeal of Section 2 of the Par Value Modification Act (31 U.S.C. 449), the provision of United States law defining the par value of the United States dollar in terms of the SDR and gold, the pre-existing basis for translating the term "United States dollar ot the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944" into current United States dollars or into any other currency no longer exists.
The General Counsel of the Bank has rendered a legal opinion concluding in substance that upon the entry into force of the Second Amendment references in the Bank's Articles of Agreement to the 1944 dollar should be read as referring to the SDR, as determined from time to time by the Fund, and the mutual obligations of each member and the Bank, with respect to maintenance of value of certain currency holdings/will be measured by the value of the currency in question in terms of the SDR at any given time.
The General Counsel has, however, also stated that in the exercise of their statutory power under Article IX of the Bank's Articles, the Executive Directors could conclude that the 1944 dollar would be taken to mean 1.20635 current dollars, with the consequence that maintenance of value would be measured by that standard.
A member government has raised the question whether the substitution of a new unit of value, insofar as it would give rise to any new obligations with respect to maintenance of value and capital stock subscription payments, should be made only by amendment of the Articles. It also raised questions as to the desirability ot retaining the principle of maintenance of value, the form in which it is applied and the appropriateness of substituting a unit of value other than the SDR. Pending action on these questions, the financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with the General Counsel's opinion, that is, the value of the capital stock is expressed in terms of the SDR.
The Bank's capital comprised 705,000 (705,000—1980) authorized shares of the par value of SDR 100,000 each, of which 318,221 shares had been subscribed (301,718—1980). Ten percent of the capital subscriptions has been called and paid in; the remaining ninety percent is subject to call by the Bank only when
required to meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans. As to $29,291,606,000 ($31,967,143,000— 1980), the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement and as to $3,661,451,000 ($3,995,893,000—1980) by resolutions of the Board of Governors.
Restricted Currencies: The portion of capital subscriptions paid in to the Bank is divided into two parts-. (1) $366,145,000 ($399,589,000—1980) initially paid in gold or United States dollars, and (2) $3,295,306,000 ($3,596,304,000—1980) paid in the currencies of the respective members. Of this latter portion an amount of $128,015,000 ($147,349,000—1980) was subsequently converted by members into United States dollars, subject to the right of the Bank or the members to reverse the transactions. The amounts paid in gold or United States dollars or subsequently converted by members into United States dollars are freely usable by the Bank in any of its operations; however the remaining amounts paid in the currencies of the members, hereinafter called restricted currencies, are usable by the Bank in its lending operations only with the consent of the respective members. The equivalent of $2,042,101,000 ($2,289,419,000—1980) has been used with such consent.
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 ot the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value, as of the time of subscription, of such restricted currencies, requiring (1) the member to make additional payments to the Bank in the event that ttie par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Bank, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories, and (2) the Bank to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased. Following the establishment of central rates by several members in lieu of existing par values in March 1973, the Executive Directors decided that, for all members that established central rates for their respective currencies, pending the establishment of new par values, maintenance of value obligations be settled on the basis of those central rates. These obligations of the members and of the Bank become effective immediately upon the happening ot those events with respect to holdings of restricted currencies represented by currency balances and demand obligations. With respect to restricted currencies out on loan, these obligations become effective only as and when such currencies are recovered by the Bank, except that in several cases the Bank and the members concerned have agreed to make provisional settlements of such obligations, by means of one or more payments over periods not exceeding five years. At June 30, 1981, $696,000 ($1,280,000—1980) was receivable and $1,621,000 ($2,517,000—1980) was payable by the Bank on such provisional settlements. These amounts are included in Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings under the headings Receivable on Account of Subscribed Capital, and Liabilities, respectively.
Prior to April 1, 1978, where market rates of exchange were not related to par values or central rates, as in the cases of a majority of members, and where there were differences between market rates of exchange and the rates at which capital subscriptions of members had been paid or were payable such differences were shown as Translation Adjustments on Capital Subscriptions under the heading Other Assets. These amounts represented notional receivables and payables which would become maintenance of value obligations if and when the provisions of Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement or the decision of the Executive Directors described above could be applied. According to the legal opinion of the Bank's General Counsel referred to in this Note B under Capital Stock, maintenance of value pursuant to Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement would be determined on the basis of the SDR, and is treated in the financial statements on this basis. Since the Bank is still considering the implications of the Second Amendment and in view of the questions referred to above, the timing of any establish-
ment and settlement of these notional maintenance of value items $432,125,000 ($513,417,000—1980) receivable and $117,957,000 ($150,998,000—1980) payable are uncertain. Accordingly, they are included in Other Assets, and Liabilities as notional maintenance of value obligations.
Effect of Valuation in Terms of the SDR: Expressing the value of the Bank's capital stock in terms of the SDR rather than in terms of $1.20635 does not have a material effect on the financial position or results of the operations of the Bank. If the value of the capital stock were expressed in terms of $1.20635, the subscribed capital would have been $38,388,590,000 ($36,397,751,000—1980) instead of $36,614,508,000 ($39,958,929,000—1980), the uncalled portion of subscriptions $34,549,731,000 ($32,757,976,000—1980) instead of $32,953,057,000 ($35,963,036,000—1980), the paid-in capital $3,838,859,000 ($3,639,775,000—1980) instead of $3,661,451,000 ($3,995,893,000—1980) and the net maintenance of value obligations to the Bank would have been $466,650,000 ($59,484,000— 1980) instead of $315,133,000 ($363,236,000—1980). Should the Executive Directors conclude that the capital would be measured by some standard other than the SDR, any adjustment of the amounts shown in the Balance Sheet as Notional Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings would require a corresponding adjustment of the capital.
General Capital Increase: On January 4,1980, the Bank's Board of Governors adopted a resolution (the General Capital Increase Resolution) which increases the authorized capital stock of the Bank by 331,500 shares (subject to adjustment as described below); this represents an increase of approximately $40,000,000,000. The General Capital Increase Resolution authorizes subscriptions by members to about 93% of these shares. The paid-in portion of the shares authorized to be subscribed will be 7.5% (in contrast to the 10% paid-in portion of existing capital stock); subscribing members will be required to pay -A% of the subscription price in gold or United States dollars and 63/4% in their respective currencies. Under the Articles, each member is entitled to 250 membership votes plus one vote for each share subscribed. To avoid dilution of the voting power of certain members which would otherwise occur as this increase in capital is subscribed, the Board of Governors adopted another resolution on January 4,1980 which increases the authorized capital stock by an additional 33,500 shares (representing a further increase of approximately $4,000,000,000) and authorizes each member to subscribe 250 shares of this additional capital, none of which would be paid in. No subscriptions authorized by these resolutions may be accepted prior to September 30, 1981.
The General Capital Increase Resolution provides for a reduction of the number of shares authorized by it if, as a result of determinations on the valuation of the Bank's capital stock, the 331,500 shares authorized represent an increase in authorized capital in excess of $40,000,000,000, calculated as of the time of such determinations on the basis of the standard of value determined. In this case the number of shares authorized by the General Capital Increase Resolution will be reduced so that their aggregate par value at that time will be equivalent (to the nearest number of shares) to $40,000,000,000, the number of shares authorized to be subscribed by each member will be correspondingly reduced, and adjustments will be made on account of any shares already subscribed by members in excess of their reduced authorization.
Note C—Investments
The market value of investment securities was $7,677,461,000 ($9,628,803,000—1980) compared with a cost or amortized cost of $8,107,771,000 ($9,676,840,000—1980), and a face value of $8,168,282,000 ($9,741,989,000—1980), including investments
not traded in the market which were valued at their cost of $982,178,000 ($1,225,588,000—1980). At June 30,1980, the item Investments included securities purchased under agreements to resell amounting to $1,715,000. Obligations of the United States Government and its instrumentalities having a cost or amortized cost of $292,537,000 ($292,538,000—1980) and a market value of $276,199,000 ($290,329,000—1980), set aside in respect of the Special Reserve, as described in Note D, are included under this heading.
The annualized rate of return on the average investments held during the period, based on the portfolio held at the end of each month and including realized gains and losses, was 9.30% (8.76%—1980).
Note D—Reserves and Net Income
In July 1981, the Executive Directors allocated $509,103,000 to the General Reserve out of the $610,103,000 net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30,1981 and have recommended to the Board of Governors that the balance of $101,000,000 be transferred by way of grant to the International Development Association.
In July 1980, the Bank allocated $469,901,000 to the General Reserve out of the $587,901,000 net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1980 and in October 1980, authorized the transfer of the balance of $118,000,000 by way of grant to the International Development Association.
In accordance with the policies discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note A, the General Reserve has decreased by $503,379,000 during the fiscal year (increased by $88,090,000—1980); it has been charged with $581,931,000 (credited with $103,857,000—1980) representing net translation adjustments as a result of currency depreciations and appreciations and credited with $78,552,000 (charged with $15,767,000—1980) representing a compensating effect of the appreciations and depreciations of the United States dollar, in terms of the SDR, on the one percent portion of the Bank's paid-in capital and the nine percent portion released by certain member countries for lending in United States dollars. (See Statement of Changes in General Reserve—Appendix B.) Since the value of the SDR in terms of current dollars may vary from day to day that portion of the Bank's capital paid in or released in dollars will be subject to further adjustment at the end of each month.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6, of the Articles of Agreement which are to be held in liquid assets and to be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of the Bank on its borrowings and guarantees. The Special Reserve assets comprise obligations of the United States Government and its instrumentalities and are included under the heading Investments. As a result of a decision made in 1964, the allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in respect of subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
Note E—Contributions to the International Development Association
The Bank has authorized transfers by way of grants to the International Development Association totaling $1,543,000,000 from net income for the fiscal years ended June 30,1964 through June 30, 1980. Of this amount $820,668,000 was payable at June 30,1981. ($1,425,000,000 had been authorized from net income through the fiscal year ended June 30,1979 and $789,048,000 was payable at June 30,1980.)
Note F—Staff Retirement Plan
The Bank has a contributory retirement Plan for its staff, which also covers the staff of the International Finance Corporation. The staff
(continued}
contribute a fixed percentage of pensionable remuneration and the Bank contributes the remainder of the cost of funding the Plan. Effective July 1,1980, the Bank changed to an aggregate funding method for determining its contribution. This change will not have a significant effect on the cost of the Plan to the Bank. Such cost is funded as accrued. The cost of the Plan to the Bank for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1981 was $51,043,000 {$38,065,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30,1980). All contributions to the Plan and all other assets and income held for the purposes of the Plan are held by the Bank separately from the other assets and income of the Bank and Corporation and can be used only for the benefit of the participants in the Plan and their beneficiaries until all liabilities to them have been discharged. The comparison of accumulated benefits and net assets of the Plan is presented below:
The assumed rate of return used in determining the actuarial present value of the accumulated Plan benefits was 10 percent for 1980 (10 percent for 1979).
Note G—Income and Expenses
Income from investments includes net losses of $110,649,000 ($103,415,000—1980) resulting from sales of investments. Other income includes net gains of $20,427,000 ($11,903,000—1980) resulting from repurchases of obligations of the Bank prior to maturity pursuant to the terms of the respective borrowing agreements. Administrative expenses are net of the management fee of $180,000,000 ($140,300,000—1980) charged to the International Development Association and of the service and support fee of $2,874,000 ($2,447,000—1980) charged to the International Finance Corporation.
At June 30,1981, principal instalments of $160,000 and, interest and other charges of $1,642,000 payable to the Bank on loans were overdue by more than 60 days. The principal disbursed and outstanding on these loans amounted to $187,109,000, Of the principal, interest and other charges overdue by more than 60 days at June 30,1981, $22,835 remained unpaid at July 28,1981. It is not anticipated that these delays will result in any loss to the Bank.
Notes to Financial Statements Appendix f
International Development Association
June 30, 1981 and June 30, 1980
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Translation of Currencies
The Association is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members and Switzerland. The Association's policy is to translate its assets and liabilities in currencies other than United States dollars at market rates of exchange to the United States dollar at the end of each quarter. Translation adjustments relating to subscriptions and supplementary resources are accounted for as described in Note C; all other translation adjustments are included in the determination of net income. Income and expenses are translated at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect during each quarter.
The subscriptions and supplementary resources provided through the third replenishment are expressed in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960" (1960 dollars) and from 1973 until March 31, 1978 have been translated by the Association, for purposes of the financial statements, into current United States dollars at the rates of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar. The subscriptions and supplementary resources provided under the fourth and fifth replenishments are expressed and payable in members'currencies.The supplementary resources provided as advance contributions to the sixth replenishment are expressed in members' currencies or special drawing rights (SDRs) and are payable in members' currencies. Subscriptions and supplementary resources provided subsequent to the third replenishment are translated (1) at market rates of exchange at the end of each quarter for amounts receivable and for amounts received and not yet disbursed, and (2) at market rates of exchange on the dates of disbursement in respect of those amounts which have been disbursed or converted into another currency.
The Association's development credits funded from resources provided through the fifth replenishment are denominated in current United States dollars; the principal amounts disbursed on such credits are repayable in amounts equivalent to the value of the currencies disbursed in terms of 1960 dollars. Development credits approved by the Executive Directors of the Association after August 1,1980, funded from resources provided under the sixth replenishment, are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such credits are to be repaid in amounts equivalent to the value of the currencies disbursed in terms of SDRs.
On April 30, 1976, the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund (the Fund) approved proposed amendments to the Fund's Articles of Agreement (the Second Amendment) which entered into force on April 1,1978. Under the Second Amendment, currencies no longer have par values, gold is abolished as a common denominator of the monetary system and all calculations for the purposes of the Fund's Articles are made on the basis of the SDR.
As a result of the Second Amendment and the simultaneous repeal of Section 2 of the Par Value Modification Act (31 U.S.C. 449), the provision of United States law defining the par value of the United States dollar in terms of the SDR and gold, the pre-existing basis for translating the term "United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960" into current United States dollars or into any other currency, no longer exists.
The General Counsel of the Association has rendered a legal opinion concluding in substance that upon the entry into force of the Second Amendment references in the Association's Articles of Agreement to the 1960 dollar should be read as referring to the SDR, as determined from time to time by the Fund and the mutual obligations of each member and the Association with respect to maintenance of value of certain currency holdings will be measured
by the value of the currency in question in terms of the SDR at any given time. It would be consistent with this opinion also to substitute the SDR for the 1960 dollar as the measure of the development credit repayment obligation expressed in terms of 1960 dollars, but this would require approval of the Executive Directors and would involve other changes in the development credit agreements.
The General Counsel has, however, also stated that in the exercise of their statutory power under Article X of the Association's Articles, the Executive Directors could concludethat the 1960 dollar would be taken to mean $1.20635 current dollars, with the consequence that maintenance of value would be measured by that standard.
Pending action on this matter by the Association, the subscriptions and supplementary resources through the third replenishment have been expressed in SDRs on the basis that one SDR equals one 1960 dollar. (However, as described in the following paragraph, this basis has not been applied to development credit repayment obligations expressed in terms of 1960 dollars.) The value of such subscriptions and supplementary resources has been expressed on the basis of the SDR in terms of United States dollars as computed by the Fund ($1.15060 per SDR) on June 30,1981, for the amounts of subscriptions and supplementary resources undisbursed at June 30,1981; at the daily SDR rate for amounts disbursed from the effective date of the Second Amendment to June 30, 1981, and at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar for amounts disbursed prior to the effective date of the Second Amendment. Expressing the value of certain of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources in terms of the SDR rather than in terms of the 1960 dollar (translated at the rate of $1.20635) does not have a material effect on the financial position or results of operations of the Association. If the value of these subscriptions and supplementary resources were expressed in terms of $1.20635 the amount of $20,712,734,000 ($19,459,702,000—1980) shown in the Statement of Condition would have decreased by $1,972,000 to $20,710,762,000 ($42,712,000 to $19,416,990,000—1980).
Pending clarification of the effect of the Second Amendment on development credit repayment obligations expressed in 1960 dollars, the Association has continued to base these upon the par value ($1.20635 per 1960 dollar) in effect immediately prior to effectiveness of the Second Amendment. If the matter had been resolved during the period ended June 30,1981, and the Association had expressed such repayment obligations in terms of the SDR at June 30,1981, the amount of $21,616,074,000 ($18,002,252,000— 1980) shown in the Statement of Condition would have decreased by $807,593,000 (increased by $889,793,000—1980) as of June 30, 1981 representing the cumulative effect of the change since April 1, 1978. This would have resulted in a net loss for the period ended June 30, 1981 of $870,603,000 (net income of $837,250,000— 1980) rather than a net loss of $63,010,000 ($52,543,000—1980).
Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by the difference between average cost and proceeds of sales, are recorded as an element of income from investments.
Development Credits
All of the Association's development credits are made to member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for two development credits which have been made to regional development banks for the benefit of members or territories of members of the Association). The Association has not suffered any losses on development credit receivables and no losses are anticipated. However, should such losses arise they would be included in the determination of net income.
Administrative Expenses
Administrative expenses of the Association are paid by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). The Association reimburses the Bank for such expenses by payment of a management fee representing its share of the administrative expenses incurred by the Bank. The management fee to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of $180,092,000 shown in Appendix B includes $92,000 reimbursed by the Association to a regional development bank under a development credit agreement whereby the Association agreed to reimburse such bank for the amount of $548,000 over a five-year period commencing with 1980 as compensation for the costs of administering sub-loans and investments under such development credit agreement.
Note A—Restricted Currencies
The membership of the Association is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which pay all subscriptions and supplementary resources provided to the Association in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by the Association in its operations; (2) Part II members, which pay ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies and the remaining ninety percent of their initial subscriptions and all additional subscriptions and any supplementary resources provided to the Association in their own currencies. The Articles of Agreement of the Association and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by the Association for projects financed by the Association and located outside the territories of the member except by agreement between the member and the Association. The amounts of $83,776,000 ($55,576,000—1980) underthe heading Due from Banks, $103,907,000 ($162,860,000—1980) included under the heading Receivable on Account of Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources and $66,533,000 ($72,504,000—1980) included in Notional Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings under the headings Other Assets and Other Liabilities respectively, were subject to such restrictions.
Note B—Investments
The market value of investment securities was $81,034,000 ($95,618,000—1980) compared with a cost or amortized cost of $82,942,000 ($96,116,000—1980) and face value of $83,846,000 ($98,067,000—1980), including investments not traded in the market which were valued at their cost of $38,504,000 ($39,497,000—1980). Investments include securities purchased under agreements to resell amounting to $3,025,000 ($5,682,000—1980).
Note C—Maintenance of Value
Article IV, Section 2 of the Association's Articles of Agreement provides for the maintenance of the value, as of the time of subscription, of the Association's currency holdings or demand obligations substituted therefor representing ninety percent of each member's initial subscription, only so long as and to the extent that such currency has not been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. This Section requires: (1) the member to make additional payments to the Association in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Association, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2) the Association to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Association, appreciated to a significant extent in its territories.
The provisions of Article IV Section 2 have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and supplementary resources of the Association through the third replenishment but are not applicable to those of the fourth and fifth replenishments and the advance contributions to the sixth replenishment. On June 19,1972, the Executive Directors decided that for all members that established central rates for their respective currencies, pending establishment of new par values for their currencies, maintenance of val ue obi igations be settled on the basis of those central rates. It was further decided that with respect to any member currency functioning under a system under which the market rate was not confined within announced intervention margins, maintenance of value obligations would be determined on the basis of market rates in effect on the respective dates of disbursement of such currency, but only for the amounts disbursed.
Prior to April 1, 1978, where market rates of exchange were not related to par values or central rates as in the cases of a majority of the members, and there were differences between market rates of exchange and the rates at which undisbursed subscriptions and supplementary resources of members through the third replenishment of the Association's resources had been paid or were payable, such differences were shown as Translation Adjustments on Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources under the heading Other Assets. The amounts $84,184,000 ($93,361,000—1980) established at that date and accordingly at June 30, 1981 represented notional receivables $98,048,000 ($108,395,000—1980) and payables $13,864,000 ($15,034,000—1980). Maintenance of value obligations in respect of such undisbursed amounts are determined upon their disbursement. In accordance with the legal opinion of the Association's General Counsel referred to above, maintenance of value pursuant to Article IV, Section 2 of the Articles of Agreement is being determined provisionally on the basis of the SDR, and is treated in the financial statements on that basis. Since the Association is still considering the implications of the Second Amendment, and in view of the questions referred to above, the timing of any establishment and settlement of these notional maintenance of value items is uncertain. Accordingly, they are included in Other Assets, and Liabilities as notional maintenance of value obligations.
Note D—Contribution by Switzerland
The Swiss Confederation, which is not a member of the Association, has made grant contributions to the Association in the amount of SwF 181,480,000. This amount represents the outstanding balances of loans to the Association totaling SwF 182,000,000, made by the Confederation in fiscal years 1967 and 1973. These outstanding balances were converted into grant contributions pursuant to agreements between the Confederation and the Association which came into force on April 1, 1981. As a result of the conversion, the Accumulated Net Loss was reduced by $43,604,000 representing the difference between the value of the loans at the times the loans were drawn down and their value at the time of conversion into grant contributions. These agreements make provision for converting these grant contributions into a subscription or supplemetary resources, if Switzerland should become a member of the Association.
Note E—Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources
Subscriptions and supplementary resources have been translated as set forth under the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies. At June 30,1981 and 1980 these were as follows:
Note F—Transfers from International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has authorized transfers by way of grants to the Association totaling $1,543,000,000 ($1,425,000,000—1980) from net income of the Bank for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1964 through June 30, 1980. Of this amount, $81,305,000 ($61,325,000—1980) may be used by the Association or had been disbursed for grants for agricultural research and for the control of onchocerciasis. At December 31,1980, $500,000 previously allocated for such grants reverted to the Association for its general purposes.
Note G—Translation Adjustments
In accordance with the policies discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies the Association has recorded a credit of $11,531,000 (charge of $2,693,000—1980) representing translation adjustments. This amount comprises a credit of $13,025,000 (charge of $2,655,000—1980) as a result of currency depreciations and appreciations [including a credit of $17,351,000 (charge of $3,013,000—1980) on account of the Swiss Confederation borrowings which on April 1, 1981 became grant contributions (See Note D)], a credit of $207,000 (charge of $38,000—1980) representing the effect of the valuation change to the SDR on that portion of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources paid in United States dollars and a charge of $1,701,000 (nil—1980) representing the adjustment of development credit repayment obligations expressed in SDRs.
Since the value of the SDR in terms of current dollars may vary from day to day, the portion of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources paid in dollars will be subject to further adjustment at the end of each quarter
Note H—Net Loss
The Association pays a management fee to the Bank in respect of administrative expenditures incurred for projects during their prep-
aration and implementation. The major portion of such expenditures is incurred before substantial amounts of the credits which finance the projects are disbursed. Service charges on development credits, which are levied only on amounts disbursed and outstanding, are estimated to be more than sufficient to cover the costs incurred over the lives of the projects they finance. Because administrative expenses are incurred considerably in advance of receipt of income from development credits the Association incurs a temporary income deficit with respect to each such credit. The present value of earnings from development credits approved during fiscal year 1981, as estimated by the Association, exceeds the management fee for that year. The amount of the income deficit which may be incurred in any year will be influenced by a number of factors including the scale of lending activities of the Association, the amount of credits on which service charges are being earned and the income from other investments the Association may have.
At June 30, 1981, principal instalments of $135,000 and service charges of $530,000 payable to the Association on development credits were overdue by more than 60 days. The principal disbursed and outstanding on these development credits amounted to $41,657,000. Of these amounts $135,000 of principal and $512,000 of service charges were due from Chad in respect of development credits on which principal disbursed and outstanding amounted to $36,139,000. The arrears of Chad's service payments date from June 1979, Disbursements of development credits made to Chad have been suspended since July 1979. It is not anticipated that these delays in payments, including those due from Chad, will result in any loss to the Association.
Note I—Sixth Replenishment of the Association's Resources
On March 26, 1980, the Board of Governors adopted a resolution authorizing the Association to accept additional resources from member countries, as a sixth replenishment of the Association's resources. Under the resolution the Association is authorized to
accept an aggregate of $12,000,000,000 equivalent, computed on the basis of representative rates of exchange and the SDR value on October 5, 1979 and payable in freely convertible or otherwise usable currency. The resolution provides that these payments would be made in three equal instalments beginning on November 8,1980 (unless that date is postponed as provided in the resolution because sufficient notifications as described below have not been received). The resolution further provides that the members have certain options as to the amount and timing of payments. These resources would be divided into amounts for subscriptions carrying voting rights and contributions not carrying voting rights.
In connection with the replenishment and in accordance with past practice, arrangements have been made to permit Part II members to maintain their relative voting power and for that purpose they have been authorized to make subscriptions carrying voting rights in the aggregate of $6,289,000 equivalent payable in the respective currencies of the subscribing members.
None of the above-mentioned subscriptions and contributions would become payable unless members, including at least 12 Part I members, whose subscriptions and contributions aggregate not less than the equivalent, computed on the basis described above, of $9,600,000,000 shall each have given the Association, on or before September 30,1981, or such later date as the Executive Directors may determine, formal notification that they will make the total subscription and the total contribution authorized for such members in accordance with the terms of the resolution. These notifications may provide that the payment of a part of the subscription and
contribution of any member is subject to obtaining the necessary appropriations. Countries whose contributions are so qualified would notify the Association from time to time when appropriate legislative action has been taken to permit payment of all or a part of their qualified contributions.
The resolution further provides that, for purposes of credit commitments by the Association, the subscriptions and contributions authorized thereunder shall be divided into three successive tranches of at least 29%, at least 33% and 38% (or the remaining balance) of the total. If and as long as unqualified contribution commitments have not been received from the United States for the respective minimum amount of any said tranches of its subscription and contribution, the amount of such tranche of all subscriptions and contributions which the Association may use for making new unqualified credit commitments will be reduced in proportion to such shortfall in unqualified contribution commitments.
Pending the effectiveness of the sixth replenishment, a number of governments indicated that they would be willing to provide commitment authority to the Association by making advance contributions on the condition that a majority of Part I donors or a majority of all donors collectively commit themselves to make advance contributions of at least the equivalent, computed on the basis described above, of $1,200,000,000. On October 3, 1980, this condition was met and the advance contribution arrangement came into effect. At June 30,1981, formal notification had been received from seventeen Part I donors and five Part II donors that they will make such advance contributions in an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,186,906,000.