The World Bank and IFC
The expression, "The World Bank," as used in this Annual Report, means both the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and its affiliate, the International Development Association (IDA). The IBRD has a second affiliate, the International Finance Corporation (IFC).
The common objective of these institutions is to help raise standards of living in developing countries by channeling financial resources from developed countries to the developing world.
The IBRD, established in 1945, is owned by the governments of 142 countries. The IBRD, whose capital is subscribed by its member countries, finances its lending operations primarily from its own borrowings in the world capital markets. A substantial contribution to the IBRD's resources also comes from its retained earnings and the flow of repayments on its loans. IBRD loans generally have a grace period of five years and are repayable over twenty years or less. They are directed toward developing countries at more-advanced stages of economic and social growth. The interest rate the IBRD charges on its loans is calculated in accordance with a guideline related to its cost of borrowing.
The IBRD's charter spells out certain basic rules that govern its operations. It must lend only for productive purposes and must stimulate economic growth in the developing countries where it lends. It must pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Each loan is made to a government or must be guaranteed by the government concerned. The use of loans cannot be restricted to purchases in any particular member country. And the IBRD's decisions to lend must be based on economic considerations.
The International Development Association was established in 1960 to provide assistance for the same purposes as the IBRD, but primarily in the poorer developing countries and on terms that would bear less heavily on their balance of payments than IBRD loans. IDA's assistance is, therefore, concentrated on the very poor countries—those with an annual per capita gross national product of less than $731 (in 1980 dollars). More than fifty countries are eligible under this criterion.
Membership in IDA is open to all members of the IBRD and 130 of them have joined to date. The funds used by IDA, called credits to distinguish them from IBRD loans, come mostly
in the form of subscriptions, general replenishments from IDA's more industrialized and developed members, special contributions by IDA's richer members, and transfers from the net earnings of the IBRD. The terms of IDA credits, which are made to governments only, are ten-year grace periods, fifty-year maturities, and no interest. A small annual service fee is charged on both the disbursed and undisbursed portions of each credit. Although legally and financially distinct from the IBRD, IDA is administered by the same staff.
The IFC was established in 1956. Its function is to assist the economic development of less-developed countries by promoting growth in the private sector of their economies and helping to mobilize domestic and foreign capital for this purpose. Membership in the IBRD is a prerequisite for membership in the IFC, which totals 122 countries. Legally and financially, the IFC and the IBRD are separate entities. The Corporation has its own operating and legal staff, but draws upon the Bank for administrative and other services.
While The World Bank has traditionally financed all kinds of capital infrastructure such as roads and railways, telecommunications, and ports and power facilities, its present development strategy places a greatly increased emphasis on investments that can directly affect the well-being of the masses of poor people of developing countries by making them more productive and by integrating them as active partners in the development process.
In the last four years, the Bank has stepped up its lending for energy development. Lending for power forms the largest part of the Bank's energy program, but commitments for oil and gas development have shown the greatest increase.
Since 1980, the Bank, in response to the deteriorated prospects for the developing countries during the 1980s, also inaugurated a program of structural-adjustment lending. This lending supports programs of specific policy changes and institutional reforms in developing countries designed to achieve a more efficient use of resources and thereby, (a) contribute to a more sustainable balance of payments in the medium and long term and to the maintenance of growth in the face of severe constraints; and (b) lay the basis for regaining momentum for future growth.
Chapter One
The World Bank: Fiscal 1982, In Brief
In fiscal 1982,' lending commitments by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and by the International Development Association (IDA), together with investment commitments by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), totaled $13,628 million, up $526 million from the level of the preceding year.2
The increase was the result of lending by the IBRD—$10,330 million—in an amount substantially higher than the previous year's level of $8,809 million. IDA commitments declined by 22.9 percent, the result of a shortfall in IDA commitment authority. IDA lending, at $2,686 million, was $796 million below the total for fiscal 1981. The financial difficulties faced by the Association during the past year are detailed elsewhere in this chapter. Commitments by the IFC also dropped off—by some $199 million.
The IBRD's operating program for fiscal 1982, as originally approved by the Executive Directors, indicated lending commitments of $9,600 million. In January 1982, however, as it became clear that IDA would be unable to meet its commitment target of $4,100 million, the Executive Directors of the Bank agreed to increase the IBRD's lending program for fiscal 1982 by $800 million to offset, to some extent, the shortfall in IDA commitment authority.
IDA commitments during the year were in support of ninety-seven projects in forty-two countries. Comparable figures for the previous year: 106 operations approved in forty countries.
IBRD operations, on the other hand, totaled 150, as compared with 140 in fiscal 1981. Those 150 operations were spread out over forty-three borrowing countries.
India, Indonesia, and Brazil were the most active IBRD borrowers during the year; commitments to them totaled $1,265 million, $926 million, and $722 million, respectively. The most active borrowers of IDA credits were India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan, with borrowings of $900 million, $391 million, and $171 million.
IBRD loans and IDA credits helped finance about 29 percent of the cost of projects for which total amounts can be calculated.
Other highlights from fiscal year 1982 include:
• Disbursements by the IBRD and IDA of $8,393 million, up $1,452 million (21 percent) over fiscal 1981 amounts. IBRD disbursements were $6,326 million ($5,063 million in fiscal
1981), while disbursements by IDA, at $2,067 million, were $189 million above the previous year's total.
• A net transfer of resources (disbursements minus repayments of principal, interest, and other charges) of $4,356 million, up $994 million, or 22.8 percent, over fiscal 1981.
• An increase over fiscal 1981 of $3,386 million in cofinancing funds in support of Bank-assisted projects. During the year, 40 percent of IBRD and IDA projects involved cofinancing, which totaled $7,424 million.
• A slight decrease, to $598 million, down from $610 million, in the net income of the IBRD.
• An increase in the subscribed capital of the IBRD of SDR 7,697 million. Of that amount, SDR 6,908 million was the result of subscriptions authorized by the general capital increase approved in January 1980.
• Borrowings of $8,521 million, an increase of $3,452 million over the fiscal 1981 level, mostly in the capital markets of the United States, Europe, and Japan.
Disbursements
The volume of annual disbursements on project lending is influenced by a variety of factors such as the complexity of projects, economic conditions in the borrower countries, availability of expertise, the size of the undisbursed balances on approved loans and credits, and the sector and age of the undisbursed balances. However, once again in fiscal 1982, agriculture absorbed the highest proportion of IBRD disbursements at 24 percent of the total, followed by transportation, power, and industry with 14 percent, 13 percent, and 12 percent, respectively. For IDA, agriculture, at 44 percent of the fiscal 1982 total disbursed, was also the highest sector, followed by power, transportation, and education with 20 percent, 10 percent, and 5 percent, respectively.
'The fiscal year of The World Bank, as well as of its two affiliates, runs from July 1 to June 30. All references to fiscal years in this Report, unless otherwise stated, refer to this time period.
2 Since the real value ofloan commitments by the IBRD and [DA is eroded to the extent that cost inflation occurs over the period of disbursements, it is the practice of the Bank to make allowances for inflation at the time of commitment. The deflator now used to express lending in real terms is a weighted average of the price levels assumed to be prevailing over the period of the execution of a project. If fiscal 1982 IBRD and IDA commitments were to be expressed in terms of 1981 dollars, they would be $12,153 million.
Note on Dollar Amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of the Annual Report refer to current United States dollars. Where special drawing right (SDR) amounts are used for the capital of the Bank, one SDR equals 1.09224 current United States dollars at June 30, 1982 (one SDR equaled 1.15060 current United States dollars at June 30, 1981).
For a detailed discussion and the basis for SDR amounts used for IDA subscriptions and contributions, see IDA Appendices: Appendix F—Notes to Financial Statements.
Patterns of Lending
Distribution by income group. The distribution of IBRD and IDA lending in fiscal 1982 by income group reflects the resource constraints that faced IDA during the year.
IDA finance was concentrated in support of the poorest developing countries. Whereas in the five-year period fiscal 1977-81, approximately 81 percent of IDA funds were committed to countries with a per capita GNP of less than $411 (in 1980 dollars), in fiscal 1982,90 percent of IDA funds went to this group of countries. All but S2 million of the remainder was committed to countries with a per capita GNP of between $411 and $730.
Within these two income categories, there was an increase in the share of IDA credits to sub-Saharan African countries, a major recommendation contained in the Bank's report, Accelerated Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: An Agenda for Action.
The percentage of IBRD lending to the poorest countries (it was 5.6 percent of the total in the period fiscal 1977-81) more than doubled in fiscal 1982. This increase was due to the boost of $800 million in the IBRD's lending program for fiscal 1982 to help cover, in part, the shortfall in IDA funds; IBRD lending to the countries in this category is restricted, however, to those economies that are sufficiently creditworthy to service the increased debt implied by borrowing on IBRD terms. Fiscal 1982 also saw an increase in "blend" lending in which IBRD and IDA funds were commingled in support of a single project.
Distribution by sector. The main criterion for assistance is that it should be provided where it can be most effective in the context of the country-specific lending programs developed by the Bank in consultation with its borrowers. While neither the IBRD nor IDA places an independent target on lending by sector, sectoral allocations are discussed, and guidelines established, by the Executive Directors.
In fiscal 1982, agriculture and rural development (including feeder and rural roads) accounted for 25 percent of IBRD and IDA lending, declining from 32 percent of the total in fiscal 1981. The relative drop was the result of several factors, two of which are: a decrease in the availability of IDA funds—which had its major impact on lower-income countries, where agricultural lending has been of greatest importance; and an increase in lending for structural adjustment, which, because it is directed largely at improving economic policies, has led to a postponement, in some countries, in plans for direct project lending in agriculture.
Energy lending (which includes lending for oil, gas, coal, power, and energy-related industrial projects) amounted to about 26 percent of total IBRD and IDA lending commitments in fiscal 1982; in the previous year, such lending accounted for 19 percent of the total. Nonproject assistance, including lending for structural adjustment, accounted for 9.5 percent of commitments, up 1.3 percentage points over the previous year.
Cofinancing of Bank Projects
In light of the current economic environment and the resource constraints facing both the IBRD and IDA, there is an even greater need to ensure that Bank lending helps to stimulate external flows of capital to developing countries. Accordingly, the Bank took a number of steps during the past year to expand opportunities for cofinancing.
The three sources of cofinancing are official aid agencies, export credit institutions, and commercial banks.
Official aid agencies. Historically, bilateral and multilateral official aid agencies have been the major contributors to World Bank cofinancing. In fiscal 1982, the agencies from the industrialized countries and OPEC nations provided $2,103 million for seventy-six IBRD and IDA projects, or 28 percent of total funds provided through cofinancing.
The Bank also engages in aid-coordination activities that are not immediately related to promoting the cofinancing of particular projects, but which, nonetheless, provide a backdrop to assist an indirect flow of cofinancing funds. These activities include participation in the meetings of aid-coordinating groups for a particular country' and consultative meetings on
3 The Bank participated in thirteen such meetings during the year, twelve of which were chaired by the Bank. The twelve meetings were for Bangladesh, the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development, Colombia. India. Kenya, Madagascar. Nepal. Pakistan, the Philippines. Sri Lanka. Uganda. and^Zaire. The thirteenth meeting, sponsored by the Netherlands, was for Indonesia.
cofinancing and cooperation that the Bank holds regularly with various donor governments and their aid agencies and with other multilateral institutions.
In fiscal 1982, steps were taken to strengthen the role of the Bank as a partner in the development effort. For example, consultations were held with several aid agencies to ensure that appropriate procedures for cooperation are working effectively. In addition, Italy and the Bank signed an agreement under which that country will make available Lit 450 billion (about $321 million equivalent) for cofinancing of projects through June 1985. Discussions were also held with Belgium on the preparation of a general framework agreement for cooperation under which cofinancing funds would be made available to the Bank. Further, the Bank signed a memorandum of understanding with the Nordic Investment Bank late in the fiscal year that is to provide cofinancing funds for a period of two years for World Bank projects.
However, as a result of the current period of economic uncertainty and likely levels of development assistance from industrialized countries, it might be difficult to realize an expansion of cofinancing with official aid agencies over the next few years.
Export credit institutions. Export credits have been an important source of cofinancing, particularly for capital-intensive projects in the energy, industrial, public utilities, and transportation sectors. In fiscal 1982, $2,069 million in export credits were distributed among twenty-six Bank operations.
In order to increase the awareness of export-credit opportunities, information is now being
sent regularly by the Bank to export-finance institutions on projects suitable for export credits. Furthermore, discussions are being held to explore whether the procedures and objectives of bilateral export-finance agencies can be better matched with Bank procedures and procedures of international competitive bidding.
Private financial institutions. One of the most dramatic changes in development finance over the past decade has been the expansion of commercial bank lending to developing countries. In the five-year period, fiscal 1976-80, commercial bank cofinancing of World Bank projects increased from about $200 million to about $1,700 million; this total amounts, however, to only 1 percent of all commercial bank lending to developing countries. Nonetheless, the rate of growth in the volume and number of cofinancing operations with the Bank is significant. Cofinancing with private financial institutions has become the single most important source of cofinancing, and in fiscal 1982, commercial banks contributed $3,253 million in project financing for sixteen Bank operations.
Of the three sources of cofinancing, private financial institutions provide the greatest potential for expansion. In addition to expanding promotional activities and strengthening channels of communication with the private sector, the management of the Bank is currently exploring the possibility of establishing several innovative approaches for private cofinancing that would supplement the existing cofinancing program.
As part of an active campaign to exploit the potential for this type of cofinancing, the Bank hosted two briefing sessions during the past year in Washington for representatives of commercial
banks so as to familiarize them with the operations of The World Bank and to elicit views from them on ways in which joint efforts between the Bank and private commercial banks can be improved and increased.
IDA
The Resolution authorizing the Sixth Replenishment of IDA provides for funding from donors' contributions of an amount equivalent to SDR 9.15 billion (or $12 billion equivalent at October 1979 exchange rates) over the three-year period, fiscal 1981-83. The Sixth Replenishment became effective on August 24, 1981, upon receipt of the United States' formal
notification of participation with a total contribution of $3.24 billion. With this notification, the effectiveness condition of the Sixth Replenishment was satisfied, namely that at least twelve Part I (or developed-country) members had deposited with the Association Instruments of Commitment and Qualified Instruments of Commitment totaling $9.6 billion (or 80 percent of the total).
Prior to the effectiveness of the Sixth Replenishment, IDA had made credit commitments against advance contributions, amounting to about SDR 1.92 billion ($2.5 billion equivalent), that had been provided by twenty-four countries. Upon effectiveness and the ter-
mination of these advance contributions, IDA faced a hiatus in its commitment authority. This hiatus resulted from a combination of two factors: (a) the decision taken by the United States to limit the size of its first installment (for fiscal 1981) and (b) the pro-rata provisions in the Sixth Replenishment Resolution that allow IDA to commit resources from other donors only in the same proportion as unqualified commitments from the United States. The reduced size of the United States' first payment made in August 1981, of $500 million instead of the originally expected $1.08 billion, in the absence of the advance-contribution arangements, would have resulted in these pro-rata provisions constraining the total amount of commitment authority available for fiscal 1981 to less than half the programmed level. The practical effect was that at the time the Sixth Replenishment became effective, even after receipt of the United States' first payment, the Association had exhausted its commitment authority, and credits approved by its Executive Directors, amounting to some $800 million equivalent, could not be signed.
A meeting of IDA deputies held between September 27 and 29, 1981, reviewed the situation that had resulted. In view of the serious implications for the world's poorest countries of interruptions and reductions in IDA's commitment authority, an agreement was reached that the importance of proportionate burden-sharing between donor countries notwithstanding, the pro-rata rule would be waived in respect of the first installment, but would apply with respect to the commitment on credits of donors' second and third installments. Several donors agreed to go beyond this arrangement and released their second installments in full. These "modified" pro-rata arrangements came into effect on January 19,1982, when the United States paid to IDA a second installment, amounting to $700 million, or 21.6 percent of its total contribution.
Under the agreed arrangements, IDA thus had available an amount of SDR 2.20 billion (or about $2.6 billion equivalent) as commitment authority for fiscal 1982. This amount was about 37 percent lower (in dollar terms) than the operational program approved by the Executive Directors for that year of SDR 3.13 billion ($4.1 billion). The impact of this reduction was reviewed by the Executive Directors on January 26, 1982, and means of alleviating its effects to the extent possible through partial substitution of IBRD lending, coupled with programmed cofinancing with bilateral aid agencies to supplement the Association's own resources, were agreed.
The impact that curtailments of this magnitude would have on the IDA operational program in fiscal 1982, coupled with the prospect of
a further substantial reduction in commitment authority for fiscal 1983, resulted in the IDA deputies meeting again on April 5 and 6, 1982. At that meeting, a large number of countries indicated that they would either join the others who had released their second installments in full, or find some other way of providing more than their pro-rata share in fiscal 1982. Receipt of waivers from some countries giving formal effect to this agreement allowed IDA to raise its total commitments in fiscal 1982 to SDR 2.34 billion."
At the April 1982 meeting, the deputies also expressed concern that any actions they took to alleviate the IDA crisis in fiscal 1982 and fiscal
1983 would also have implications for commitment authority through fiscal 1984. Various approaches were put forward that aimed at supplementing IDA's resource availability in fiscal years 1983 and 1984, among the more prominent of which were (a) a "relaxed" pro-rata scheme that would go beyond the arrangements agreed by the deputies in September 1981, combined with additional contributions by donors in fiscal
1984 and (b) a Special Fund that would operate separately from, but parallel to, the arrangements made under the Sixth Replenishment. Subsequent discussions on these options resulted in agreement to schedule the next meeting of IDA deputies for July 5 and 6, 1982, at which time the deputies were scheduled to review the courses of action to be taken.
During the past fiscal year, questions were also raised relating to the start-up of the Seventh Replenishment, and preliminary work was carried out on different ways of mobilizing additional resources for IDA. The Development Committee, at its meeting in Helsinki on May 13 and 14, and subsequently, major donor governments at the Versailles summit, agreed that discussions should proceed apace so that the Seventh Replenishment could begin at the earliest possible time.
Bank Management and Staff
At June 30,1982, total staff of the Bank numbered 5,278. Of these, 2,689 were higher-level staff representing 104 nationalities. Efforts to increase the proportion of staff from under-represented member countries and the number of women in the Bank continued as in previous years.
On July 1, 1981, A. W. Clausen became the sixth president of The World Bank. Later in that month, he established a Managing Committee to
4 The equivalent dollar figure was $2.69 billion, a lower proportionate increase than in SDR terms, because of exchange-rate movements reducing the value of donors' contributions against the dollar.
provide overall guidance for the management of the Bank; three subcommittees were subsequently set up: Finance, Operations Policy, and Personnel and Administration.
The Bank's economic analysis, research, and policy activities and its Central Projects staff were reorganized in order to redeploy the Bank's resources towards its highest-priority needs. The aim was to improve the quality and increase the scope of the Bank's country economic and sector work and to enable the Bank to provide expanded technical assistance and policy advice to member countries, particularly those in sub-Saharan Africa.
In May 1982, Anne Krueger was appointed Vice President, Economics and Research, to succeed Hollis B. Chenery, who will leave his position on August 31,1982. Before her appointment, Ms. Krueger was Professor of Economics at the University of Minnesota (USA).
Faced with IDA funding problems, the Bank made a conscious decision to limit staff growth temporarily, although highly specialized technical skills were still in demand. Recruitment of Young Professionals during fiscal 1982 was curtailed, with twenty-eight selected, compared with forty-nine in the previous fiscal year.
In line with its goal of making optimum use of its human resources within a framework of workgroup cooperation, the Bank placed increased emphasis during the past year on the responsibility of line managers for personnel-management functions. In support of this philosophy, the Bank's Personnel Management Department has concentrated on providing the policies and tools managers need to carry out their personnel responsibilities. Among these are a revised appraisal and rewards system and the development of a Human Resources Information System that will be implemented in fiscal 1983.
Other developments affecting staff were the appointment of an Ombudsman in December 1981 and the introduction of an Attitude Survey in March 1982.
During the year, efforts were made to strengthen internal communications and external information approaches to secure broader understanding of the Bank's policies and activities. These efforts will be further strengthened in fiscal 1983. At the same time, a new Publications Department was established, whose mandate includes the development of new approaches to disseminate worldwide the experience of the Bank's work and research.
Robert S. McNamara Fellowships
Commemorating the contribution of Robert S. McNamara, President of The World Bank from 1968 to 1981, to the cause of economic
development, the Executive Directors of the Bank agreed to establish a program of fellowships primarily for full-time study or research at the postgraduate level in fields related to economic development. It is intended that the research be imaginative and innovative; in addition, the work will not normally be such as would lead to a postgraduate degree.
A maximum of ten fellowships will be awarded annually and will be financed out of the income of an endowment, toward which the Bank contributed $1 million from its administrative budget for fiscal 1982. By June 30, 1982, four member-country governments had pledged $1 million in donations for the endowment fund: India ($500,000), Pakistan ($250,000), Peru ($200,000), and Bangladesh ($50,000).
Fellowship applications are to be received and screened by the Economic Development Institute. Selections will be made by a panel appointed by the Executive Directors on the recommendation of the management of the Bank.
Membership
Bhutan and Vanuatu joined the IBRD and IDA on September 28, 1981, the United Arab Emirates became a member of IDA on December 23, 1981, Belize joined the IBRD and IDA on March 19,1982, and St. Lucia joined IDA on April 28,1982, bringing the total membership of the IBRD to 142 and of IDA to 130.
At the end of the fiscal year, action was pending on membership in the IBRD for Antigua and Barbuda, and Hungary, and in the IBRD and IDA for St. Vincent and the Grenadines. On July 7, 1982, Hungary was scheduled to sign the Articles of Agreement of the IBRD, thereby attaining membership in the institution.
IFC
The International Finance Corporation (IFC) is the IBRD affiliate established to further economic development by encouraging the growth of productive private enterprises. In addition to providing and helping raise loan and equity capital, the Corporation works to strengthen the confidence of investors and promote investment opportunities in the developing world. It uses its own resources to assist investors assemble the necessary financing, technology, and management needed for the establishment of productive enterprises.
The Corporation further increased its activities and continued to diversify into new types of businesses during the fiscal year. The number of projects undertaken rose 16 percent from fifty-six during the previous year to sixty-five. At the same time, by increasing its investment-promotion work by 15 percent, the Cor-
poration built a solid base for future expansion. The number of ventures currently under consideration, especially in the lower-income countries, is at an all-time high.
The total dollar volume of approved investments of $611.8 million in fiscal 1982 was $199 million lower than the previous year. This was attributable to the lack of a few larger projects that could be realized due to the unattractive investment climate that prevailed in many developing countries throughout the year. The Corporation undertook, or has pending, syndications of $187.6 million and thus maintained its objective of syndicating about one-third of its loans to commercial financial institutions.
The Corporation continued to concentrate greater promotional efforts in its smaller and poorer member countries, particularly in Africa, where projects tend to be smaller. As a result of this effort, almost half of the projects approved by the Board of Directors were in countries with per capita incomes of less than $760 per year. Eighteen of the investments were in Africa, sixteen in Asia, twenty-one in Latin America and the Caribbean, and ten in the Middle East and Europe.
The IFC continued to diversify its investment activities. Manufacturing, which in the past has accounted for about two-thirds of the number of projects, was about half of the total for the year. Investments in agribusiness and financial institutions were proportionally higher.
Projects approved by the Board were located in thirty-one countries. In five of these (Cyprus,
Mali, Nepal, Niger, and Tunisia), the Corporation made a first investment or invested for the first time in three years.
The IFC's investment portfolio is well diversified in terms of both industry and country. At the end of the year, the Corporation's investment portfolio (including undisbursed balances) held for its own account was $1,835 million, up $188 million from the previous year. In addition, $1,066.8 million was being held and administered for participants in IFC financing.
The Corporation borrowed $390 million equivalent from the IBRD during the year. A total of $48.2 million was drawn down. In line with the recent policy change to provide funds in other than US dollars, loans of $176 million equivalent were made in Swiss francs, Deutsche mark, and Japanese yen.
Belize, St. Lucia, and Vanuatu took up membership in IFC during the year, bringing the total to 122.
The IFC's Annual Report provides details of its activities.
ICSID
By June 30, 1982, eighty-eight States had signed the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes Between States and Nationals of Other States, and eighty-one States had deposited their instruments of ratification.
The Annual Report of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) provides details of its membership and activities.
Chapter Two
The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
In the face of a second consecutive year of lackluster growth in the industrial countries, many developing countries in 1981 were not able to sustain their economic expansion of the preceding year. Although some countries continued to grow quite rapidly—exporters of manufactures and those able to make rapid adjustments to the current economic climate—the overall economic performance of the developing countries was poor.
Amid the uncertainty of the current economic environment, the dangers of further recession and decline seem serious; there are, however, reasons also for optimism. The resilience of many developing countries despite the depressed external environment has been impressive. The industrial countries realize that they must control inflation if they are to return to a stronger path of growth. There appears to be an increased recognition by policy makers in the industrial countries that national economic prosperity is linked to liberal trade and unim-
peded capital flows, though protectionism continues to threaten in the face of record levels of unemployment.
Growth, Inflation, and Interest Rates in Industrial Countries1
For a second consecutive year, the gross domestic product (GDP) of the industrial countries experienced markedly slow real growth. Recovery in Canada and some gains early in the year in the United States were offset by a severe recession in Europe; Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom experienced actual declines in real GDP, although, in each case, output began to recover
'Australia, Austria, Belgium. Canada. Denmark. Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand. Norway. Spain, Sweden. Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
in the second half of the calendar year. Japan grew at a significantly higher rate than most other industrial countries; nevertheless, the rate of its economic expansion was below that of 1980, itself a year of slowed growth for Japan.
Procedures in the United States to control the growth in money supply led to high and volatile interest rates. The latter, in turn, contributed to an appreciation of the dollar, which, in 1981, gained 10 percent against the special drawing right (SDR). In response to the high interest rates in the US, some European governments raised domestic interest rates to protect the value of their currencies. This, in turn, hampered their recovery from recession.
Preliminary data for 1982 point towards a possible decline in real GDP in the United States, at best only moderate recovery in Europe, and about the same rate of growth in Japan as in 1981. Thus, for the industrial countries as a group, 1982 is likely to be the third year in a row of slow growth. This would make 1980-82 the period of most prolonged economic slowdown since the 1930s.
The social cost of these developments has been severe. Restrictive fiscal and monetary policies adopted to counter inflation have badly hurt such basic sectors as housing, automobile manufacturing, and thrift institutions. Unemployment has reached postwar record levels in many industrial countries, including Belgium, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The effects of the resulting fall in demand have been felt in the economies of the developing countries.
These adjustment policies are intended to lay the foundations for higher growth for the rest of the 1980s. Governments of industrial countries are in substantial agreement that if they are to revive their economies, inflation must be controlled and interest rates must come down. Although they may not agree on the appropriate mix of fiscal, monetary, and income policies to be followed, the objectives of those policies are similar. Government measures have been aided by the public response. Wage settlements have indicated a greater flexibility on the part of labor in moderating demands for increases in wages; this attitude is facilitating the dampening of inflation. Although the average inflation rate of the industrial countries, as measured by their GDP deflator, declined only slightly in 1981, there was a noteworthy drop in countries experiencing particularly high rates of inflation, such as Italy and the United Kingdom. This decline in inflation rates is likely to continue in 1982, as governments make further efforts to contain budget deficits. Other favorable factors include expected lower interest rates and softness in commodity markets.
Growth in the Developing Countries
The real growth in the aggregate gross national product (GNP) of the developing countries suffered a setback in 1981, dropping to 2.2 percent from the 5.0 percent level in 1980. The impact of the recession on their export earnings, as well as the effect of high interest rates on their debt burden and hence on their capacity to borrow further, undermined their ability to sustain earlier levels of production.
Growth experience, however, varied considerably among regions and countries. The inherent vitality of the economies of the countries of East Asia and the Pacific continued to be demonstrated. After some weakening in 1980, when growth was negative, Korea bounced back in 1981 with a growth rate of 7.1 percent. A fractional slide in the overall growth rate for the region resulted mainly from the reduced expansion in 1981 in the net material product of China. South Asia, while not maintaining its impressive 6.6 percent achievement of 1980, a year of generally good crops, grew at a healthy 5.9 percent. Almost all countries in these two regions shared in the experience of growth.
The weakening of the economies in Latin America and the Caribbean, as well as in North
Africa and the Middle East, was so extensive that per capita incomes in both regions declined. Most countries in the Latin American region did quite poorly. For example, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and El Salvador experienced negative growth. Mexico, helped by a significant expansion in its exports of oil, was the only major country that attained an impressive growth rate (7.5 percent). In North Africa and the Middle East, a significant drop in GNP was recorded by Libya; declines also took place in Iran and Iraq, which are not included in the data for lack of adequate information.
Per capita incomes in Africa, south of the Sahara, also declined; there has been either no growth or actual declines in per capita incomes in this region in every year since 1977. Several countries—Ghana, Nigeria, Senegal, Tanzania, and Zambia, to name a few—experienced negative growth in 1981. Nigeria was hit in the course of an ambitious five-year plan by declining oil revenues.
The combined statistical influence of the three regions experiencing declines in per capita income was such that the growth in per capita GNP for all developing countries was a mere 0.2 percent.
Current-Account Balances2 and Their Financing
Major changes took place in the pattern of global payments during 1981. In 1980, the oil-importing developing countries and the industrial countries ran current-account deficits of S71 billion and $45 billion, respectively; these amounts were counterbalanced by the large
surpluses of the high-income oil exporters.1 In 1981, the deficit of the oil-importing developing countries—particularly middle-income ones— continued to increase, but industrial countries experienced a significant improvement as they moved to near balance. The oil-exporting developing countries4 moved from a balance on current account in 1980 to a deficit of about $29 billion in 1981. The surplus of the high-income oil exporters fell from $103 billion in 1980 to $76 billion in 1981. However, precise conclusions cannot be drawn in view of the unduly large statistical discrepancy in the 1981 data."
Factors contributing to the changes in 1981 in the current-account balances include: (a) the reduced oil and nonoil imports of the industrial countries; (b) a relatively smaller increase (in both real and nominal terms) in oil prices; (c) the decline in the prices of primary commodities; and (d) significantly higher interest payments. The combined effect of these factors has been adverse for the developing countries.
The interest payments made in 1981 by the oil-importing developing countries increased by $10
2 Excluding official transfers.
¦'Iraq. Kuwait. Libya. Oatar. Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.
4 Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Brunei. Congo. Ecuador. Egypt. Gabon. Indonesia. Iran, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria. Oman. Peru. Syria. Trinidad and Tobago. Tunisia, and Venezuela.
^ Recent sizable increases in the statistical discrepancy ol the global current-account balance may have been the result, in large part, of an underreporting of the receipts of industrial and OPEC countries, primarily on investment income, freight and insurance charges (including payments to flag-of-convenicncc carriers), travel, and other services.
billion over 1980 amounts. Although inflation in the industrial countries eased in the last months of 1981, nominal interest rates remained high, and real interest rates rose further. The slowdown in the rise of nominal oil prices was a mitigating factor for the oil-importing developing countries; any resulting benefits were diluted, however, for those countries whose export prices fell in terms of US dollars. Furthermore, the price of oil is fixed in dollars, and because the dollar appreciated by 10 percent against the SDR and much more against most national currencies in 1981, countries with cur-
rencies not appreciating with the US dollar had to pay a higher cost in their own currencies than that suggested by the nominal dollar price for oil.
The recent trends in current-account balances are likely to continue in 1982. The industrial countries, having moved from a deficit in 1980 to balance in 1981, are likely to run a sizable current-account surplus in 1982. The large surplus of the high-income oil exporters that was reduced in 1981 is likely to be reduced further in 1982 as recession holds down real oii prices. The deficit of the developing countries will remain high if the dampening of the volume and prices of their
primary commodity exports continues. The underlying factors are essentially the same as those in 1981.
To finance their rising deficits, many developing countries—for example, Argentina, Bangladesh, India, Ivory Coast, and Kenya— have drawn down their reserves. Private direct foreign investment increased by $3.1 billion, or 28 percent, over 1980 levels. In addition, net
disbursements on medium-term and long-term loans rose sharply in 1981, from $55 billion to $68 billion. The rise was largely in private disbursements. The use of Eurocurrency borrowings by such countries as Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, India, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru, and Portugal increased greatly. Brazil, Korea, and Mexico alone accounted for 43 percent of all such credits going to developing
countries in 1981. Costly though it is, the rapid expansion in lending by private banks in recent years has introduced an element of flexibility for the developing countries in their balance-of-pay-ments management. Of the various forms of private foreign capital, only financial credits, mainly through syndicated loans, and bonds are untied and can be used to refinance service payments on debt.
External Debt
The developing countries' medium-term and long-term disbursed external debt'1 grew by 14 percent in 1980 and by an estimated 16 percent in 1981, reaching S465 billion by end-1981. These growth rates are well below the 22 percent annual average for the decade of the 1970s, when debt rose from $60 billion in 1970 to $351 billion in 1979.
Medium-term and long-term borrowing, as measured by commitments, dropped in 1980, and disbursements showed no change despite the large rise in the combined current-account deficit of the developing economies. Towards the end of 1980, however, this slowdown began to reverse itself, and a more rapid pace of borrowing took place throughout the following year. Commitments and disbursements rose by 21 percent and 25 percent, respectively, in 1981. However, the growth in debt was slowed by the
6 The data do not include all developing countries; sec General Notes to Annex Tables for country coverage. Note that the discussion here includes estimates of nonguaranteed debt of the private sector; the Annex includes only public and publicly guaranteed disbursed debt. Therefore, the figures quoted here arc not the same as those in the Annex Tables, although the country coverage is identical.
23 percent surge in amortization that reached $51 billion.
Details on the composition of debt are not yet available for 1981, but preliminary information suggests that there was a resurgence of borrowing in private markets in 1981, stemming in part from the consolidation of some short-term debt. Thus, the long-run shift towards borrowing from private sources resumed after a break in 1980. Debt owed to private financial institutions rose from 23 percent of total debt in 1970 to 50 percent in 1980. In contrast, the share of official sources in debt dropped from 57 percent in 1970 to 39 percent in 1980. Multilateral agencies accounted for an increasing share of debt from official sources; thus, the drop in the share of bilateral assistance in the total was even sharper. The proportion of debt on concessional terms7 declined from 41 percent to 25 percent.
Rising interest rates and heavy reliance on private markets have increased the cost of borrowing. Some 70 percent of the public debt owed to private creditors now carries variable interest rates. These rates have risen rapidly in recent years. For example, the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for US dollars jumped from an end-of-month average of 6.5 percent in 1977 to one of 14.3 percent in 1980 and 16.6 percent in 1981; in the first quarter of 1982, the rate was slightly lower, at 15.3 percent. The average spread (the premium charged over the floating-rate base to cover costs and risks of intermediation) in 1981 on Eurocurrency credits to public-sector borrowers rose by about 0.4
percentage points for developing countries as a group.
Interest payments—at $31 billion in 1980— doubled between 1978 and 1980. Estimates indicate that interest payments grew by almost 60 percent in 1981, to $48 billion. Total debt service (amortization plus interest) reached some $99 billion in 1981, over a third more than in 1980.
One consequence of the rapid growth in debt service—particularly in interest payments—has been that in recent years an ever larger proportion of new borrowing has been used to service outstanding debt. From a peak of $34 billion in 1978, net transfers on public and private borrowings—that is, that which remains of gross disbursements after the payment of debt service— fell to an estimated $18 billion in 1981. For example, Latin America, the largest debtor region, experienced a more than doubling of interest payments and a decline in disbursements on public debt between 1978 and 1980, with the result that net transfers dropped from $12.9 billion to $0.6 billion.
The changes in the structure of the developing countries' debt contrast with the stability of its distribution. Since 1973, almost two-thirds of debt and debt service has been owed by the same twelve major borrowers, each now with a debt exceeding $12 billion. Five of these debtors are
7 A loan is concessional if its grant element is at least 25 percent. (See General Note to Annex Table 7 for a definition of grant clement.)
oil exporters—Algeria, Egypt, Indonesia, Mexico, and Venezuela. The other seven—Argentina, Brazil, India, Israel, Korea, Turkey, and Yugoslavia—are major exporters of manufactures.
Most of the debt of the developing countries ($349 billion out of a total of $401 billion at end-1980) was owed by the middle-income countries. Some 70 percent of their debt was from private sources.
In contrast, 87 percent of the debt of the low-income countries at end-1980 was from official lenders; of the net transfers of $5 billion to these countries that year, official sources of finance provided 88 percent. Whereas overall commitments to them increased by 55 percent in 1980 to $13.5 billion, those by multilateral institutions almost doubled (to $6.4 billion).
The high proportion of official lending in the total debt of low-income countries has helped them meet their debt-service obligations during the difficult international economic situation of the past two years. Although such loans carry favorable terms, some countries have had difficulty in managing their debt.
An increasing number of developing countries with debt-servicing difficulties have renegotiated their debt in multilateral meetings, usually arranged through the Paris Club.s In 1980, three countries—Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Turkey—had multilateral reschedulings. In 1981, eight countries—the Central African Republic, Liberia, Madagascar, Pakistan, Senegal, Togo, Uganda, and Zaire—rescheduled their debt through such multilateral negotiations; Sudan rescheduled in the first half of 1982. In addition, three countries—Bolivia, Jamaica, and Sudan— reached rescheduling agreements with the commercial banks in 1981, as did three—Nicaragua, Togo, and Zaire—in 1980. However, the total debt rescheduled was not large—an estimated $2.4 billion for all eleven renegotiations in 1981. Although some of the negotiations were protracted, they generally proceeded smoothly.
Official Development Assistance
Capital flows, discussed in the preceding sections, are important for increasing the level of
investment in the developing countries. An important element of these flows, particularly for the low-income countries, is the net flows of official development assistance (ODA)—that is, grants and concessional loans. ODA from members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC)9 of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), at $25.5 billion, decreased by 4 percent in real terms and by about 6 percent in nominal terms in 1981. That figure amounted to 0.35 percent of their combined GNP, compared with 0.38 percent in 1980 and 0.35 percent in 1979. However, five countries provided more than 0.7 percent of their GNP in the form of ODA: Denmark. France, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden. Figures on ODA in 1981 from countries that are members of the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC)10 were not available as fiscal 1982 ended. In 1980, ODA from OPEC members totaled almost $7 billion, or approximately 1.36 percent of their combined GNP. The high-income oil exporters are the main donors; in fact, some OPEC members are net recipients of ODA. ODA from Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, the major OPEC donors, amounted to 3.02 percent of their GNP in 1980. Figures on assistance from the centrally planned economies" were also unavailable at the end of fiscal 1982.
World Trade
According to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the volume of world
8 The Paris Club is the name given to the ad hoc meetings of Western creditor governments that, since 1956. have arranged, when necessary, for the renegotiation of creditor-guaranteed suppliers' credits. Since then, it has handled the majority of renegotiations of official and officially guaranteed debt. More than a dozen debtor countries have been involved through the years.
'Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada. Denmark, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany. Italy. Japan, the Netherlands. New Zealand. Norway, Sweden. Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Commission of the European Communities.
10 Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia. Iran. Iraq. Kuwait, Libya. Nigeria, Qatar. Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela.
11 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia. German Democratic Republic. Hungary. Poland. Romania, and the USSR.
merchandise trade stagnated in 1981 after increasing by barely 1 percent in 1980. A particularly weak performance in the fourth quarter of 1981 apparently continued into early 1982. The principal cause was the decline in exports of petroleum and other minerals. World exports of petroleum declined by 14 percent and those of other minerals by 5 percent. Excluding petroleum, the volume of world trade increased in 1981 by an estimated 2.5 percent, down from its 4.5 percent growth in 1980. The volume of world exports of agricultural products increased by 5 percent—accounted for mainly by cereals from the industrial countries. The volume of world exports of manufactures increased by 3 percent.
The volume of exports of both the industrial countries and the non-OPEC developing countries increased in 1981 by an estimated 3 percent. A decline of about 16 percent was registered by the OPEC countries. The volume of imports of the industrial countries declined by between 2 percent and 3 percent; in contrast, imports of the developing countries, excluding the OPEC nations, rose 7 percent. However, only a few of these countries participated in that increase to a marked extent. OPEC countries once again were the fastest-growing import market, despite the sharp drop in their oil exports.
The value of world merchandise trade in 1981 was about 1 percent less than the $2,000 billion figure attained in 1980. With the exception of petroleum, dollar unit values for the major product categories entering world trade declined in 1981. The price declines were much more pronounced for primary products exported by the developing countries than for those exported by the industrial countries.
For the first time, the value of the developing countries' manufactured exports surpassed that of their exports of primary products, excluding petroleum. Apart from the long-term structural shift and their increased capacity to supply manufactured goods, this was also the result of price declines for raw-material exports (excluding oil) and a weak demand for primary products. Trade among developing countries has been steadily expanding at a rate faster than the total trade of the developing countries. Recent data are not available, but the current recession in the industrial countries should have encouraged developing-country exporters to push their products even harder in other developing-country markets, particularly in those of the oil exporters. Trade among developing countries has been aided by the fact that their GNP has been growing at a rate faster than that of the industrial countries.
Commodity Prices
According to the World Bank Primary Commodity Price Index,'2 international commodity prices (excluding petroleum) declined by 14.5 percent in 1981 compared with 1980 levels, and slipped an additional 8 percent in the first six months of 1982. The price fall was common to all three major groups of commodities: foods, agricultural nonfood products, and metals and minerals. Foodstuffs experienced the largest price declines of the three groups, falling 16 percent in 1981. Prices have fallen further in the period January-June 1982. Cereals—a major import for the developing countries—were the important exception, resulting mainly from strong import demand in the Soviet Union. Rice prices, however, fell sharply in the first half of 1982.
Oversupply, the result of good harvests and overplanting of perennial crops in recent years, was the main determining factor in the fall of prices of food and beverages. On the other hand, demand conditions—related to the second straight year of very weak industrial production performance in the industrial countries—were the major determinant in the decline in prices for nonfood agricultural raw materials and minerals-metals. Those primary commodities most directly and obviously affected have been rubber (the automobile industry), timber (the housing and construction industries), and copper, tin, and other metals and minerals (the capital-goods and durable consumer-goods indus-
Indcx of thirty-three nonoil primary commodities in current US dollars (1974-76= 100), weighted by the value of exports from the developing countries.
tries). Fats and oils products, which have a wide range of industrial uses, have also been hurt.
Cotton prices fell under the impact of weak demand for textiles and clothing products. Countries heavily dependent on exports of these products, particularly those in Latin America and Africa, were badly hurt. The negative revenue effects of these declines in demand were compounded by the concomitant poor performance of tropical-beverage exports.
In addition to the reduction in the direct demand for inputs for use in current production, there has also been a rundown of inventories (resulting from the increased cost of holding stocks in a time of high interest rates) that has even further decreased purchases of inputs for current production.
Weak demand conditions also negatively affected oil markets. Oil consumption declined by almost 6 percent in the industrial countries in 1981. Although the economic downturn was probably the main cause, conservation in the form of greater efficiency in the use of petroleum and a shift from petroleum to other fuels— encouraged by the earlier steep increase in oil prices—were also important factors. Slower growth and conservation measures kept the consumption of oil in the developing countries at its 1980 level.
In response to the sagging demand for oil and to increased drawdowns of inventories toward the end of 1981, world oil production for the year dropped by nearly 6 percent, to 58.3 million barrels per day (mbd). Production by the member countries of OPEC dropped from 26.8 mbd in 1980 to 22.5 mbd in 1981, a decline of about 16
percent. In contrast, production in the non-OPEC developing countries—mainly in Mexico—increased in 1981, and output in the North Sea and the centrally planned economies showed little change. Total world production in the first quarter of 1982 dropped to about 55 mbd, the result mainly of the continued weakening of demand in the industrial countries.
The weighted average official selling price of OPEC crudes increased bv 12 percent, from $30.50 a barrel in 1980 to $34.30 in 1981. Spot prices, which had increased sharply in late 1980 with the outbreak of hostilities in the Persian Gulf, began to decline in early 1981. By the third quarter of 1981, they actually fell below official selling prices. Thus, price developments in the small, residual spot markets may often be at variance with general price behavior.
As the demand for petroleum products continued to decline in early 1982, petroleum-product prices, and then crude-oil prices, in the major markets began to fall rapidly. While spot-market prices declined by nearly 9 percent between January and March of 1982 alone, official selling prices for term contracts with OPEC countries remained largely unchanged. To support the existing price structure, OPEC countries jointly decided to lower production ceilings. As a result, the downward pressure on prices eased. The oil-importing developing countries currently face a somewhat eased supply situation, and although most of their requirements are still supplied through term agreements, the largest importers are looking to the lower-priced spot market to fill part of their needs.
Terms of Trade
The terms of trade of developing countries— reflecting movements in commodity prices and changes in exchange rates—have exhibited an unprecedented degree of variability over the past several years. Although the terms of trade of developing countries as a group showed no movement over the period 1978-81, there were major shifts among groups of countries and even sharper variations among individual countries.
The terms of trade of the oil-exporting developing countries improved by 43 percent in 1978-81; the improvement was spread over the years as oil prices rose sharply relative to other prices. The gains were shared by all countries in the group, although gains varied from year to year. However, smaller gains went to Malaysia, because of adverse price movements in its exports of commodities other than oil (rubber, palm oil), and to Tunisia and Ecuador, because of the relatively small share of oil in their total exports.
The oil-importing developing countries, on the average, experienced a net decline of 13 percent in their terms of trade over the period 1978-81. Most of the decline occurred in 1980. This loss reflects the increase in the price of imported oil, the rise in the prices of manufactured imports, and the decline in the prices of most commodity exports.
Declines in the terms of trade over this period were not peculiar to any particular region. But the average declines were distinctly larger for the low-income countries and for those countries still heavily dependent on the export of one or two primary products. These countries have little flexibility in expanding and adjusting their export mixes.
The picture for the price behavior of manufactures exported by the developing countries is far less clear, as appropriate price indices for their manufactured exports are not available. In principle, the prices of these goods should follow the price indices for the manufactured exports of industrial countries; for a variety of reasons, however, this may not necessarily be so. The range of manufactured products exported by the developing countries is narrower; the competition among these exporting countries, therefore, is intense. Such products also have a lower value-added component than do the products exported by industrial countries. Also, the developing countries are forced to keep the prices of their products relatively low so as to penetrate industrial-country markets better. On the other hand, to the extent that exports from the industrial countries are more capital intensive,
the inducement to spread out their overhead costs is greater.
International Commodity Agreements
An agreement establishing a Common Fund for commodities was adopted in June 1980. Ratification was to have been required by ninety countries accounting for two-thirds of the Fund's directly contributed capital by March 31, 1982. As the deadline passed, it was extended to September 30,1983. Among other things, the Fund is designed to assist the International Commodity Agreements in stabilizing prices.
The four primary commodities for which international agreements are in place, and which generally enjoy the widespread support of producing countries, are commodities that experienced some of the largest price declines in the past year: coffee (down 17 percent), cocoa (down 20 percent), rubber (down 23 percent), and tin (down 16 percent).
The export quotas put into force by the International Coffee Agreement in September 1980 have remained in effect and the Agreement has been extended for another year, with a new Agreement now the subject of negotiations. The renewed International Cocoa Agreement came into force in August 1981, but without the membership of either the largest producer, Ivory Coast, or the largest consumer, the US. The buffer-stock scheme established under the Agreement to provide support for cocoa prices began operations in October 1981.
The International Natural Rubber Agreement, which came into provisional force in October 1980 and was finally ratified in April 1982, was the first to provide for association with the Common Fund; it commenced limited use of its Buffer Stock Operations in November 1981 after rubber prices had fallen to trigger-price levels, the lowest prices in three years. Because the financial resources of the Agreement are limited, buying into the natural-rubber buffer stock has so far resulted in only slight increases in prices. The Fifth International Tin Agreement was extended for one year until June 1982, at which time a sixth five-year agreement, to go into effect July 1, was adopted. Stabex
In May 1982, the countries of the European Communities agreed to increase the Stabex fund by $92 million, to $199 million, to meet half the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) countries' requests for relief for shortfalls in 1981 in export earnings from primary commodities.
The Stabex fund, under the provisions of the second Lome Convention, covers shortfalls of some forty-four products.
The International Dialogue
Global negotiations. No agreement has so far been reached in the United Nations on procedures for the conduct of negotiations on trade, energy, raw materials, development finance, and monetary issues, although the original timetable called for the negotiations to be completed by 1981. Differences between the developed and developing countries on procedures for negotiations on monetary and financial issues, and on the role of the specialized agencies have proved particularly difficult.
In June 1982, at the summit meeting of seven major industrialized nations held at Versailles, it was agreed that the launching of global negotiations constituted a major political objective approved by all seven participants with the provision that the "independence" of the specialized agencies be "guaranteed."
Cancun summit. An economic summit of twenty-two heads of state from the developed and developing countries—nine industrialized countries and thirteen developing countries from each of the regions (including China)—met in Cancun, Mexico, in October 1981. The co-chairmen of the meeting were the President of Mexico, Jose Lopez Portillo, and the Prime Minister of Canada, Pierre Trudeau. At its conclusion, the co-chairmen's summary stressed the importance of promoting closer international cooperation and confirmed the desirability of supporting, at the United Nations, a consensus to launch global negotiations on a basis to be mutually agreed and in circumstances offering the prospect of meaningful progress. Major issues discussed at the summit were food security and agricultural development, commodities, trade, industrialization, energy, and monetary and financial matters.
South-South cooperation. Following the Cancun summit meeting, a conference of the developing countries was convened in New Delhi at the invitation of the Prime Minister of India, Indira Gandhi. Forty-four developing nations participated in the conference, including China. The meeting concluded that global negotiations remained the most important multilateral economic-cooperation objective of the international community. The conference also concluded that on energy, the establishment of an appropriate institution, such as the proposed Energy Affiliate of The World Bank, was of overriding importance, as was the effective implementation of the Nairobi Program of Action for the financing of new and renewable sources of energy. Support was also given for full participation by donor governments in the Sixth Replenishment of IDA and for prompt action on the Seventh Replenishment. Several mecha-
nisms were considered under the Program of Action developed by the Group of 77 in Caracas, Venezuela, in May 1981 for the promotion of economic cooperation among the developing countries, such as technical assistance to the Group of 77 and the scheduling of technical meetings in the fields of finance, science and technology, food and agriculture, new and renewable sources of energy, trade, industrial-manpower training, and technical cooperation.
Development Committee." The September meeting of the Development Committee under the chairmanship of Manuel Ulloa Elias, Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, Finance, and Commerce of Peru, reviewed the world-development situation and expressed concern at the poor medium-term prospects for developing countries, especially the low-income developing countries, on the basis of The World Bank's World Development Report 1981. The Committee supported the provision of additional resources to the Bank and resolution of outstanding issues on the Sixth Replenishment of IDA. On energy, the Committee welcomed the conclusions of the Nairobi Conference. The World Bank's study, Accelerated Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: An Agenda for Action, was discussed by the Committee, which concluded that the study formed a good basis for a dialogue among the African governments, the international donor community, and multilateral financial institutions. The Bank was urged at this meeting—and in the subsequent one—to take the lead in carrying forward this dialogue.
At its May 1982 meeting in Helsinki, Finland, the Committee reviewed the status of lending operations of the multilateral development institutions, in particular IDA, additional World Bank lending for energy, and the replenishment problems of regional banks. The Committee stressed the importance of resolving problems facing IDA with a view to achieving planned commitment levels to the maximum extent possible. The Committee also agreed that discussions on the Seventh Replenishment of IDA should commence urgently. The World Bank's Executive Directors were requested to
53 Formally, the Joint Ministerial Committee of the Boards of Governors of The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on the Transfer of Real Resources to Developing Countries. Established in October 1974, the Committee consists of twenty members, generally Ministers of Finance, appointed in turn for successive periods of two years by one of the countries or groups of countries that designates a member of the Bank's or IMF's Board of Executive Directors as the case may be. The Committee is required to advise and report to the Boards of Governors of the Bank and the IMF on all aspects of the broad questions of the transfer of real resources to developing countries, and to make suggestions for consideration by those concerned regarding the implementation of its conclusions.
continue their study of the scope for expansion in real terms of Bank lending. The Executive Directors were also asked to explore ways to enable the Bank to finance an increased program of energy investments, including an Energy Affiliate, or a Special Fund, or by cofinancing arrangements. The World Bank and regional banks were asked to consider the recommendations of the Task Force on Non-Concessional Flows to stimulate such flows to developing countries. The Bank's efforts to expand the scale of its cofinancing operations were endorsed. A Task Force on Concessional Flows was established to study the problems affecting the volume and quality of concessional flows, as well as actions that might be taken to improve the effective use of official development assistance. Eighteen member countries—industrialized, developing, and OPEC members—are represented on the Task Force.
UN Conference on New and Renewable Energy Resources. One hundred twenty countries were represented at a Conference in Nairobi, Kenya, in August 1981 to explore the possibilities for development of new and renewable sources of energy. The Conference recommended to the UN General Assembly the establishment of an intergovernmental body to guide and monitor a program of action for the development of new and renewable sources of energy; recommendations would be submitted to the General Assembly through the Economic and Social Council for implementing the program. The Conference also agreed on a system for coordinating action by UN organs and intergovernmental organizations that are involved in the development of new and renewable sources of energy under the Director General for Development and International Economic Cooperation. Attention was drawn to the need to mobilize substantial financial resources to meet estimated energy-investment requirements. The Conference urged that all possible avenues should be studied to increase energy financing.
Commonwealth meetings. The Commonwealth, through its Secretariat in London, England, was active in the past year in seeking to promote international economic cooperation between developed and developing countries. At the meeting of Commonwealth Finance Ministers in Nassau, The Bahamas, in September 1981, an appeal was made for enhanced international cooperation to promote a healthy world economic system with particular regard to the repercussions of national economic policies on other countries. Ministers also called for an early initiation of global negotiations. Heads of Government of Commonwealth countries meet-
ing in Melbourne, Australia, in October 1981 issued the Melbourne Declaration, stating that it was imperative to revitalize the dialogue between the developed and the developing countries. They reviewed current international economic issues in the fields of finance, trade and protectionism, commodities, energy, and food, and called for international action to increase official development assistance, support the Sixth and Seventh Replenishments of IDA, strengthen the role of multilateral institutions, reduce protectionist tendencies, and sign and ratify the Common Fund Agreement. Special action to provide assistance for energy development and to deal with the precarious world food situation was also called for.
UN Conference on the Least Developed Countries. A UN Conference on the Least Developed Countries took place in Paris, France, in September 1981 under the chairmanship of the French Minister of Cooperation and Development, Jean-Pierre Cot. One hundred countries were represented, including thirty-one classified by the UN as "least developed" (LLDCs). The Conference adopted an action program intended to provide a focus for targets on international assistance to the LLDCs during the 1980s. Most of the developed-country participants agreed to provide a minimum of 0.15 percent of their gross national product as ODA to the LLDCs during the period 1981-85 and to increase the percentage to 0.20 during the second half of the decade. It was expected that the effect of these commitments would be a doubling of ODA to the least-developed countries by 1985 compared with the period 1975-80. The program also called for consideration of an increase in the number of aid-coordination groups for the least-developed countries and for strengthening and broadening existing groups.
UN Conference on the Law of the Sea. On April 30,1982, the Eleventh and final Session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea adopted a Convention on the Law of the Sea by a vote of 134 to 4, with 17 abstentions. The agreement climaxed nine years of negotiations. In December 1982, the Convention will be opened for signature in Caracas, Venezuela. It will enter into force twelve months after sixty states have ratified or acceded to the Convention.
The Convention on the Law of the Sea contains provisions for all parts and virtually all uses of the oceans. Among its key features are delimitation of maritime areas between a twelve-mile-wide territorial sea over which coastal states exercise sovereignty; a two-hundred-mile-wide exclusive economic zone in which coastal states have sovereign rights over natural resources and certain economic activities; and
the continental shelf in which, again, coastal states have sovereign rights over that part of the ocean floor for exploring and exploiting it. The Convention also contains provisions for exploring and exploiting the bottom of the deep ocean in areas beyond the continental shelf of any state.
The Convention provides for Jamaica to be the seat of the International Seabed Authority and the Federal Republic of Germany to be the seat of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea.
Chapter Three:
Bank Policies, Activities, and Finances, Fiscal 1982
Bank Policies
Graduation of IBRD Borrowers
Graduation of borrowers from the IBRD is a firmly established principle and has been a longstanding practice. It is a process of slowly phasing out IBRD lending as a borrowing country reaches a level of development, management capacity, and access to capital markets that permits it to carry on without IBRD financing. The graduation principle was examined at a meeting of the Bank's Executive Directors during the past year. Its major features are:
1. Graduation is a logical step in the development process, and a clear set of guidelines for graduation from IBRD lending is called for.
2. Graduation should be both flexible and fair, and sensitive to each country's individual circumstances; special features, such as the problems of small countries with narrowly based economies, will be recognized in the phase-out program.
3. Graduation will normally occur within five years after a country reaches the per capita gross national product (GNP) benchmark of S2,650 at 1980 prices; this period might be longer if the economic situation deteriorates during the phase-out period. The determination based on per capita GNP is simply a mechanical starting point for a careful review of a country's situation and the development of a flexible program to phase down, and ultimately end, IBRD lending. The review would examine the country's overall economic situation and its ability to sustain a long-term development program with particular reference to two important factors that influence the pace of graduation: access to capital markets on reasonable terms and the extent of progress in establishing key institutions for economic and social development.
4. The composition of the lending program of those countries approaching the "trigger-level" benchmark would be reviewed, and the volume of the lending program would not be expected to increase in real terms except in special circumstances.
5. Graduation should be seen as a stage in the evolving relationship between the borrowing country and the IBRD. The IBRD will continue to provide support to those countries that wish it after lending has ceased; support might include
services such as technical assistance (assistance in project work and institution building, review of economic policies, arrangements for private financing), continued access to the courses of the Bank's training institute, EDI, and continued eligibility for IFC operations.
6. Once a program of graduation is agreed upon with the borrower, the management of the Bank will make a full report to the Executive Directors.
7. The graduation issue, including any problems that may arise in the application of the per capita GNP trigger, will be reviewed annually. The methodology of calculating the per capita benchmark will also be subject to review.
The Bank's Focus on Poverty Alleviation
The World Bank has always emphasized economic growth and efficiency. In the 1970s, however, as part of a growing worldwide recognition that growth was not reaching the poor majority in many developing societies, the Bank, in addition, placed special emphasis on direct measures to alleviate poverty, both in its lending operations and in its economic research and analysis.
As a result, both the IBRD and IDA increased their lending to sectors and subsectors considered more directly beneficial to large numbers of poor people—for example, rural and urban development, primary education, population, health and nutrition, small-scale industries, and water supply; the share of IBRD and IDA lending for such activities rose from 5 percent in 1968 to 30 percent in 1980. This expansion in lending paralleled similar changes in the policies of many developing countries and aid donors.
IBRD and IDA commitments to low-income countries increased from 37 percent of the total program during the years before 1968 to 58 percent in the current (fiscal 1979-83) five-year lending program. IDA now lends only to this group. The share of IBRD lending to this group of countries increased 34 percent over the same period despite creditworthiness constraints that impose limits on such lending to many poor countries.
In fiscal 1982, the Bank undertook an informal review of its general approach to the alleviation
"Poverty alleviation remains a key and integral part of the Bank's development program." Here, a settler family in Papua New Guinea.
of poverty; the review focused on three main issues: (a) the continuing relevance of the objective; (b) an assessment of Bank experience; and (c) suggestions for changes and improvements in Bank policy.
A major conclusion of the review was that there are broad and important areas of complementarity between the twin objectives of growth and alleviation of poverty; that this combined approach may well be essential to lasting and stable development; and that, therefore, such a balanced strategy provides the best general framework for development in the 1980s.
A number of other key findings emerged from this preliminary review of Bank experiences, the most important of which were:
• That through its project lending, the Bank has effectively reached substantial numbers of
poor people, particularly through poverty-oriented, "new-style" projects.
• That while there have been mistakes and failures, and although many difficult problems remain, there has been much "learning by doing." Bank projects have generally been effective in directly increasing the productivity of small farmers or indirectly enhancing productive capacity through investments in improved education, health, and nutrition.
• That "new-style" projects have rates of return as high as other projects, have stimulated replication by borrowers, and have resulted in widespread distribution of benefits to poor people.
• That the Bank has pioneered innovative techniques for reaching the poor (rural development and urban slum-upgrading projects, for
example) that have been adopted in the national programs of many countries and by other assistance agencies.
• That the Bank has had a positive influence on government policies and programs when it has introduced poverty concerns into country economic work and its policy dialogue with member governments. The review noted, however, that the change in the character of the country policy dialogue had been hindered by a variety of factors, and that the link with lending was still not as close as desirable.
Many developing countries have made progress in reducing the incidence of poverty. But the long-term character of the development process and the distance yet to go are demonstrated by the fact that there are still hundreds of millions of poor people, mostly in low-income countries, and that their number is not yet declining. What is needed now are further improvements based on the lessons of the past, especially as the economic environment of the 1980s presents the poor with greater problems and increased risks.
The Bank's poverty focus was the subject of an informal seminar by the Directors of the Bank late in the fiscal year. On this occasion, the Directors strongly supported the view that poverty alleviation remains a key and integral part of the Bank's development program, as well as the two major suggestions made for strengthening the Bank's program in the future.
First, increased attention will be given to the impact of country sectoral policy on the productivity and living standards of the poor and be made an important part of the Bank's policy dialogue with borrowers. Shifts in resource allocations and general policy changes—for example, the impact of trade liberalization or changes in fiscal or price policy—are powerful instruments for poverty alleviation and can have much greater impact on the well-being of large numbers of poor people than most individual projects. While there is still much to learn, structural-adjustment programs will consider, as far as possible, how the burdens of adjustment are shared among income groups, and how adverse effects on the poor, for example, through increased unemployment, higher prices of basic goods, or higher taxes, can be mitigated. Bank research will give high priority to reducing the gaps in its knowledge of the effects on the poor of macroeconomic policies, including alternative routes toward structural adjustment.
Second, the Bank's project work will be broadened to consider, wherever feasible, poverty and employment aspects in the design of projects in the traditional sectors. While the distinction between poverty and nonpoverty projects is useful for some purposes, it may be
misleading and suggest that only a handful of sectors can benefit the poor, thus ignoring the many ways by which the poor may benefit from other projects. The Bank's objective will be to support an appropriate blend of growth and poverty alleviation through an increasingly broad range of activities.
Neither donors nor borrowers have been particularly adept at bringing about benefits to those without productive assets—the rural landless, the urban jobless, most adult illiterates, and many female-headed households, for example. In addition to continued support for education, population, and health programs, the Bank will intensify its efforts to understand how to increase the productivity and employment of such people. Bank lending policies will allow room for further experiments that will help project benefits reach the poorest families.
Projects are more likely to benefit the poor to the extent they improve administration and management and build a strong institutional base that will endure after they are completed. Better analysis of the social environment of a project, assessment of its likely social impact, and increased technical assistance are important to lasting and successful development activities.
Finally, both the Bank and borrowing countries must pay careful attention to the recurrent-cost implications of poverty projects in a coordinated fashion. Such projects tend to have high ratios of recurrent to capital costs that persist long after the involvement of the external donor ends. The Bank, therefore, will give more systematic treatment in its analytical work and operations on ways to contain or recover those costs.
The Bank's Energy Program
Each year since fiscal 1978, when the Executive Directors of the Bank first agreed to expand assistance for energy development, the Directors have monitored the progress of this activity in the light of the needs of the Bank's member countries and the ability of the Bank to help meet those needs.
In the last few years, lending by the Bank for all kinds of energy development has increased rapidly; by the end of the past fiscal year, that lending, at some $3,358 million, amounted to 26 percent of the year's total commitments.
As the table shows, lending for power still forms the largest part of the Bank's energy program. But lending commitments for oil and gas development have shown the greatest increase. Since fiscal 1978, oil- and gas-development projects have been identified in more than fifty countries, and since 1980, when lending for
predevelopment activities began, about thirty projects have been approved, two-thirds of them in Africa. Several of these projects have already yielded benefits: discoveries or confirmation of earlier indications of deposits in Bangladesh, Egypt, Morocco, and Tanzania, and the signing of exploration or production agreements between oil companies and governments in Madagascar, Mali, and Mauritania.
The program also includes lending for coal exploration and development, for fuelwood projects, for alcohol programs in countries where biomass feedstocks are available at low cost, for refinery conversions, and for energy conservation. In building up a program in support of renewable energy development, the Bank has stressed the incorporation of biomass technologies, solar energy, and small hydro-power components in its projects, sometimes on a demonstration or pilot basis, so as to acquire operating experience with the most economically promising technologies and applications.
There is now a substantial and growing number of high-priority energy projects proposed for Bank financing. Recent weaknesses in energy prices, likely in any case to be temporary, do little to alter the importance of these projects. Finding additional sources of capital, however, has become the key to continued expansion of the Bank's energy program.
During their exploratory discussions on a staff report on the Bank's energy program—a report that was written for the Development Committee's Helsinki meeting in May—the Executive Directors generally agreed that the energy share of IBRD and IDA lending could not increase significantly beyond its current level without reducing its lending below acceptable levels to other high-priority programs. Many Directors felt that the establishment of an
energy affiliate, a proposal endorsed by the Development Committee in fiscal 1981, remained the most attractive method of raising additional funding for energy investment in developing countries. It was conceded, however, that there was no immediate prospect for an agreement on the affiliate's establishment. As regards a suggestion that the Bank should make available additional funds for energy by increasing its overall lending program over currently planned levels, a number of Directors expressed their concern that this would not be appropriate without further analysis of its implications.
The Directors expressed their view that the potential for private cofinancing of projects in the energy field should be fully exploited. Increases in such cofinancing may, indeed, be feasible as the Bank moves from predevelopment activities toward the production phase of projects in oil, gas, and coal. It was the view of many, however, that care was needed to ensure that the Bank's share of financing of projects in any individual subsector does not fall below a level at which its ability to influence project design and implementation arrangements would be impaired.
Ways by which official (but not necessarily concessionary) financing might be expanded were also briefly explored. Three, in particular, were brought forward. One might be a series of bilateral cofinancing agreements under which amounts available to the Bank over several years would be indicated (so that investments in project preparation would be justified); the second could entail the establishment of a pool, or trust fund, for energy lending that would be based on contributions by interested member countries; the third might be for countries to agree in advance to purchase, for their own account, portions of IBRD loans or IDA credits
made for energy projects, thereby replenishing Bank resources and allowing for expansion of the program.
The Directors agreed to continue to explore all avenues in search of ways to finance additional lending for energy development.
Review of Structural-Adjustment Lending
Structural-adjustment lending was begun in fiscal 1980 in response to the markedly deteriorated prospects that were then foreseen for developing countries during the 1980s. These gloomy expectations derived from the problems of stagflation in many parts of the developed world, high interest rates, growing protectionist sentiments, increased oil prices, and the climate for concessional aid.
How a country chooses to adjust to the international situation is crucial to its future. Adjustment in the long term can be achieved through reductions in investment and human-resource development programs or through a program of financial and structural-adjustment measures, supported by external borrowings. Borrowing in the absence of such a program, however, would likely lead to high rates of inflation and dangerously high levels of debt.
Structural-adjustment lending was designed to provide maximum support, within the staff and financial levels available to the Bank and within its mandate, to those governments that had requested such support and that had recognized the need to formulate and introduce, as a matter of urgency, a set of comprehensive measures designed to adjust the structure of productive activities of their economies to the markedly deteriorated external situation.
In essence, the objectives of structural-adjustment lending has been to:
• support a program of specific policy changes and institutional reforms designed to achieve a more efficient use of resources and thereby contribute to a more sustainable balance of payments in the medium and long term and to the maintenance of growth in the face of severe constraints, and to lay the basis for regaining future growth momentum; and
• act as a catalyst for the inflow of other external capital to help ease the balance-of-payments situation.
In fiscal 1982, the Executive Directors considered a staff report on the progress of structural-adjustment lending. That report concluded that despite some disappointments and some delays in the implementation of agreed policy measures, structural-adjustment lending had enabled the Bank to respond more fully than would otherwise have been possible to the need of countries that have sought assistance from the Bank. Assistance had been given while main-
Laying a natural-gas pipeline from the Bombay High oil-and-gas field to the Indian mainland.
taining the Bank's primary emphasis on project lending in support of programs that address the long-term constraints on development—for example, education, agriculture, research, population policies, and infrastructure development.
The report noted that it was still too early, however, to evaluate whether the reform programs had been correctly conceived and whether their impact was likely to correspond to initial expectations in terms of balance-of-payments adjustment at a higher level of economic activity than would otherwise have been possible.
Of the fifteen operations approved through fiscal 1982, six of the related structural-adjustment programs (Turkey I and II, Kenya, Philippines, Malawi, and Mauritius) have been satisfactorily implemented. In the case of six others (Jamaica, Korea, Ivory Coast, Pakistan, Thailand, and Turkey III), approval is too recent for progress in their implementation to be meaningfully assessed. With regard to the
remainder (Bolivia, Guyana, and Senegal), although important reforms have been accomplished, implementation problems have been encountered. In two of the three countries, changes in government explain at least in part the problems that have arisen.
Also considered in the report were several issues about which concern had been raised by the Directors, both at the time the policy of structural-adjustment lending was formulated and since. Among the concerns are: World Bank-International Monetary Fund collaboration; the relationship between structural-adjustment and project lending; the appropriate percentage of total Bank operations for structural-adjustment lending; the impact of structural adjustment on low-income groups; and the number of countries that have negotiated structural-adjustment lending operations.
Bank-Fund collaboration. The review noted that experience over the past two years had shown that the Bank's structural-adjustment lending operations and the IMF programs were, in practice, both complementary and mutually reinforcing.
Project versus nonproject lending. Since project operations are typically related to one sub-sector, the scope for taking a broad sectoral view is inevitably limited (for example, addressing energy-policy issues when the Bank might only be lending for power projects in a country). In many countries, the Bank is involved in only a limited number of sectors; thus, structural-adjustment lending has provided a unique opportunity to achieve a more comprehensive and timely approach to policy reforms. For each country in which there has been a structural-adjustment operation, the Bank has adjusted its
program of project and sector lending to ensure that all components of Bank lending are mutually reinforcing and part of an integrated program.
Share in total lending. Commitments for structural adjustment represented 5.8 percent of the Bank's total in fiscal 1981 and 8.2 percent in fiscal 1982. So far, the Bank has been able to develop structural-adjustment programs in all countries that have been able to formulate programs and that wish their programs to be supported by the Bank. The Executive Directors on several occasions in the past have indicated that they did not wish nonproject lending to exceed 10 percent of total commitments. In this year's review, it was agreed that the 10 percent figure should continue to be taken as a ceiling for the time being.
Impact on the poorest. Two sets of measures frequently incorporated in structural-adjustment programs tend to benefit the poor by increasing employment and rural incomes. They are the improvement of agricultural producer prices and the removal of widespread biases in incentive systems that favor capital-intensive industries and discourage exports. However, countries introducing programs of reform not only confront reduced disposable incomes as a consequence of adverse movements in their terms of trade, but, in addition, they must ensure increased allocations of resources to both investment and the fuller use of existing capital investment in industry, agriculture, energy, and other sectors that can contribute to easing balance-of-payments constraints. The Bank, therefore, has been concerned to ensure that in designing structural-adjustment programs, their impact on the poorest members of society and on programs of
basic needs and human-resource development are minimized.
Country coverage. Finally, the progress report took note of the fact that only thirteen of the Bank's some seventy-five active borrowers have, so far, concluded a structural-adjustment lending agreement. Such limited country coverage, the report concluded, reflects the fact that this form of assistance is appropriate only in those cases in which there are not only structural problems that help create balance-of-payments problems, but also a government that is both able to formulate and implement a credible pro-
gram of reforms and wishes to have Bank financial and technical support for its program. As a matter of Bank policy, no country is ineligible for structural-adjustment lending only because it lacks the technical capacity to work out an adequate reform program. In such cases, the Bank remains ready to step up its country economic and sector work to assist in the design of suitable reforms. Furthermore, most structural-adjustment lending operations have been buttressed by a technical-assistance loan or credit to assist governments in both formulating and implementing programs of reform.
Bank Activities
Economic Development Institute
The Economic Development Institute (EDI) was established in 1955 to provide training for senior officials of the developing member countries of the Bank to help them improve the management of their economies and increase the efficiency of their investment programs. These officials come from ministries of finance and planning, agencies dealing with various sectors of development, and central banks and development-finance institutions. EDI's primary advantage in the training field is that it is able to draw on the working experience, policy analysis, studies of comparative development, and other empirical research of The World Bank.
In fiscal 1982, the fourth year of its current five-year program, EDI offered nine courses and ten seminars in Washington, attended by approximately 450 participants, and twenty-nine regional and twenty-six national courses and seminars overseas, attended by more than 1,300 participants.
Until fiscal 1981, EDI training had been available in English, Spanish, and French only; in that year, the first courses were developed for China, partly in Chinese. Last year, a new program was launched to make EDI training more effective for Arabic-speaking countries: A course on project planning and implementation was offered in Washington primarily for the local staff of bilateral development-finance institutions in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates and officials from ministries of finance and planning for these and a few other countries. The course was given in English, but selected teaching materials were translated into Arabic. This activity is expected to help other training activities for Arabic-speaking countries in fiscal 1983 and beyond.
Of the other eight courses conducted in Washington, three were given for the first time. A course on urban finance reviewed the practices for generating financial resources for urban development and analyzed the roles and relationships of national and local governments in mobilizing and allocating funds for managing urban growth. A course on regional development planning (in French) discussed techniques for formulating and implementing area and regional plans and integrated programs and
projects for more viable regional and rural/ urban balance. The UN Centre for Regional Development and the Agence Franchise Cooperation et Amenagement are closely involved with the design and execution of this training program. Also given for the first time was a course on irrigation projects that focused on the methods of preparing and appraising irrigation projects and the institutional and operational arrangements necessary for efficient water management.
In addition to the seminar on economic development and its international setting for senior United Nations diplomats that EDI and the United Nations Institute for Training and Research conducted in Washington for the fourth consecutive year, EDI held a similar seminar for diplomats posted in Washington, which had the dual objective of making The World Bank better known and of broadening knowledge of current international development issues. EDI also continued its assistance to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) by organizing two more training seminars on investment-oriented work for UNDP resident representatives and their deputies.
In the development-banking sector, a seminar for chief executives of development banks was held and a training seminar for managers of development-banking institutions was repeated in cooperation with the Association of Development Finance Institutions in Asia and the Pacific (ADFIAP).
The other major area of effort in Washington was in the form of two short training seminars for teachers, both in French, one for Tunisian directors of training programs in project analysis and management, the other for staff of African training agencies in the field of rural development. EDI also organized a two-stage seminar on training methodologies, in Spanish, for training institutions in Latin America and Europe.
In Africa, EDI cosponsored four regional courses for francophone countries: in development banking, as part of a continuing program with the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the Association of African Development Finance Institutions; in rural project organization and management with the AfDB; in transportation projects with the AfDB and the Ecole Nationale Superieure des Travaux Publics de Yamoussoukro; and a first-time program of
national economic-management courses with the Centre Ouest-Africain de Formation et d'Etudes Bancaires. A regional seminar held in Ivory Coast, on planning, execution, and operation of water-supply and sanitation projects, was cosponsored by EDI and the Centre de Formation Internationale a la Gestion des Resources en Eau, and a national seminar in French was conducted in Niger on rural-development project management with the cosponsorship of the Government of Niger. EDI also continued with the program of assistance on structural-adjustment policy seminars for African countries that was begun in fiscal 1981. One such seminar for francophone African countries was held in Cameroon under the sponsorship of The World Bank's Africa departments and the International Monetary Fund. This series of seminars is to continue in fiscal 1983.
In Asia, eleven regional courses were held: EDI, together with the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, gave a new course on integrated transportation that emphasized inland-waterway transport and coastal shipping for South Asian and East Asian countries. The second in a series of regional courses on the organization and financial aspects of power projects was held in Korea in cooperation with the Asian Development Bank and the Korea International Economic Institute. EDFs cooperation with the UN Centre for Human Settlements (UNCHS) continued with the first regional course in Asia (held in Sri Lanka) on improving the urban habitat. EDI conducted a course for officials of Asian countries with the Sri Lankan health authorities on population, health, and development. Other regional courses included training programs, held in India and the Philippines, for officials of development banks that are associated with ADFIAP. The program is being supported by the UNDP, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, and the German Foundation for International Development. EDI's program with the University of the Philippines at Los Banos and the Southeast Asian Regional Centre for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture continued with a course on rural project organization and management. EDI assisted the International Development Center of Japan with an industrial-projects course for participants invited from selected countries in Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America. A course on planning, execution, and operation of water-supply and sanitation projects was held in India with the World Health Organization.
A seminar on primary health care was held in China for Asian countries in collaboration with the World Health Organization and the United
Nations Children's Fund. EDI continued its program of assistance to national training activities in China with the Department of Personnel and Education of the Ministry of Finance. Four courses were held: power projects, transportation projects, national economic management, and development banking.
Other national-level training activities in Asia included three courses on development-policy analysis and investment decisions with the administrative staff colleges of India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. EDI assisted the National Institute of Development Administration in Thailand with a course on rural development projects and supported the Bank's East Asia Projects Department with a seminar in the Philippines on the preparation of education projects.
EDI and the Arab Planning Institute conducted an agroindustrial projects course in Tunisia for Middle East and North African countries. In Egypt, EDI continued its support of the Institute of National Planning with courses on industrial and agricultural projects and a seminar on industrial project analysis.
In Latin America, EDI continued its support of the training unit of the Association of Argentine Banks (ADEBA) and the Centro de Treina-mento para o Desenvolvimento Economico (CENDEC) in Brazil. A course on economic development policies was cosponsored with ADEB A; those on environmental health (water supply) and rural development projects were cosponsored with CENDEC. In Colombia, EDI and UNCHS conducted a first course for Latin American countries on improving the urban habitat. EDI, together with the Instituto Nacio-nal de Fomento Municipal and the Universidad de los Andes, cosponsored a regional seminar on water-supply and sanitation projects.
In fiscal 1982, EDI gave technical-assistance support for eighteen regional and national courses and seminars conducted by other institutions involving the design of curricula and the identification of lecturers and training materials. In some instances, EDI also provided one to two weeks of teaching support.
Requests for EDI's training materials (such as case studies and course notes) increased by 10 percent over the year before; approximately 45,000 items were distributed to training institutions, international organizations, universities, development banks, government agencies, libraries, and consulting firms. Four books that grew out of its teaching activities were published by the Institute during the year, including two translations. In addition to continuing its translations of training materials into French and Spanish, sixty teaching documents were translated into Chinese for EDI's extensive program
in China. The past year also marked the beginning of a program for the translation of some 2,000 pages of teaching materials into Arabic for use in training institutions in the Middle East.
During fiscal 1982, work was completed on the evaluations of EDI training programs in the Philippines and Pakistan. These evaluations form a continuing series of independent assessments of the effectiveness of EDI's cooperative overseas-training effort.
Technical Assistance
The Bank provides technical assistance through more channels than is generally known. In fiscal 1982, by far the primary channel continued to be the technical-assistance component of loans. During the year, technical-assistance components, including financing for supervision, implementation, and engineering services, topped the $1,000 million mark for the first time, reaching $1,151 million; it had been $979 million the year before. Among the larger technical-assistance components were one of $80.7 million in a $185 million mining loan to Indonesia, one of $13.64 million in a $20 million industrial loan to Morocco, one of $7.9 million in an $8 million urban development loan to the Philippines, one of $7.3 million in an $8 million energy credit to Benin, and one of $3.1 million in a $6.3 million transport credit to the Comoros.
In addition, eleven free-standing technical-assistance loans and credits were approved for a total of $72.5 million. Thirteen such loans and credits were approved in 1981 for a total of $131.1 million.
The preparation stage in the project cycle is the one at which the Bank is often called upon to provide its borrowers with technical assistance. The Bank has been responding since 1975 through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), under which it advances funds to prospective borrowers to meet gaps in project preparation and for institution building. During fiscal 1982, new and supplemental advances from the PPF amounted to $31.3 million. In response to increasing demand, an additional $35 million of PPF net commitment authority was authorized in August 1981. As a result of the growing amount of advances refinanced under loans and credits, the PPF is now defined in terms of net commitment authority. At the end of the fiscal year, net commitment authority stood at $99.5 million, of which $64 million had already been committed.
The Bank continued to serve as executing agency for projects financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP); the number in progress at the end of the year stood at 132, down from 138 a year earlier. The technical assistance provided under these projects
exceeds $168 million. Some thirty-seven new projects, involving commitments of $41.8 million, were approved during the year; in fiscal 1981, the number was thirty-eight, with commitments of $41.7 million.
Although UNDP-financed, Bank-executed projects related to a number of activities and sectors, energy was particularly prominent.
In addition to the diagnosis of major energy problems of some sixty developing countries that is being carried out under the auspices of the joint World Bank/UNDP Energy Assessment Program, funding was approved for a $1.25 million project of testing and demonstration in several developing countries of renewable-energy technologies, a follow-up to a research study. In addition, the UNDP has agreed to join in financing the first of a series of power and energy-sector courses to be organized by the Bank's Economic Development Institute for officials of countries in the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa region. Another source, the UN Trust Fund for Sudano-Sahelian Activities (administered by the UNDP), will help to finance an energy-assessment mission to Niger.
Two initiatives in the Caribbean are worthy of note. A Caribbean Project Development Facility was established, for which $4.5 million is being provided by the UNDP and a number of multilateral and bilateral sources. The Bank is the executing agency of the Facility, but administration will, in fact, be the responsibility of the IFC. The UNDP also is providing the framework under which a Resident Mission will be established in Antigua to assist seven less-developed countries of the Eastern Caribbean in economic management and investment rationalization. The mission will be headed by the Bank and financed by bilateral and multilateral sources.
During the year, the Bank also refined an arrangement, to be effective in fiscal 1983, under which it will be prepared to place and fund up to twenty staff in technical assistance-adviser positions in IDA-eligible countries. This initiative is an outgrowth of the Bank's report on sub-Saharan Africa, which highlighted the need for external technical assistance.
The past year witnessed further expansion in technical assistance leading toward improved planning and development management. While the Bank continued to serve as executing agency for UNDP-financed projects in this area, the fastest growth was recorded in projects either being, or which will be, financed directly by the Bank. Currently, the Bank is either financing directly or serving as the executing agency for technical-assistance projects in national or regional planning and development management in Burundi, the Comoros, Djibouti,
Guinea, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Korea, Lesotho, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, Philippines, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Upper Volta, Yemen Arab Republic, Zaire, and Zambia.
Reimbursable technical assistance.The Bank's technical cooperation is provided to capital-surplus developing countries in the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa region on a reimbursable basis when the annual work program exceeds one staffyear, such as in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and Oman, and on a nonreimbursable basis, when it falls below one staffyear, such as in Bahrain. In fiscal 1982, reimbursable technical assistance exceeded twenty-nine staffyears.
Saudi Arabia received more than twenty-six staffyears of technical assistance, thus comprising about 90 percent of the 1982 program. The activities covered various sectors and subsectors and were provided to several ministries and agencies. Oman received more than two staffyears of technical assistance, mainly for the establishment of a manpower-planning unit in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour, with related projects on rural training and minimum-wage studies. The Kuwait technical-cooperation program consisted of Bank provision of about one staffyear of technical assistance, mainly on the master plan of Al-Subiyah New Town.
Nonreimbursable technical assistance was also provided in response to ad hoc requests, such as assistance in the preparation of Bahrain's national accounts, as well as a basic-needs study.
Interorganizational Cooperation
In a period of severe constraints on development financing, particularly for concessional aid, the need for more effective coordination among aid-giving institutions, multilateral and bilateral, is strong. Cooperation with other organizations, whose expertise in specific fields complements the Bank's competence, is in the best interests of the Bank's membership. Some of the contacts that have been developed are structured, as for example, the cooperative programs (CPs) with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Education, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (Unesco), the World Health Organization (WHO), and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). Others derive from ad hoc consultations and address specific problems that can best be resolved through interorganizational cooperation. Only a few of the Bank's many and continuous contacts with other organizations are mentioned in this Report.
Consistent with the importance attached to increased lending for energy development, cooperation with organizations active in the
energy sector continued to grow during the year. A major Bank activity was the preparation and follow-up for the United Nations Conference on New and Renewable Sources of Energy, held in Nairobi, Kenya, in August 1981. The Bank presented a paper, "Mobilizing Renewable Energy Technology in Developing Countries: Strengthening Local Capabilities and Research," at the Conference. Under the Nairobi Programme of Action, the Bank and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have undertaken a joint study to estimate the extent of supporting actions and prein-vestment required for new and renewable sources of energy in the developing countries in the 1980s. The study, for consideration by the Interim Committee on New and Renewable Sources of Energy, places investment requirements in the range of $14,000 million, 45 percent in local currency, and concludes that this does not appear to exceed the financial capabilities of the developing countries, assisted by the international community.
The joint World Bank/UNDP Energy Assessment Program will diagnose the major energy problems of some sixty developing countries and evaluate the options for dealing with those problems. The country reports should facilitate the task of decision makers in considering what policy changes might encourage greater production from indigenous sources and greater efficiency in energy use, by assessing investment priorities and by providing a framework for external assistance. By year's end, twenty-four countries were visited by assessment missions, seven of which predated institution of the joint program. The Bank, with the help of the UNDP, has developed a staff capability for this purpose and is rapidly building up cross-country experience in its Energy Assessments Division, which also draws on other units of the Bank, other international or bilateral agencies, and consultants.
On a regional basis, the Bank's relations with African regional or subregional organizations assumed greater importance as a reflection of the priority placed on sub-Saharan Africa and assistance to the poorest developing members of the Bank. In connection with the UN Transport and Communications Decade in Africa, under the auspices of the UN Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), the Bank participated in technical meetings of potential donors at which lists of highway and maritime transport-sector projects were reviewed by funding agencies. In cooperation with the ECA, Bank staff conducted seminars on road maintenance for managerial and technical personnel of African highways departments. On the subregional level, the Bank was represented at the Southern African
Development Coordination Conference, at which the importance of development in the transportation sector was highlighted.
The Bank has been actively cooperating with other agencies in Africa in the health sector. It continues to act as fiscal agent for the Onchocerciasis Control Program in West Africa, and contributed $2 million to the Program in 1982. As a result of the program, 654,000 square kilometers, containing a population of 10 million, remain free of the disease. Nevertheless, because of resistance by the vectors to the chemicals used, the overall situation provides no cause for complacency. Planning for the Program continues through 1984.
The health sector is one in which the Bank's cooperation with other multilateral agencies is critical. The Bank's sector missions have drawn systematically upon WHO'S in-country experience, and senior Bank staff have served on a variety of WHO advisory groups. Collaboration between the two organizations continued, particularly in information exchanges and analyses of country health situations. A WHO/Bank health-sector review mission to the Philippines was carried out in association with the Asian Development Bank and the US Agency for International Development. WHO also agreed to act as implementing agency for a three-year, quality-assurance scheme for the Bangladesh Population Program through the provision of experts and technical assistance.
The Bank continued as cosponsor with the UNDP and WHO of the Special Program for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases. The Program, launched in 1975 to bring about a concerted attack on six tropical diseases, now receives support from twenty-five countries. The Bank, which has managed the Program's Trust Fund since its inception, contributed for the first time this past year, in the amount of $2.4 million.
In the population sector, close operational cooperation was maintained with the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA). Regular consultations were held through the year, and there was collaboration in the field, particularly in countries to which both agencies already provide major program support, as in Bangladesh, Egypt, India, and Thailand; and where Bank assistance is planned, as in Pakistan and Nepal. Special attention was devoted to the possibility of accommodating within Bank projects activities that UNFPA had planned but was unable to fund. The Bank participated in the semiannual UNFPA Inter-Agency Coordination Committee and collaborated with UNFPA in a study of assistance for contraceptive research.
Collaboration with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) was primarily at the
field level, where UNICEF has valuable experience in primary health care, nutrition, and community programs.
The Bank currently chairs the UN Administrative Committee on Coordination's Sub-Committee on Nutrition, which comprises twelve United Nations agencies and eleven bilateral aid agencies. The Sub-Committee encourages coordination of nutrition activities among international agencies and is promoting collaborative research on the effectiveness of measures to alleviate malnutrition.
Ten years after the Stockholm Conference on the Environment, interagency cooperation in the environmental sector is worldwide. The Bank maintained its close collaborative relationship with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Its Office of Environmental Affairs continued to monitor UNEP's Regional Seas Programme and collaborated with UNEP in producing environmental guidelines for industry. The Bank continued to take part in the work of the Committee of International Development Assistance Institutions on the Environment, which coordinates the activities of the ten multilateral signatories to the Declaration on Environmental Policies and Practices. The Bank, through the Committee, or bilaterally, has assisted those institutions to strengthen their capacity for dealing with the environmental dimensions of development.
The Office of Environmental Affairs has worked with WHO on guidelines for environmental health in the development process and in advising the Ecological Panel of the Onchocerciasis Program; with UNICEF on a film that demonstrates the importance of the environment in relation to herbal medicine; with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), in helping to improve its capacity for dealing with environmental issues; with the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD to strengthen and harmonize the environmental policies and procedures of bilateral aid agencies; with the Commission of the European Communities to help set up an office to handle environmental work; with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on technical issues relating to occupational health and safety, including training for member countries; with the Organization of American States (OAS) on matters relating to oil pollution in the Caribbean and on integrated, multisectoral resources-planning techniques; and with bilateral aid agencies on training materials, environmental-impact assessments, and matters relating to the environment in recipient countries.
In the agriculture sector, The World Bank has worked closely with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). Since
IFAD's establishment in 1978, the Bank has cofi-nanced or appraised fifty-four IFAD projects, slightly more than half that Fund's project total. During fiscal 1982, eight cofinancing arrangements were concluded, and another eight projects appraised by the Bank were approved by IFAD's Board. Seventeen appraisals were handled during the fiscal year.
In fiscal 1982, the Bank's relations with the ILO expanded. Increased ILO involvement in general vocational training, specific sector-related training, and management/supervisory training is under consideration. Of specific interest for Bank projects is ILO's development of the Modules of Employable Skills (MES) systems for skills training and the recently adopted modular approach to management training. Greater use of ILO facilities for design, supply, and procurement of training equipment is also envisaged.
The Bank continued to meet 75 percent of the costs of the Cooperative Programs with FAO, Unesco, WHO, and UNIDO. Its aggregate share during the past year amounted to $9,535,500.
In the eighteen years since its establishment, the Bank/FAO Cooperative Program has participated in the formulation of some 300 Bank-assisted projects. During fiscal year 1982, the CP fielded 109 missions in thirty-eight countries. It collaborated in the preparation of nearly one-third of all agricultural and rural development projects approved for Bank financing.
The CP with Unesco provided assistance for sixty missions to forty countries, mainly for sector work and project preparation. It continued to assist borrowers with project-completion work and to help staff on Bank project-appraisal and supervisory missions. The Bank maintained close contact with the Unesco Statistical Office, provided a member to the Board of the International Institute for Educational Planning, and exchanged views with other units of Unesco, particularly with the Science Policy Division. A joint Bank/Unesco review of the CP is under way to identify major weaknesses and constraints in the CP and to suggest ways by which the CP might better meet member-country needs.
During fiscal year 1982, the Bank/WHO Cooperative Program undertook fifty-seven missions. Most emphasized training and health education, following an informal agreement with WHO to work towards a change in the CP work program away from its original emphasis on sector and project-preparation work in the water and sanitation field toward more health-related activities. Future collaboration will aim at providing assistance in the evaluation of community health activities related to water-supply and sanitation services and in the identification -j   of actions required to improve their efficiency.
Bank/UNIDO CP staff carried out, or took part in, nineteen missions in support of Bank-initiated sectoral studies and project work in various countries. They also provided support for UNIDO activities in connection with investment cooperation and technical assistance. While continuing to devote attention to the problems of small-scale enterprises in manufacturing and construction industries, CP staff also examined issues relating to development of agroindustry, textiles, and export-processing zones. During the past year, the Bank and UNIDO completed a joint review of the CP and agreed to shift the focus of its activities from joint operational missions to coordinating functions. The CP will seek to develop collaboration essentially around programs in which UNIDO and the Bank are already engaged, for more effective utilization of the comparative strengths of both institutions and, incidentally, at some economy of costs.
Cooperation between the Bank and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) active in development assistance gained significant momentum during the year. Two workshops were held with selected NGOs to discuss possible operational relations in the sectors of urban development and education and training. The Bank-NGO Committee met to take stock of progress and plan future directions of The World Bank's dialogue with nongovernmental organizations. Within the Bank, guidelines were issued inviting staff to encourage cooperation between borrowers and NGOs in the field. A number of cases in which NGOs have played a variety of roles in World Bank-financed projects have been identified.
Cooperation in agricultural research. The development and application of new technologies for food production have played a critical role in assuring that output has more than kept pace with population growth. In the last twenty years, global grain supplies have roughly doubled, and the increase in low-income and middle-income countries actually exceeded that in the developed countries. In previous periods, expansion in crop area was the source of most incremental production in the developing world. Recent increases, however, have come largely from higher yields associated with improved technology.
Farm technologies that increase productivity will become even more important in the future. Additional food production required to meet projected population growth has been estimated by the Bank and others to be about 2 percent a year—considerably less than the rate of increase in food supplies achieved consistently for the last thirty years. Somewhat larger supplies will be required as a result of rising incomes, especially
as the latent demand of those currently malnourished is met. The challenge for developing countries will be twofold. First, the output of the poor, who are themselves extremely food insecure, must be stepped up through providing access to appropriate and economic technical advances. At the same time, there must be no slackening of the global effort to ensure that the additional food tonnages required each year— about 25 million tons in the 1980s compared with only about 10 million tons in the 1960s—continue to be available.
The international research centers supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) have been pivotal factors in past successes, and their work will remain vital. The Bank, with the FAO and the UNDP, sponsors the CGIAR, an informal association of donor countries, private foundations, international and regional development institutions, and countries representing the various regions of the developing world. The Group's purpose is to support research to develop technology that will make it possible for the developing countries to produce more food. Its thirty-four donor members will be providing grants amounting to about $150 million in calendar 1982 to thirteen international agricultural research institutions. The Bank is expected to contribute some $16.3 million in calendar 1982.
The network of activities supported by the Group includes nine international research institutes, all based in developing countries and staffed and equipped to high international standards. These institutes carry out research on all important food crops, on livestock, and farming systems. They also maintain an important training function. In addition, the Group supports a worldwide effort to collect, conserve, and use genetic materials and supports research on rice by an association of West African governments and research on food policy. Technical assistance is also provided to developing countries in the design and implementation of their own agricultural-research systems.
In 1976, five years after its establishment, the CGIAR conducted a review of all aspects of its operations. It has recently completed a second major review, the purpose of which was to provide the CGIAR with a strategy for the next decade—in terms of objectives, policies, the range of activities to be supported, and the level of funding. The review reaffirmed the basic objectives of the CGIAR, concluding that although the primary focus should continue to be on food commodities, due attention should be paid to nutritional needs and equity in the distribution of the benefits of research and to the development of improved technologies. Close collaboration with national programs in
developing countries and advanced research institutions throughout the world was also recommended. The review stressed the overriding importance of maintaining the impetus and continuity of the centers' research and urged donors to safeguard the future funding of the institutions at levels commensurate with their potential to contribute to the alleviation of problems of food supply and malnutrition. The review also concluded that, since the CGIAR was playing an important role in fostering agricultural development, there was likely to be a continuing need for its services for a considerable time to come.
Economic Research and Studies
The World Bank devotes roughly $16 million a year, or about 3 percent of its administrative budget, to economic and social research. Since the formal inception of the research program ten years ago, 138 research projects have been completed, while 141 are in progress. Thirty-three new projects were started in fiscal 1982.
Research is undertaken by the Bank's own research staff, usually in collaboration with other researchers. Except in collaborative projects, the Bank does not provide funds to outside institutions or individuals for economic and social research.
The program of research is shaped by the Bank's own needs as a lending institution and as a source of polity advice to member governments, and by the needs of member countries. Its main purposes are to gain new insights into the development process, to introduce new techniques or methodologies into country, sector, and project analyses, to provide the analytical bases for major Bank documents such as the World Development Report, and to help strengthen indigenous research capacity in member developing countries.
During the past year, changes were made in the organization of resources devoted to research. Applied research on matters of immediate operational relevance will now account for a somewhat larger share of the Bank's research portfolio than hitherto and will be managed within the Operations complex. It is intended also to give greater weight than in the past to two objectives: improvement in the Bank's capacity to give policy advice to its members and assistance in developing indigenous research capacity in member countries.
To further the latter objective, the Bank's criteria for selecting research projects were modified further to encourage collaborative projects involving researchers in the Bank and in institutions in developing countries and projects that include provisions for extended visits (six to twelve months) by researchers from developing
countries to the Bank or by Bank researchers to research institutions in developing countries. Notable among the newer collaborative projects is one on aspects of economic reform in China. Five Chinese researchers will work with counterparts at the Bank in designing a program of joint research. This program will include the construction and use of a macroeconomic model; there is to be a general emphasis on transferring up-to-date techniques that will be useful to Chinese planners.
Africa, energy, structural adjustment. In the research started during the year, greater emphasis than in the past was given to work on Africa and on energy issues, and a research program on structural adjustment was launched. Of the new studies on Africa, one in Mali is measuring the demand for health care and schooling in rural areas so as to draw conclusions about the potential for recurrent-cost financing of such services. As they are now constituted and financed, health care and schooling would be impossibly expensive to extend to the whole rural population. A large project on the economic consequences of the coffee boom in East Africa will use computable general-equilibrium models to trace the effects of changes in macro policy down to the micro level, drawing lessons for government policy and the form of external assistance. Another study reviews the experience of sub-Saharan Africa over the past twenty years to identify the types of domestic policies and external factors that can be expected to have the greatest effects on the growth of national income.
In the area of energy, research is being done to improve the Bank's forecasting of the demand for energy in oil-importing developing countries—a demand that affects not only the growth prospects of these countries, but also, through the world energy market, conditions in the world economy at large. Another study seeks to identify the types of tax and contractual arrangements that will enable a country to attract foreign firms to explore for and produce oil, while retaining a worthwhile share of the rent for its nationals. Other new projects include two on Indonesia—one to help plan the development of electric power and one to trace the implications for different socioeconomic groups of changes in domestic energy prices.
The new research program on structural adjustment contains two projects now well under way. The first is studying how oil-importing countries with various characteristics can adjust to external shocks, and is examining how domestic savings, investment, and budgetary performance respond to these shocks given different choices of domestic policy. The second of these projects addresses the long-run develop-
ment options and problems facing the "capital-deficit" oil-exporting countries, whose oil revenues may be short-lived but must be used to promote sustained economic development.
Applications of research. A separate provision is made in the research budget for the funding of research applications in which analytical techniques developed in previous research are transferred for use in other countries or circumstances and are developed further in the process. These applications, which generally require further conceptual work from the original researchers, are separate from applications of research results made in the normal course of operational work and are funded from operational budgets. One approved in the past year is the modification of a large-scale model of the Indus basin in Pakistan for use in evaluating planning components of a command water-management project being planned by the Bank. One of the objectives of this application is to enhance the capability of local agencies for planning and managing more efficient programs for irrigated agriculture. Within the Bank, research-application funds were used to help establish a unit to support operational work on industrial incentives and comparative advantage in borrowing countries. The unit will distill the Bank's experience and quantitative research in this area and will advise staff on methods, computer programs and software, and on policy implications.
Research projects in progress are described in an annual publication, Abstracts of Current Studies: The World Bank Research Program. The results of completed research appear in a variety of formats, including articles in professional journals, books published under World Bank auspices or by independent publishers, and World Bank Staff Working Papers. The World Bank Catalog of Publications provides information on publications issued by, or on behalf of, The World Bank. The thrice-yearly bulletin, "World Bank Research News," now in its third year, gives news of research projects being started, describes the findings of studies as they are completed, and generally includes an article surveying a particular area of Bank research. It is distributed to all operational staff within the Bank and to more than 6,000 individuals in governments, research institutions, and other organizations in the field of development.
Operations Evaluation
During fiscal 1982, The World Bank's system for evaluating its operations was further strengthened in its two basic dimensions of accountability and learning. The coverage and quality of project-completion reports (PCRs) continued to improve, and borrowers have made
increasing contributions to such reports. Borrowers have also commented on most project-performance audits prepared by the independent Operations Evaluation Department (OED). Project-evaluation capacities in several borrowing countries were strengthened with support from the Bank and OED. Several borrowers' representatives visited OED for associative training and attended sessions on monitoring and evaluation in courses arranged by the Economic Development Institute.
The number of project-performance audits rose to 124 in fiscal 1982, reflecting the increase in Bank lending in the early and mid-1970s, thus bringing the cumulative total of completed projects evaluated by OED to 782. The number of project-completion reports submitted by the Bank's operating departments to OED is expected to grow further in the near future to a level of about 200 a year.
To improve the effectiveness of the resources applied to the Bank's operations-evaluation system, the Executive Directors decided to adopt, starting in fiscal 1983, a selective system of project-performance auditing. Under the modified system, member governments would continue to receive staff reports on the outcome of all completed projects. All reports will continue to be scrutinized, but only about 60 percent of these projects would henceforth be subjected to performance audit by OED. Borrowers' comments will continue to be sought, however, for all completed projects. The criteria for selection and their application would be subject to continuing review by the Joint Audit Committee of the Executive Directors.
The new system of selective auditing would not jeopardize the integrity of the Bank's project-evaluation system. There is ample evidence that project-completion reporting by operational staff is now firmly established in the Bank and that major inadequacies in completion reporting or in identifying issues of general interest would be spotted by OED's evaluation officers, who, as mentioned earlier, would continue to scrutinize all PCRs.
The ultimate objective of Bank evaluation continues to be to identify and disseminate lessons that can contribute to improvements in the design and implementation of future Bank-supported projects. By bringing together experience with similar projects, lessons can be more readily drawn and more effectively confirmed and disseminated. The Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results continues, as in the past, to be a valuable mechanism for summarizing experience by sector and, through a process of review with operating staff, bringing
that experience to bear on the design of future projects.
OED's seventh Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results vvas published in December 1981. It dealt with the experience of eighty-seven operations supported by IBRD loans and IDA credits. The total amount of IBRD and IDA finance provided for these projects was approximately $1,600 million; the total cost of the projects assisted was approximately $4,900 million. As in earlier reviews, the Seventh Review concluded that these projects were, with few exceptions, either successful in achieving their principal objectives or well on the way to doing so, and that they had contributed substantially to the development of both material and human resources in the countries concerned.
However, more than half of the projects were changed during implementation and experienced time and cost overruns. The dominant reason for these changes was the high rate of inflation in the mid-1970s, which often led to a reduction in project scope in order to keep down total expenditures. Some of these changes reflected built-in flexibility in design and implementation management; but there were others that were judged as having deficient project preparation and design. A number of projects were also affected by weak management, general instability of economic conditions, and political changes in the countries in which they were located. Many of the lessons of these projects are similar to those noted in earlier reviews: the importance of full understanding and agreement between the Bank and borrower on project objectives and the institutional arrangements for achieving them; project designs that are realistic and responsive to local conditions; and borrower policies that are conducive to the success of the project within a longer-term plan of development.
Parallel with the project-performance auditing system, OED continued to prepare special studies. A number of such studies were completed during fiscal 1982; they were reviewed by the Joint Audit Committee of the Executive Directors, and some were also discussed in the full Board.
The Joint Audit Committee maintains continuing oversight of the OED work program and of its effectiveness. The conclusions of the Joint Audit Committee, the annual report of the Director-General, Operations Evaluation, on the status of the Bank's evaluation system, and OED's Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results were all reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Internal Auditing
The Internal Auditing Department (IAD) performs an independent appraisal function established within The World Bank to examine and evaluate its activities as a service to the Bank with particular emphasis on examining and evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank's system of internal control. Such an appraisal function is accomplished through operational audits of the financial and operating systems and procedures used in the conduct and management of the Bank's operations. IAD's overall objective is to assist department directors and managers at other levels in the effective discharge of their responsibilities by furnishing them with periodic reports on independent audits and appraisals carried out on activities within their areas of responsibility, including identifying possible means of improving the efficiency and economy of operations and the use of resources.
The work program designed to achieve this objective covers a broad range of activities— financial, accounting, administrative, data processing, and the supervisory aspects of Bank loans under disbursement. Some of these activities are reviewed annually, others biennially or less frequently depending upon the materiality or risk aspects of the activity. IAD is also occasionally requested by the management of the Bank to undertake special assignments.
In the performance of each operational audit, IAD's examination and evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems, procedures, and internal controls used in the conduct and management of an activity include the review and determination of the reliability and integrity of financial and operating information and the means used to identify, measure, classify, and report such information. IAD also reviews the systems established to ensure compliance with those governing agreements, instruments, and related decisions, regulations, policies, plans, and procedures that could have a significant impact on operations and reports, and determines the extent of such compliance. The means of safeguarding Bank assets from various types of losses are also reviewed. IAD's scope of each audit also includes, where appropriate, an appraisal of the efficiency and economy with which resources are used.
The audits of project supervision and electronic data-processing (EDP) systems form an important part of the Department's work pro-
gram. Project-supervision activities are selected for audit on a sectoral/regional basis and are reviewed in the light of existing policies and guidelines established by the Bank. The EDP-systems audits include the review of controls, security, and efficiency of computer facilities and information-processing systems in operation and those under development. IAD's involvement in new EDP-information systems before they become operational provides a timely and cost-effective opportunity for an independent assessment of the operational and control aspects of such systems.
In recent years, the review work of IAD has included visits to selected countries to review the auditing standards applied by borrowers' external auditors, to review internal-auditing and financial-reporting standards of selected borrowers, and to recommend appropriate technical-assistance programs to upgrade national auditing and accounting education and practices in countries where they might be needed.
IAD has no direct responsibility for developing and implementing changes in systems, procedures, and internal controls in the Bank that it would be expected to review in a subsequent audit. However, IAD does have the responsibility for following up the implementation of its recommendations and advising Bank management where such recommendations are not being acted upon and the effects or risks associated with such inaction.
In carrying out each assignment, the Director and staff of the Department have unrestricted access to all Bank records, documents, and personnel relevant to the activity under review. Where relevant, IAD coordinates its work with the Bank's external auditors and makes its working papers and reports available to assist them in planning and coordinating their examinations of the annual financial statements of the Bank.
The IAD reports administratively to the Senior Vice President, Finance, but, in order to enhance its independence, the Director also has direct access to the President and to the Joint Audit Committee of the Executive Directors. The results of each audit undertaken are reported to the department directors, vice presidents, and others concerned as it is considered appropriate. Liaison is maintained with the Joint Audit Committee, which also reviews selected reports of the IAD, reviews the Department's annual work program, and receives periodic briefings on its activities.
Bank Finances
Income, Expenditures, and Reserves: IBRD
The IBRD's gross revenues, generated primarily from its loans and investments, reached a total of $3,372 million in fiscal 1982, up $373 million, or 12.4 percent, from last year. Gross revenues have risen steadily during the last decade as loan and investment balances have continued to expand.
The outstanding loan portfolio totaled $29,168 million at the end of the fiscal year, an increase of $3,210 million over fiscal 1981. The average interest rate on outstanding loans during the year was 7.6 percent, producing income of $2,161 million. In addition, commitment charges on undisbursed loan balances produced $191 million, and front-end fees, earned on new loans negotiated after January 5, 1982, $39 million. Altogether, the income on loans was $2,391 million. In fiscal 1981, the average interest rate was 7.5 percent, interest income was $1,987 million, and commitment charges were $177 million, for a total of $2,164 million.
The IBRD's lending rate for fiscal 1982 was determined on the basis of a general guideline that provided for a spread of Vi of 1 percent above the cost of borrowing, which is estimated for a twelve-month period, using the actual cost of borrowing for the past six months and the estimated costs for the succeeding six months. Under the policy, the lending rate has been adjusted at least once a year and more often, as necessary. In fact, reviews of the lending rate have taken place every quarter but two since the policy was adopted in July 1979. The lending rate at the beginning of the fiscal year was 9.6 percent. On loans for which Board documentation was circulated after July 7, the lending rate was set at 10.6 percent. From September 1981 through the end of fiscal 1982, the lending rate was 11.6 percent.
Early in calendar 1982, a front-end fee of 1.5 percent was introduced on new loan commitments. The measure was designed to forestall any potential decline in the IBRD's income over the medium term primarily as a result of volatility in the movements in interest rates and exchange rates. As income prospects may change under the influence of future interest-rate and exchange-rate movements, the new charge will be reviewed on a quarterly basis, along with a review of the IBRD lending rate.
IBRD borrowers have been offered the option of "capitalizing" the front-end fee, thus allowing the additional burden to be stretched over the life of the loan.
As fiscal 1982 ended, recommendations for further changes in the IBRD's lending policies— changes that would permit the IBRD to move away from fixed-rate lending, which might be deemed necessary if the IBRD were to borrow at variable rates—were placed before the Executive Directors for approval. Board discussion on these changes, as well as on changes in borrowing practices that would permit the IBRD to make use of short-term or variable-rate instruments was scheduled for early in fiscal 1983. The variable-rate pricing mechanism would substantially reduce the risk to the Bank and its borrowers that occurs under the current system, in which there is a lag between the making of loan commitments and the financing of such commitments.
The IBRD aims at maintaining a liquid position of marketable short-term assets equal to 40 percent of estimated net cash requirements for the subsequent three years. This liquidity policy is designed to permit the IBRD to meet adequately its cash requirements in case borrowing operations are temporarily affected by adverse conditions in the capital markets. At June 30, 1982, liquid assets aggregated $9,394 million net of commitments for settlements and cash collateral received on loaned securities, an increase of $1,023 million over fiscal 1981. The IBRD invests its liquid assets throughout the year. In fiscal 1982, these investments yielded an average realized rate of return of 11.25 percent and generated $954 million of investment income.
An additional $27 million of revenues was derived from other income.
Expenditures of the IBRD, which include administrative expenses, interest, contributions to special programs, and issuance costs on borrowings, totaled $2,775 million, up 16.2 percent from last year. Costs associated with the IBRD's increased borrowings—interest of $2,456 million and bond-issuance charges and other financial expenses of $6 million—were by far the major expenditures. Administrative costs totaled $290 million, up $35 million, after deducting $193 million for the management fee charged to the International Development Association and $3.8 million for the service-and-support fee charged to the International Finance Corporation.
Net income for fiscal 1982 was $598 million, down $12 million from the year before. The 2 percent decline was due primarily to higher interest charges on IBRD borrowings. To a lesser degree, increased administrative expenses and contributions to special programs also figured in the decline in net income for the year.
During fiscal 1982, $264 million was added to the General Reserve of the IBRD, bringing the total to $2,831 million. Of the $610 million in net income earned in fiscal 1981, $101 million was allocated by the Board of Governors as a grant to IDA; the remaining $509 million was allocated to the General Reserve.
The IBRD does not trade in any currencies for its own account. Adjustments arising from translation of currencies to US dollar equivalents do not result in realized gains or losses as would occur with actual conversions into US dollars. Because of this, the General Reserve, rather than net income, is charged or credited annually with the amount of adjustment resulting from currency depreciations or appreciations. In fiscal 1982, the translation of currencies into US dollar equivalents resulted in a debit to the General Reserve of $279 million, compared with $582 million debited in fiscal 1981. (A more detailed explanation is provided in the "Notes to Financial Statements.")
When gold was formally abolished in 1978 as a common denominator of the monetary system, the IBRD began expressing its capital stock, for purposes of the financial statements, on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR). As a result, the portion paid in US dollars and the national currency portion of the capital stock released by certain member countries for lending in United States dollars are revalued at the rate of exchange of the US dollar to the SDR. The adjustment resulting from this revaluation is also charged against, or credited to, the General Reserve. In fiscal 1982, these adjustments resulted in a credit to the General Reserve of $34 million, compared with $79 million credited in fiscal 1981.
Other Financial Operations: IBRD
As of June 30, 1982, the IBRD held $61,152 million worth of loans. This amount included $7,005 million of loans approved, but which had not yet become effective, and $882 million of loans to the International Finance Corporation. Loans disbursed and outstanding totaled $29,168 million, including $496 million to the International Finance Corporation.
Disbursements on loans to countries totaled $6,326 million in fiscal 1982, up $1,263 million from last year. Since the IBRD began operations, it has disbursed a total of $44,387 million to its borrowing member countries.
Repayments of principal on the IBRD's loans based on exchange rates at the time of disbursement, amounted to $1,755 million in fiscal 1982. This included $39 million to investors who had purchased portions of loans. Cumulative loan repayments as of June 30, 1982, were $14,221 million: $11,287 million to the IBRD and $2,934 million to purchasers of loans.
Borrowings: IBRD
Borrowings in international capital markets provide a major portion of the funds necessary for the continued growth of the IBRD's lending operations and are supplemented by the other principal financial resources of the IBRD, which are its paid-in capital, accumulated earnings, and loan repayments.
Total borrowings approved by the IBRD in fiscal 1982 amounted to the equivalent of $8,520.5 million. This amount includes the equivalent of $303.9 million for which the agreements to borrow were scheduled to be signed in early July 1982. The amount of approved borrowings was some $3,451.7 million over fiscal 1981 totals. The higher amount reflects the IBRD's requirements resulting from increased disbursements, its desire to maintain substantial liquidity, and the addition of $800 million to the IBRD's lending program for fiscal 1982.
Of the $8,520.5 million borrowed in fiscal 1982, $1,500 million was accounted for by public offerings in the United States market from which the IBRD had been absent since July 1977.
Given the interest-rate differentials between US dollar obligations and those in Swiss francs and Deutsche mark, and the size of the IBRD's borrowing program, the IBRD engaged in several currency-hedged transactions, commonly referred to as currency swaps, during the year. These transactions are viewed as a means of increasing, not substituting, the IBRD's direct access to Swiss francs and Deutsche mark, which it will continue to borrow directly in the capital markets of Switzerland and the Federal Republic of Germany. In fiscal 1982, the IBRD executed hedged transactions aggregating $758 million; $198 million was swapped into Deutsche mark and $560 million into Swiss francs.
In a currency swap, the IBRD borrows a high nominal-cost currency, converts the proceeds of the borrowing into low nominal-cost currencies, while at the same time fully hedging its position in the latter currency through a forward-exchange contract with a third party of the highest credit standing. The forward-exchange contract provides that on established dates, the IBRD will pay to the third party an exact flow of the low nominal-cost currency in exchange for an exact flow of the high nominal-cost currency, thereby receiving, at a known cost, the currency
required to service the IBRD's original borrowing. These transactions result in the IBRD's effectively having borrowed the low nominal-cost currency at a cost no greater than that which it would have paid had it borrowed this currency directly.
During fiscal year 1982, the IBRD also executed, in markets outside the US, its first US dollar/Swiss franc-linked bond issue. The purpose of the issue was to tap a market in which the obligation, while denominated in US dollars, would, in effect, offer the investor the benefit of a Swiss franc asset. The IBRD offered the $100 million Swiss Franc-Linked Bonds 1989 through a syndicate of international banks with Swiss Bank Corporation as lead manager and Credit Suisse and Union Bank of Switzerland as the other managers. The bonds and coupons were denominated in US dollars, but had a Swiss franc value based on the exchange rate established at the time of the offering. Although payments of interest and principal will be made in US dollars, the amount to be paid in each case will be the greater of the dollar face value of the coupons at the rate of 6Vs percent or of the bonds, or the dollar equivalent amount of the Swiss franc value stated on the coupons or the bonds.
By engaging in this type of transaction, the IBRD was able to broaden the base of the Swiss franc market for its borrowings, achieve a lower coupon than the cost of a conventional Swiss franc issue, and reduce its issuance costs. From the investor's point of view, the appeal of the issue was enhanced from a traditional Swiss franc investment by guaranteeing a floor rate of exchange at the time of the issue. Further, the maturity, which was shorter than for traditional public issues denominated in Swiss francs, was of particular interest to Swiss franc-based investors. In addition, by enlarging the syndicate group to include non-Swiss banks, the market for the IBRD's bonds was broadened.
Fiscal year 1982 also was marked by the IBRD's first Eurokrone bond issue; a total of Nkr 100 million ($17.2 million equivalent) was placed with nonresidents of Norway by an international syndicate headed by Den Norske Cre-ditbank.
The IBRD sells its securities through direct placement with governments, government agencies, and central banks, and in the public markets where securities are offered to investors through investment-banking firms, merchant banks, or commercial banks. Of the seventy-five borrowing operations that the IBRD conducted during fiscal 1982, fifty-eight were public issues or private placements throughout the world and accounted for $6,535.5 million, or 77 percent of total funds borrowed. The other seventeen issues, totaling $1,966.9 million, or 23 percent of
the funds raised, were placed with official sources, namely, member governments of the IBRD, central banks, and government institutions.
The IBRD's securities have been placed with investors in more than 100 countries in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, and North and South America. This diversity allows the IBRD flexibility in selecting the markets that will allow optimum borrowing conditions and lessens its dependence on any specific market.
The $8,520.5 million borrowed by the IBRD in fiscal 1982 consisted of the currencies listed in the table above.
Of these borrowings, $7,112.4 million represented new funds, and $1,408.1 million represented refinancing of outstanding borrowings.
A total of $2,633.1 million equivalent of debt matured during the year. Additional debt, aggregating $195.7 million, was retired by means of sinking-fund and purchase-fund operations.
Outstanding obligations of the IBRD increased $4,042 million to $31,840 million as of June 30, 1982. These obligations were denominated in eighteen different currencies and were placed with investors, including central banks and government institutions, in more than 100 countries. A summary classification of outstanding borrowings, by principal source at June 30, 1982, is as follows:
Borrowing Costs: IBRD
The cost of total borrowings by the IBRD in the fiscal year, weighted by amount and maturity, averaged 10.93 percent, compared with 9.1 percent in the previous year. The cost in fiscal 1982, weighted by amount only, was 11.19 percent. The average cost of all funds to the Bank, including paid-in capital and accumulated earnings, was about 6.7 percent. The cost of the IBRD's average outstanding borrowings was 8.15 percent.
The cost of the IBRD's average outstanding borrowings for each of the past six fiscal years is here summarized:
Capitalization
The capital stock of the IBRD and the subscriptions thereto of its members are expressed, under the Articles of Agreement, in terms of the United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944 (1944 dollars). Until 1971, the current United States dollar had the same value as the 1944 dollar and the special drawing right (SDR), which was instituted in 1969. In 1972, the current dollar value of the 1944 dollar and the SDR increased to $1.08571, and in 1973 to $1.20635, as the result of devaluations of the dollar. Until mid-1974, both the 1944 dollar and the SDR continued to be valued in gold and had the same gold value. Thus, on July 1, 1974, the value of the SDR, expressed in terms of United States dollars, was $1.20635, which was the equivalent of one 1944 dollar.
Since July 1, 1974, when a valuation method for the SDR that was based on a number of major currencies was adopted, the value of the SDR has fluctuated daily against the US dollar. The current dollar value of the 1944 dollar, on the other hand, was deemed to remain fixed at the rate established by the US par-value legislation of 1973.
Since the effectiveness on April 1,1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), currencies no longer have par values, and the basis for translating the 1944 dollar into current United States dollars no longer exists. The IBRD is examining the implication of this change on the valuation of its capital stock and the impact it will have on its financial statements.
For purposes of the financial statements, the IBRD has expressed the value of its capital stock on the basis of the SDR in terms of United States dollars as computed by the IMF on June 30,1982 ($1.09224 per SDR).
On January 4, 1980, the IBRD's Board of Governors adopted a resolution that increased the authorized capital stock of the IBRD by 331,500 shares; this represents an increase of approximately $40,000 million. The resolution provides for a paid-in portion of 7.5 percent, compared with the 10 percent paid-in portion of existing capital stock. Subscribing members are required to pay 0.75 percent of the subscription price in gold or United States dollars and 6.75 percent in their respective currencies. The Governors also adopted a resolution that increased the authorized capital stock by an additional 33,500 shares (representing a further increase of approximately $4,000 million) and that authorized each member to subscribe to 250 shares of this additional capital, none of which must be paid in. Subscriptions authorized by these resolutions were accepted after September 1981. Increases in subscriptions authorized by the terms of these resolutions came from the countries listed in the first table (above right) during the year.
Increases in subscriptions during the year authorized by previous resolutions came from the countries listed in the second table.
In addition, new members subscribed the following amounts during the year: Belize (SDR 3.9 million), Bhutan (SDR 0.9 million), and Vanuatu (SDR 3.8 million).
On October 2, 1981, the Bank's Board of Governors adopted a resolution increasing the authorized capital of the IBRD by 11,500 shares to 716,500 shares.
Finances: IDA
The International Development Association (IDA) held a total of $26,119 million in credits on
June 30,1982, including $1,723 million approved but not yet effective and $485 million from exchange adjustments. Of the $24,397 million of effective credits, $9,520 million was undisbursed at the end of the year.
Disbursements totaled $2,067 million in fiscal 1982, compared with $1,878 million last year. As of June 30, 1982, IDA had disbursed a total of $15,143 million.
Disbursements start only some time after approval of a project; IDA's expenses for its work on a project, on the other hand, are highest around the time of approval. It is mainly because the existing 0.75 percent annual service charge on IDA credits has been payable on the disbursed portions only of the credits, that IDA's income, since 1976, has fallen short of its expenses. To correct this imbalance, it was agreed in January 1982 that the service charge would henceforth be payable on the entire credit—0.75 percent on disbursed balances and 0.5 percent on undisbursed balances.
The total resources provided to IDA increased $3,107 million in the period, primarily from subscriptions and contributions to the Sixth Replenishment, which aggregated $3,285 million. The value of resources provided by
members in prior fiscal years decreased by $491 million, mostly the result of currency depreciations. The IBRD granted $101 million to IDA from its fiscal 1981 net income.
Other resources that became available to IDA during the fiscal year totaled $212 million, and were derived primarily from releases by Part II countries and cancellations of, and repayments on, credits.
Foreign and International Bonds: Calendar 1981
Bond markets continued to be strongly influenced by the tightening of credit in the United States that had begun the previous year. However, despite very high and volatile interest rates, there was a remarkable increase in borrowing in the external bond markets in 1981.
Total borrowing in the foreign and international bond markets' amounted to $47,799 million, compared with $38,002 million raised in 1980. Borrowing in the foreign bond market increased from $17,954 million in 1980 to $21,308 million in 1981 due to greater activity in the Japanese and United States capital markets. During the same period, international bond issues increased from $20,049 million to $26,491 million primarily because of an expansion of the dollar-denominated sector of the market.
Foreign bonds. Foreign bonds totaled $21,308 million during 1981,19 percent above the $17,954 million raised in 1980. About 70 percent of all foreign bonds, $14,910 million, were issued by industrial countries, while developing countries raised $1,228 million (6 percent), international organizations $5,044 million (24 percent), and borrowers unallocated by country $125 million (less than 1 percent).
Foreign issues on the United States capital market, totaling $7,576 million, were a little over two-and-one-half times the amount of those in the previous year. The largest amounts were raised by Canadian borrowers. The greater part of the issuing activity was in the first half of the year before borrowing costs had climbed to their highest point in the third quarter. As these costs declined from October to early December, the flow of new issues, including three large operations by the IBRD and one each by the European Investment Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, again became heavy.
The total of foreign bonds issued in Switzerland ($8,130 million), Japan ($2,735 million), and the Netherlands ($486 million) was substantially higher in 1981 than in recent years. While activity on these primary markets was fairly evenly distributed between the two halves of 1981, foreign issues on the United Kingdom market ($911 million), which also rose sharply in amount, were particularly heavy in the earlier part of the year when the cost of borrowing was declining. In contrast, foreign issues on the German market ($1,189 million) fell back in 1981.
During the year, foreign bonds were also issued in these capital markets: Luxembourg ($138 million), France ($90 million), and Belgium ($53 million).
International bonds. International bonds totaled $26,491 million during 1981, 32 percent more than the $20,049 million raised in 1980.
1 The terms foreign and international in this context refer to issues sold outside the country of the borrower: foreign if sold in one national market, international if sold in more than one market simultaneously.
Eighty-one percent of all international bonds ($21,557 million) were issued by industrial countries. The largest amounts were raised by borrowers from the United States ($5,856 million), Canada ($5,018 million), Japan ($2,577 million), and France ($1,992 million).
Borrowing by developing countries during 1981 totaled $2,266 million, 67 percent more than the $1,353 million raised in 1980. Thirteen developing countries raised funds during the year; the largest amounts were obtained by borrowers from Mexico ($1,562 million) and India ($137 million).
Eight international organizations raised $2,487 million. Over 50 percent of this total was raised by the IBRD, the most active borrower.
The volume of international bonds denominated in United States dollars increased from $13,299 million in 1980 to $21,252 million in 1981. Other currencies used in the international market during 1981 were: the Deutsche mark ($1,377 million), the Canadian dollar ($687 million), the pound sterling ($538 million), the French franc ($533 million), the Netherlands guilder ($416 million), the Japanese yen ($408 million), the Kuwaiti dinar ($387 million), the special drawing right ($386 million), the European Currency Unit (ECU)2 ($241 million), the European Unit of Account (EUA) ($126 million), the Norwegian krone ($53 million), gold ($52 million), and the Singapore dollar ($36 million).
Eurocurrency Credits: Calendar 1981
The volume of syndicated loans was nearly double the previous year's level, owing primarily to the billion-dollar credits arranged for those United States corporations involved in a flurry of takeover activities. Altogether, $145,300 million was raised in 1981, an increase of 82 percent over the $79,900 million level in 1980. The industrial countries held 65 percent (894,500 million), the largest share of total volume, while developing countries accounted for 34 percent ($49,500 million) and nonmarket economies' for 0.8 percent ($1,200 million).
Among the developing countries, Mexico ($10,500 million), Brazil ($7,100 million), the Republic of Korea ($3,100 million), and Argentina ($2,900 million) were the most active borrowers. Eurocredit transactions for industrial countries were dominated by the United States ($58,200 million), followed by Italy ($7,100 million), Canada ($5,900 million), Spain ($4,400 million), and France ($3,800 million). Along with the rescheduling of the Polish debt, the economic climate in Eastern Europe dampened borrowing activity in the area. The total raised in 1981 by nonmarket economies and organizations
was $1,200 million, a 47 percent decrease from the 1980 volume.
Industrial countries continued to receive favorable credit conditions. Several entities in Asian countries were also granted fine credit terms, primarily due to the intense competition of Eurobanks in the region. An additional factor was that countries such as Malaysia, Indonesia, and Papua New Guinea possess natural resources, which improves their credit standing. Several Euroloans for these countries carried spreads in the 0.375 percent to 0.625 percent range.
In the Latin American region, high interest rates in the United States and lower commodity prices in world markets took their toll on heavy borrowers. Bankers were careful about lending to countries in the region. Argentina, beset with a troubled economy, had to accept tougher credit terms. Meanwhile, higher costs on Mexican credits reflected the concern about Mexico's level of debt in the midst of falling oil revenues. During the last quarter of the year, spreads on Mexican credits ranged from 0.625 percent to 1.625 percent. Among the most active borrowers in the region, Brazil faced the highest margins. The average weighted spread on Brazilian Euroloans was 2.02 percent.
Borrowing requirements also increased for another oil producer, Nigeria. Debt service in a period of high interest rates compounded the problem of lower income from its oil production.
2 The European Currency Unit (ECU) is the unit of the European Monetary System, a three-year-old system designed by its proponents to promote economic integration among European Community member countries through monetary stability and the convergence of financial and economic policies in participating countries.
The ECU, established in 1979, is currently identical to the European Unit of Account (EUA). which it superseded, in currency composition. It consists of a basket of currencies of nine countries: Belgium, Denmark. France. Federal Republic of Germany. Ireland. Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. The EUA. established in 1975, had served as. among others, the numeraire, or denominator, of the European common margins arrangement ("'snake'"), at which time it included fewer currencies, used much narrower margins of fluctuation around par, and was based on a parity grid that lacked a divergence indicator.
The ECU is used as a reserve asset in central banks and as a currency of settlement among the national monetary authorities and the European Fund for Monetary Cooperation. In contrast, the EUA serves only as a unit of account.
The value of the ECU and the EUA is constant over time in terms of the basket of weighted currencies that defines it; the ECU appreciates/depreciates in terms of the component currencies that arc relatively appreciating/depreciating. Debt-service obligations denominated in ECUs. therefore, when translated into any national currency, vary continuously as a function of market exchange rates. Obligations denominated in EUAs. on the other hand, vary in value only at the time of currency realignments; their value remains constant until the moment of next realignment.
-'The nonmarket economies (also referred to as nonmarket industrial economics or nonmarket countries) include these developed European countries: USSR, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunearv, and Poland.
Although a major percentage of all Euroloans still used the traditional LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) as a base rate, a wide variety of base rates (and combinations) appeared in 1981. The United States prime rate, applied either as the single base rate or as an option, continued to be popular, as several borrowers used this method to encourage participation of regional banks in the United States. Currencies for denominating Eurocredits were also diverse, including the use of the European Currency Unit by the Credit National of France.
Foreign and International Bonds: First Quarter, 1982
Borrowing in the foreign and international bond markets during the first quarter of 1982 totaled $19,096 million, as compared with $8,207 million raised in the first quarter of 1981. In the foreign bond market, borrowing increased from $3,865 million in the first quarter of 1981 to $6,404 million during the same period in 1982. Similarly, borrowing in the international bond market increased from $4,342 million in the first three months of 1981 to $12,692 million during the first quarter of 1982.
Foreign bonds. Foreign bonds issued in the United States market during the first three months of 1982 totaled $700 million. The entire amount was raised by Canadian borrowers.
Foreign bonds issued in Switzerland amounted to $3,133 million, or 49 percent of all foreign bonds. The largest amounts were secured by borrowers from Canada ($689 million), Japan ($640 million), and the United States ($381 million).
Borrowing in the Japanese capital markets totaled $995 million. The largest amounts were raised by borrowers from New Zealand, Sweden, and Finland ($87 million each).
Foreign bonds issued in the German capital market amounted to $614 million. The largest amounts were raised by the European Investment Bank ($108 million), the European Economic Community ($85 million), and Australia ($85 million).
International bonds. About 86 percent of all international bonds ($10,944 million) were issued by borrowers from industrial countries. Borrowers from the United States ($3,727 million), France ($1,785 million), Canada ($1,636 million), and Japan ($1,116 million) were the most active.
Developing countries raised $1,089 million, or about 9 percent of total international bonds, while international organizations borrowed $640 million, or about 5 percent.
Eighty-four percent ($10,716 million) of all
international bonds were denominated in United States dollars. Other currencies used in the international market during the first three months of 1982 were: the Deutsche mark ($796 million), the Canadian dollar ($458 million), the Japanese yen ($300 million), the pound sterling ($154 million), the European Currency Unit ($102 million), the Netherlands guilder ($87 million), the Kuwaiti dinar ($67 million), and the European Unit of Account ($12 million).
Eurocurrency Credits: First Quarter 1982
The total volume of Eurocurrency credits arranged during the first quarter of 1982 reached $20,400 million, of which industrial countries accounted for $10,900 million, developing countries $9,000 million, nonmarket economies $100 million, and international organizations $400 million.
Syndicated loan activity was 20 percent higher during the first quarter of 1982 than during the comparative period in 1981; industrial countries increased their borrowing by 28 percent and developing countries raised their borrowing by 10.4 percent.
Among the industrial countries, the most active borrowers were Australia ($2,500 million), Canada ($1,800 million), the United States ($1,700 million), Italy ($1,400 million), and the United Kingdom ($700 million). Borrowing activity among developing countries was led by Venezuela ($1,600 million), Argentina ($1,200 million), Mexico ($800 million), Malaysia ($600 million), and the Republic of Korea ($600 million).
Conditions in the Eurocurrency credit markets during the latter part of 1981 extended into the first quarter of 1982. Spreads on Mexican credits continued an upward climb. Loans during the first months of the year carried margins in the 0.5 percent to 1.875 percent range, the upper end of the spectrum applying to private-sector loans. Some borrowers obtained terms similar to those granted to especially creditworthy industrial countries. The Kingdom of Thailand raised a $50 million, eight-year credit at an 0.5 percent margin over LIBOR. The Malaysian LNG entity completed a $250 million two-tranche credit; the first tranche carried terms of an eight-year maturity and a margin of 0.375 percent over LIBOR, while the second tranche was a tax-spared deal with an 0.0625 percent spread over LIBOR.
Toward the end of the first quarter of 1982, a $300 million loan for the Government of Indonesia was being arranged. This loan featured a ten-year maturity and an 0.375 percent spread over LIBOR.
Chapter Four
1982 Regional Perspectives
REPORT ON SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
The problems besetting African economies and the policy issues involved were the subject of The World Bank's report, Accelerated Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: An Agenda for Action, published in September 1981. This report was prepared at the request of the African Governors of the Bank at the Bank-International Monetary Fund Annual Meetings of 1979.
An Important starting point for the report was the Lagos Plan of Action that was adopted by the Heads of State of the Organization of African Unity at their meeting in April 1980.
The report analyzed the basic causes—both domestic and external—of Africa's slow growth and focused on policy reforms that could reverse the declining trend of per capita incomes and agricultural output during the 1980s.
Domestic reforms called for included the elimination of inefficient trade regimes and overvalued exchange rates that have contributed to poor export performance; the establishment of an appropriate institutional framework—involving agricultural research, extension services, infrastructure, procurement and marketing arrangements—designed to increase agricultural production; greater efficiency in parastatal bodies; and development of increased capacity for project evaluation and policy formulation.
Alongside domestic efforts, the report said, must come an "equally profound commitment ... from the international community... to increase aid and to provide assistance in ways more suitable to Africa's needs and in support of the reform programs defined by the African governments." Policy reform by African governments, the report continued, would need to be accompanied
by a doubling of net official aid in real terms between 1980 and 1990—an annual increase little higher than the 6.1 percent actually achieved in 1970-80.
Since its publication, the report's contents have been discussed in many different fora with African officials and aid agencies. At a meeting held in early March 1982 in Dakar, Senegal, the report was formally reviewed by the African Governors of the Bank and the Fund. In the Memorandum issued on that occasion, the Governors found that external factors such as high interest rates, energy prices, terms of trade, and levels of development assistance had all evolved unfavorably in recent years and were largely responsible for the economic crisis facing African countries. At the same time, the Governors "fully recognized that it is necessary to make efficient use of available resources, be they human or financial, public or private" and that "adjustment and constant readaptation" of development policies were needed. Certainly, both external and domestic developments over the past years have abundantly justified the Governors' concerns.
While in the coming months and years the sub-Saharan report will continue to provide a broad analytical basis for the policy dialogue between the Bank and the governments of East and West Africa, the focus of action will continue to be on individual countries. To that end, economic and sector work by the Bank will increasingly seek to clarify policy issues and prepare the ground for specific actions by African governments and help external agencies, primarily the Bank, make their assistance more effective in these times of growing financial constraints.
Eastern Africa
The economic crisis—characterized by continuing recession in the industrialized countries, declining commodity prices, and high interest rates—continues to take its toll in many Eastern Africa countries. Real per capita income declined once again in several countries. Calendar year 1981 saw a sharp fall in the price of commodities important to the region, and since export production increased only slightly, the region's export-based capacity to import deteriorated substantially. Deficits on the current account of the region's aggregate balance of payments rose markedly despite continued stagnation or decline in the volume of imports.
The current economic situation is a matter of concern not only because of hardships it causes among the population, but also because the long-term process of capital accumulation and acquisition of skills has suffered a setback. These difficulties have been reflected in the Bank's activities in member countries, as many projects have faced delays in implementation as a result.
for instance, of budgetary constraints. In some cases, the appraisal of new projects has been impeded by obstacles of a policy or institutional nature.
The Economic Crisis
The year 1981 was a disappointing one for growth in gross domestic product (GDP). In several cases, stagnation in output had set in earlier, and 1981 was simply a continuation of these adverse tendencies. Total GDP declined absolutely in Madagascar and Zambia and remained more or less unchanged in Malawi and, probably, in Zaire, as well. Taking account of population, which continued to expand rapidly, GDP per capita fell in most countries. There was a measure of recovery in Ethiopia and in Uganda after many years of decline, and Zimbabwe recorded a sizable gain; these three countries, however, were the exceptions to an otherwise gloomy picture.
64     1982 Regional Perspectives
Although the region's record of overall growth in output was poor, food production did increase as a result of better weather conditions. In fiscal 1982, food-grain output increased substantially in Kenya, Somalia, Zambia, and Zimbabwe and increased moderately in Ethiopia and Sudan. But output stagnated in Tanzania and Zaire and, because of cyclones and floods, in Madagascar, as well. Nonetheless, 3 million tons of food grains had to be imported into the region.
The balance-of-payments situation was equally bleak. The current-account deficit of the ten largest countries (Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe), which comprise 90 percent of the region's population and output, rose from $2,000 million in 1979 to $4,000 million in 1980 and to $4,800 million in 1981. This increase in the deficit took place despite stagnation or decline in the increase in the volume of imports, as was noted in last year's Annual Report.
In 1981, the volume of imports continued to decline in most countries, including even those (Ethiopia, Kenya, Sudan, and Zambia, for instance) that recorded some improvement in 1980. The rise in the external deficit in 1981 was caused mainly by a serious deterioration in terms of trade that was not matched by an adequate expansion of the volume of exports.
Coffee and tea prices declined for the third year in a row, affecting many countries in the
region: Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda. In current dollars, the 1981 price of coffee was 26 percent below that prevailing in 1979 and was only about half the peak price of 1977. Tea prices fell by 25 percent during the period, 1977-81. Prices of other commodities fared no better:
• Copper prices fell by 20 percent in 1981, adversely affecting Zambia and Zaire.
• Cotton prices fell by 10 percent and hurt Malawi, Sudan, and Tanzania.
• The price of sugar fell by 41 percent in 1981 and adversely affected Malawi and Swaziland, even though access to the preferential EEC market provided some relief.
• Tobacco prices fell by 11 percent with adverse effects on the export earnings of Malawi, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.
• The price of sisal, of importance to Kenya and Tanzania, declined by 17 percent in 1981.
The fall in the prices of these seven commodities—which account for about 70 percent of the region's exports—had an adverse effect on the export earnings of most countries in the region. Even Botswana has been going through a period of austerity (freezing wages in the public sector and greatly cutting back public spending) after the world diamond market slumped. Only the price of groundnuts increased, mainly to the benefit of Malawi, Sudan, and Zimbabwe. But groundnut prices fell sharply in early 1982. The
weighted average of export prices for the region as a whole went down by 20 percent in 1981. These adverse trends continued during the first half of 1982, and the foreign-exchange position remains under heavy pressure.
Relative to the level of 1980, the volume of exports increased only—and even then only slightly—in Ethiopia, Madagascar, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia. But despite signs of recovery in Uganda's coffee production and exports during 1981, the volume of exports remained much smaller than either in 1978 or 1979. In Madagascar, Zaire, and Zambia, the volume of exports in 1981 also remained below levels achieved in 1978 or 1979, neither of which was an exceptionally good year for exports. Thus, despite efforts to rehabilitate, promote, and diversify exports in a number of countries (Kenya, Sudan, and Uganda, for example), the volume of exports has, so far, virtually stagnated as production has failed to expand. Policy shifts announced so far have not had an appreciable effect; more time—and perhaps some supplementary measures, as well—are required if a turnaround is to be achieved. In a number of instances, existing production capacity remains both heavily underutilized and poorly maintained, partly because of foreign-exchange shortages and because foreign exchange is not used optimally.
With external debt increasing and exports stagnating, the debt service of the region as a whole had absorbed about 18 percent of export revenue in 1980; there was no sign of improvement in 1981. Several countries are facing acute debt difficulties. Sudan, Zaire, and Zambia have been in this position for several years. Two of the three, Sudan and Zaire, sought a restructuring of debt under the auspices of the Paris Club during the past year. So, too, did Madagascar and Uganda. The total external debt of the ten largest countries rose from $13,900 million in 1979 to approximately $19,000 million in 1981. High interest rates in world credit markets have further increased the burden of debt and discouraged new borrowings on commercial terms. Some countries have accumulated arrears in external debt or other payments. The combined impact of deteriorating terms of trade, rigidity in the volume of exports, and limited access to external capital has compelled Eastern African countries to operate under a very tight constraint on imports.
Setback in Capital Accumulation
Economic difficulties confronting the region have caused distress and dislocation in the short run. Furthermore, the secular process of accumulation of physical capital and human
This woodcarver in Malindi, Kenya, runs his own business. Small businesses throughout the country are being aided by the government-owned Kenya Industrial Estates.
skills has been impeded as governments have had to make cruel choices between developing and maintaining infrastructure and meeting essential needs such as health and education. The issue in Eastern Africa, therefore, is not only that of how to restore production, utilize existing capacity, and rehabilitate the capital stock, but also of how, in the longer run, to accelerate economic development to a level that is commensurate with rapidly growing populations and reasonable national aspirations.
Among the larger countries of the region, the pace of capital accumulation during the period 1966-76 was particularly brisk in Kenya, Malawi, Sudan, Tanzania, and Zaire. Large investments were made in transportation, electric power, and industry during this period.
Major efforts to build schools, expand access to supplies of potable water, and to build human capital in other ways were initiated. As an example, more than 5 million student places at all levels were created during the 1970s, compared with a total of about 6 million that had existed when the decade began. The number of secondary-school graduates in 1980 increased to about 195,000, up some 108,000 from ten years earlier. Correspondingly, the number of tertiary-level graduates with diplomas or degrees expanded from about 11,000 to 25,000 during the same period.
This progressive trend in overall investment has been interrupted. Although firm data are not yet available for 1980 and 1981, there is little doubt that capital accumulation has remained low in many countries. Six countries recorded an absolute decline in the volume of investment during the 1970s: Ethiopia, Madagascar, Uganda, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. In some other countries—Kenya, Malawi, and Tanzania—investment rose less rapidly than the rate of growth in the labor force. Capital stock per worker has also declined appreciably in most of the major countries of the region, thereby endangering the process of modernization and technological progress.
The slowdown of capital accumulation has been accompanied by a substantial drop in the productivity of investment. During 1967-73, the median incremental capital-output ratio (ICOR) was 4.3 (that is, one unit of value added required 4.3 units of investment) and it exceeded 6.0 in only 12 percent of sample countries. By contrast, the number of countries with ratios above 6.0 increased to 50 percent of the sample during 1973-79.
High ICORs in recent years have reflected major declines in the utilization of capacity; the declines are related, in part, to the unavailability of foreign exchange for the purchase of imports, including spare parts. Another factor was the neglect of the agricultural sector in many African countries.Typically, incremental capital-output ratios were low in the agricultural sector; however, prevailing incentives undermined the sector's attractiveness for small farmers as well as other investors. The share of agriculture in total investments fell in seven out of nine countries for which data are available.
Programs to develop the productivity of human resources also have suffered serious cutbacks during the recent financial crisis. Apart from the slowdown in total investment, which affected public capital outlays on education, health, and water supply, there has also been a slowing down in the growth of, or a reduction in, recurrent government outlays in these areas in
real terms. Budgetary cuts have made it difficult to provide for the level of items, such as textbooks and drugs, that are needed in existing schools and health centers. Underfunding of these facilities has also exacerbated the problem of maintaining them properly. In the education sector, total recurrent budget outlays for each enrolled student have declined sharply in many countries; the same is true of health expenditures per person. These trends have affected the quality of education and health services in some countries.
Impact on the Bank
Because the financial and economic crisis in the region has had a direct impact on Bank operations, attempts have been made to respond to the changing economic environment in a variety of ways.
Project lending continues to dominate Bank operations, but awareness has increased that policy action is needed at the sector and macro levels to support these investments. In one country, a rural development project, financed partly by the Bank, helped raise production of groundnuts quickly from 40,000 tons to 70,000 tons—until producer prices, fixed by the government, fell behind general inflation, thereby undermining incentives. Output diminished, and, at the time of project completion, tonnages were lower than before the project started. In another country, the Bank helped to finance a cashewnut-processing project aimed at increasing value added from the export of cashews. When the processing plant neared completion, cashewnut production had fallen from 145,000 tons to one-third that level, again in response to unsatisfactory producer prices. In this case, the parastatal agency concerned could not afford to pay higher producer prices at the prevailing exchange rate, which tended to undervalue foreign exchange.
Appraisal of projects has been delayed, in several cases, to allow time for governments to resolve key policy or institutional issues, without which these investments would not generate the expected benefits. The portfolio of ongoing Bank projects has encountered implementation delays, in part because governments are unable to commit complementary budget funds. In one case, a road-maintenance project is running far behind the agreed schedule because budgetary strains have reduced the government's contribution to a small fraction of the planned level. Meanwhile, the subsidy on imported and domestic rice absorbs the equivalent of some $35 million a year. In another country, subsidies for agricultural inputs and agricultural parastatals absorb 80 percent of the total budget of the
Ministry of Agriculture, leaving very little for other programs.
In this context, the Bank has emphasized support of government programs for policy reform and reconstruction and has backed them with nonproject lending, including lending for structural adjustment. Structural-adjustment lending, because it supports programs of specific policy changes and institutional reforms, plays a crucial role in the context of the very difficult economic situation that prevails in Eastern Africa. For example, Kenya has put through a second round of policy changes affecting indus-
try, agriculture, energy, public expenditures, and the management of external debt. These initiatives will be supported by a second structural-adjustment loan. Similarly, Uganda has followed up major policy changes, initiated in June 1981, by additional actions involving the budget, the licensing of foreign exchange, farm prices, and so forth. These moves have been supported by a second reconstruction credit. The Bank also organized consultative-group or other meetings to mobilize additional financial support for Kenya, Madagascar, Uganda, and Zaire.
Western Africa
Economic developments over the past eighteen months in Western Africa, just as in Eastern Africa, have taken place in an international setting that has remained less than favorable. Indeed, relative to 1980, export prices for practically all major commodities exported by the region have declined by between 10 percent and 20 percent. Even though there is evidence that increases in import prices have moderated (and in some instances, have even declined), the terms of trade for most, if not all, Western African countries have continued the decline that has been especially pronounced since 1979 for the oil-importing countries. Coffee prices (in 1981 constant dollars) have drastically declined, from USe737 a kilo in 1977 to USe283 a kilo in 1981. For cocoa, the decline in prices was equally sharp. These deep declines have caused, for example, Ivory Coast's terms of trade to deteriorate by about 40 percent between 1977 and 1982.
Encouragingly, crops, particularly food crops, have not suffered from the adverse weather con-
ditions that had plagued many countries— especially in the Sudano-Sahelian zone—so often in the course of the last decade. This factor, together with a normal availability of food imports (at generally lower prices than in 1980), has permitted the region to maintain a reasonable balance between food supply and demand and thus ward off unusual price increases. On the other hand, the external and internal finances of most countries have been affected by large movements in exchange rates (especially through the appreciation of the US dollar, which, for example, is almost one-third higher in value relative to the CFA franc than it was in 1980) and both high and volatile interest rates. The net outcome of these monetary factors does not lend itself to generalization: Clearly, however, revenues in domestic currency from exports have benefited from an appreciated dollar, and there are indications that the demand for imports has increased less than. or even declined relative to, previous years. But in this respect (as
in others), the situation, as always, varies greatly from country to country.
Country Experience
The slack in the international oil market during the latter half of 1981 and the first quarter of 1982 adversely affected Nigeria's oil exports. The price of Nigeria "Bonny Light" crude dropped from $40 a barrel in January 1981 to $36.50 a barrel in November 1981. Oil production dropped from 2.1 million barrels a day (mbd) in 1980 to 1.4 mbd in 1981 and the first quarter of 1982. The OPEC production allocation to Nigeria for the second quarter of 1982 was 1.3 mbd at $35.50 a barrel—a price level that appears increasingly difficult to sustain.
The Nigerian economy remains largely dependent upon the performance of its oil sector. In 1980, oil contributed about 24 percent to Nigeria's gross domestic product (GDP), and oil revenues (amounting to $24,000 million) accounted for about 95 percent of total export earnings and 85 percent of total government revenues (federal and state). The drop in oil production by almost one-third in 1981 and the first quarter of 1982, therefore, had substantial adverse effects on the Nigerian financial situation. In 1981, the authorities regarded the shortfall in oil exports as a short-term phenomenon and treated it as a liquidity and cash-flow problem to be handled by running down the country's external reserves (by an estimated $6,300 million) and through deficit financing. State governments, which cannot undertake deficit financing, suffered acute cash difficulties, and the implementation of development projects, including projects financed with Bank assistance, was severely impeded.
Early in 1982, as the oil market failed to improve and as foreign-exchange reserves declined to less than $3,000 million (less than one and one-half months' imports), the government cut back federal current expenditures and statutory budget allocations to the states; import restrictions were imposed in the second quarter of 1982. An attempt was made, however, to protect federal capital expenditures by anticipating a higher level of external borrowing. Such borrowing was quite limited, and, as the year progressed, the government was forced to cut back substantially on those capital expenditures it had programmed for 1982. Thus, despite the best efforts of Nigerian authorities, the economy reverted to the "go-stop" syndrome experienced earlier when oil exports declined in 1977-78.
The growth performance of the Nigerian economy in both 1981 and 1982 reflected these developments. In 1981, the nonoil segment of the economy increased by between 4 percent and 5
percent; growth was strongest in the manufacturing sector, which experienced an increase of about 15 percent. There was some increase (by between 6 percent and 8 percent) in trade and services, as well. Growth in agricultural output continued to be insignificant, however. Overall, because of the importance of the oil sector, the economy experienced almost no growth in overall GDP in 1981, while inflation continued at an estimated rate of between 12 percent and 15 percent.
In 1982, the Nigerian economy is expected to show marginal growth—if the oil sector does not decline further. The cutbacks in both federal expenditures (particularly investment expenditures) and imports are likely to have substantial adverse effects in the medium term, however. In addition, the states are likely to face serious continuing financial difficulties in funding their ongoing projects and programs.
The region's two other established oil exporters, Congo and Gabon, have responded to the current economic climate in different ways: Gabon is pursuing the stabilization program it began in 1978, which, for the time being, implies some sacrifice in fast growth; Congo, on the other hand, has embarked on an ambitious public-investment program for the period 1982-86. At the same time, the Congolese authorities are continuing their efforts to redress the inefficiencies in the state-enterprises sector. These enterprises need additional injections of capital; at the same time, however, reforms are urgently required to enhance efficiency in a framework of adequate pricing and more rigorous personnel policies.
Cameroon, an emerging oil producer with an estimated production of some 5 million tons a year, has managed to avoid spending excesses; the government now faces the task of designing policies and mechanisms whereby the relative affluence stemming from oil exports can be channeled into productive investments and efficient social infrastructure—as well as portfolio investments. The Ivory Coast has also become an emerging oil producer, albeit on a more modest scale (there is still some uncertainty as to the country's real oil potential); in the meantime, the government has undertaken a program of policy and institutional reforms that has the support both of the International Monetary Fund (which approved Extended Facility financing in 1981) and The World Bank (in the form of a $150 million structural-adjustment loan in November 1981). The government program aims at correcting the external and internal financial imbalances that resulted from unfavorable external factors and excessive public spending in the past and an associated increase in borrowing; the
economy's main structural distortions that had developed over time and that were exacerbated by weakness in overall financial management are also being tackled.
The main components of the government program are: (a) a firmed-up financial and monetary policy; (b) the reinstatement of an efficient system of public-investment programming; (c) the continuance of reforms undertaken in the parapublic sector, especially as they affect public agencies in agriculture; (d) the introduction of reforms throughout the system of agricultural prices, taxes, and subsidies; and (e) an in-depth review of the incentive system in the industrial sector. It is hoped that by the second half of the decade, these measures, together with a more production-oriented investment program and the expected oil surplus, will enable the country's historical growth trend (of about 7 percent a year) to be restored and its current-account deficit to be reduced by more than half (at present, it amounts to 15 percent of GDP).
While a reasonably good harvest of groundnuts and cereals in 1981-82 permitted further falls in incomes and public resources to be warded off, Senegal's reform program (detailed in the 1981 Annual Report) continued to advance somewhat unevenly and more slowly than originally expected; the release of the second tranche (of about $15 million) of the IBRD's structural-adjustment loan is under consideration.
In general, conditions in the Sahelian countries were somewhat eased in fiscal 1982 as crops were generally adequate and levels of external assistance remained stable. Sahelian governments became increasingly aware of the need to reform important segments of their public sector. Senegal's efforts have been touched on in the preceding paragraph; the Government of Mali has undertaken to review and reform drastically some of its most important public enterprises— notably in the marketing of cereals—while the Government of Upper Volta has made the financial rehabilitation of the public sector its top priority for the medium term.
Similar efforts are under way in several coastal countries: Togo is systematically reviewing the position and prospects of major public enterprises that were established, often at very high cost and with insufficient prior studies, in the mid-seventies at the time of the short-lived phosphate boom. Benin is also taking steps to revamp its public enterprises in order to improve their efficiency. Liberia is similarly reassessing newly nationalized enterprises with a view to deciding on their future status. As for Guinea, there are visible signs for improved economic management, decentralization, and liberalization of the economy.
Continued sluggish growth has characterized the recent past in Sierra Leone; in the fiscal area, the government will have to take steps to ensure a degree of financial discipline. Extra budgetary
Pounding the sides of an irrigation canal in Upper Volta to prevent erosion.
expenditures remain a problem, and despite a rescheduling (in 1980) of debt, the burden of past commercial borrowing continues to act as a serious constraint on the generation of public savings; growth has probably slowed in Benin as well, partly because of lagging demand from Nigeria.
The Medium-term Outlook
The external outlook for the next two to three years in the region will be conditioned by the pace and timing of the upturn in the industrial countries, by the rise in commodity prices that is normally associated with an upturn, and by the degree to which the next expansionary phase will generate inflationary pressures that may affect Western African imports, especially oil, manufactures, and food (rice and wheat). The more developed countries of Western Africa will also be affected by movements in international rates of interest that will affect their debt-service charges.
The impact of these external factors will vary from country to country. A fair generalization, however, is that likely developments in world
markets (associated with economic recovery in the industrial countries) will only marginally help Western African countries to overcome their current economic problems. In essence, this is so because it would be unreasonable to expect any dramatic improvement in terms of trade or in borrowing conditions, or any large increase of official development aid; because, also, the nature and depth of the problems, in most countries, are not amenable to quick solutions under the best of circumstances. Measures required to achieve structural adjustment will take time to bear fruit and produce needed benefits. They include reform of public enterprises that involves new patterns of organization, management, and financing; the design of new forms of rural development that emphasize greater participation by farmers; and analysis and reform of incentive systems. In addition, problems from the past will haunt many of the region's countries for years, problems stemming, for instance, from high levels of debt service and from excessive recurrent costs generated by past investments, by newly hired government personnel, and by expanded social services.
Finally, for a number of countries in the region, economic prospects are conditioned on effective development in new (or relatively new) areas, particularly energy and minerals. Largely on the basis of explorations undertaken after the 1973-74 energy crisis, petroleum holds considerable promise for a number of traditional producers such as Cameroon, the Congo, Ivory Coast, and Nigeria, and, albeit to a lesser extent, for a number of new producers such as Benin, Ghana, and Senegal.
There is little doubt that oil may contribute greatly towards relieving current financial constraints and provide much needed investable funds to the public sector. Experience abundantly shows, however, that large, sudden, and concentrated revenues are not an unmixed blessing. What has been called the "oil syndrome" can produce serious price distortions and dislocative effects, both material and human, throughout an economy. Precautionary steps, starting with more effective integration of future
oil revenues in public-expenditure programs, are being actively considered, as noted earlier, in Cameroon, for example. These steps are the more important as oil revenues may be available only for a fixed and relatively short period of time (while the needs of economies are long term) and as the flow of resources from oil may be subject to unpredictable fluctuations.
The lessons of recent economic experience are not essentially different from those noted in recent World Bank Annual Reports: Short-term or medium-term financing of large external deficits is needed but cannot be expected to accelerate as in the past few years, be it from multilateral or bilateral sources, private or public; the near-term international economic environment may provide a measure of relief to African economies, but the prospects, largely linked to the recovery in industrial countries, remain uncertain; domestic efforts towards short-term and structural adjustment must be pursued with renewed vigor.
East Asia and Pacific
The main influence on the economic development of the countries of the East Asia and Pacific region—as elsewhere—in the past year was the continuing adverse international economic environment. Economic prospects deteriorated, reflecting the onset of a worldwide recession, and all countries in the region found it difficult to maintain previous rates of growth. The impact of the adverse external situation on individual countries was influenced by the level of development, the natural and human-resource endowment, and economic policies of governments.
The global recession has acted as a brake upon economic growth in all countries of the region, either through a deceleration in exports, or through raising the real cost of imports of goods and services. On the export side, the environment for international trade, characterized by declining or stagnant markets for manufactured goods (the result of recession and growing protectionism) became more difficult. In addition,
prices of primary products and minerals fell, affecting many countries; it was this event that most affected the economies of the region during the past year. On the import side, countries continued their adjustment to the costs of imported oil, and interest in the development of energy projects and methods of conservation increased.
A new adverse factor during the year was the sharp increase in the cost of borrowed funds. The cost of new loans rose at a time when less concessional finance was available through official channels, and debt service on existing loans soared as a result of variable interest rates.
The changes in the balance-of-payments prospects put a premium on country policies designed to economize outlays of foreign exchange. A variety of adjustment programs was started, all of which were aimed at reducing deficits in the balance of payments to levels that could be prudently financed over the medium term and longer term. While the individual pro-
grams vary widely, their success depends upon an ability to increase foreign-exchange earnings by promoting exports and reducing selected imports.
The economies of member countries of the region are far from homogeneous. Basically, they fall into four groups. One group consists of four middle-income, industrializing countries that are large borrowers from the Bank—the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand. Two are large but relatively poor countries—China and Indonesia. The countries of Indochina, the poorest nations in the region, form a third group. The fourth group consists of Papua New Guinea and four small countries of the Pacific—Fiji, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa—which are different socioeconomically and differ in levels of income, as well. The economic outlook and prospects of this last group are quite different from the other countries.
Another crucial distinction is that which lies between the oil-exporting countries—China, Indonesia, and Malaysia—and the net oil importers. For most of the governments of the latter group, the heavy burden imposed by oil imports on the balance of payments, one that is now regarded as a permanent rather than a temporary phenomenon, has come to dominate policy. These governments have had to begin, or continue, necessary adjustments aimed at meet-
ing this external challenge, often in the face of rising external debt.
Relatively High Growth Rates
Despite the current economic climate, the countries of the region were able to realize rates of growth that were relatively high—in comparison with those achieved elsewhere. Korea registered a 7 percent increase in its gross national product (GNP) in calendar 1981; growth was due, in large part, to the recovery of agriculture from an unusually poor crop year in 1980. The other main source of growth for Korea in 1981 was exports, which now account for almost 40 percent of GNP and which increased even in the face of the difficult international trading environment.
Thus, 1981 saw Korea begin to emerge from the most difficult period in its recent history. The rapid growth of the years 1975-78 had been arrested by a series of shocks, the most severe of which were the oil-price increases of 1979-80. These increases raised the country's bill for oil imports to a level that was almost 10 percent of GNP; they also contributed substantially to record current-account deficits in the balance of payments. Also contributing to the country's difficulties were inflation and the effects of high interest rates.
In response to its difficult situation, the Korean government has taken a number of
Checking the pressure of gas in a tank storing off-shore gas for distribution to power stations and industrial users in the greater Bangkok area in Thailand.
policy initiatives aimed at permanently adjusting the economy to the new and harsher international environment. Given the crucial role of exports in the process of growth and the country's dependence on imports of vital fuels and other inputs, many of these initiatives are aimed at maintaining and improving the country's competitive position. Thus, important short-term policy steps have been taken, all aimed at ensuring exchange-rate flexibility, restraint of wages and salaries, and appropriate pricing of fuels and basic foodstuffs. Other measures have been taken to bring about permanent structural changes in the economy, especially in industry, agriculture, and energy.
Thailand, another middle-income, oil-importing country, has also been adjusting its policies to the realities of a world in recession. In some respects, Thailand has not been as severely affected by the recent economic climate as either the Philippines or Korea. In 1979 and 1980, the rate of growth of gross domestic product (GDP) was satisfactory (over 6 percent a year); satisfactory growth, however, was accompanied by accelerating inflation, internal and external imbalances, and a resultant reliance on foreign
borrowing. Consumer prices rose by 20 percent in 1980 before the rate of increase decelerated to 11 percent in 1981. The central government's fiscal deficit increased, while the current-account deficit averaged more than 7 percent of GDP in 1979 and 1980.
A program of structural change is an element essential to the country's sustained development, for the many positive aspects of Thailand's economy are not sufficient by themselves to offset the unfavorable trends. These features include a dynamic agricultural sector, a continuing decline in the rate of population growth, and development of domestic energy sources that could permit a gradual—but significant— decline in the country's dependence upon imports of oil. Unless additional steps are taken to support these favorable features, however, economic growth in Thailand will be stunted and held down by balance-of-payments constraints. Thailand is fully aware of these problems and is implementing various policies designed to deal with them.
Current government programs for structural adjustment are broad and cover major areas of the economy: agriculture, where efforts are to
be made to maintain growth so as to increase exports and the incomes of farmers; industry, which must become more efficient and oriented towards exports; energy, where emphasis must be placed on substituting domestic energy sources (especially through the use of natural gas) in place of imports, conservation, and appropriate pricing; fiscal reforms; and the development of a stronger institutional basis for policy formulation and resource management in the public sector.
The Philippines, a third oil-importing, middle-income country, also suffered under the impact of the world recession in 1981. Even though the country has been successful in holding down the volume of oil imports, its balance-of-payments deficit on current account rose to 6 percent of GNP in 1981, an amount well above the figure that could be sustained in the long term. The country's main economic problem has been a continued deterioration in its terms of trade that goes back as far as the oil-price increases of the early 1970s, but which has been especially significant since 1979. From 1974 to 1980, for example, the Philippines' terms of trade declined by 20 percent. The most recent decline has been caused primarily by its structure of imports and exports. Imports are mainly composed of those raw materials, fuels, and manufactured products that are essential to the country's industries. Though all these imports have become more expensive, the prices of the country's traditional exports—agricultural products and minerals—have fallen. Rapidly growing exports of manufactures have only partially offset these adverse movements. Another significant contribution to the balance-of-payments deficit in 1981 was the weight of interest payments, for just like Korea and Thailand, the Philippines has endeavored to maintain the momentum of its development by borrowing at variable rates of interest on world financial markets.
These adverse external developments have not deterred the government from moving ahead with its program of longer-term structural adjustments. The efforts in the Philippines have been concentrated in the industrial sector and are aimed at making the manufacturing industry the country's leading source of higher incomes, exports, and employment. These plans are going forward with the assistance of borrowings from The World Bank. Bank finance is also supporting complementary reforms in the financial sector that are designed to make the banking system of the Philippines more responsive to the needs of the country's growing industrial sector and to make interest rates more reliant on market forces.
Reform and Adjustment
Despite an acute shortage of cultivable land and a high degree of international isolation, China has successfully mobilized massive human and financial resources in pursuit of two main objectives: industrialization and elimination of the worst aspects of poverty. But future growth and improved living standards will depend mainly on improving the efficiency of resource use.
The past year has thus seen a continuation of the policies of adjustment and reform introduced in the late 1970s. These policies have achieved a substantial shift of resources from investment into consumption, and from the production of investment goods into agriculture and light industry. Living standards in both urban and rural areas have improved sharply after two decades of slow progress.
Of even greater importance have been reforms in the system of economic management aimed at providing lower-level units with more freedom of maneuver, stronger incentives to seek efficiency and serve the needs of consumers, and better signals regarding economic constraints and needs. In the past year, further reform of the industrial sector has been impeded by problems of macroeconomic imbalance. But reform of the agricultural sector has made major advances, with widespread devolution of responsibility from production teams to individual households and groups of households. There has also been a strengthening of economic relations between China and other countries through trade, investment, exchange of information, and a limited amount of borrowing, all of which are expected to contribute to greater efficiency.
Work also continued on formulating the sixth five-year plan and on the development of a more general strategy for the 1980s. This strategy must address a set of fundamental challenges: to produce more energy and to use it more frugally, to produce sufficient food, to restrain population growth further, and to increase the supply of highly skilled manpower. Good planning, improvements in the system of economic management, and more extensive international economic relations will all be needed to meet these challenges.
Declines in World Prices
In the case of Indonesia, the region's second-largest country, the governmental authorities have had to reassess key economic policies in the wake of a dramatic deterioration in the external economic environment.
Indonesia, an oil-exporting country, experienced a record rate of growth in 1980 of 9.6 percent in its GDP; moreover, because terms of
trade moved in the country's favor, gross domestic income actually rose by 15.8 percent. Current and capital expenditures of the government were high, as were levels of private investment. The picture in 1981 was different, however. GDP growth was around 7 percent and merchandise exports showed only a small nominal increase. The all-important oil component increased by 8 percent in nominal terms; in 1980, the increase had been 47 percent. The value of exports other than oil in 1981 actually fell by over 20 percent, and the current account of the country's balance of payments was in deficit for the first time in three years.
Apart from the stagnation in the international oil market, Indonesia was heavily hit by a decline in world prices for its other exports. Between October 1980 and October 1981, for example, world prices for rubber fell by 35 percent; for coffee, 25 percent; for tea, 15 percent; for palm oil, 5 percent; and for plywood, 19 percent. With lower prices, export volumes fell as producers lowered levels of production. Imports, however, grew by 20 percent in real terms, because of major investments in the public sector and buoyant private demand.
The government acted quickly to safeguard prospects of longer-term growth. The fiscal 1983 budget included a dramatic reduction in the oil subsidy and significant increases in tax revenues in order to maintain the expansion in public investments.
To encourage exports, measures were also initiated that will have the effect of strengthening export capacity in the long term and promoting needed structural adjustments. These adjustments center around policy and institutional reforms required in the transition from an economy that is oil dependent to one that is more diversified and modern. Diversification is likely to require a continued high level of growth in output, employment, and in the provision of social services necessary to support the development of human resources.
While Malaysia's internal and external position had been comfortable during the late 1970s, the situation began to change in 1980 as total domestic expenditures exceeded income and a deficit on current account emerged for the first time since 1975. In 1981, the value of merchandise exports fell, while imports continued to rise. Although exports of petroleum continued to rise in value, prices for Malaysia's other traditional commodity exports (excluding palm oil) fell. Longer-run structural forces were also at work to reduce the significance of the country's tradi-
tional exports. Rubber and timber products, for example, have been experiencing declines in production and it has become more difficult to maintain the output of tin.
The continued rise in levels of imports reflects Malaysia's continued response to the rapid growth of recent years. Facilitated by foreign borrowing, the vigorously expanding manufacturing and construction sectors maintained a rising demand for imports, a substantial amount of which was in the form of investment goods, as investment rose to over 30 percent as a share of GNP. Since its debt-service burden is light, Malaysia is in a good position, at least in the short term, to weather its difficulties by borrowing abroad to support high investment expenditures.
The countries of the Pacific that are members of The World Bank have characteristics that are not shared with the other countries of the region. Papua New Guinea, the most populous country, has substantial natural resources and an already relatively high per capita income (this latter characteristic it shares with Fiji). The other countries—Fiji, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa—are small, island economies, isolated geographically from major markets and have few natural resources. The poorest of them are heavily dependent upon external technical and financial assistance. As they are also dependent upon exports as a source of foreign exchange, they all have been hard hit by world recession, particularly as their exports are those primary commodities and metals—copra, copper, cocoa, and gold—whose prices have declined so markedly in the past year.
The value of exports from Papua New Guinea fell by about 20 percent in 1981. Copper concentrates (including gold) and coffee account for 66 percent of the value of the country's exports; in 1981, exports of copper concentrates fell in value by 2 percent and of coffee, by 37 percent. Because exports are the primary source of incomes and government revenues, a severe strain was placed on efforts at development, and the 1982 budget was reduced by 3 percent in real terms.
The pressure on the balance of payments of these island countries was made more severe by their dependence upon imported energy. In Fiji, for example, the value of petroleum imports was equal to 28 percent of the value of its merchandise exports in 1978; to 36 percent in 1980, and to more than 50 percent in 1981. Western Samoa was placed in a similar situation.
South Asia
Economic growth in South Asia, which had been impressive in fiscal 1981, partly reflecting recovery from a depressed 1980, continued during 1982, although at a somewhat slower pace. The reductions in growth rates resulted, to a considerable degree, from the widening recession among industrial countries. In several instances, such as in Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, economic activity was also affected by poor weather that hurt agricultural growth and, as a result, aggravated balance-of-payment problems. The balance of payments of most countries continued to suffer from substantial deficits, reflecting large petroleum-import bills; the problem was intensified in 1982 by a recession-induced weakening of terms of trade.
In general, governments of South Asian countries sought, in some instances successfully, to adjust to the weakening world economic environment. Policy adjustments were characterized by: (a) conservative demand manage-
ment in both fiscal and credit policy, including reductions in the growth of public-investment programs; (b) policies to encourage the more efficient use of resources; and (c) encouragement of participation by the private sector. Balance-of-payments adjustment was facilitated both by government policies, which included demand management, restraint on imports, conservation of energy, and, in several cases, exchange-rate changes, as well as through the use of foreign-exchange resources provided by the international community.
South Asian countries thus continued to pursue policies aimed at effecting those adjustments needed to place their economies (in general) and their balance of payments (in particular) on a sounder, longer-term foundation. Investment plans, pricing policies, and institutional changes, for example, continued to focus on the need to expand the production of export-oriented agricultural and industrial goods and to
encourage import-substituting investments in energy and other sectors. However, these efforts were somewhat thwarted, in many cases, by declining demand and prices caused by continued recession in major export markets.
India: Continuing Its Rebound
Following the shocks of fiscal 1980, induced by the three-pronged squeeze of a disastrous monsoon, a doubling of international oil prices, and severe domestic supply constraints, the Indian economy rebounded in fiscal 1981, when real gross domestic product (GDP) rose by 7.5 percent; this continued in fiscal 1982, a year of solid growth. Even though the 1981 monsoon withdrew early, food-grain production was back at least to its previous record level (132 million tons), output of other crops improved, and total agricultural production grew by about 4 percent. Industrial output benefited from improved utilization of capacity and a significant easing of supply constraints in such key sectors as power, coal, rail transport, and petroleum products. In total, real gross domestic product grew by around 5.5 percent in fiscal 1982. As supply conditions improved and monetary policy became more restrictive, the rate of inflation fell sharply to around 9 percent a year.
While the recovery phase is now largely complete, the Indian economy is left with some severe imbalances. Evidence of this was present in fiscal 1982. Despite a domestic savings rate of over 20 percent, resources for investment remain tight. Because of adverse movements in the terms of trade, the balance of payments continues to be a problem. The likelihood of persistent current-account deficits in the coming years means that India's investment program will rely more on external resources than in the 1970s. With concessional aid flows declining, the task of adjusting India's external position has become at once both more complicated and more pressing.
Successful recovery and the beginnings of adjustment that have taken place over the past two years were largely the result of better management and greater efficiency in the utilization of existing productive capacity. Nevertheless, continuation of adequate economic growth in India through the medium-term will require continued efforts to correct structural imbalances in the economy.
In particular, policies to promote exports and, where appropriate, replace imports with expanded and more efficient domestic production are needed to cure the trade imbalance. Domestic energy development is an important component of such a strategy, and an increase in the supply of domestic energy would also help ease bottlenecks in the supply of infrastructural
services and basic commodities. Domestic output of crude, however, has expanded substantially; coal production and electricity generation have also recorded significant increases. Recent experience has demonstrated that an improved infrastructural base—in particular, energy and transport—as well as continued progress in agricultural production, are essential if these adjustments are to be made and the objectives of the Sixth Plan attained.
The decrease in funds available to IDA in fiscal 1982 occasioned a change in the blend of IBRD and IDA funds toward greater reliance on IBRD loans; this change substantially increased the average cost to India of borrowing and will add to the country's debt-servicing burden. Within these limits, the Bank continued its support of the Indian government in the pursuit of its goals, and its economic and sector work and lending program reflected these priorities.
Diverse Performances
Aided by a record harvest in fiscal 1981, GDP in Bangladesh grew by roughly 7 percent in that year. While the acceleration in growth can. in part, be attributed to favorable weather conditions, there have, in addition, been substantial improvements in the framework of agricultural policy, especially with regard to the provision of inputs. Export efforts were mounted, leading to higher exports in volume; declining terms of trade, however, led to a decline in foreign-exchange earnings—even in nominal terms. Economic growth in Bangladesh continues to be subject to the vagaries of the weather, however, and economic growth in fiscal 1982 was substantially lower than in 1981. Drought led to a fall of 5 percent in the production of food grains, while shortages of inputs arising from an extremely tight external-payments situation had an adverse effect on industrial production.
The prospects for economic growth in Bangladesh are clouded due to severe financial problems—both external and domestic. While the economy was partially insulated from the effects of the 1979 oil-price rise as a result of a jump in the prices of jute goods in fiscal 1980, the terms of trade deteriorated by 22 percent in fiscal 1981 and by a further 15 percent in fiscal 1982. In spite of increases in export volumes, prices of major exports, in particular jute, declined substantially as a result of the slowdown in economic growth in the industrial countries. Import prices, on the other hand, continued to increase. This situation was aggravated by a decline in aid disbursements in real terms. In fiscal 1982, the cost of importing petroleum accounted for over 80 percent of the country's total export earnings. The cumulative impact of this deterioration in
the terms of trade was estimated to be equivalent to roughlv 4 percent of gross national product (GNP) in fiscal 1981 and 1982. The effects of the terms-of-trade deterioration were exacerbated by a stagnation (in nominal terms) of commodity-aid disbursements. This stagnation, coupled with the decline in the terms of trade and the resulting constraints on import growth, placed considerable pressure on the government budget. While the government had some recourse to deficit financing, the major burden of adjustment occurred at the level of development expenditures: In fiscal 1982, the level of public development expenditures was estimated to be some 7 percent lower in real terms than levels reached two years earlier.
Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive trade deficit that reflects deep-seated structural imbalances in the economy: The country has a small export base that is highly concentrated in a few commodities. Import requirements are more than twice the level of foreign-exchange earnings from exports and workers' remittances. As a consequence, the scope for adopting short-term measures to adjust to the growing balance-of-payments constraint is limited. The government did take some significant steps during fiscal 1982, however, including an exchange-rate depreciation of some 12 percent (in relation to a reference basket of currencies) and restraints on the growth of liquidity, to restore some degree of financial
stability. Adjustment, however, is mainly being tackled through a sharp curtailment in the level of imports and by the depletion of stocks of raw materials and intermediate goods, resulting in a deterioration in growth rates and a possible decline in GDP in real terms as the fiscal year neared its close.
The strong economic performance of recent years in Pakistan continued in fiscal 1982. The growth rate in the GDP of 5.7 percent in fiscal 1981 was approximated in fiscal 1982 despite a number of adverse developments, including less-favorable weather conditions. Pakistan's balance of payments has been assisted in recent years by a significant improvement in exports, a rapid increase in workers' remittances, a rescheduling of official concessional debt by bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, and agreement with the International Monetary Fund on a three-year financing from its Extended Fund Facility. These factors helped to cushion the impact of the oil-price rises of 1979 and 1980. The balance of payments, at the same time, has remained difficult and has been affected by lower world prices for cotton and textiles (as a result of the worldwide recession) and depressed export prices for rice (a result of high levels of production in a number of exporting countries). Successful balance-of-payments management will require a vigorous continuation of recent, encouraging reforms to strengthen productivity and trade performance.
At Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited in India, switchgear is being tested before being exported to Mauritius.
Since it inherited an extremely difficult economic situation in 1977, the government has moved firmly and effectively to reestablish fiscal discipline and economic stability, as well as to restore private-sector confidence. Tight financial management has been combined with a wide range of price adjustments aimed at correcting gradually the distortions in the economy. The government has also embarked on a program of structural reforms, including steps to revitalize development planning and to improve policies in the key productive sectors of agriculture, energy, and industry. This process of structural reform was carried further during fiscal 1982, notably in the energy sector, where important initiatives were taken to accelerate domestic oil and gas development. Gas-pricing policies for both producers and consumers were revised; reorganization along more commercial lines of the public-sector Oil and Gas Development Corporation was begun; and ways were sought to bring about a better balance between the respective roles of the public and private sectors in developing the country's hydrocarbon potential. In agriculture, implementation continued of a revised national
agriculture policy intended to maintain incentives for producers while reducing subsidies and providing for improved water management, the rehabilitation of the irrigation system, and other measures to increase farm yields.
Despite significant cuts in public expenditure, adoption of measures to increase the cost of bank credit, and exchange-rate depreciation, the real GDP in Sri Lanka is estimated to have grown by about 5.8 percent in 1981. The main reason for this continued high overall growth was a harvest that set a record for the fourth consecutive year. The rate of industrial growth slowed down, however, in part, the result of a cutback in public expenditures—causing construction-related industries to slump—and serious electric-power shortages during the first half of the year. Budgetary pressures are expected to remain strong throughout 1982 (partly as a consequence of the public-investment program that, despite cuts, remains large); continued budgetary restraint will be required to contain the deficit. Unless measures to maintain budgetary discipline are implemented with the same vigor as in 1981, expansionary pressures on
the economy could well exert themselves and inflation, which had declined from 26 percent in 1980 to 18 percent in 1981, may again reach worrisome proportions.
The country's balance-of-payments situation improved significantly in 1981. Despite this improvement over the previous year and notwithstanding moderation in petroleum prices, Sri Lanka's balance-of-payments pressures are expected to remain strong in 1982. The world economic downturn has had a noticeable impact on Sri Lanka: Tea, coconut, and rubber prices (in particular) remain low, reflecting reduced economic activity in the developed market economies.
Sri Lanka continued to take measures to reduce its current-account deficit by reducing imports and promoting foreign-exchange earnings such as tourism and workers' remittances. Efforts have also begun to improve the structure of the country's exports by reducing the dependence on traditional tree-crop exports (tea, rubber, coconuts) for which the market prospects continue to appear to be relatively unfavorable. Since receipts from traditional exports constitute more than half of total export revenues, these exports, nevertheless, will continue to play an important role for years to come.
Growth and Recovery
Burma's real GDP growth is expected to grow by 6.7 percent during 1982, continuing the favorable trend in growth that started in the mid-seventies. Burma's improved performance in recent years has been based on: (a) steadily rising agricultural production, resulting largely from the government's introduction of high-yielding varieties of rice; (b) higher utilization of capacity, particularly in industry; and (c) rapid growth in investment, supported by increasingly heavy inflows of foreign assistance. Public savings have remained low but positive, and monetary and fiscal management have been sufficiently conservative to contain inflationary pressures.
A drawdown in Burma's international reserves is anticipated for 1982. Burma is essentially self-sufficient in food and has not imported petroleum products since 1976 (although shortages of fuel exist). While the government has
made some efforts in petroleum exploration and development, neither the import of petroleum products nor increases in their price is under consideration in the short term. A system of controls to monitor the fuel requirements of various agencies and to avoid waste has been introduced, however; in addition, the government has been reviewing the public-investment program with a view to increasing its focus on energy development and conservation.
Because of better weather, Nepal's economy made a good recovery in fiscal 1981 from the effects of 1979's disastrous monsoon. The sluggishness that is an underlying characteristic of its economy continues, however, and although the harvest in fiscal 1982 was satisfactory, overall GDP growth in that year was probably not substantially in excess of the yearly population growth rate of 2.7 percent. Export performance in fiscal 1981 improved as a result of partial recovery in food-grain exports, but taking the two years (fiscal 1980 and 1981) together, exports grew at less than half the rate of imports. The effect on Nepal of increased oil prices has been limited, because nearly 90 percent of the country's energy needs are met through domestic supplies of fuelwood. Although its oil-import bill has, in fact, risen, it remains at about 10 percent of all imports. Much of the increase in imports in recent years has reflected Nepal's increased development effort and has been funded by foreign assistance. Thus, despite the increase in Nepal's external-resource deficit (from 2 percent of GDP in fiscal 1970 to 6 percent in fiscal 1980), overall balance-of-payments problems have been avoided.
It is not clear that foreign assistance will continue to meet the import needs of Nepal. The government and the Bank are examining, therefore, what export-promotion efforts are needed; major policy changes are clearly needed if the promotion of exports is to succeed. Nepal's other major economic problem is that of agricultural stagnation. It has not yet proved possible to provide to farmers the package of modern inputs that is needed to increase their agricultural productivity. Such a package would include irrigation and water management, agricultural extension, adequate and timely supplies of fertilizer and other inputs, credit, and improved marketing.
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
As in previous years, the economic performance of the developing countries in the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa region during the past year was far from uniform. Rates of economic growth ranged from about - 2 percent (Morocco) to 10 percent (Jordan). This highly diverse economic performance is a reflection of the significantly different structural characteristics of the countries' economies and the wide range of responses made by governments to changes in the international economic environment.
Most countries continued policies of adjustment that were begun in the late 1970s. The global economic malaise during 1981 exacerbated the difficulties of adjustment, however. In addition to issues of adjustment, those of manpower development and labor migration—both of which have an important bearing on adjustment—continued to be of special significance to most countries: manpower development, because of the urgent need to improve skills and
thereby increase productivity over the long term, and labor migration, because of the importance to many countries of remittance flows.
Highlights of Country Developments
Diversity in performance and response can be seen even among countries in the same income-level category. Events of the past year left their mark in different ways on Portugal, Romania, and Yugoslavia, for example, all of which belong to the group of "higher-income" countries.
Portugal's economy deteriorated sharply in 1981. Growth slowed to 1.7 percent (down from 5.5 percent in 1980). Industry—the country's major engine of growth in recent years— faltered as exports to recession-ridden Europe fell. Agriculture, which has performed poorly since the mid-1970s, was affected by a second consecutive year of drought.
The inflation rate and budget and current-account deficits all increased. The latter deficit is estimated at about $2,500 million for 1981, or
twice that for 1980. Among the many factors that account for this substantial increase in the current-account deficit, three stand out: a significant rise in the country's oil-import bill, a substantial decline in the rate of growth of workers' remittances, and deteriorating terms of trade, largely the result of the strong appreciation of the US dollar against the escudo, the increase in energy imports, and the impact of drought.
The Portuguese economy is once again faced, therefore, with a serious stabilization problem in the short term as well as a multitude of structural problems that must be tackled in the long term. The government is dealing with the former by submission of an austerity budget for 1982 that includes cuts in current and investment expenditures and provision for the collection of new revenues.
Romania, too, is searching for ways to stabilize its economy and to make those adjustments that are needed if long-term economic stability is to be realized. A medium-term stabilization program, supported by an IMF standby arrangement and structural-adjustment measures, is planned as part of the country's current five-vear plan (1981-85).
As a result of the stabilization measures, which included a sharp reduction in the growth of domestic expenditures, especially on invest-
ments, Romania's current-account deficit declined significantly in 1981. There was no such improvement in the country's rate of growth of GNP, which, at an estimated 2.1 percent, was below the 1980 mark of 3.3 percent.
Romania's program of economic restructuring includes several elements that can be assisted through World Bank support. The country is placing special emphasis on narrowing its energy gap through the rapid development of domestic resources, especially lignite, and through conservation. To the latter end, prices for energy were increased substantially in 1981. As an encouragement to greater productivity in agriculture and to minimize the cost of subsidies as well, prices of basic food products were raised by an average of about 35 percent in early 1982. In the manufacturing sector, the investment priorities are continuing their move away from heavy industry to technologically more sophisticated goods that have a higher potential for export.
Yugoslavia, the third higher-income country surveyed here, has achieved a rapid external adjustment, and reduced its current-account deficit from $3,700 million in 1979 to $750 million in 1981. This improvement has taken place despite continuing recession in Western Europe, a major market for Yugoslav exports, and increases in interest payments, from $800
Irrigation pipes on the Othman date-palm plantation in southern Tunisia.
million in 1979 to an estimated $2,000 million in 1981, on existing and new debt.
The country's trade adjustment was achieved primarily through increases in exports, which grew (in real terms) by about 10 percent in each of the past two years. At the same time, imports—of machinery and equipment, in particular—were cut back sharply. The switch of resources to the external sector has been made possible through the application of a stabilization program, supported by the IMF, that consists of tight demand-management policies that are coupled with exchange-rate adjustments. Monetary policy, in particular, has been used to reduce investment expenditure sharply. Notwithstanding these policies and the slowdown in growth, inflation was a major problem in the second half of 1980 and the first half of 1981. Stringent price-control measures did, however, succeed in reducing the inflation rate substantially in the latter part of 1981. The country's medium-term adjustment strategy is defined by its 1981-85 plan, which aims for a steady reduction in the share of investment in GDP, the diversion of these resources into the production of goods for exports, and the continuation of major import-substitution projects in the areas of
energy (hydropower, coal, and lignite) and raw materials.
Economic performance in the "middle-income" countries of the region also varied. For Turkey, 1981 was a year of significant improvement. The country's far-reaching program of economic reforms, introduced in January 1980, has been followed up by policy initiatives aimed at strengthening its external position, reducing the rate of inflation, and in general, achieving a sustainable rate of economic growth.
The policy measures implemented during 1980 and 1981 are now beginning to bear fruit on a broad front: After two years of negative growth, Turkey's GNP is estimated to have grown by more than 4 percent in 1981; the rate of inflation significantly lessened (to 35 percent from 107 percent in 1980); the budget deficit fell to about 1 percent of GNP (from 5 percent in fiscal 1980); and the current-account deficit shrank for the first time in several years. Sustained efforts at implementing adjustment policies, combined with international support from official and private sources of finance, should enable Turkey to sustain the growth that occurred in 1981 and keep its current-account deficit within manageable limits.
The three countries of the Maghreb had differing economic experiences during the year: Though Algeria saw its balance on current account swing from a surplus of $250 million to a deficit of $1,000 million, prospects for 1982 are considered more favorable; Morocco suffered setbacks on a broad economic front; Tunisia's economic performance, on the other hand, was good, as GDP grew by 6.5 percent.
Algeria's performance in 1981 reflected lower earnings—in part, a result of conservation measures—from hydrocarbon exports. The country's GDP growth was an estimated 3.5 percent in 1981. Balance-of-payments prospects for 1982 depend particularly on the evolution of oil prices. However, with exports of gas to Europe increasing, coupled with a planned expansion in the industrial sector, a higher rate of growth of GDP is foreseen in 1982. Algeria is also setting into motion measures—contained in its 1980-1984 plan, a review of which by the Bank was completed during the past year—to improve economic efficiency through a decentralization of the decision-making process and an easing of restrictions on private enterprise.
Morocco's difficulties stem from many causes. Drought, stagnant output of nonagricultural commodities, rising costs of fuel oil and food imports, increased interest costs on external debt, and a depreciation of the dirham against the dollar led to a decline in GDP (of about 2 percent), as well as a $500 million increase in its current-account deficit to $1,900 million. The country faces continued balance-of-payment and budgetary difficulties. A short-term stabilization program is being pursued. A particularly urgent need also exists for Morocco to develop export earnings from commodities other than phosphates.
Behind Tunisia's good growth performance lies, however, a major problem that needs addressing. A deterioration in the country's current-account deficit in 1981 is a warning that foreign exchange from sources other than oil must soon be found to meet future import requirements. Oil production from existing sources is leveling off; barring new and major discoveries, therefore, additional exports are needed. One promising possibility: light manufactures, whose rapid expansion could also contribute to the alleviation of growing unemployment.
Syria's balance of payments may come under further severe strain over the coming years as the country moves from being a net exporter of petroleum to a net importer. In 1981, it is estimated that economic growth was significantly below that of 1980. Preliminary data indicate that pressures on its budgetary and
external-payments position may have eased somewhat during the year as a result of the restraints that were applied to the growth of imports and government expenditures.
Jordan enjoyed a high rate of growth of GDP (10 percent) in 1981, with the industrial sector leading the expansion. There was, however, a substantial widening of the trade deficit, due to both a marked slowdown in the earnings from phosphate exports and a rapid increase in imports. A significantly higher inflow of workers' remittances helped finance the deficit. The country's new five-year plan (1981-85), which was reviewed by the Bank, places special emphasis on manpower training and industrial development issues.
Difficulties in Low-income Countries
Within the group of "low-income" countries in the region, the year 1981 confirmed for Egypt that future growth in foreign-exchange earnings—derived mainly from exports of oil, workers' remittances, and the Suez Canal—will most likely be less rapid than in the several preceding years. Notwithstanding a healthy growth rate in GNP in 1981 of nearly 9 percent, a decline in the spot price of oil led to the reemergence of a deficit in the country's balance of payments and to an increase in the fiscal gap. Egypt's current-account deficit, expressed as a percentage of GDP, jumped to 10 percent in 1981 as against 7 percent in the previous year.
Recent economic developments underline, therefore, the urgency of undertaking structural reforms that address, simultaneously, the country's need for greater mobilization of domestic resources, for orienting its economy more towards exports, and for improving the allocation of resources so that a high return on its investment program—in particular, that part of it concerning industry and agriculture—might be achieved. Continued rapid development will have to be based increasingly on the performance of those two sectors.
After several years of rapid economic growth and high levels of capital formation, particularly in construction, the Yemen Arab Republic encountered significant economic difficulties during 1981. Gross domestic product increased by only 2.4 percent, below the estimated rate of population growth of about 2.9 percent. In addition, the country's balance of payments deteriorated further and registered an overall deficit of about $780 million; a decline in the inflow of remittances from workers was a significant factor in this development. These events oblige the country to mount a concerted effort aimed at the mobilization of additional domestic resources and increases in domestic output. The Yemen
Arab Republic's second five-year plan (1982-86) has been drawn up with this need in mind: it embodies policies and programs for increasing domestic production, especially in agriculture, and for improving the human skills and physical infrastructure of the country.
Although the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen experienced an increase in GDP of about 6 percent in 1981 (equal to performance in 1980), it, too, is being adversely affected by a slowdown in the inflow of remittances from workers. In addition, the country was hit by unprecedented and widespread flash floods in March 1982 that severely damaged highways and agricultural infrastructure. As a result, the Republic's economy will be under strain, at least in the short term. The government, supported by several international agencies, has already begun work at reconstruction. And despite the floods, implementation is continuing of a set of policy measures aimed at accelerating the growth of domestic output, particularly in agriculture and fisheries. Producer prices have been increased substantially, and restrictions on sales of agricultural goods in the private markets have been eased.
Stagnant Oil Receipts
Since oil prices increased in 1979, the capital-surplus oil-exporting countries of the region have been relatively free from financial constraints— especially in terms of foreign exchange. In 1981, oil revenues continued to provide these countries with substantial surpluses. However, with reduced production and lower real oil prices in 1982, their incomes will decline. Assuming that oil prices remain stable in real terms over the medium term, a relative stagnation in oil receipts would be probable; indeed, there may even be a decline in receipts if demand continues to weaken and production were to be held back.
Labor Migration and Manpower Development
International labor migration became a phenomenon of major economic and social significance in the Middle East in the 1970s. By the turn of that decade, the scale of migration had become clearer, and the effects of labor migration on both labor-importing and labor-exporting countries were becoming more fully realized by both groups.
The oil-producing, labor-importing countries of the Middle East, which acted as host to some 1.6 million expatriate workers in 1975, currently employ an estimated 3 million-plus migrants. Assuming no slowdown in investment and
growth, projections suggest that as many as 4 million migrant workers, of increasingly diverse national origin, and accompanied by as many as 6 million dependents, may be required by these countries by 1985 to help implement their ambitious plans for economic and social development.
Although the severe shortage of trained manpower continues to be increasingly recognized as a major constraint to development in most countries, the nature of labor requirements in the region is changing. Two broad trends are noticeable.
First, as national economies become more sophisticated, demand is increasing for manpower—both domestic and imported—that is more highly trained, skilled, technical, and professional. This demand is evident in economies as diverse as those of Portugal, Algeria, and Jordan (where the need focuses on domestic workers) and Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (which also require skills of imported labor).
A consequence of this first trend is increasingly being recognized by some countries of the region as having a detrimental effect on their own national development: the export of "quality" labor. This development is noticeable in Jordan, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and the Yemen Arab Republic where, for instance, the national construction industry is severely hampered by labor shortages caused by emigration.
The second trend, one that is recognized by the major labor-importing countries—especially those in which a large proportion of the total population is expatriate—is that labor inflows create social and political problems and high indirect costs.
The World Bank has contributed to a better understanding of the dimensions, trends, and implications of the international labor-migration phenomenon in the region through a recently completed research study that has been widely disseminated to member governments, as well as to bilateral and multilateral development organizations.
So that the region's need for more highly trained manpower might be met as far as possible, the Bank has accorded a high priority to providing assistance for training. In fiscal 1982, for instance, the Bank's education-lending program to the region helped finance the construction of 11,000 training places. Indeed, during the three-year period, fiscal 1980-82, about 85 percent of the funds provided for educational assistance was allocated directly to manpower training as against formal education.
Latin America and the Caribbean
The year 1981 marked the first time in four decades that the countries of the Latin America and the Caribbean region experienced a significant decline in their gross domestic product (GDP) per capita. The rate of growth in the total GDP of the region, which was about 6 percent in calendar 1980, fell almost five percentage points in 1981; the population of the region grew by about 2.4 percent.
Most countries were affected by the adverse international economic environment, which, by worsening further in 1981, made it necessary for many to adopt internal adjustment policies that restricted economic growth. Chief among the external shocks: lower prices received for principal commodity exports other than petroleum, sharply higher costs of foreign borrowing, and the worldwide recession.
The regional aggregates mask important differences in performance among countries. The economy of Paraguay, stimulated by the
expansion of its agricultural frontier and by the joint construction with Brazil of major hydroelectric installations, achieved the highest growth rate in the region (8.5 percent). Three oil exporters were able to maintain relatively high rates of GDP growth in calendar 1981: Mexico (8.0 percent), Ecuador (4.5 percent), and Peru (4.0 percent). Only a few other countries, however, were able to maintain growth rates of 4 percent or more in 1981.
In contrast, Brazil and Argentina suffered severe economic contractions, accounting for the bulk of the drop in the region's aggregate GDP. Brazil is carrying out a program of adjustment that includes promotion and diversification of exports, development of new sources of energy, liberalization of its financial markets, and tight fiscal and monetary policies. While this program was accompanied by a severe recession in calendar 1981—total GDP dropped by nearly 4 percent and industrial output fell by about
Modern tuna-fishing vessels enable Ecuador to exploit more fully its abundant fish resources.
10 percent—it has already yielded some positive results that are helping erect a more efficient economic structure; in addition, the program has led to a turnaround in the country's trade deficit. Most countries of Central America and the Caribbean were particularly affected by unfavorable terms of trade.
Weakness in Demand
The international prices of the principal export products of the region dropped markedly in 1981 in the face of weakened world demand. Particularly affected were coffee, cocoa, sugar, copper, and tin, whose prices fell between 15 percent and 40 percent. Other products, including beef, soybeans, cotton, bauxite, and fishmeal, experienced smaller but significant declines in prices. Adding to the economic difficulties of the oil-importing countries were increases in fuel prices that took place in the first half of 1981. Despite a subsequent decline in fuel prices later in the year, the average cost of total imports for the year increased by about 8 percent for the oil importers.
As a result of these price movements, many countries in the region suffered large terms-of-trade losses. For the oil-importing countries as a whole, this loss is estimated at about $6,000
million, equivalent to some 12.5 percent of their exports of goods in 1981. On the other hand, the principal net exporters of fuels (Mexico and Venezuela) improved their terms of trade in 1981 by about $5,000 million, equivalent to 11 percent of their merchandise exports.
Higher interest rates in 1981 in the international capital markets put an additional burden on the external sector of most countries. Because a high share of their foreign debt has been contracted at variable interest rates, rises in the London Interbank Offered Rate are quickly translated into higher levels of debt service.
In response to the external shocks, several countries adopted adjustment policies that aimed at restoring equilibrium between aggregate supply and demand, narrowing the imbalance in foreign trade, and reducing recourse to foreign borrowing. Through combinations of monetary and fiscal policies, the oil-importing countries of the region were able to expand the volume of their exports by 13 percent and, at the same time, reduce the volume of imports by 7 percent. Thus, the trade deficit of the oil-importing countries was reduced from $7,700 million in 1980 to about $4,000 million in 1981; this reduction was due mainly to Brazil's improved performance.
This improvement, however, was offset by higher interest payments on foreign debt; the total current-account deficit of the oil-importing countries remained, therefore, at approximately 524,000 million, the same level as in 1980. To finance this deficit, several countries reduced somewhat their foreign borrowing (net capital inflows for the oil-importing countries dropped from $20,000 million in 1980 to $19,000 million in 1981) and drew down their international reserves at an even faster rate (by $3,600 million in 1980 and $4,500 million in 1981). The fuel-exporting countries, in contrast, widened their current-account deficits (from $4,500 million in 1980 to $10,000 million in 1981) as a consequence of a strong increase in the volume of imports (31.7 percent), most of which was concentrated in Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela. To finance their external deficits, these countries almost doubled their net foreign borrowing. Mexico was responsible for the bulk of the net borrowing, accounting for $10,800 million of the $12,700 million in new debt in 1981. Short-term net capital inflows for the region as a whole are estimated at about $3,000 million during 1981, owing largely to heavy inflows into Brazil and Mexico that were only partially offset by outflows from Argentina. The long-term external debt of the region is estimated to have increased by about $29,000 million in 1981 and totaled' about $194,000 million at year-end.
Low or negative economic growth makes the task of national economic management especially difficult. A rapidly growing population, increasingly concentrated in the urban centers, expects to be provided with basic social services even if revenues from the public sector do not rise in real terms. The region's labor force continues to grow and to require new jobs.With mounting unemployment and declining personal incomes, social and political tensions are heightened, and politically acceptable trade-offs are more difficult to find. The fight against inflation, in particular, becomes extremely difficult to pursue in these circumstances.
In calendar 1981, inflation accelerated to nearly 60 percent for the region as a whole (weighted by the population of each country); it exceeded 100 percent in Argentina and remained near that level in Brazil in spite of the reductions in GDP in both countries. In contrast, Chile succeeded in bringing about a drastic reduction in inflation in 1981 (at about 10 percent, down from 39 percent in 1979 and 31 percent in 1980) through a combination of open-trade policy, balanced public finances, and a fixed exchange rate. Exchange-rate management was a serious challenge for policy makers in several countries; periods of overvaluation were followed by massive devaluations in four countries in the region during fiscal 1981: Argentina, Bolivia, Costa Rica, and Mexico.
The Caribbean Countries
The past year was particularly difficult for most countries of the Caribbean. Not only did the worldwide recession continue to decrease the demand for tourism, their primary source of foreign exchange, but their other major exports —sugar, bauxite/alumina, and bananas— also experienced declining markets. As a result, the only real growth in 1981 in these highly vulnerable economies occurred in countries that were recovering from the ravages of the natural disasters of the two previous years, or in those countries that were well managed.
In some Caribbean economies (Jamaica and Guyana are examples), an additional problem arises from the fact that the domestic cost of producing sugar is now often higher than the world market price. Because the industry is a major employer, retrenchment is politically difficult. While the Caribbean still enjoys a comparative advantage in producing sugar, difficult questions now have to be faced in many islands concerning the future of the sugar industry. The banana industry, vital to the economies of the Windward Islands, also faces similar problems in that it is becoming exceedingly difficult to cover the relatively high costs of producing bananas. There are, however, virtually no alternatives for the farmers of the Islands.
In tourism, the picture is as bleak and complicated. Tourist arrivals and tourism earnings were generally down in calendar 1981, as compared with 1980; only a few countries, such as Haiti and St. Kitts-Nevis, managed some increases. Rapidly rising costs in the tourist industry during a period of slackening demand have posed difficult economic and political problems to governments. In some countries, tourism-related prices have been raised to match costs; the tourists have responded by shifting to cheaper destinations. In others, although price increases were moderate, tourism still declined.
The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development continues to be active in the generation, allocation, and coordination of assistance to its developing members, which include the Commonwealth Caribbean, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Suriname. A meeting of the Group in June 1982—at which close to $800 million was committed by donors for disbursement in fiscal 1983—concluded that the best hope for dealing with the serious balance-of-payments problem facing the countries of the Caribbean was to increase exports outside the region. It was agreed that the Caribbean Community countries would meet to discuss the possibility of modifying national and regional incentives to complement the export-promotion effort.
For the first time, a meeting of commercial banks was held within the Caribbean Group framework. Representatives of twenty-six commercial banks and financial institutions attended a meeting held at the request of, and chaired by, Jamaica.
Industrial Policies
Latin America and the Caribbean is one of the most industrialized of the developing regions. There are sharp differences within the region, however, in the degree of industrialization that has been attained. From the largest countries, Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, come almost two-thirds of the total value added in manufacturing; each of the three has established relatively wide-based industrial structures. A second group, comprising countries of medium size (Chile, Colombia, Peru, and Venezuela) plus smaller countries of relatively high per capita incomes (Barbados, Costa Rica, Jamaica, and Uruguay, for example), has attained moderate levels of industrialization. The third group of countries, characterized by industries in a nascent stage, includes those smaller nations with lower per capita incomes such as Bolivia, Haiti, Honduras, Paraguay, and the smaller Caribbean countries.
In the decade of the 1960s, substantial expansion and, particularly in the case of the larger countries, technological advance, in the sector took place. With GDP growing at an average annual rate of 6 percent, value added in manufacturing rose 8 percent a year, more than doubling in real terms over the decade. Even during the 1970s, the sector's annual growth rate, of 6 percent, surpassed that of GDP.
To illustrate the magnitude of the changes that took place during this twenty-year period of growth, steel production in the region, which in 1960 amounted to less than 5 million tons, totaled some 13 million tons in 1970 and reached almost 25 million tons by 1980. Output of fiat steel, a more technologically advanced product, rose from 1.5 million tons in 1960 to 4.7 million tons in 1970 and to an estimated 12 million tons in 1980. Similarly, production of motor vehicles, which, in 1960, totaled some 300,000 units, increased to around 1 million units in 1970 and to 2.1 million units in 1979.
Of particular significance is the fact that Brazil, which accounts for half the region's automotive output, increased its efficiency and competitiveness to the extent that, over the last two decades, the domestic price of automobiles fell by about one-half in real terms. In recent years, Brazil has been exporting more than 13 percent of its automobile production. This export growth has been associated, in part, with the adoption of more externally oriented
Economic Cooperation in Latin America and the Caribbean
In the last three decades, the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean have attempted to achieve economies of scale, faster industrial growth, and more effective use of resources through several economic-integration efforts.
The Latin American Free Trade Association (ALALC) was created in 1960 and included Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. Through reduction of tariffs and elimination of trade restrictions on selected products, intra-zonal trade expanded from under 8 percent of the countries' total trade to about 13 percent by 1978. More than one-half of this trade was in manufactures, of which some were of relatively advanced technology.
In spite of this progress, achievements fell short of the original expectations. Some of the smaller countries questioned both the fairness of the distribution of benefits and the rigidity of the legal mechanisms, which did not allow for corrective measures to adapt to changing conditions. Moreover, the predominance of bilateral arrangements made it difficult and eventually impossible to progress in the direction of a regional and multilateral tariff dismantlement. As a consequence, the member countries decided in 1980 to replace ALALC by a new organization, the Latin American Integration Association (ALADI). The quantitative targets and timetables of ALALC have been dropped and considerable flexibility in bilateral arrangements and in partial cooperation agreements between subgroups of countries, aiming at a progressive and gradual multilateralization of integration, is permitted.
The Andean Group (the Acuerdo de Cartagena) was formed in 1967 by Bolivia, Chile, Colombia,
Ecuador, and Peru. Subsequently, Venezuela joined the group and Chile withdrew. The Andean Group's operations are complemented by the Andean Development Corporation, created in 1968 to provide financing for preinvestment studies, technical assistance, and investment projects aimed at fostering Andean integration. The impetus to the group's formulation was the desire to proceed with integration more rapidly than was possible under ALALC. The principal Andean Group policies—internal trade liberalization behind a fairly high common external tariff, complemented by specific allocation among countries of certain industrial projects, and a common set of rules for the treatment of foreign capital—gave a decided import-substitution bias to the original formulation. Although intragroup trade has grown rapidly, it remains a small share of each country's imports and exports. Recent changes indicate that the members of the Andean Group are attempting to remove some of the import-substitution bias, allow greater play to market forces, and reduce discrimination against the primary sectors and exports. If successful, such changes should promote faster, more efficient, and more equitable growth.
The Central American Common Market (CACM), which was established in 1960 and included Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua, built upon various bilateral and multilateral arrangements that had been developed among those countries during the 1950s. (Honduras formally withdrew from the CACM in 1969, but has continued to participate in policy discussions, technical work, and trade through ad hoc arrangements and bilateral agreements.) This integration movement was characterized by free trade among the member countries (primarily for manufactured products), combined
development strategies—as evidenced by the adoption of more flexible exchange-rate policies, reduced protection, and export-promotion measures—designed to increase the efficiency of manufacturing and its international competitiveness. In the 1960s, the shift away from the import-substitution approach began gradually in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, and Mexico. During the 1970s, it extended to Chile. Peru, and Uruguay.
One consequence of the new development strategy was a sharp rise in exports of manufactures which, in 1960, had represented less than 5 percent of total exports for the region as a whole. By 1970, the share had risen to 12 percent, and exports were contributing significantly to the high growth rate of the sector. By the end of that decade, the share reached about 17 percent. Expansion in the export of manufactures has
been accompanied by a degree of specialization. Brazil and Mexico are selling automobile parts to industrialized countries, for example, while Argentina and Brazil are exporting agricultural machinery adapted to the needs of developing countries.
As part of the attempt to lift the constraints imposed by limited market sizes, some efforts were made by the medium-sized and smaller countries to create regional groupings that put special emphasis on trade in manufactures. These systems, however, had limited successes.
While one of the principal objectives of adopting outward-oriented strategies has been improvements in the balance of payments, other major objectives of growth are also associated with these strategies. One. in particular, is the improvement of social conditions through increased employment in industry. Such
with a common external tariff and by harmonization of national industrial policies through a uniform industrial-incentive agreement. In addition, the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) was created to finance projects contributing to the integration process, and efforts were made to establish regional approaches to the development of infrastructure such as roads, energy, and telecommunications.
The CACM countries experienced considerable economic growth through the mid-1970s; expansion in the industrial sector made a major contribution to rising incomes and employment. Impressive growth in intracountry trade in manufactures was an important factor in that sector's development. Late in the 1960s, however, problems began to emerge. Some were of a technical nature, relating to the effects of liberalized trade on the fiscal situation of individual countries. Political rivalries also intruded. A further setback occurred after the first oil-price shock in 1973 and the subsequent world economic recession. After 1976, there was some recovery in economic activity in the countries and further expansion of trade among members through 1980. In 1981, however, the growing macroeconomic difficulties of some of the countries, partly reflecting the stagnation in world demand for the basic products on which the region continues to depend for foreign-exchange earnings, as well as the severe internal political strife experienced in three countries, resulted, for the first time, in a major contraction in intraregional trade.
The Caribbean countries have also embarked upon a number of initiatives to construct a framework of cooperation in an attempt to overcome the handicaps of small size, economic fragmentation, and external economic dependence. An early attempt—the establishment of the West Indies
Federation in 1958—was dropped when two of the Federation's major member countries, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago, achieved independence in 1962. The idea of regional economic association was revived in the mid-1960s and culminated in 1968 in the formation of the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA). Within this free-trade area, the seven islands of the Eastern Caribbean formed the East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM). In 1970, the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) was established and in October 1972, CARIFTA-member countries decided to strengthen the integration movement still further by forming a Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM).
CARICOM seeks to deepen regional integration and includes such measures as the establishment of a common external tariff, a harmonized system of fiscal incentives for industry, and taxation agreements. It calls for coordination of national development planning, rationalization of agriculture, joint development of regional natural resources, and cooperation in other areas including health, education, culture, transport, and the harmonization of foreign policy. Progress toward achieving CARICOM's goals, however, has been slow, owing mainly to the political differences prevailing in the region, to the effects of recent economic difficulties, and to the problems inherent in a system whose members are both small and widely dispersed geographically. Most progress has been made in the field of regional trade—its share in total trade increased from 6 percent in 1967 to 9 percent in 1975—but this has slowed in recent years. The degree of success of this integration movement should be judged, however, not only by the growth in regional trade, but also by the success in cooperation in other fields.
improvement stems not only from the fact that many export industries tend to be more labor-intensive, but also from the resulting improvement in efficiency in import-substitution industries. Although data on employment in manufacturing are weak, they do suggest that employment growth in the decade of the 1960s was more or less equal to the rate of growth in the economically active population (around 3 percent) and that during the decade of the 1970s, the employment growth rate almost doubled, despite the slower growth of output. Various studies have also noted the importance of the indirect employment effects associated with industrial growth.
With the increasing complexity of the industrial sector and its emergence as one of the main determinants of both economic and social progress, governments have had to concern
themselves with other aspects of industrial policy. The growth of large, urbanized industrial centers has caused the governments of the more-advanced countries—Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, for instance—to seek a better spatial balance of industry by undertaking programs of deconcentration and to seek to reduce environmental deterioration in the existing centers through programs for the control of pollution (for example, Brazil and Mexico). The rises in energy prices that characterized the 1970s have led to major attempts at encouraging the conservation of energy in industry, not only through appropriate pricing of energy inputs, but through the introduction of energy-saving processes and equipment in existing plants as well.
The diversity of the requirements of the industrial sector within the region has led the Bank to adopt lending programs structured to
meet the needs of countries, both industrially advanced and nascent. In recent years, Bank-supported industrial-credit operations have shifted their emphasis from one of institution building—particularly in the development-banking field—to one of support for the growth of export-oriented industries and for efficient import substitution. These recent operations (general lines of credit, as well as those destined for designated subsectors) have also been characterized by increasing involvement with the national banking systems (usually through
central banks or designated affiliated bodies) and have been combined with measures to foster the mobilization of domestic resources. Specific loans assisting small and medium-sized industries, or components of general lines of credit, have been designed to help accelerate the process of employment generation. Similarly, national programs for pollution control, industrial decentralization, energy conservation, and technological development have been supported through specific operations or components.
Chapter Five Executive Directors
With the exception of certain powers specifically reserved to them by the Articles of Agreement, the Governors of the Bank have delegated their powers for the conduct of the general operations of the Bank to a Board of Executive Directors that performs its duties on a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters. There are twenty-one Executive Directors; each Director selects an Alternate. As provided for in the Articles of Agreement, five Directors are appointed by the five members having the largest number of shares of capital stock and the rest are elected by the Governors representing the other members. The President of the Bank is Chairman of the Board.
The Executive Directors fulfill dual responsibilities. They represent their constituents' interests and concerns to the Board and management when determining policy or considering individual projects, as well as the interests and concerns of the Bank to the country or countries that appointed or elected them. The Directors, therefore, act as a two-way channel of communication between the Bank and the member countries. Since the Bank operates on the basis of consensus (formal votes are rare), this dual role involves frequent communication and consultations with governments so as to reflect accurately their views in Board discussions.
Policy is decided by the Executive Directors within the framework of the Articles of Agreement. The Directors consider and decide on the loan and credit proposals made by the President. They are also responsible for presentation to the Board of Governors at its Annual Meetings of an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, the Annual Report on the operations and policies of The World Bank, and any other matter that, in their judgment, requires submission to the Board of Governors. Matters may be submitted to the Governors at the Annual Meetings or at any time between Annual Meetings.
Policy decisions that the Executive Directors make annually, or more frequently as necessary, include those that concern the Bank's lending rate, allocation of its net income, staff compensation, the administrative budgets, and the research program.
Annual reports with which the Directors deal concern project implementation and supervision, the activities of the Joint Audit Committee, the financial statements of the Bank and IDA, and the staff retirement plan. In fiscal 1982, the
Directors considered the sixth annual report of the Director General, Operations Evaluation and the seventh "Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results."
In addition to formal, regular Board Meetings (sixty-two were held during the year), the Directors meet as the Committee of the Whole to discuss matters prior to their submission to the Board for formal action. From time to time, the Directors also hold seminars with Bank management that permit more informal discussion than can take place at regular Board meetings. Topics covered by the Committee of the Whole and in seminars during the year included currency-swaps, per capita GNP and country classifications, external relations, the US Dollar-Swiss Franc-linked transaction, a review of IBRD income prospects and policies. IDA service charges, procurement issues, the budget process, structural adjustment in developing countries, borrowing and lending-rate policies of the IBRD, topics for future World Development Reports, the Bank's poverty focus, and personnel policies.
The changes introduced in 1979 to enhance the effectiveness of the Development Committee (the Joint Ministerial Committee of the Board of Governors of The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund on the Transfer of Real Resources to Developing Countries) have provided for a greater and closer involvement of the Executive Directors and the staff of the Bank. These changes continued to be reflected, in an increasing measure, in all the preparatory work undertaken for the meetings of the Development Committee held in September 1981 in Washington, D.C. and in May 1982 in Helsinki, Finland.
The Executive Directors also deliberated on the special study prepared by the staff on sub-Saharan Africa, and they commented on the final report of the Development Committee's Task Force on Non-Concessional Flows. Both meetings of the Development Committee during the year were attended by the Executive Directors, who assisted the members of the Committee in their deliberations.
Three standing committees of the Board have been established to aid the Executive Directors in carrying out their duties. They are: the Committee on Directors' Administrative Matters, the Joint Audit Committee, and the Committee on Staff Compensation Issues.
The Committee on Directors' Administrative Matters was established in 1968. It considers, makes recommendations, and reports its findings to the Executive Directors for their decision on matters of administrative policies relating to Executive Directors, Alternates, Advisers, and their staffs. Its terms of reference involve it in a wide spectrum of administrative matters and charge it with the responsibility of assisting Executive Directors in the formulation of policies, changes in existing policies, and implementing such policies by considering and deciding on questions that involve individual Executive Directors. The Committee coordinates many of its recommendations with a similar committee established by the Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund. In making its recommendations, the Committee endeavors to maintain a balance between the overall organizational and administrative objectives of the institution and the unique circumstances faced by Executive Directors in discharging their responsibilities.
The Committee meets as frequently as necessary, normally about once a month. The membership consists of six Executive Directors for a term of two years after each regular election of the Executive Directors. Since December 1980, Said El-Naggar has served as its chairman.
The Joint Audit Committee was established in 1970, essentially to represent the shareholders of the Bank in maintaining vigilance over the soundness of the Bank's financial practices and procedures. In pursuing its responsibilities during fiscal 1982, the Committee nominated a firm of private, independent, internationally established accountants to conduct the annual audits of the IBRD, IDA, and the IFC, discussed with them the scope of their examination, and reviewed with them the annual audited financial statements and the opinions thereon. In addition, through meetings with the Bank's senior financial officers, the Committee sought to ensure that the Bank's financial affairs were properly conducted.
The Committee is also charged with the responsibility of satisfying itself that the Bank's operations evaluation and internal audit are adequate and efficient. It therefore reviewed the work programs of the Operations Evaluation and Internal Auditing Departments, the work in progress, desirable standards, and procedures of reporting. Through a subcommittee, it gave special attention to Project Performance Audit Reports to determine how well the Operations Evaluation Department carries out its assessment of individual projects. The Committee itself reviewed and identified those giving rise to policy issues that may be considered by the
Executive Directors. Through another subcommittee, the Committee examined a number of Internal Audit Reports to determine how well the Internal Auditing Department carries out its individual audits.
Of continuing concern to the Committee is the adequacy of the flow of financial information to the Executive Directors in order for the Board to discharge its responsibilities properly with respect to the financial policies of the Bank. Accordingly, the system for providing financial information to the Board is reviewed periodically by the Committee.
The Committee provides a continuous channel through which the internal and external auditors can communicate with the Executive Directors should the need arise. It meets as frequently as necessary, normally once a month. The Committee consists of eight Executive Directors who are appointed by the Board for a term of two years after each regular election of Executive Directors. Since December 1980, Anthony IJ. A. Looijen has served as chairman of the Committee.
The Committee on Staff Compensation Issues was established in July 1980. Its terms of reference mandate it to keep under continuing review and, where appropriate, to advise the Executive Directors on questions of staff compensation policy and to maintain close liaison on all such matters with the Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), bearing in mind the need for general parallelism between the two institutions.
Since its inception, the Committee has addressed a wide range of topics. These include: development of a coordinated approach to compensation matters with the IMF; the principles and objectives that should govern compensation policy in the Bank, in light of the 1979 Board decisions on the recommendations of the Joint (Bank-Fund) Committee on Staff Compensation Issues ("Kafka Committee"); the findings, implications, and options resulting from the major compensation survey conducted by Hay Associates (an outside consulting firm), as provided for by those 1979 Board decisions; the performance-appraisal and reward systems; the Bankwide job-regrading exercise; and on a preliminary basis, draft Principles of Staff Employment.
The Committee, which meets as frequently as necessary, consists of eight Executive Directors who are appointed by the Executive Directors for a term of two years after each regular election of Executive Directors. Since December 1980, Earl G. Drake has served as chairman of the Committee.
Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1982, by Sector*
Acronyms and Abbreviations Used in This Section
ADAB—Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADF—African Development Fund ADFAED—Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab
Economic Development AfDB—African Development Bank AFESD—Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development AFVP—French Association of Volunteers
for Progress AGCD—Belgium Administration for
Development Cooperation AsDB—Asian Development Bank BADEA—Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa BDEAC—Development Bank of the Central
African States BOAD—West African Development Bank CCCE—Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique CDC—Commonwealth Development
Corporation CIDA—Canadian International
Development Agency DANIDA—Danish International
Development Agency EDC—Export Development Corporation
(Canada) EDF—European Development Fund EEC—European Economic Community EIB—European Investment Bank FAC—Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation FAO—Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations GTZ—German Technical Assistance
Corporation
Agriculture and Rural Development
BANGLADESH: IDA—$27 million. Flood control and drainage will be provided for about 80,000 hectares in three areas, Chalan Beel, Satla Bagda, and Hail Haor, thereby protecting these areas from excessive flooding and helping to increase farm production and employment activities, such as marketing, processing, and the supply of farm inputs. Total cost: $41.4 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$27 million. A second research and extension project—one that includes reorganizing and merging five
ICRISAT—International Crops Research
Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics IDRC—International Development
Research Centre IFAD—International Fund for Agricultural
Development IsDB—Islamic Development Bank KFAED—Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development KfW—Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau NMDC—Netherlands Minister for
Development Cooperation NORAD—Norwegian Agency for
International Development ODA—Overseas Development
Administration (United Kingdom) OECF—Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (Japan) OPEC—Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries SDC—Swiss Development Corporation SFD—Saudi Fund for Development SIDA—Swedish International Development
Authority
UNDP—United Nations Development
Programme UNFPA—United Nations Fund for
Population Activities UNICEF—United Nations Children's Fund UNIFSTD—United Nations Interim Fund
on Science and Technology for
Development USAID—United States Agency for
International Development WARDA—West African Rice Development
Association
extension agencies, increasing extension staff in fifteen districts, providing bicycles and other vehicles to improve mobility, constructing offices and seed stores, and expanding the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute—will support the government's efforts to achieve food self-sufficiency. Cofinancing ($3 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $40.9 million.
*Dala used in this scclion have been compiled from documentation provided al Ihc time of project approval and do not reflect changes that may have occurred afterwards.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$67 million. About 120,000 small-scale farm families will benefit from a project including both agricultural-development and environmental-protection components that, with two other projects, forms the first phase of an integrated development program for the Northwest region. Total cost: $199.3 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$42.7 million. Some 39,000 small farmers living in forty-six municipalities of Maranhao state will benefit from increased agricultural production and incomes through the provision of secure land tenure, technical and marketing assistance, agricultural research, and basic health and education services. Total cost: $122.9 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$26.4 million. The project will support the state of Amazonas' efforts to expand its agricultural base and improve the food supply to the growing urban population by helping diversify small-farmer activities from the traditional cultivation of subsistence crops into more commercial agriculture and permanent crops. Total cost: $77.7 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$26.4 million. About 17,500 families living on small farms will benefit from this second phase of an integrated development program for the Northwest region that aims at increasing the productivity, incomes, and social well-being of the region's population. Total cost: $76.4 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$16 million. An estimated 150,000 smallholder families living in Ngozi province will benefit from a project that includes extension services, the construction of coffee-washing stations and marketing warehouses, reafforestation and erosion-control measures, improvement of the road and water-supply network, and a pilot swamp-development program. Technical assistance, research, and training are included. Cofinancing is being provided by I FAD ($7 million) and the KFAED ($3 million). Total cost: $28.9 million.
CAMEROON: IBRD—$50.8 million. The project will help meet the growing domestic demand for palm oil and generate foreign-exchange earnings by maintaining, planting, and replanting rubber and oil-palm plantations, improving processing and storage facilities, and providing vehicles, equipment, technical assistance, and training. Cofinancing is being provided by the CDC ($12.3 million), the CCCE ($7.4 million), and the EIB ($6.6 million). Total cost: $152.8 million.
CAMEROON: IBRD—$17 million. Over a five-year period, about 11,000 hectares of
eucalyptus and pine plantations will be established to provide fuelwood for part of the country and raw material for the pulp industry. Technical assistance and training are included to help strengthen local institutions responsible for forest regeneration and for applying regulations related to forestry taxes and royalties. Cofinancing ($7.4 million) is being provided by the CDC. Total cost: $35.5 million.
CHINA: IDA—$60 million. This first IDA-assisted agriculture project in the country will provide drainage and irrigation facilities on about 200,000 hectares in nine counties in the north China plain to help overcome soil salinity, waterlogging, and surface flooding. Agricultural inputs, rural electrification, rural roads, and other facilities, as well as technical assistance and training, will also be provided. About 280,000 farm families will benefit. Total cost: $177.5 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$53 million. A second rural development project includes the provision of credit, construction of 270 kilometers of rural roads and improvement of 270 kilometers of existing roads, upgrading the primary-school program in 80 districts, supplying clean water to 126 rural communities, and establishing or repairing 82 health-care units. Total cost: $173.2 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$9 million. This first phase of a program to reverse the ecological deterioration of the upper part of the Magdalena river and its surrounding areas to maximize the long-term economic use of the soils and water includes investments in three subwatersheds designed to introduce soil-conserving cropping patterns, improvement of livestock management, reforestation measures, and the building of structures to reduce erosion. Total cost: $27.3 million.
ECUADOR: IBRD—$17 million. The aim of the project—which includes agricultural extension, credit, and other support services, provision of land titles, construction and improvement of rural roads and bridges, and the provision of potable water, health-care services, and school facilities—is to improve the productivity, incomes, and the standards of living of more than 5,000 poor families living in Esmeraldas province. Total cost: $49 million.
HAITI: IDA—$4 million. Technical assistance and help in preparing a large-scale program aimed at reversing the trend towards depletion of the country's forest resources will be provided. The project also provides for institution building, forestry, training,
fuelwood-species trials, pilot plantings, testing of fuel-efficient stoves, and management and improvement of 20,000 hectares of existing pine forest. Cofinancing is being provided by the IDRC ($300,000) and the AFVP ($559,000). Total cost: $5.1 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$190 million; IDA—$160 million. To help the country increase agricultural production and strengthen agricultural-credit institutions, funds will be provided through the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation for relending to farmers for investments in irrigation, land development, plantations and horticulture, livestock, and fisheries. About 60 percent of the credit funds will be directed to small farmers. Total cost: $2,086.2 million.
INDIA: IDA—$220 million. The
project—including construction work on six dams, expansion and remodeling of 217 kilometers of canal systems, and the construction or improvement of 672 kilometers of rural roads—will assist the ongoing development of two major irrigation schemes in Madhya Pradesh state and help increase agricultural production and raise the standard of living of local farmers. Total cost: $439.2 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$20.3 million; IDA—$60 million. The incomes of small landholders in Kerala state will be increased through modernization of food-grain and tree-crop cultivation. Reliable supplies of water will be provided for hillside garden and paddy lands, as will a range of agricultural support services. Total cost: $160.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$29 million. Some 93,000
hectares of plantations will be established on wastelands throughout the state of West Bengal to help increase supplies of fuelwood in rural areas. Poles, bamboo, fruits, oilseeds, and other forest products will also be provided, energy-efficient stoves will be introduced, and a social-forestry wing in the State Forestry Department will be established. Total cost: $43.5 million.
INDIA: IDA—$6 million. Agricultural extension services will be reorganized and strengthened, incorporating the Training and Visit system of extension, to benefit about 5.5 million farm families in twenty-two districts of the state of Andhra Pradesh. Total cost: $9.7 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$70 million. By
rehabilitating and upgrading some 190,000 hectares and developing groundwater systems to serve 13,000 hectares, this seventeenth irrigation project is the first to be concentrated in a single province (East Java) and implemented through a provincial
irrigation service. Cofinancing ($25 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $144.4 million. INDONESIA: IBRD—$68.1 million. Some 28,200 hectares of tree crops, food crops, and house gardens will be established in West Java, Bengkulu, and Maluku provinces, benefiting about 8,500 smallholder families and 3,900 estate-worker families. Cofinancing ($28 million) is being provided by the CDC. Total cost: $191.1 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$37 million. About 38,000 people will benefit from increased food production, job opportunities, and government savings through the construction of the second stage of the Sitiung irrigation system in Sumatera. Technical assistance, training, and water-development studies are included. Total cost: $76.6 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$15 million. By expanding and strengthening the organizations responsible for production and marketing of high-quality food-crops seeds and through the construction and equipping of twenty-four new seed-processing centers, the project will help raise agricultural production and the incomes of small farmers. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $50 million.
IVORY COAST: IBRD—$13 million. Crop-development programs and an improved system of extension services will be introduced in the center-west region to help increase agricultural production and the incomes of some 28,000 farm families. Cofinancing ($15 million) is being provided by the CCCE. Total cost: $55.1 million.
KENYA: IBRD—$21.5 million; IDA—$16 million. Through more efficient planting activities and better cost recovery, the Forest Department's operations will be improved and wood production will be increased, thereby reducing pressure on the country's fast-depleting indigenous forests. Cofinancing is being provided by Italy ($9 million) and the SDC ($7.6 million). Total cost: $74.1 million.
KENYA: IDA—$22 million. Funds will be provided through the Cooperative Bank of Kenya, the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board, and through participating cooperatives to improve the cotton-collection and marketing system, rehabilitate and expand cotton ginning, and strengthen the technical and financial management of participating institutions. Total cost: $33.4 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$50 million. An agricultural wholesale-market complex will be built near Seoul, a market
authority will be established, and a countrywide study will be made of the agricultural marketing system and related public policies to help provide adequate storage facilities for fruits, vegetables, and fish, reduce intramarket congestion, and promote more competitive prices and trading practices. Total cost: SI02 million.
LIBERIA: IDA—S15.5 million. Food production and incomes of smallholder farmers in the upper Lofa county area will be increased through the provision of agricultural inputs (fertilizers, credit, and extension services), improvement in the operation of cooperatives, construction of feeder roads and village wells, schistosomiasis-surveillance services, and technical assistance to develop upland rice, cocoa, coffee, and cassava. Cofinancing ($9.6 million) is being provided by the ADF. Total cost: $28 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$15 million. About 120,000 livestock producers living in Mahajanga province will benefit from a second livestock project that aims to increase the country's meat production, raise incomes, and increase exports through animal-health programs, veterinary inputs, technical assistance, and research activities. Cofinancing ($8 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $25.8 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$7.3 million. This third phase of the National Rural Development Program aims to strengthen project-management capabilities and support further development of agricultural potential in Karonga and Chitapa districts. Total cost: $8.6 million.
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$25.4 million. More than 8,000 poor rubber smallholders and paddy farmers may double their average incomes through a project that includes replanting old rubber areas, construction and rehabilitation of small irrigation and drainage schemes, livestock and fishpond development, construction of farm and access roads, and improved agricultural-support services. Total cost: $76.8 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$180 million. The
government will be assisted in developing irrigated agriculture on 280,000 hectares south of the Rio Grande river. More than 15,000 farm families will benefit through an increase in annual family incomes of from between 110 percent and 500 percent. Total cost: $525.3 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$175 million. The standard of living of some 250,000 poor rural families will be improved through the PIDER III Rural Development Project. Funds will be provided for livestock development,
irrigation, industries, crop development, fisheries, forestry, extension services, and other investments that will strengthen the ongoing activities of two previous projects. In addition, programs to provide jobs for women and a pilot nutrition program are included. Total cost: $505.7 million. MOROCCO: IBRD—$29 million. About 100,000 people living in the middle Atlas region will benefit from increases in the production of meat, milk, fodder, cereals, and wood, as well as higher income levels and better employment opportunities, through measures aimed at developing local forests, livestock, and crops. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $92.2 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$27.5 million. Wood production will be increased on about 212,000 hectares by clearing 30,000 hectares of eucalyptus plantations and cork oak forests and replanting the area with fast-growing species of eucalyptus, pines, and acacia, by upgrading 140 kilometers of access roads and building 40 kilometers of roads, and by improving 2,600 hectares of pasture land. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $65.1 million.
NIGER: IDA—$10.1 million. To increase supplies of fuelwood, building poles, tree fodder, and other forest products, state-managed tree plantations will be established, the Forestry Department will be strengthened, and different approaches to forestry development in the Sahel will be tested. Cofinancing is being provided by the CCCE ($3.6 million) and the FAC ($1.6 million). Total cost: $16.8 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$147 million. Food-crop production will be increased and rural incomes improved in Sokoto state through a package of farm-support services and physical infrastructure designed to benefit about 690,000 smallholder farm families. Total cost: $498.7 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$40 million. The project is part of an extensive program to rehabilitate the surface irrigation and drainage systems in all four of the country's provinces to increase agricultural production and reduce crop losses. Cofinancing ($45 million) is being provided by USAID. Total cost: $118.1 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$14 million. The incomes of some 1,700 farm families in Baluchistan province may increase by between 200 percent and 660 percent as a result of a minor irrigation and agricultural development project. Minor irrigation schemes, improved agricultural extension, pilot schemes, technical assistance, and
institutional development are included. Cofinancing is being provided by the KfW ($13 million) and the NMDC ($2.1 million). Total cost: $34.7 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD—$6 million; IDA—$2 million. This first phase of an eight-year plan to accelerate social and economic development in Enga province includes the introduction of improved agricultural technologies, support for small-scale enterprises, and improvement in provincial roads, health facilities, and education systems. Total cost: $16 million.
PARAGUAY: IBRD—$31 million.
Agricultural credit, research, and extension services will be made available to small farmers, about 270 kilometers of roads will be improved, four rural health centers will be built, and staff and equipment will be provided to improve the management of the 6,000-hectare Caaguazu National Forest and a new forest district in order to increase agricultural production, provide better access and services to rural areas, and improve forest management. Total cost: $54.3 million.
PARAGUAY: IBRD—$22.4 million.
Smallholder incomes should increase and living conditions be improved through better availability of credit, extension, research, and the construction of a tobacco-redrying and threshing plant. In addition, infrastructure, mainly roads and health services, will be provided, and associated institutional development furnished. Total cost: $40.9 million.
PERU: IBRD—$40.6 million. The country's agricultural-research and extension services will be rebuilt through the introduction of the Training and Visit system of extension, construction of research facilities, and provision of institutional support to the National Institute for Agricultural and Livestock Research and Extension. Studies for a follow-up project will also be carried out. Total cost: $83.9 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$71.1 million. About 24,000 farm families will benefit from a communal irrigation-development project that includes the construction or rehabilitation of irrigation systems, strengthening sixty-seven provincial irrigation offices through construction or improvement of buildings and workshops, training for extension agents and other staff, and technical assistance to the National Irrigation Administration. Cofinancing ($12 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $121.8 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$45 million. During a six-year period, a wide range of agricultural
support services (with emphasis on research) will be strengthened and supported. Manpower development in the Ministry of Agriculture's network of agencies will be encouraged, and a nationwide nutrition survey financed. Total cost: $77 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD — $22.4 million. About 2,500 small-scale fishermen will be assisted through the establishment of marketing facilities, and supplies of inputs and sector management will be improved through institution-building activities that include strengthening of the three fisheries agencies of the Ministry of Natural Resources. Total cost: $36.6 million.
PORTUGAL: IBRD—$51 million. The project represents a major first step toward improving farm incomes and living conditions in Tras-os-Montes, the country's poorest region, through the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes, improvements to rainfed agriculture, credit to farmers, provision of storage facilities and equipment for cooperatives, strengthening extension and research services, and investments in rural roads, water and sewage facilities, schools, and health centers. Total cost: $154.8 million.
ROMANIA: IBRD—$95 million. Agricultural production will be increased in the Moldova region, one of the country's poorest, through investments in farm mechanization, agroindustries, and soil-erosion control works, credit to individual producers, pasture improvement, dairy farms, and vineyards. Total cost: $290.2 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$19.5 million. The project forms part of a long-term program to improve the relevance and impact of the country's national research effort in crop and livestock development and to strengthen the linkage between agricultural research and production needs. Cofinancing is being provided by the CCCE ($35.3 million), USAID ($12.8 million), the FAO ($3.5 million), ICRISAT/WARDA ($1.1 million), and the UNIFSTD ($1 million). Total cost: $106.1 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$20 million. The project will help improve the management and information systems of major tea-producing corporations, help stabilize eroding lands, and improve the welfare of tea-estate workers through tea replanting, factory rehabilitation, tea transport, and the rehabilitation of worker housing, water-supply systems, and medical facilities. In addition, storage facilities, technical assistance, and training will be provided. Total cost: $33.1 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$18 million. Over a three-year period, the institutional structure of the Agricultural Bank of Sudan will be strengthened, and a package of credit, essential inputs, and services will be provided to private farmers in three selected areas. Total cost: $35.6 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$13 million. The project aims to improve the economic potential of the Western Savannah region and to raise the standard of living of its people by testing strategies for improving livestock and range production, identifying and testing extension methods for crop production, and testing approaches to settlement and soil conservation. Cofinancing is being provided by ODA ($1.2 million) and the SFD ($4.4 million). Total cost: $21.5 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: IBRD—$22 million. This first phase of a comprehensive program for agricultural development in Deraa and Sweida provinces (about 30,000 hectares) includes field-crop and fruit-tree development, construction of farm-access roads, strengthening of extension services, and technical assistance. About 10,000 farm families will benefit. Cofinancing is being provided by IFAD ($18 million) and the UNDP ($2.2 million). Total cost: $76.3 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$12 million. To help meet the growing domestic demand for softwood, as well as reduce pressure on indigenous forests, about 18,000 hectares of existing forest plantations will be upgraded, 10,000 hectares of new plantations will be established, nurseries will be built, fire-control measures will be strengthened, and secondary roads and railway tracks for transporting logs will be constructed. Total cost: $15 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$142 million. Rubber production will be expanded to help raise the income levels of smallholders, to improve the country's balance of payments through increased rubber exports, and to lay the foundation for further development nationwide of the tree-crop subsector. Cofinancing ($18.5 million) is being provided by the CDC. Total cost: $358.8 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$42 million. To meet the rapidly rising demand for industrially milled grain, the project will provide for the rehabilitation of 78,000 tons and construction of 100,000 tons of silo capacity in support of import operations and inland storage. Bulk railway cars will be purchased to transport grain. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $93.9 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$22 million. About 7,800 farmers will benefit directly from a project designed to increase production of seasonal and off-season vegetables, fruits, meats, milk, and industrial crops in two irrigated areas—one near Tunis and the other in the east-central part of the country. Needed irrigation water will be provided, as will investments in access roads, extension services, marketing facilities, on-farm development, and credit. Total cost: $55.1 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$40 million. Through the strengthening of agricultural extension, veterinary, and plant-protection services, and by providing access to credit, by developing 10,000 hectares of small-scale irrigation schemes, by building or improving 800 kilometers of rural roads, and developing safe water-supply facilities in 142 villages, agricultural production, incomes, and employment levels will be raised in Erzurum province. Cofinancing ($20 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $137 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$16 million. Over a four-year period, funds will be provided for land development, credit to farmers and farmers' groups, storage sheds, water-supply systems, tree plantations, project-management offices, training for Regional Development Organizations, and for related rural projects. The Netherlands government is providing $7.8 million in the form of a participatory agreement. Cofinancing is being provided by BOAD ($3.7 million). Total cost: $28.9 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$6 million. The project is aimed at improving agricultural research and development through the construction and furnishing of two extension supervision centers and nine extension centers in the Central Highlands, provision of equipment and materials for laboratories and office buildings, and technical assistance. Cofinancing is being provided by Italy ($8.9 million) and IFAD ($5.8 million). Total cost: $32.4 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$6 million. Two critical constraints of the fisheries sector—the lack of adequately trained manpower at all levels and the lack of facilities for the exploitation of the substantial coastal fish resources by the traditional coastal fisheries subsector—will be addressed. Cofinancing is expected from the EEC ($3.4 million) and IFAD ($5 million). Total cost: $21.4 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$80 million. Funds will be provided to the Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka Skopje for relending for
horticulture and livestock development, cold-storage facilities, irrigation schemes, forestry projects, a pilot biogas plant, and a feasibility study for geothermal water development. Total cost: $281.4 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$35 million. About 1,200 hectares in the Popovo Polje region will be irrigated and two flour mills will be built, as well as a poultry slaughterhouse, a vegetable-oil extraction plant, a pickling plant, and vegetable storage facilities to increase agricultural production. Total cost: $82.2 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$34.6 million. Drainage facilities and land improvements will be financed to help increase primary agricultural production and income, to contribute to foreign-exchange earnings through exports, and to increase self-sufficiency in foodstuffs and industrial crops. Total cost: $73.5 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$11.3 million. Part of a long-term cotton-rehabilitation program, aimed at increasing annual cotton production by about 30,000 tons in the areas of three regional companies that account for more than 80 percent of the country's cotton production will be financed. Cofinancing is being provided by the EDF ($6.8 million) and the CCCE ($2.2 million). Total cost: $39.3 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$18 million. To increase crop and livestock production and raise the income levels of smallholders living in Southern province, marketing facilities will be improved, credit will be provided to farmers, storage facilities for fertilizer, seeds, insecticides, and agricultural products will be expanded, and veterinary services and the tsetse-control service in Gwembe district will be improved. Total cost: $23.8 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$7.5 million. The project is designed to increase dairy production and raise farm incomes in three districts by providing credit to smallholders, developing a breeding farm, improving animal husbandry and veterinary services, and establishing milk-collection services. Total cost: $11.5 million.
Development Finance Companies
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$100 million. Funds will be provided through the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo for the purchase of equipment to help modernize and expand existing industrial and mining firms, and a line of credit will be established for an energy-conservation program. Technical assistance is included.
ECUADOR: IBRD—$60 million. Funds will be provided through the Central Bank of Ecuador to as many as thirteen development finance companies to finance about sixty subprojects in the industrial sector. Total cost: $241.4 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD— $120 million. Part of the Development Industrial Bank's foreign-exchange requirements to assist small-scale industrial enterprises during 1982-83 will be financed. Technical assistance and training are included.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$30 million. Finance will be provided the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank for lending to small, medium, and large-scale industrial enterprises; an experimental pilot program to help small-scale contractors finance their fixed-investment requirements is also included. Funds will also be made available for training and technical assistance. Total cost: $53.3 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$19 million. To support the government's efforts to rehabilitate the industrial sector, four state enterprises will be upgraded and credit will be provided to small and medium-scale enterprises. Technical assistance and equipment will be made available to the Ministry of Industry to strengthen industrial-sector policy formulation and project preparation and to the Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprises to strengthen promotion of the private sector. Cofinancing is being provided by the OPEC Special Fund ($11 million), the EEC ($5.5 million), and CIDA ($1.2 million). Total cost: $45.4 million.
HONDURAS: IBRD—$30 million. Funds will be made available through the National Industrial Development Fund to provide medium-term and long-term credit for industrial development. Cofinancing ($1.3 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $50.2 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$150 million. Funds will be provided to help cover the foreign-exchange costs of industrial projects carried out by productive enterprises, and the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India will be assisted in its efforts to diversify its sources of foreign exchange and to promote developmental activities.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$13.5 million. Through the development of about nine hectares of land, complete with roads, power, and water and sewerage networks, by constructing eighty factory shells, and by providing training to the management and staff of the Kingston Free Zone Company Ltd., the government hopes to attract foreign
investors to the country, encourage investments in small-scale operations, and create jobs in one of the highest unemployment areas of Kingston. Total cost: $22.5 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$30 million. Funds will be provided to the Citizens National Bank to cover part of the foreign-exchange requirements for the development of small-scale industries over the next two years.
MAURITIUS: IBRD—$6 million. Foreign exchange will be made available to the Development Bank of Mauritius to finance loans and investments in industry, agroindustry, and tourism. Studies of the industrial and financial sectors, intended to develop policies and institutional arrangements conducive to the growth of industrial production and exports, will also be financed. Total cost: $19.5 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$152.3 million. This first phase of the Capital Goods Industries Development Program, which seeks to promote balanced and efficient development of the capital-goods manufacturing subsector, includes financial and technical support to medium-sized manufacturers. About 22,000 jobs will be created and more than $2,000 million in foreign-exchange savings or export earnings will be generated during the first five years of operation. Total cost: $1,147.3 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$60 million. The country's long-range program to reduce pollution levels will be supported through the provision of credit to industries undertaking pollution-control investments, the purchase of vehicle-emissions testing and diagnostic equipment, and related studies, pilot programs, and technical assistance for developing long-term control strategies and refinement of pollution standards. Total cost: $190.9 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$70 million. Funds will be provided to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique (BNDE) to help finance the foreign-exchange costs of industrial projects, especially export-oriented projects. In addition, technical assistance to strengthen the organization of the BNDE in appraisal, portfolio monitoring, and export promotion is included.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$30 million. Funds will be provided to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan for investments in small and medium-sized enterprises in the private sector, especially for export-oriented, agro-based, and labor-intensive projects.
TURKEY: IBRD   $100 million. Funds will be
provided through the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey to finance private-sector manufacturing investments with emphasis on investments expected to lead to exports and imported inputs needed by exporters. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing of at least $20 million is being obtained from foreign sources, primarily commercial banks. Total cost: $120 million. UGANDA: IDA—$35 million. Two lines of credit—one for $30 million, one for $5 million—will be channeled through the Uganda Development Bank and the Uganda Commercial Bank, respectively, to finance capital expenditures for the replacement of obsolete or broken-down plant machinery, tools, and other equipment of industrial enterprises in the public, joint, and private sectors.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$66 million. Funds will be provided through the Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka and the Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka-Skopje for industrial development projects in Bosnia-Herzegovina and in Macedonia.
ZAIRE: IDA—$21.5 million. Foreign exchange will be provided the Societe Financiere de Developpement for financing subprojects in key sectors of the economy, for management and staff upgrading, and for preparation of studies to improve industrial-sector policy formulation and project selection.
Education
BENIN: IDA—$14 million. To assist the government in improving the quality of primary and lower secondary education, the annual output of teachers will be increased from 800 to 935, a national textbook program will be established, and the standards for teacher training will be upgraded. Cofinancing is being provided by the SDC ($3.5 million) and the GTZ ($4.7 million). Total cost: $25.6 million.
BOTSWANA: IBRD—$20 million. Access to primary education will be expanded in rural areas through the construction of about 500 new classrooms and a teacher-training college. Equipment, educational materials, and technical assistance are included. Total cost: $30 million.
COMOROS: IDA—$6 million. To improve the quality and efficiency of primary education and to assist in training health and agricultural manpower, a teacher-training college and a paramedical-training school will be built and equipped, in-service training will be provided for 500 teachers, an agricultural-training center will be
established, and textbooks and teaching materials will be provided. Total cost: $6.5 million.
ECUADOR: IBRD—$16 million. A second vocational-training project will help the Ecuadorian Training Service increase and improve training capacity, expand geographical coverage, and strengthen planning, supervision, and evaluation processes through the construction of ten new training centers and expansion of two existing centers, by adding five mobile units, and by providing training for Service staff" at institutions in other countries. Total cost: $33.6 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$80 million. A second teacher-training project, including preservice and in-service training, studies and special programs, and training in educational administration, is aimed at improving the skills, competence, and effectiveness of the educational staff involved in primary and secondary education. Total cost: $150 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$25 million. To upgrade the content, physical standards, and availability of textbooks for primary and secondary education, about 110 book titles will be developed or revised, 82 million textbooks will be printed, and a storage and distribution system will be set up. Total cost: $112 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$6.8 million. Some 1,500 technical teachers and about 35,000 students will be trained between 1985 and 1995 to help increase the country's supply of skilled manpower. Technical and vocational educational facilities will be constructed or expanded, a preinvestment study of learning materials for primary education will be conducted, and technical assistance will be provided to improve the management of the educational system. Total cost: $11.34 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$25 million. The government will be assisted in training skilled manpower to help implement the 1981-85 economic-development plan by the construction of three new polytechnics, the conversion of two teacher-training institutes into community colleges, the establishment of seven trade-training centers, and the provision of furniture, equipment, and technical assistance for curriculum development. Cofinancing ($2.3 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $50.9 million.
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$40.6 million. The number of qualified technicians and skilled workers is expected to increase through assistance to the first phase of a long-term
industrial skill-development program. Civil works, furniture, equipment, and technical assistance will all be provided. Total cost: $123.2 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$5.7 million. A second education project is aimed at meeting the serious shortages of skilled workers and middle-level staff in the modern sector and at improving the use of the resources available to the education sector by improving the Vocational Training and Upgrading Center, establishing a Maritime Training Center, and strengthening the Ministry of National Education. Cofinancing is being provided by the ADF ($5 million) and the EEC ($3 million). Total cost: $15.3 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$90 million. Ninety-nine technical-training centers will be constructed or remodeled, as well as equipped, to help provide facilities for training about 800 teachers and 20,000 skilled workers each year. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $214.8 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$50 million. This fifth education project is aimed at improving teaching effectiveness at the primary level, helping meet the basic educational needs of rural children, and improving the quality of science and mathematics teaching at the senior secondary level. Learning aids will be distributed to 700 primary schools, 40 rural primary schools will be constructed and equipped, technical assistance will be provided, and teacher-training programs will be developed. Total cost: $94.5 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$14.3 million. A second
education project will expand technical and vocational-training programs in order to increase the supply of civil, electrical, and mechanical-engineering technicians needed to implement a number of development programs. Cofinancing is being provided by the UNDP ($2.5 million). Total cost: $17.5 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$10 million. Through the expansion of secondary-school facilities for training in commerce, nursing, and primary teaching, the government will be assisted in meeting acute shortages of qualified personnel in these areas. Total cost: $11.6 million.
SOLOMON ISLANDS: IDA—$5 million. By making fellowships available in educational administration and by providing textbooks and other teaching materials, equipment for a teachers' college, and in-service training, and through the construction of about 300 classrooms, the project will help improve educational management, upgrade the quality of primary education, and increase
enrollments. Cofinancing ($1.7 million) is being provided by the ADAB. Total cost: $10 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$75 million. A sixth education project will provide for workshops, furniture, equipment, teaching materials, and technical assistance and training to benefit 480 rural secondary schools and the regional and central educational-planning agencies by helping improve access to, and quality of, secondary education and by strengthening the government's educational-planning and management capacity. Total cost: $216 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$12 million. A fourth education project, which includes the construction of educational facilities and the provision of related equipment and technical assistance, is aimed at increasing the enrollment in teacher-training institutes and vocational-training centers in order to help overcome the country's serious shortage of qualified engineers and teachers. Total cost: $18.17 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$6 million. A third education project—including the construction of, and equipment and furniture for, a commercial technical institute, an agricultural technical institute, an in-service teacher-upgrading center, and a regional primary-teacher-training institute—will help strengthen coeducational, vocational, and technical education. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $20.6 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$25 million. Eight new junior secondary schools in rural areas with more than 3,000 additional student places will be constructed and equipped, and the country's program for maintenance of secondary schools strengthened to help arrest a decline in the percentage of students progressing from primary to junior secondary levels. NORAD is expected to provide cofinancing in the amount of $2 million. Total cost: $41.2 million.
Energy
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$100 million. Long-term financing for the exploration and development of oil and gas, including pipelines and gas-treatment plants, will be provided. Technical assistance to improve the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo's capability for appraising and supervising petroleum projects is included. Total cost: $500 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$92 million. The project will support the Bangladesh Power
Development Board's efforts to expand its existing generating and transmission facilities to help meet the country's demand for power through 1990. In addition, it will contribute to foreign-exchange savings through the substitution of power generated from the use of imported fuel oil with power generated from domestic natural gas. Cofinancing is being provided by the KfW ($48 million), the KFAED ($35 million), the AsDB ($30.6 million), and the OPEC Special Fund ($30 million). Total cost: $303.2 million. BANGLADESH: IDA—$40 million. Over a six-year period, electricity-distribution networks in seven areas will be installed or rehabilitated as part of the second phase of a national program to expand the supply of electricity in rural areas. Total cost: $64.5 million.
BENIN: IDA—$8 million. Technical assistance will be provided to train personnel in oilfield operations and petroleum exploration, to promote offshore exploration by foreign companies, and to lay the basis for the future second-phase development of the Seme field. Cofinancing ($250,000) is being provided by the EIB. Total cost: $9.95 million.
BENIN: IDA—$1.8 million. Technical
assistance will be provided to help complete preparation of a regional hydroelectric and irrigation project on the Mono river. Cofinancing ($400,000) is being provided by the FAC. Total cost: $2.4 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$182.7 million. Portions of the 1982-86 investment program of five state utility companies (all are small or medium sized and located in the country's less-developed regions) will be financed. The program objectives of the five companies are similar: to meet the needs of the market efficiently and to remedy unsatisfactory conditions arising from inadequate planning and lack of sufficient investment in previous years. Cofinancing ($80 million) from foreign commercial banks will be sought. Total cost: $739.3 million.
BURMA: IDA—$80 million. The project will provide for the transmission of power from generation facilities already established or under construction through the installation of single-circuit transmission lines, the construction and expansion of eight substations, and the provision of load-dispatch-center and meter-testing equipment. Consulting services and training are included. Total cost: $132.6 million.
ECUADOR: IBRD—$100 million. The project—including the construction of 230-kv and 138-kv transmission lines and
conversion substations, training programs for the staff of the Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrification, and the services of consultants—is the least-cost solution for improving the national interconnected power system and for reducing the country's dependence on costly thermal generation. Total cost: $169 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$90 million. To help meet the country's growing energy needs, gas and liquified petroleum gas production will be increased through the construction of an offshore production platform, utility platform, a power-generationunit, underwater pipelines, and ancillary facilities, as well as onshore facilities. Technical assistance, training, and related studies will also be financed. Cofinancing ($25 million) is being provided by the EIB. Total cost: $189 million.
GAMBIA, THE: IDA—$1.5 million. The government will be assisted in developing a strategy for accelerating the exploration of hydrocarbon resources. Specialized equipment will be provided, and a program for the efficient management of forestry resources will be established. Total cost: $1.7 million.
GUYANA: IDA—$2 million. Consultant services will be provided for compiling existing geophysical data, analyzing seismic and well data, carrying out geological studies, and preparing related documents to help promote foreign investment for petroleum exploration in the country. Total cost: $2.3 million.
INDIA: IDA—$400 million. Three 500-mW generating units and 1,100 kilometers of associated transmission lines will be constructed in the state of Madhya Pradesh to provide the least-cost solution for meeting part of the projected base-load demand for power in the country's western region. Cofinancing ($150 million) is being provided by the KfW. Total cost: $1,387 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$304.5 million. Assistance will be made available for the expansion and improvement of rural electrification in about fourteen states. Equipment and materials for about 3,500 rural-electrification schemes will be financed, as will about 100 distribution-improvement schemes, and additional buildings and equipment for a rural-electrification training institute. Total cost: $795.3 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$300 million. Through the installation of three 500-mW generating units, together with ancillary equipment and related facilities at the Ramagundam thermal power station in Andhra Pradesh state, and through the construction of about
1,400 kilometers of associated 400-kv transmission lines, part of the base-load demand for power will be met in the southern region. Cofinancing is being provided by the KfW ($150 million) and the OPEC Special Fund ($30 million). Total cost: $1,567.5 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$185 million. A 3 million tons-per-year coal mine will be developed at Bukit Asam, the railway link to the port of Panjang will be extended and improved, an additional coal-loading terminal will be built and an existing one upgraded, a ship will be built to transfer coal to West Java, and technical assistance will be provided in order to substitute indigenous coal for oil and improve the institutions involved in mining activities. Cofinancing is being provided by the EDC ($100 million), CIDA ($33 million), the KfW ($48 million), and the NMDC ($2.5 million). Total cost: $1,335.9 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$170 million. The country's energy policy—increasingly to substitute coal for oil to generate electricity—will be supported by investments for the distribution system in Jakarta and the regencies of Bogor, Tangerang, and Bekasi. Consultant services are included. Cofinancing is being provided by the AsDB ($40 million). Total cost: $319.4 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$25 million. Coal reserves will be evaluated and the viability of specific coal deposits in south Sumatera and other promising areas will be assessed so as to provide the government with a coal-reserve inventory and feasibility/prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits. Total cost: $49.5 million.
IVORY COAST: IBRD—$101.5 million.
Finance will be made available to enable the country, through Petroci, the national oil company, to participate in the exploration and development of hydrocarbons offshore by a consortium of oil companies headed by the Phillips Petroleum Company. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $1,223 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$30.5 million. The foreign-exchange costs of the Jamaica Public Service Company's 1982-84 investment program will be financed in support of a program designed to provide adequate power service to existing and new customers, reduce system outages, and promote efficient operation of the company. Total cost: $51.2 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$35 million. The
project—including a steam power station comprising two 130-mW oil-fueled generating units, a 320-kilometer
transmission line, and consultant services—is part of the Jordan Electricity Authority's power-system development program for 1982-86. Cofinancing is being provided by the KFAED (S36 million), the SFD ($30 million), the AFESD ($18 million), the IsDB ($11 million), the Iraqi Fund ($10 million), and the OPEC Special Fund ($10 million). Total cost: $324.2 million. KENYA: IBRD—$4 million. Technical and legal assistance, training, and the supervision of an aeromagnetic survey will be financed to help accelerate petroleum exploration and encourage private oil companies to provide capital for further activities in the sector. Total cost: $5.3 million.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC: IDA—$15 million. Additional equipment will be installed at the Nam Ngum hydroelectric plant, and civil works, consulting services, and power-development studies will be financed to optimize output of the Nam Ngum plant and to study the hydro potential in the country and the possibilities for extending power supply to other provinces. Cofinancing ($4 million) is being provided by the OPEC Special Fund. Total cost: $20 million.
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$86.3 million. Through the construction of transmission lines, substations, a rural distribution network in four states, and several minihydro schemes, electricity will be furnished to an additional 130,000 households. The project covers a three-year time slice (1983-85) of the rural-electrification program in the four states. Foreign commercial banks are expected to contribute $51.7 million in loans. Total cost: $315.5 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$3 million. Technical assistance, training, and energy studies will be financed to help the government to intensify hydrocarbon exploration and establish energy-sector planning. Total cost: $3.2 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$9.2 million. Funds will be provided for a seismic survey, a geochemical analysis and related studies, staff training in geology, geophysics, and the legal aspects of the petroleum industry, and exploration promotion to attract foreign companies to undertake oil exploration in the country. Total cost: $10.9 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$100 million. Power-distribution facilities in twenty-three cities and towns will be rehabilitated and expanded, and power lines and substations will be installed to interconnect a new thermal-generating station to be built near Lagos to the national high-voltage network
and to the existing Lagos distribution system. Total cost: $224.2 million.
PERU: IBRD—$81.2 million. A sixth power project is aimed at strengthening the major institutions in the power sector, carrying out a number of priority engineering studies, and expanding the availability of power in Lima by expanding production and distribution facilities. More than 130,000 families, 50 percent of whom live in low-income areas, will have access to electricity for the first time. Total cost: $256.5 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$17 million. The government's efforts to reduce its dependence on imported oil will be supported through the collection of geological data for two potential coal-bearing areas, detailed exploration in a known coal field, and technical assistance to the Philippine National Oil Company's Coal Corporation. Total cost: $25 million.
ROMANIA: IBRD—$101.5 million. Through the introduction of the in-situ combustion-enhanced oil-recovery technique, the ultimate recovery at two important oil fields should increase from about 15 percent to about 39 percent. Annual incremental production, at full development in 1986, will be about 10 percent of the country's current oil imports. Total cost: $454.2 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—$5 million. Over a two-year period, funds will be provided to help rehabilitate existing thermal-generation and distribution-system facilities, support institutional improvements in the power sector, and complete preparation of the Bumbuna hydroelectric project. Cofinancing ($5 million) is being provided by the OPEC Special Fund. Total cost: $11 million.
SRI LANKA: IBRD—$42.7 million. An 80-mW diesel station will be constructed to help the Ceylon Electricity Board meet both the short-term power shortage through mid-1984 and the long-term need for thermal generation through 1990. Total cost: $54.7 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$36 million. A seventh power project—including the installation of a 126-kilometer transmission line, the construction of one substation and one switching station, extensions to four existing substations, and the provision of vehicles, equipment, and technical assistance—will help transmit hydroelectric power from the Mahaweli basin to the principal load centers in the Colombo area. Cofinancing ($11 million) is being provided by the OPEC Special Fund. Total cost: $76.3 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$20 million. The second phase of a drilling program to assess the hydrocarbon potential of the Songo Songo
field will be financed. Cofinancing is being provided by the OPEC Special Fund ($12 million) and the EIB ($8 million). Total cost: $44.8 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$90 million. The use of natural gas discovered in the Gulf of Thailand will be upgraded through the construction of a gas-separation plant, construction of bulk-storage distribution facilities for marketing liquified petroleum gas, and technical assistance for supervision, training, and prefeasibility studies. Cofinancing is to be provided by the OECF ($65 million), the CDC ($25 million), and the OPEC Special Fund ($20 million). Total cost: $600 million.
TOGO: IDA—$2 million. Technical assistance will be provided to help complete preparation of a regional hydroelectric and irrigation project on the Mono river. Cofinancing ($500,000) is being provided by the FAC. Total cost: $2.6 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$2 million. The project—including geological and geophysical services, promotion services to attract foreign investors, a feasibility study, and technical assistance—will support the government in its efforts to intensify petroleum and geothermal-exploration activities. Total cost: $2.4 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$7.5 million. Electric-power supply will be expanded in five small towns and thirteen villages benefiting about 150,000 people. Cofinancing ($7.5 million) is being provided by the OPEC Special Fund. Total cost: $19.9 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$19 million. The electricity-generating stations and the transmission and distribution system of the Shaba region will be rehabilitated. Vehicles, equipment, spare parts, and technical assistance are included. Cofinancing is being provided by the AGCD ($6.7 million) and the OPEC Special Fund ($5 million). Total cost: $39 million.
ZAMBIA: IBRD—$6.6 million. The
government's efforts to attract oil companies to explore for hydrocarbons will be supported by providing information on the country's sedimentary basins obtained through geophysical surveys and geological-data interpretation. Total cost: $8.1 million.
Industry
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$200 million. The project will help provide new conversion capacity at two oil refineries that currently account for 51 percent of the country's refinery operations. In addition, programs to
improve plant operations and financial planning are included, as well as an energy audit of the country's principal industries. Total cost: $878.4 million. BANGLADESH: IDA—$30 million. The textile industry will be made more efficient and profitable through the implementation of new pricing, distribution, and employment policies, the rehabilitation of fifteen mills, and the provision of equipment for the mills and seven quality-control labs. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $43.9 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$15 million. To help increase domestic fertilizer production, reduce imports, and conserve foreign-exchange resources, an ammonia/urea plant, as well as office buildings and staff housing facilities, will be built, and related equipment will be provided. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing is being provided by the SFD ($85 million), the AsDB ($72 million), the OECF ($60 million), the ADFAED ($25 million), CIDA ($20 million), and the IsDB ($16 million). Total cost: $470.6 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$200 million. The government will be assisted in its efforts to remedy the imbalance between domestic demand for, and supply of, petroleum products and to improve energy efficiency in the sector. Facilities will be installed to convert fuel oil into higher-value products; facilities for distribution and pollution control will also be built. Total cost: $1,085.7 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$100 million. A dual-purpose pulp and paper mill will be built that has the capacity to produce 100,000 tons of newsprint and 80,000 tons of printing and writing paper annually. Total cost: $237.5 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$50 million. Funds will be provided to help establish and develop the Korea Technology Development Corporation, whose primary purpose will be to provide financial assistance for industrial research, development, and engineering subprojects. Total cost: $71 million.
LIBERIA: IBRD—$20 million. Through the improvement of mining facilities, installation of new equipment, and the repair of existing railroads and bridges, the National Iron Ore Company's mining operations will be rehabilitated and its financial viability reestablished. Iron-ore output will be increased from 2.3 million to 3.25 million long-tons per year, benefiting as many as 18,000 people. Cofinancing is being provided by the AfDB ($11.4 million), the Netherlands Finance Company for
Developing Countries (S3.5 million), and the OPEC Special Fund ($8.3 million). An additional $14.5 million is being provided by commercial banks. Total cost: $67.1 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$20 million. The project—including the construction and operation of a test station to analyze shale, a technical evaluation of alternative retorting processes, and a feasibility study for analyzing the economics of different commercial operations for the production of oil from shale—is aimed at replacing a significant portion of the country's oil imports with locally produced shale oil, thus saving foreign exchange and relieving current balance-of-payments problems. Total cost: $25.7 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$9.5 million. Foreign-exchange earnings will be generated by increasing the production of lead and zinc concentrates through the mining and processing of low-grade ores, facilitating the marketing of high-grade ores, and promoting increased production in selected mines. Total cost: $15.2 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$38.5 million. The project includes the rehabilitation and expansion of the urea plant and expansion of the ammonia plant at Multan, facilities to reduce pollution, the rehabilitation of an ammonium-sulphate plant at Daud Khel, and training and related studies. Total cost: $49.3 million.
PERU: IBRD—$5.3 million. Consultant services, technical assistance, and training will be provided to the National Petroleum Company to help improve the overall efficiency of its refinery operations, strengthen planning for its industrial operations, and reduce energy consumption. Total cost: $7.3 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$157.4 million. Funds will be provided for the physical rehabilitation and modernization of some textile factories (facilities and equipment) and for technical assistance and training as part of the government's restructuring program aimed at transforming the existing textile industry into one that is more competitive and efficient. Total cost: $602.4 million.
PORTUGAL: IBRD—$30 million. Energy audits, feasibility studies, surveys, and pilot/demonstration projects will be financed to help determine ways to reduce energy consumption in industries, diversify the sources of energy, and develop a basis for an expanded and more effective renewable-energy program. Total cost: $54.1 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$30.5 million. Funds will be provided through the Banque de
Developpement Economique de Tunisie to foster the development of Tunisian engineering industries, improve their efficiency and productivity, and increase local production of capital and intermediate goods at competitive prices.
TURKEY: IBRD—$44.1 million. The project is aimed at increasing the productivity and energy efficiency, as well as the production, in selected fertilizer facilities through the rationalization and modernization of existing facilities and through energy savings and staff training. Total cost: $85.5 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$4 million. A detailed engineering study will be conducted in the Sukulu hills of phosphate deposits, and technical advisory services will be provided to the Tororo Industrial Chemicals and Fertilizers Limited to determine the economic viability of developing a full-scale phosphate project in that area. Total cost: $4.5 million.
ZAMBIA: IBRD—$5.1 million. A detailed feasibility study is expected to result in a full-scale modification project that will substantially reduce the country's petroleum-import bill. The project will also provide data and analyses for restructuring the petroleum product-pricing and taxation systems to induce and maintain optimum demand patterns consistent with the country's energy-conservation goals. Total cost: $5.8 million.
Nonproject
BANGLADESH: IDA—$100 million. Foreign exchange will be provided for the import of raw materials, chemicals, and equipment to enable the industrial, construction, and agricultural sectors to improve their capacity utilization and increase their output.
IVORY COAST: IBRD—$150 million. Raw materials, capital equipment, and spare parts will be financed to support a program of structural adjustment that includes reforms to improve economic management, public-investment programming, and agricultural planning and pricing policies.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$76.2 million. Funds will be provided to finance imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, consumer goods, capital equipment, and spare parts in support of the government's program of structural adjustment.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$250
million. This structural-adjustment loan will provide foreign exchange to finance essential imports in support of the government's program aimed at keeping the balance of
payments manageable while restoring vigor to the economy.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$60 million; IDA—$80 million. The government's structural-adjustment program—consisting of a number of improvements in the areas of development planning, agricultural/water-sector policies, and energy and industrial-sector policies—will be supported. High-priority imports for both the private and public sectors will be financed.
THAILAND: IBRD—$150 million. This structural-adjustment loan is aimed at restoring a sustainable balance-of-payments position while maintaining the growth momentum of the economy through the promotion of agricultural growth and exports, by increasing the export orientation of industry, by preparing a comprehensive energy-sector program, and by strengthening public-sector resource-mobilization efforts.
TURKEY: IBRD—$304.5 million. A third structural-adjustment loan will further support the country's stabilization and structural-adjustment program initiated in January 1980, including policy measures related to macroeconomic liberalization, rationalizing public investment, and reform of state enterprises by financing about 3 percent of its total merchandise imports and about 7 percent of the gross capital inflows over the disbursement period.
UGANDA: IDA—$70 million. The
government's recovery program will be supported by a credit that, over a nine-month period, will finance the importation of agricultural inputs, spare parts and raw materials for industry and transport, and other priority imports.
Population, Health, and Nutrition
BRAZIL: IBRD—$13 million. The project—including a malaria-control program, the implementation of basic health infrastructure and services, the training of personnel for health facilities, and related research programs—is one of three projects that together form the first phase of an integrated development program for northwest Brazil. Total cost: $37.7 million.
KENYA: IDA—$23 million. To reduce fertility, mortality, and morbidity in rural areas, an interagency information and education program for population and family planning will be set up, and the accessibility and quality of rural health and family-planning services will be improved. Cofinancing is being provided by SIDA ($9.8 million), DANIDA ($8.5 million), USAID ($4 million), ODA ($1.2 million),
UNICEF ($700,000), and UNFPA ($600,000). Total cost: $61.3 million.
Small-Scale Enterprises
BURUNDI: IDA—$5.2 million. To develop the production of local construction materials and the small-construction sector, funds will be made available through the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique to help support small and medium-sized construction contractors, brickmakers, and lime producers. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $7.4 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$70 million. A line of credit will be provided to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique and to local commercial banks for relending to small industries. About 600 firms will benefit, and it is expected that some 15,000 jobs will be created.
NEPAL: IDA—$6.5 million. Funds will be provided through three local banks to finance a program of lending to cottage industries in order to generate employment, raise incomes, and increase foreign-exchange earnings through expanded production and exports of products, such as carpets, fabrics, and metal. Cofinancing ($2 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $12 million.
NIGER: IDA—$16 million. Funds will be provided through three local institutions for small-scale enterprise development and to promote and train local businessmen. Total cost: $19.5 million.
PERU: IBRD—$26 million. Funds will be provided through the Corporation Financiera de Desarrollo to help finance the foreign-exchange cost of up to 1,500 subprojects for small-scale enterprise development. Total cost: $51.15 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$132 million.
Financial and technical assistance will be provided to finance cottage, small, and medium-scale industries, to develop the financing institutions servicing the sector, and to expand the scope of the Small Business Advisory Centers/Medium and Small Industries Coordinated Action Program and provide the Program with resources for pilot projects and studies. Total cost: $284 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$30 million. Funds will be provided to the National Development Bank for relending to small and medium industries to help them become more efficient and to increase output, employment, and exports. Total cost: $52.5 million.
Technical Assistance
BARBADOS: IBRD—$2.7 million. Technical assistance will be provided to assist the country in its efforts to diversify and increase agricultural production, as well as promote and implement an energy-conservation program. Total cost: $3.7 million.
DJIBOUTI: IDA—$3 million. Technical assistance will be provided to help improve the government's capabilities to formulate an appropriate development strategy, to coordinate development efforts, to provide statistical information, and to prepare and implement development projects. Cofinancing ($1.46 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $4.98 million.
IVORY COAST: IBRD—$16 million.
Technical assistance will be provided to the government to improve project selection and develop efficient industrial policy, to strengthen policy planning and project preparation in the agricultural sector, to devise a research strategy for the Ministry of Scientific Research, and to initiate new procedures to help improve the management of eight public enterprises. Total cost: $24.5 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$6.1 million. Funds will be provided to recruit high-level experts for advisory positions in the public sector, consultants for short-term studies and activities, and training to develop local management capabilities in order to help the government implement and monitor its program of structural adjustment. Total cost: $7.3 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$5.7 million. Technical assistance will be provided the Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform so that it might better identify action programs to assist a number of key areas in the agricultural sector and initiate a process of long-term agricultural reform through institution building and a redefinition of sector investment programs and policies. Total cost: $6.7 million.
MALI: IDA—$6.5 million. Technical
assistance will be provided to the Office de Developpement Integre des Productions Arachidieres et Cerealieres to help strengthen its key services and to define a diversified approach to agricultural development in the groundnut belt for future investments. Cofinancing ($2.5 million) is being provided by the FAC. Total cost: $11.4 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$7 million. Support for the
government's structural-adjustment program will be provided through technical assistance in the areas of macroeconomic planning, agricultural pricing, project preparation, industrial planning and incentives, monitoring of public enterprises, exploration and development of hydrocarbon energy resources, and national power planning.
RWANDA: IDA—$5 million. Technical assistance will be provided to help increase the number and improve the quality of projects submitted for outside financing, to strengthen local project-preparation capabilities, and to establish better coordination between technical ministries and the Ministry of Planning. Cofinancing ($ 1 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $6.38 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$12 million. A third technical-assistance project will support the government's export-rehabilitation program by eliminating manpower bottlenecks in the agricultural sector and by assisting with the preparation of a comprehensive energy plan for the economy. Total cost: $15 million.
TOGO: IDA—$3.5 million. Technical assistance will be provided to several key ministries to help improve the government's capacity to conceive and implement sound economic policies and to pursue adjustment policies in crucial areas such as rural development, state enterprises, and public-investment programming. Total cost: $3.8 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$5 million. Technical
assistance—including institutional support to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, advice on project implementation, and a review of key policy issues, such as pricing policy, marketing, agricultural credit, and research and extension—will be provided to help the government implement its Agricultural Action Plan. Total cost: $6 million.
Telecommunications
CAMEROON: IBRD—$7.5 million. Technical assistance will be provided to establish a new post and telecommunications institution and to prepare an investment program designed to improve the quality of domestic and international post and telecommunication services. Total cost: $11.1 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$64 million. To expand the telecommunications systems in towns and villages, more than 100,000 lines of exchange equipment will be installed or rehabilitated, long-distance networks will be rehabilitated and expanded,
and technical assistance will be provided to the national telecommunications organization. Cofinancing ($6.3 million) is being provided by France. Total cost: $141.3 million.
KENYA: IBRD—$44.7 million. A second telecommunications project is a self-contained part of the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation's 1982-86 development program. The project includes the highest-priority and most urgently needed items of the program and will finance about 55 percent of it. Cofinancing ($25.6 million) is being provided by the OECF. Total cost: $123.7 million.
MALI: IDA—$13.5 million. A second
telecommunications project—including the construction of an automatic telephone exchange, cable networks in eight provincial cities, a microwave-radio relay link, a new telex exchange in Bamako, and the expansion of existing telephone and cable facilities—will help improve and expand telecommunications services in the city. Cofinancing ($7.7 million) is being provided by the CCCE. Total cost: $25.3 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$40 million. A fourth telecommunications project includes the provision of local network facilities for 52,000 new subscribers, toll-ticketing equipment, an 1,800-channel microwave system, 300 additional public-call offices in rural areas, extension of telex and telegraph facilities, and related services. Cofinancing is being provided by the OECF ($35.1 million), the KfW ($30.7 million), and the AsDB ($29 million). Total cost: $287 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$27 million. Funds will be provided to meet part of the Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation's investment program through 1984. Telecommunication services will be extended to rural areas and to Zanzibar. Total cost: $47 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$142.1 million. A fourth telecommunications project is aimed at expanding local telephone facilities in Bangkok and the provinces, extending service to about 330 additional rural communities, and expanding facilities to accomodate the resultant additional longdistance traffic. Total cost: $494.3 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$17 million. Local and long-distance telephone and telecommunications services will be extended in the southwestern and western provinces. Cofinancing will be provided by the CCCE ($13 million) and the NMDC ($3.2 million). Total cost: $40.6 million.
URUGUAY: IBRD—$40 million. Telephone service will be improved and expanded in Montevideo and domestic long-distance and international services will be improved. Technical assistance will be provided to the Administration National de Telecomunicaciones to improve its organization and management. Total cost: $204.8 million.
Transportation
BANGLADESH: IDA—$60 million. The port of Chittagong will be provided with adequate capacity to handle the expected growth in general cargo and container traffic through the early 1990s through the construction of new berths, improvement of existing berths, provision of cargo-handling equipment, and the training of port workers. Total cost: $110 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$240 million. The
project—including reconstruction of 1,084 kilometers of highway, construction of four bridges, provision and installation of equipment for traffic control, and technical assistance and staff training to upgrade the Rondonia Roads Department—is one of three projects that together form the first phase of an integrated development program for northwest Brazil. Total cost: $687 million.
BURMA: IDA—$20 million. Through the establishment of two road-rehabilitation units and one road-maintenance unit and the provision of necessary equipment, vehicles, workshop facilities, and technical assistance, Burma's construction industry will be strengthened, and the quality and quantity of road-construction work improved. Total cost: $55.6 million.
CAMEROON: IBRD—$70 million. Over a five-year period, a fifth highway project will assist the government in the construction of the Edea-Yaounde section of the Douala-Yaounde road and provide technical assistance to improve management of the transport sector and to help prepare a national transport plan. Cofinancing is being provided by the NMDC ($6.7 million), the KFAED ($21 million), CIDA ($16.4 million), the IsDB ($6 million), and the ADFAED ($4.4 million). Total cost: $219.8 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC:
IDA—$18 million. The project—including the rehabilitation of about 1,200 kilometers of gravel roads, repairs to the Bangui-M'Baiki road, reconstruction of the Bangui-Ymbi road, and the provision of equipment, technical assistance, and training—will
reduce vehicle operating costs and provide year-round access between agricultural areas and markets. Cofinancing is being provided by the ADF (S9.4 million), the KFAED (S5.7 million), the OPEC Special Fund (S5.1 million), the FAC ($4.5 million), and the BDEAC ($1.3 million). Total cost: $48.1 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$152.3 million. To support the government's 1982-86 highway-development program, funds will be provided for road rehabilitation and paving, a road-safety program, maintenance equipment, transportation-sector studies, training, and technical assistance. Total cost: $2,331.5 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$77 million. To improve the country's transport system and lower operating costs, more than 400 kilometers of railway track will be rehabilitated, 140 locomotives and 1,400 freight cars will be purchased or rehabilitated, and related equipment and spare parts will be furnished. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing (SI million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $176.7 million.
COMOROS: IDA—$6.3 million. To reduce inland transport costs, earth roads and paved roads will be upgraded, routine road maintenance will be improved, and a study will be made of the potential for using labor-intensive techniques in the country's road-maintenance program. Cofinancing ($5.8 million) is being provided by the ADF. Total cost: $13.5 million.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE. IDA—$17 million. To alleviate constraints on river-transport services and thereby facilitate growth of the forestry sector, new floating equipment will be provided, repairs and improvements will be made to existing port facilities, and training facilities will be expanded. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $28 million.
CYPRUS: IBRD—$12.2 million. A third highway project is aimed at upgrading rural roads to make remote areas more accessible, improving traffic conditions in the Limassol area, ensuring adequate road maintenance, and strengthening the operations of local transport authorities. Cofinancing ($8.3 million) is being provided by the KFAED. Total cost: $48.4 million.
DOMINICA: IDA—$5 million. To reduce transportation costs and stimulate agricultural production, rural employment, and exports, priority road sections will be rehabilitated and the Ministry of Communications, Works, and Tourism will be strengthened. Cofinancing ($2 million) is
being provided by the OPEC Special Fund. Total cost: $7.2 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF:
IBRD—$132 million. The government will be assisted in the construction of a new port at El Kikheila, ten kilometers west of Alexandria, through civil works and dredging, related equipment (including cargo-handling equipment), and consultant services. Total cost: $475.1 million.
GAMBIA, THE: IDA—$6.5 million. Help in meeting the present and future traffic demand at the congested port of Banjul will be provided through rehabilitation and expansion of port infrastructure and by provision of training to strengthen the Ports Authority. Cofinancing is being furnished by the AfDB ($7 million) and the KfW ($2.4 million). Total cost: $19.2 million.
HAITI: IDA—$14 million. About 100 kilometers of the Northern road linking Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien will be rehabilitated, along with fifty-seven bridges and drainage structures. Equipment, spare parts, tools, and technical assistance are included. Total cost: $19.2 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$100 million. The project is aimed at improving rural road infrastructure in selected provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public-works agencies and by implementing an expanded program of rural road works. Total cost: $305.2 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$85 million. Road
capacity between Jakarta and Cikampek will be increased and vehicle operating costs and passenger travel time will be reduced by the construction of a new seventy-two-kilometer toll road and improvements to the existing highway. Cofinancing ($60 million) is being provided by the KFAED. Total cost: $356.5 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$66 million. The project—including procurement of urea-handling facilities at 3 ports, 200 railway wagons, 4 ships for transporting fertilizer, improvements to existing urea carriers, and a rail line to service the port of Meneng—will increase agricultural production by expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers. Total cost: $185.3 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$4 million. A fourth highway project will help the government formulate an efficient road-maintenance policy, complete and protect betterment works carried out under the third highway project, and help prepare a follow-up project. Cofinancing is being provided by the AFESD ($5.1 million) and the KFAED ($2.8 million). Total cost: $14.3 million.
OMAN: IBRD—$15 million. The project forms part of a five-year program to improve highway maintenance through the provision of equipment and spare parts, the construction of workshops and highway-maintenance centers, routine road-improvement programs, and the provision of technical assistance to national organizations responsible for transportation. Total cost: $48.1 million.
PANAMA: IBRD—$24.4 million. A second port project will upgrade and increase the capacity of the ports of Cristobal and Coco Solo Norte and provide technical assistance for carrying out the works and training of the National Port Authority staff. Cofinancing ($300,000) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $48.3 million.
PARAGUAY: IBRD—$46 million. In addition to the provision of civil works and related supervision services, this seventh highway project includes components designed to upgrade the planning, technical, and managerial capabilities of the Roads Directorate within the Ministry of Public Works and Communications. Cofinancing in the amount of $37 million is being sought. Total cost: $ 124 million.
PERU: IBRD—$93 million. About 195 kilometers of paved roads will be rehabilitated, 400 kilometers of unpaved roads will be improved to a gravel or paved two-lane standard, and road-maintenance operations will be strengthened through the provision of equipment, spare parts, technical assistance, and staff training. Cofinancing ($4.5 million) is expected to be provided by the KfW. Total cost: $186 million.
ROMANIA: IBRD—$125 million. To relieve congestion on railways and roads that are heavily traveled and to provide all-weather access to areas that are isolated for most of the year, more than 100 kilometers of roads and 200 kilometers of railway track will be constructed or improved, 300 freight cars will be purchased, and technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications. Total cost: $767.1 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$25.9 million. The economic integration of the southwestern region with the rest of the country will be fostered and agricultural development in the region will be facilitated through construction of a major highway. The project also provides for technical assistance, completion of preparation and engineering studies, procurement of road-maintenance materials and supplies, and the purchase and installation of scales for vehicle-weight
control. The UNDP is to provide $1.5 million in cofinancing. Total cost: $30.1 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$25 million. Over a three-year period, the cargo-handling capacity and operational productivity at Port Sudan will be improved by upgrading handling facilities, improving the electric-power system, setting up new communications facilities, and providing technical assistance and training. Total cost: $29.3 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$35 million. About 330,000 people are expected to benefit from lower vehicle operating costs and better access to markets through the construction or improvement of some 600 kilometers of provincial roads. Total cost: $69.72 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$35.5 million. A fifth highway project, including rural road improvements, road maintenance, equipment for vehicle-inspection stations, and a program of complementary investments for agricultural extension and credit services, is aimed at increasing agricultural production and improving access to rural areas. Total cost: $104.8 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$71.1 million. To support the government's efforts to rehabilitate and strengthen the existing highway network and to improve planning, highway safety, and vehicle load-control systems, specialized highway equipment and technical assistance will be provided and a fellowships program for training will be established. Cofinancing ($70 million) is being provided by the KFAED. Total cost: $265.1 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$7 million. A fourth highway project is designed to strengthen the main road network and, through technical assistance to the Department of Transport, improve the management and administration of the transport sector. Cofinancing ($6 million) is being provided by the AFESD. Total cost: $18 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$26 million. A substantial part of the Office National des Transports's river-transport fleet will be replaced and sixty-five kilometers of railway line will be rehabilitated to help meet the demands of the rapidly growing traffic of timber, agricultural products, and copper. Cofinancing is being provided by the AfDB ($12 million), BADEA ($10 million), and the KfW ($8 million). Total cost: $84 million.
Urbanization
BAHAMAS: IBRD—$5.8 million. The
government will be supported in its efforts to
upgrade the Grants Town area by providing better access to housing, public utilities, and community services and to promote investment in industry and increase job opportunities by strengthening the Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation. Total cost: $24.3 million. BRAZIL: IBRD—$123.9 million. Several low-income settlements and poor neighborhoods in the Recife Metropolitan Region will be upgraded, urban infrastructure furnished, employment centers established, technical assistance and training provided, and assistance provided to the metropolitan, state, and municipal agencies responsible for project implementation. Total cost: $347.8 million.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: IBRD—$25.4 million. About 8,000 low-income families will benefit from a sites-and-services project that includes the construction of water-supply and sewerage facilities, roads, an electric-power substation, transmission lines, and housing and community facilities. Consulting and extension services are included. Total cost: $42.2 million.
ECUADOR: IBRD—$35.7 million. Some 81,000 people will benefit from a low-income housing project that is aimed at strengthening the two major institutions in the housing sector and supporting the expansion of low-cost housing in secondary cities. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $100.9 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$59 million. The project is aimed at improving the efficiency of Cairo's public-transport system and strengthening institutional capabilities for urban planning, management, and service delivery by enforcing traffic regulations and parking controls, paving roads and footpaths in low-income areas, and establishing a program for street cleaning and solid-waste management. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $116.2 million.
INDIA: IDA—$25 million. The
project—including the financing of a program of investments to provide basic services and residential and commercial/industrial plots to low-income beneficiaries—will support the reorientation of shelter and infrastructure investments in Kanpur to make them more responsive to the pressing needs of the city's poor. Total cost: $51.7 million.
IVORY COAST: IBRD—$51 million. The government will be supported in its efforts to improve the standards of living for more than 1 million people through a second
urbanization project that includes the development of a sound urban-transport system in Abidjan and urban infrastructure, equipment, materials, and technical assistance for two secondary cities. Total cost: $104 million. LIBERIA: IDA—$10 million. The living conditions of some 100,000 people in Monrovia will be improved by upgrading infrastructure and providing essential services in three of the city's most needy neighborhoods. Training, studies, and technical assistance for institutional improvements are included. Total cost: $13.3 million.
NICARAGUA: IBRD—$16 million. Funds will be provided to the Junta de Reconstruction de Managua and the Secretaria de Asuntos Municipales to upgrade and provide storm-drainage protection for bus routes in twenty-six low-income neighborhoods in Managua and in fifteen additional municipalities. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $22.8 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$8 million. To assist the government in completing preparation for a proposed Regional Cities Development Project and a Central Visayas Urban Project, technical assistance, feasibility studies, the purchase of equipment, and training programs will be financed. Total cost: $11.5 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$15 million. This first urbanization project to be undertaken in the country is aimed at establishing a basic model for urban-development schemes that will be replicable in other urban areas of the country. It also focuses on providing basic services to the lowest-income groups. Total cost: $26 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
IVORY COAST: IBRD—$43 million. The supply of potable water will be increased through the expansion of distribution systems in Abidjan and in fifty-two secondary centers, and wells will be drilled in about 300 villages. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $57.3 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$90
million. About 3.4 million people will benefit from the improvement of water-supply and sewerage services in five cities. The government's efforts to reorganize the sector will also be supported, and assistance will be provided for the preparation of future projects. Total cost: $240.5 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$4 million. Studies will be financed to develop a master plan that will determine the optimum long-term program for water-supply and sewerage and sanitation development in Lilongwe and for identifying a water-supply project that will form the program's first phase. The sector's organizational and training needs will also be assessed. Total cost: $4.75 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$67 million. The water-supply and sanitation system in the city of Onitsha will be expanded and improved to serve 90 percent of the population by 1985. About 260,000 poor people will gain access to safe water for the first time through the installation of public standpipes. Total cost: $120.6 million.
PERU: IBRD—$40.6 million. Water-supply and sewerage systems will be extended to low-income areas, groundwater resources will be developed, and the distribution system will be improved in order to expand and strengthen the Lima Water and Sewerage Services and increase the system's population coverage by some 900,000 people. Cofinancing of $7.7 million is being sought. Total cost: $93.4 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$15 million. A second water-supply project will help provide Mogadishu with a reliable supply of safe water, eliminate current shortages in low-income areas, and help satisfy the city's water demand through 1986. Cofinancing is being provided by the AFESD ($17.5 million) and the EDF ($5.5 million). Total cost: $42.3 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$4 million. This
supplemental credit will help complete the
urban water-supply project in Morogoro, for which the IBRD made a $15 million loan in January 1977.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$30.5 million. About 630,000 people will be provided with access to safe water through the improvement of water-supply systems in 150 rural and urban areas and by providing credit to low-income groups to help finance pipe connections. Total cost: $64 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$88.1 million. The project is aimed at expanding and improving the sewage services in Istanbul, improving environmental conditions in the city, and strengthening the institutional framework for the planning, financing, and implementation of water-supply and sewage facilities. Total cost: $222.1 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$41 million.
Improvements will be made in the water-supply systems of four cities—Pristina, Kosovo Polje, Obilic, and Podujevo—in Kosovo province to help meet the needs of the growing population to the year 1995. Total cost: $79.85 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$18 million. A second water-supply project is aimed at strengthening and expanding production and distribution systems in three cities to reduce the high incidence of mortality and disease and to provide safe water, for the first time, to more than 500,000 people. Cofinancing ($9.3 million) is being provided by the OPEC Special Fund. Total cost: $39.9 million.
General Notes to Annex Tables
The tables of this Annex present data on selected economic indicators and external public debt. As in past Annual Reports, most of the tables are organized on geographic lines.
In Table 1, the basic series on selected economic indicators is based on data stored in the IBRD Socioeconomic Data Bank, which are mainly obtained from World Bank country economic reports, supplemented by data from national and other international publications. The indicators presented in this table are the same as those of last year.
In Tables 2 through 7, the principal source of data on external debt is information received by The World Bank from its member countries. These data are checked with and supplemented by information from several other sources, primarily reporting by creditor countries on their lending and publicized Eurocurrency credits. The notes on the debt of China, Iran, Iraq, the Philippines, and Yugoslavia in Table 2 apply to all Tables 2 through 7.
The 97 countries included in the debt tables are those for which reporting on external public debt is sufficient for a reliable presentation of debt outstanding and future service payments. The classification by geographical region is as follows:
Africa south of the Sahara—Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo (People's Republic of the), Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia (The), Ghana, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Upper Volta, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe (and the East African Community).
East Asia and Pacific—Fiji, Hong Kong,s Indonesia, Korea (Republic of), Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Thailand, Western Samoa.
Latin America and the Caribbean—Argentina, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela.
North Africa and Middle East— Algeria, Egypt (Arab Republic of), Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Yemen Arab Republic, Yemen (People's Democratic Republic of).
South Asia—Afghanistan,2 Bangladesh, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka.
Southern Europe and other Mediterranean countries— Cyprus, Greece, Israel, Malta, Portugal, Turkey, Yugoslavia.
For the purpose of these tables, external public debt is defined as debt repayable to external creditors in foreign currency, goods, or services, with an original or extended maturity of more than one year, which is a direct obligation of, or has repayment guaranteed by, a public body in the borrowing country. Most military debts are not reported, although a few countries have included such obligations in their data.
1 Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Bank's Articies of Agreement.
2 Note that in these tables Afghanistan is classified under South Asia, while in the discussion of the year's activities by region, it is classified under Europe, Middle East, and North Africa.
The World Bank continues to work in cooperation with its member countries toward the improvement of debt statistics. This effort results in many cases in a broadening of the coverage of the data for both current and past periods. Therefore, a comparison with the debt tables in the 1981 Annual Report will show changes in data given for past years. The current Annual Report should be regarded as the more reliable. Users of the aggregate tables on external public debt should be particularly careful in making comparisons with past Annual Reports, as the coverage has changed over the years.
In Table 4, debt-service ratios represent service payments (amortization plus interest) on external public debt as a percentage of the exports of goods and all services. The debt-service figures used in the present table are those for actual (not contractual) debt service paid during the year. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is the source ot export figures; the debt-service ratios are calculated for those countries and years for which these data are available.
The debt-service ratio, by itself, is an inadequate and incomplete indicator of the debt situation, and international comparisons of these ratios have only limited analytical value. Many other factors, such as the stability and diversification of exports, the extent to which imports can be reduced without adversely affecting the prospects for future growth, the size of foreign exchange reserves and available compensatory financing facilities, and the debt-service record jointly will determine a country's capacity to service debt. Further, external public debt constitutes only a part of the total indebtedness and, in some cases, it may understate substantially the burden of indebtedness. The public debt-service ratio, therefore, is only an indicator of the importance of debt service in the total foreign exchange situation.
In Table 6, net flow is defined as disbursements on loans, grants, and grantlike loans, minus amortization on loans. Net transfer is net flow, minus interest on loans.
In Table 7, grant element is defined as the face value of a loan commitment less the discounted present value of the future flow of payments of principal and interest, expressed as a percentage of the face value. The discount rate used is 10 percent, the conventional rate used by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in assessing terms.
In Tables 6 and 7, the source of data for grants is the OECD. For grantlike loans, the data sources are the OECD and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Grants consist of grant and grantlike (loans disbursed in foreign and repayable in local currency) contributions; they are on a disbursement basis in both tables. The grants included in these tables comprise; (1) contributions by countries that are members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD; (2) grants by multilateral agencies as compiled by the OECD; (3) disbursements in foreign currency by the IDB on loans repayable in local currencies. Grants for technical assistance have been excluded. Data for grants do not include grants from bilateral donors other than DAC countries, although grants from other sources may have been large in some cases. However, debt data include obligations to creditors of all nationalities.
Data on external public debt are converted to US dollars at current market rates. Capital flows and service payments are converted to US dollars at an average rate for each year. However, debts repayable in multiple currencies, goods, or services, and debt that has a provision for maintenance of value of the currency of repayment, are shown at their book value. Projected debt service was converted to US dollars at end-1980 rates.
Notes to Financial Statements Appendix g
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
June 30, 1982 and June 30, 1981
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Capital Stock
From 1973 until March 31,1978, the Bank's capital stock, which is expressed in the Bank's Articles of Agreement in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944" (1944 dollars), has been translated by the Bank for purposes of its financial statements into current United States dollars at the rate of $1.20635 per 1944 dollar. Since the effectiveness on April 1,1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (the Fund), currencies no longer have par values in terms of gold. The Bank is examining the implications of this change on the valuation of its capital stock. No decisions on this matter have been taken. However, for purposes of the financial statements since June 30,1978, the Bank has expressed the value of its capital stock on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR) in terms of United States dollars as computed by the Fund, $1.09224 per SDR on June 30,1982 ($1.15060 per SDR on June 30,1981). (See Note A. This note also shows what the value of the Bank's capital stock would have been if expressed in terms of $1.20635 per 1944 dollar.) For the time being payments on account of subscriptions will continue to be accepted at the equivalent of $120,635 per share of capital stock.
Translation of Currencies
The financial statements are expressed in United States dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing the Bank's financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
The Bank is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. The Bank's resources are derived from its capital, borrowings and accumulated earnings in the various currencies of its members and Switzerland and are held, invested or lent in those same currencies. The Bank matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by holding, or lending the proceeds of its borrowings in the same currencies in which they are borrowed. Borrowed funds are sometimes converted into other currencies and at the same time, forward exchange contracts are entered into in order to recover the currency converted. With respect to its other resources, the Bank does not convert one currency into another except for small amounts required to meet certain obligations and operational needs of the Bank.
In general, the Bank translates its assets and liabilities in currencies other than United States dollars at market rates of exchange to the United States dollar. Income and expenses are generally translated at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect during each month.
Consistent with past practice, translation adjustments, with the exception of those relating to capital subscriptions described in Note A, are charged or credited to the General Reserve. For purposes of clarity, the General Reserve has been reclassified to distinguish between Accumulated Net Income and Cumulative Translation Adjustment. In those few instances where currencies are converted to another currency, the resulting gain or loss, if any, is included in the determination of net income.
Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by the difference between average cost and proceeds of sales, are recorded as an element of income from investments.
Loans
All of the Bank's loans are made to, or guaranteed by, members with the exception of loans to the International Finance Corporation. The
principal amounts of loans are repayable in the currencies lent. Interest on loans is accrued in the currencies lent.
Effective July 1,1980, the Bank adopted a currency pooling system for its lending operations as a means of equalizing exchange rate risks among borrowers. All loans negotiated after that date have been included in the system, and borrowers under earlier loans are being given the option of having the undisbursed balances of their loans included in the system. The pool consists of all currencies disbursed and not yet due for repayment under all loans or portions of loans included in the system (pooled loans). The principal amount withdrawn and outstanding under each pooled loan consists of a portion of each of the currencies in the pool from time to time. The amount of each currency allocated to a loan bears the same relation to the total amount of that currency in the pool at the time as the amount disbursed and outstanding on that loan bears to the total amount disbursed and outstanding on all pooled loans. The currency composition of the pool, and of each pooled loan changes as currencies are added to or retired from the pool. The borrowers of loans and portions of loans not included in the system remain obligated to repay the Bank the currencies used by the Bank in making disbursements on their loans.
The Bank has not suffered any losses on loan receivables and it has a policy of not participating in moratoria or reschedulings. No losses on loan receivables are anticipated and, accordingly, no reserve for loan losses has been established; however, should such losses arise they would be included in the determination of net income.
Administrative Expenses
A management fee is charged to the International Development Association and a service and support fee to the International Finance Corporation representing their respective shares of the administrative expenses of the Bank.
Disposition of Income and General Reserve
The Bank has not declared or paid any dividends to its members. Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the accumulated net income has been allocated to the General Reserve. (See Note C.)
Since 1964, it has been the Bank's policy to transfer to the International Development Association part of the year's income which was not needed for allocation to reserves or otherwise required to be retained in the Bank's business and accordingly could have been prudently distributed as dividends. Such transfers are accounted for as a charge to accumulated net income— unallocated.
Note A—Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies and Maintenance of Value
Capital Stock-. In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of the Bank is expressed in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944" (1944 dollars).
On April 30, 1976, the Board of Governors of the Fund approved proposed amendments to the Fund's Articles of Agreement (the Second Amendment) which entered into force on April 1, 1978. Under the Second Amendment, currencies no longer have par values, gold is abolished as a common denominator of the monetary system and all calculations for the purposes of the Fund's Articles are made on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR). When the SDR was introduced into the Fund's Articles in 1969, it was expressed in terms of a specified weight of gold equal to the gold content of the 1944 dollar. Since July 1,1974, the value of the SDR in terms of United States dollars has been based on the weighted relative values of a number of major currencies (the basket), including the United States dollar. The value of the SDR on July 1, 1974, expressed in terms of United States dollars, was $1.20635, which was the equivalent of one 1944 dollar. On March 31,1978, the
Fund made certain changes in the basket of currencies effective July 1,1978. On September 18,1980, the Fund further revised the basket, effective January 1, 1981, by reducing the number of currencies from 16 to five, and a method of further adjustment at five-yearly intervals was established. These revisions have been, and are to be, done in a manner that ensures that the value of the SDR in terms of any currency is the same immediately before and after the revision.
As a result of the Second Amendment and the simultaneous repeal of Section 2 of the Par Value Modification Act (31 U.S.C. 449), the provision of United States law defining the par value of the United States dollar in terms of the SDR and gold, the pre-existing basis for translating the term "United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944" into current United States dollars or into any other currency no longer exists.
The General Counsel of the Bank has rendered a legal opinion concluding in substance that upon the entry into force of the Second Amendment references in the Bank's Articles of Agreement to the 1944 dollar should be read as referring to the SDR, as determined from time to time by the Fund, and the mutual obligations of each member and the Bank, with respect to maintenance of value of certain currency holdings,will be measured by the value of the currency in question in terms of the SDR at any given time.
The General Counsel has, however, also stated that in the exercise of their statutory power under Article IX of the Bank's Articles, the Executive Directors could conclude that the 1944 dollar would be taken to mean 1.20635 current dollars, with the consequence that maintenance of value would be measured by that standard.
A member government has raised the question whether the substitution of a new unit of value, insofar as it would give rise to any new obligations with respect to maintenance of value and capital stock subscription payments, should be made only by amendment of the Articles. It also raised questions as to the desirability of retaining the principle of maintenance of value, the form in which it is applied and the appropriateness of substituting a unit of value other than the SDR. Pending action on these questions, the financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with the General Counsel's opinion, that is, the value of the capital stock is expressed in terms of the SDR.
The Bank's capital comprised 716,500 (705,000—1981) authorized shares of the par value of SDR 100,000 each, of which 395,194 shares had been subscribed (318,221—1981). Of the subscribed capital, $4,105,299,000 ($3,661,451,000—1981) has been called and paid in and the remaining $39,059,371,000 ($32,953,057,000—1981) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans. As to $34,531,736,000 ($29,291,606,000—1981), the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement and as to $4,527,635,000 ($3,661,451,000—1981) by resolutions of the Board of Governors.
Restricted Currencies: The portion of capital subscriptions paid in to the Bank is divided into two parts: (1) $410,530,000 ($366,145,000—1981) initially paid in gold or United States dollars, and (2) $3,694,769,000 ($3,295,306,000—1981) paid in the currencies of the respective members. Of this latter portion an amount of $121,522,000 ($128,015,000—1981) was subsequently converted by members into United States dollars, subject to the right of the Bank or the members to reverse the transactions. The amounts paid in gold or United States dollars or subsequently converted by members into United States dollars are freely usable by the Bank in any of its operations; however, the remaining amounts paid in the currencies of the members, hereinafter called restricted currencies, are usable by the Bank in its lending operations only with the consent of the respective members. The equivalent of $2,105,291,000 ($2,042,101,000—1981) has been used with such consent.
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value, as of the time of subscription, of such restricted currencies, requiring (1) the member to make additional payments to the Bank in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Bank, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories, and (2) the Bank to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased. Following the establishment of central rates by several members in lieu of existing par values in March 1973, the Executive Directors decided that, for all members that established central rates for their respective currencies, pending the establishment of new par values, maintenance of value obligations be settled on the basis of those central rates. These obligations of the members and of the Bank become effective immediately upon the happening of those events with respect to holdings of restricted currencies represented by currency balances and demand obligations. With respect to restricted currencies out on loan, these obligations become effective only as and when such currencies are recovered by the Bank, except that in several cases the Bank and the members concerned have agreed to make provisional settlements of such obligations, by means of one or more payments over periods not exceeding five years. At June 30,1982, $291,000 ($696,000—1981) was receivable and $1,444,000 ($1,621,000—1981) was payable by the Bank on such provisional settlements. These amounts are included in Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings under the headings Receivable on Account of Subscribed Capital, and Liabilities, respectively.
Prior to April 1, 1978, where market rates of exchange were not related to par values or central rates, as in the cases of a majority of members, and where there were differences between market rates of exchange and the rates at which capital subscriptions of members had been paid or were payable such differences were shown as Translation Adjustments on Capital Subscriptions under the heading Other Assets, These amounts represented notional receivables and payables which would become maintenance of value obligations if and when the provisions of Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement or the decision of the Executive Directors described above could be applied. According to the legal opinion of the Bank's General Counsel referred to in this Note A under Capital Stock, maintenance of value pursuant to Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement would be determined on the basis of the SDR, and is treated in the financial statements on this basis. Since the Bank is still considering the implications of the Second Amendment and in view of the questions referred to above, the timing of any establishment and settlement of these notional maintenance of value items $500,608,000 ($432,125,000—1981) receivable and $174,502,000 ($117,957,000—1981) payable are uncertain. Accordingly, they are included in Other Assets, and Liabilities as notional maintenance of value obligations.
Effect of Valuation in Terms of the SDR: Expressing the value of the Bank's capital stock in terms of the SDR rather than in terms of $1.20635 does not have a material effect on the financial position or results of the operations of the Bank. If the value of the capital stock were expressed in terms of $1.20635, the subscribed capital would have been $47,674,228,000 ($38,388,590,000—1981) instead of $43,164,670,000 ($36,614,508,000—1981), the uncalled portion of subscriptions $43,140,035,000 ($34,549,731,000—1981) instead of $39,059,371,000 ($32,953,057,000—1981), the paid-in capital $4,534,193,000 ($3,838,859,000 — 1981) instead of $4,105,299,000 ($3,661,451,000—1981) and the net maintenance of value obligations to the Bank would have been $694,689,000 ($466,650,000— 1981) instead of $325,910,000 ($315,133,000—1981). Should the Executive Directors conclude that the capital would be measured by some standard other than the SDR, any adjustment of the amounts shown in the Balance Sheet as Notional Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings would require a corresponding adjustment of the capital.
General Capital Increase: On January 4,1980, the Bank's Board of Governors adopted a resolution (the General Capital Increase Resolution) which increases the authorized capital stock of the Bank by 331,500 shares (subject to adjustment as described below); this represents an increase of approximately $40,000,000,000. The General Capital Increase Resolution authorizes subscriptions by members to about 93% of these shares. The paid-in portion of the shares authorized to be subscribed is 7.5%; subscribing members are required to pay 3/i% of the subscription price in gold or United States dollars and &A% in their respective currencies. Under the Articles, each member is entitled to 250 membership votes plus one vote for each share subscribed. To avoid dilution of the voting power of certain members which would otherwise occur as this increase in capital is subscribed, the Board of Governors adopted another resolution on January 4,1980 which increases the authorized capital stock by an additional 33,500 shares (representing a further increase of approximately $4,000,000,000) and authorizes each member to subscribe 250 shares of this additional capital, none of which would be paid in unless required to meet obligations of the Bank for funds borrowed or loans guaranteed by it. Subscriptions authorized bythese resolutions could not be accepted prior to September 30, 1981.
The General Capital Increase Resolution provides for a reduction of the number of shares authorized by it if, as a result of determinations on the valuation of the Bank's capital stock, the 331,500 shares authorized represent an increase in authorized capital in excess of $40,000,000,000, calculated as of the time of such determinations on the basis of the standard of value determined. In this case the number of shares authorized by the General Capital Increase Resolution will be reduced so that their aggregate par value at that time will be equivalent (to the nearest number of shares) to $40,000,000,000, the number of shares authorized to be subscribed by each member will be correspondingly reduced, and adjustments will be made on account of any shares already subscribed by members in excess of their reduced authorization.
On October 2, 1981. the Bank's Board of Governors adopted a resolution increasing the authorized capital of the Bank by 11,500 shares to 716,500 shares.
Note B—Investments and Cash Collateral Invested
The market value of investment securities and cash collateral invested was $10,969,571,000 ($7,677,461,000—1981) compared with a cost or amortized cost of $11,215,162,000 ($8,107,771,000— 1981), and a face value of $11,345,509,000 ($8,168,282,000— 1981), including investments not traded in the market which were valued at their cost of $1,778,527,000 ($982,178,000—1981). Obligations of the United States Government and its instrumentalities having a cost or amortized cost of $292,537,000 ($292,537,000—1981) and a market value of $262,949,000 ($276,199,000—1981), set aside in respect of the Special Reserve, as described in Note C, are included under this heading.
The annualized rate of return on the average investments held during the period, based on the portfolio held at the end of each month, including realized gains and losses, was 11.25% (9.30%—1981).
Note C—Reserves and Net Income
The Managing Committee of the Bank has proposed to the Executive Directors that they approve the allocation of $472,652,000 to the General Reserve out of the $597,652,000 net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30,1982 and that they recommend to the Board of Governors that the balance of $125,000,000 be transferred by way of grant to the International Development Association.
In July 1981, the Bank allocated $509,103,000 to the General Reserve out of the $610,103,000 net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30,1981 and in October 1981, authorized the transfer of
the balance of $101,000,000 by way of grant to the International Development Association.
In accordance with the policies discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies, the General Reserve has decreased by $244,798,000 during the fiscal year ($503,379,000—1981); it has been charged with $278,740,000 ($581,931,000—1981) representing net translation adjustments as a result of currency depreciations and appreciations and credited with $33,942,000 ($78,552,000—1981) representing a compensating effect of the appreciation of the United States dollar, in terms of the SDR, on the portion of the Bank's subscriptions paid in United States dollars and in the currency of the subscribing member which was subsequently released for lending in United States dollars. (See Statement of Changes in General Reserve—Appendix B.) Since the value of the SDR in terms of current dollars may vary from day to day, that portion of the Bank's capital paid in or released in dollars will be subject to further adjustment at the end of each month.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV Section 6, of the Articles of Agreement which are to be held in liquid assets and to be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of the Bank on its borrowings and guarantees. The Special Reserve assets comprise obligations of the United States Government and its instrumentalities and are included under the heading Investments. As a result of a decision made in 1964, the allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in respect of subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
Note D—Contributions to the International Development Association
The Bank has authorized transfers by way of grants to the International Development Association totaling $1,644,000,000 from net income for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1964 through June 30, 1981. Of this amount $747,339,000 was payable at June 30,1982. ($1,543,000,000 had been authorized from net income through the fiscal year ended June 30,1980 and $820,668,000 was payable at June 30, 1981.)
Note E—Staff Retirement Plan
The Bank has a contributory retirement Plan for its staff, which also covers the staff of the International Finance Corporation. The staff contribute a fixed percentage of pensionable remuneration and the Bank contributes the remainder of the cost of funding the Plan. Effective July 1, 1980, the Bank changed to an aggregate funding method for determining its contribution. This change will not have a significant effect on the cost of the Plan to the Bank. Such cost is funded as accrued. The cost of the Plan to the Bank for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1982 was $59,331,000 ($51,043,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30,1981). All contributions to the Plan and all other assets and income'held for the purposes of the Plan are held by the Bank separately from the other assets and income of the Bank and Corporation and can be used only for the benefit of the participants in the Plan and their beneficiaries until all liabilities to them have been discharged. The comparison of accumulated benefits and net assets of the Plan is presented below:
The assumed rate of return used in determining the actuarial present value of the accumulated Plan benefits was 10% for 1981 (10% for 1980).
Note F—Income and Expenses
Income from investments includes net losses of $102,228,000 ($110,649,000—1981) resulting from sales of investments. Other income includes net gains of $24,021,000 ($20,427,000—1981) resulting from repurchases of obligations of the Bank prior to maturity pursuant to the terms of the respective borrowing agreements. Administrative expenses are net of the management fee of $193,375,000 ($180,000,000—1981) charged to the International Development Association and of the service and support fee of $3,844,000 ($2,874,000—1981) charged to the International Finance Corporation. Contributions to special programs represent grants for agricultural research, the control of onchocerciasis and
others which had previously been funded from the Bank's transfers to the International Development Association.
For loans negotiated after January 5, 1982, a fee of 1/2% of the principal amount of the loan is payable when the loan becomes effective; this fee may be paid in cash or capitalized and financed out of the proceeds of the loan at the borrower's option.
At June 30,1982, principal instalments of $88,000 and interest and other charges of $409,000 payable to the Bank on loans were overdue by more than 60 days. The principal disbursed and outstanding on these loans amounted to $72,885,000. Ail of the principal, interest and other charges overdue by more than 60 days at June 30, 1982 remained unpaid at July 13, 1982. It is not anticipated that these delays will result in any loss to the Bank.
Notes to Financial Statements Appendix f
International Development Association
June 30, 1982 and June 30, 1981
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Translation of Currencies
The Association is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members and Switzerland. The Association's policy is to translate its assets and liabilities in currencies other than United States dollars at market rates of exchange to the United States dollar at the end of each quarter. Translation adjustments relating to subscriptions and supplementary resources are accounted for as described in Note C; all other translation adjustments are included in the determination of net income. Income and expenses are translated at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect during each quarter.
The subscriptions and supplementary resources provided through the third replenishment are expressed in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1,1960" (1960 dollars) and from 1973 until March 31, 1978 have been translated by the Association, for purposes of the financial statements, into current United States dollars at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar. The subscriptions and supplementary resources provided under the fourth and fifth replenishments are expressed and payable in members' currencies. The supplementary resources provided under the sixth replenishment are expressed in members' currencies or special drawing rights (SDRs) and are payable in members' currencies. Subscriptions and supplementary resources provided subsequent to the third replenishment are translated (1) at market rates of exchange at the end of each quarter for amounts receivable and for amounts received and not yet disbursed, and (2) at market rates of exchange on the dates of disbursement in respect of those amounts which have been disbursed or converted into another currency.
The Association's development credits funded from resources provided through the fifth replenishment are denominated in current United States dollars; the principal amounts disbursed on such credits are repayable in amounts equivalent to the value of the currencies disbursed in terms of 1960 dollars. Development credits approved by the Executive Directors of the Association after August 1,1980, funded from resources provided under the sixth replenishment, are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such credits are to be repaid in amounts equivalent to the value of the currencies disbursed in terms of SDRs.
On April 30, 1976, the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund (the Fund) approved proposed amendments to the Fund's Articles of Agreement (the Second Amendment) which entered into force on April 1,1978. Under the Second Amendment, currencies no longer have par values, gold is abolished as a common denominator of the monetary system and all calculations for the purposes of the Fund's Articles are made on the basis of the SDR.
As a result of the Second Amendment and the simultaneous repeal of Section 2 of the Par Value Modification Act (31 U.S.C. 449), the provision of United States law defining the par value of the United States dollar in terms of the SDR and gold, the pre-existing basis for translating the term "United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1,1960" into current United States dollars or into any other currency, no longer exists.
The General Counsel of the Association has rendered a legal opinion concluding in substance that upon entry into force of the Second Amendment references in the Association's Articles of Agreement to the 1960 dollar should be read as referring to the SDR, as determined from time to time by the Fund and the mutual obligations of each member and the Association with respect to maintenance of value of certain currency holdings will be measured by the value of the currency in question in terms of the SDR at any given time. It
would be consistent with this opinion also to substitute the SDR for the 1960 dollar as the measure of the development credit repayment obligation expressed in terms of 1960 dollars, but this would require approval of the Executive Directors and would involve other changes in the development credit agreements.
The General Counsel has, however, also stated that in the exercise of their statutory power under Article X of the Association's Articles, the Executive Directors could conclude that the 1960 dollar would be taken to mean $1.20635 current dollars, with the consequence that maintenance of value would be measured by that standard.
Pending action on this matter by the Association, the subscriptions and supplementary resources through the third replenishment have been expressed in SDRs on the basis that one SDR equals one 1960 dollar. (However, as described in the following paragraph, this basis has not been applied to development credit repayment obligations expressed in terms of 1960 dollars.) The value of such subscriptions and supplementary resources has been expressed on the basis of the SDR in terms of United States dollars as computed by the Fund ($1.09224 per SDR) on June 30,1982, for the amounts of subscriptions and supplementary resources undisbursed at June 30,1982; at the daily SDR rate for amounts disbursed from the effective date of the Second Amendment to June 30, 1982, and at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar for amounts disbursed prior to the effective date of the Second Amendment. Expressing the value of certain of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources in terms of the SDR rather than in terms of the 1960 dollar (translated at the rate of $1.20635) does not have a material effect on the financial position or results of operations of the Association. If the value of these subscriptions and supplementary resources were expressed in terms of $1.20635 the amount of $23,798,985,000 ($20,712,734,000—1981) shown in the Statement of Condition would have increased by $11,232,000 to $23,810,217,000 (decreased by $1,972,000 to $20,710,762,000— 1981).
Pending clarification of the effect of the Second Amendment on development credit repayment obligations expressed in 1960 dollars, the Association has continued to base these upon the par value ($1.20635 per 1960 dollar) in effect immediately prior to effectiveness of the Second Amendment. If the matter had been resolved during the period ended June 30,1982, and the Association had expressed such repayment obligations in terms of the SDR at June 30,1982, the amount of $14,876,634,000 ($12,876,410,000— 1981) shown in the Statement of Condition would have decreased by $1,474,455,000 ($807,593,000—1981) as of June 30,1982 representing the cumulative effect of the change since April 1,1978. This would have resulted in a net loss for the period ended June 30,1982 of $1,556,662,000 ($870,603,000—1981) rather than a net loss of $82,207,000 ($63,010,000—1981).
Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by the difference between average cost and proceeds of sales, are recorded as an element of income from investments.
Development Credits
All of the Association's development credits are made to member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for two development credits which have been made to regional development banks for the benefit of members or territories of members of the Association). The Association has not suffered any losses on development credit receivables and no losses are anticipated. However, should such losses arise they would be included in the determination of net income.
Administrative Expenses
Administrative expenses of the Association are paid by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). The Association reimburses the Bank for such expenses by payment of a management fee representing its share of the administrative expenses incurred by the Bank.
Note A—Restricted Currencies
The membership of the Association is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which pay all subscriptions and supplementary resources provided to the Association in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by the Association in its operations; (2) Part II members, which pay ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies and the remaining ninety percent of their initial subscriptions and all additional subscriptions and any supplementary resources provided to the Association in their own currencies. The Articles of Agreement of the Association and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by the Association for projects financed by the Association and located outside the territories of the member except by agreement between the member and the Association. The amounts of $55,061,000 ($83,776,000—1981) under the heading Due from Banks, $89,042,000 ($103,907,000—1981) included under the heading Receivable on Account of Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources and $71,331,000 ($66,533,000—1981) included in Notional Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings under the headings Other Assets and Other Liabilities respectively, were subject to such restrictions.
Note B—Investments and Cash Collateral Invested
The market value of investment securities and cash collateral invested was $158,018,000 ($81,034,000—1981) compared with a cost or amortized cost of $160,311,000 ($82,942,000—1981) and face value of $163,733,000 ($83,846,000—1981), including investments not traded in the market which were valued at their cost of $41,604,000 ($38,504,000—1981). investments include securities purchased under agreements to resell amounting to $6,404,000 ($3,025,000—1981).
Note C—Maintenance of Value
Article IV, Section 2 of the Association's Articles of Agreement provides for the maintenance of the value, as of the time of subscription, of the Association's currency holdings or demand obligations substituted therefor representing ninety percent of each member's initial subscription, only so long as and to the extent that such currency has not been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. This Section requires: (1) the member to make additional payments to the Association in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Association, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2) the Association to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the Association, appreciated to a significant extent in its territories.
The provisions of Article IV, Section 2 have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and supplementary
resources of the Association through the third replenishment but are not applicable to those of the fourth, fifth and sixth replenishments. On lune 19,1972, the Executive Directors decided that for all members that established central rates for their respective currencies, pending establishment of new par values for their currencies, maintenance of value obligations be settled on the basis of those central rates. It was further decided that with respect to any member currency functioning under a system under which the market rate was not confined within announced intervention margins, maintenance of value obligations would be determined on the basis of market rates in effect on the respective dates of disbursement of such currency, but only for the amounts disbursed.
Prior to April 1, 1978, where market rates of exchange were not related to parvalues or central rates as in the cases of a majority of the members, and there were differences between market rates of exchange and the rates at which undisbursed subscriptions and supplementary resources of members through the third replenishment of the Association's resources had been paid or were payable, such differences were shown as Translation Adjustments on Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources under the heading Other Assets. The amounts $85,701,000 ($84,184,000—1981) established at that date and accordingly at June 30,1982 represented notional receivables $111,914,000 ($98,048,000—1981) and payables $26,213,000 ($13,864,000—1981). Maintenance of value obligations in respect of such undisbursed amounts are determined upon their disbursement. In accordance with the legal opinion of the Association's General Counsel referred to above, maintenance of value pursuant to Article IV Section 2 of the Articles of Agreement is being determined provisionally on the basis of the SDR, and is treated in the financial statements on that basis. Since the Association is still considering the implications of the Second Amendment, and in view of the questions referred to above, the timing of any establishment and settlement of these notional maintenance of value items is uncertain. Accordingly, they are included in Other Assets, and Liabilities as notional maintenance of value obligations.
Note D—Contribution by Switzerland
The Swiss Confederation, which is not a member of the Association, has made grant contributions to the Association in the amount of SwF 181,480,000. This amount represents the outstanding balances of loans to the Association totaling SwF 182,000,000, made by the Confederation in fiscal years 1967 and 1973. These outstanding balances were converted into grant contributions pursuant to agreements between the Confederation and the Association which came into force on April 1, 1981. As a result of the conversion, the Accumulated Net Loss was reduced by $43,604,000 representing the difference between the value of the loans at the times the loans were drawn down and their value at the time of conversion into grant contributions. These agreements make provision for converting these grant contributions into a subscription or supplemetary resources if Switzerland should become a member of the Association.
Note E—Subscriptions and Supplementary Resources
Subscriptions and supplementary resources have been translated as set forth under the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies. At June 30,1982 and 1981 these were as follows:
*Represents the portion of the United States contribution which is qualified as described below.
The sixth replenishment of the Association's resources authorized by Resolution of the Board of Governors totals the equivalent of $12,000,000,000, computed on the basis of representative rates of exchange and the SDR value of currencies on October 5,1979. The replenishment became effective on August 24,1981. At that date, notifications had been received from 24 members, of which 16 were Part I members (including the United States, as mentioned in the following paragraph), that they would contribute to the sixth replenishment the equivalent of $9,946,860,000. Subsequent to August 24,1981 but prior to June 30,1982 further notifications of contributions in the equivalent of $1,855,200,000 were received increasing the total notifications of contributions to the equivalent of $11,802,060,000. Pursuant to the resolution, contributions are payable in three equal annual instalments unless contributing members notify the Association that they wish to avail themselves of certain options providing for a different schedule of payment.
In connection with its participation in the sixth replenishment, the United States notified the Association that it would pay the amount of $500,000,000 and that, subject to obtaining the necessary appropriations, it would pay the remaining
$2,740,000,000. The notification by the United States was thus qualified with respect to $2,740,000,000 of its contribution. Subsequently, the United States paid $700,000,000 of this amount, leaving $2,040,000,000 subject to said qualification; this brought its payments to 37.04 percent of its total contribution of $3,240,000,000. The resolution provides that, for purposes of credit commitments by the Association, all the subscriptions and contributions authorized thereunder shall be divided into three successive tranches of at least 29 percent, at least 33 percent and 38 percent (or the remaining balance) of the total. If and as long as unqualified contribution commitments have not been received from the United States for the respective minimum amount of any said tranches of its subscription and contribution, the amount of such tranche of all subscriptions and contributions which the Association may use under the Resolution for making new unqualified credit commitments will be reduced in proportion to such shortfall in unqualified contribution commitments. However, a number of governments have waived this provision and released additional amounts of their contributions for commitment by the Association. At June 30, 1982 the amount of subscriptions and contributions available for commitment on the basis of the resolution or such waivers totaled the equivalent of $5,298,074,000 and the remaining balance in the equivalent of $4,812,379,000 is subject to the above-mentioned restrictions.
Note F—Transfers from International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has authorized transfers by way of grants to the Association totaling $1,644,000,000 ($1,543,000,000—1981) from net income of the Bank for the fiscal years ended June 30,1964 through June 30, 1981. Of this amount, $79,905,000 ($81,305,000—1981) may be used by the Association or had been disbursed for grants for agricultural research and for the control of onchocerciasis. At December 31, 1981, $1,400,000 previously allocated for such grants reverted to the Association for its general purposes.
(contmoed)
Note G—Translation Adjustments
In accordance with the policies discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies the Association has recorded a charge of $17,014,000 (credit of $11,531,000—1981) representing translation adjustments. This amount comprises a charge of $1,701,000 (credit of $13,025,000—1981) as a result of currency depreciations and appreciations, a credit of $77,000 ($207,000—1981) representing the effect of the valuation change to the SDR on that portion of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources paid in United States dollars and a charge of $15,390,000 ($1,701,000—1981) representing the adjustment of development credit repayment obligations expressed in SDRs.
Since the value of the SDR in terms of current dollars may vary from day to day, the portion of the Association's subscriptions and supplementary resources paid in dollars will be subject to further adjustment at the end of each quarter.
Note H—Net Loss
The Association pays a management fee to the Bank in respect of administrative expenditures incurred for projects during their preparation and implementation. To cover its administrative costs, the Association levies a service charge of three-fourths of one percent per annum on the disbursed and outstanding portions of its development credits and, since January 5,1982, a commitment charge of one-half of one percent per annum on the
undisbursed portions of development credits negotiated after that date. The Association incurs a temporary income deficit with respect to each development credit because administrative expenses are incurred before substantial amounts of the credit are disbursed and service charges earned thereon; the new commitment charge was introduced to reduce such deficits. The present value of earnings from development credits approved during fiscal year 1982, as estimated by the Association, exceeds the management fee for that year. The amount of the income deficit which may be incurred in any year will be influenced by a number of factors including the scale of lending activities of the Association, the amount of credits on which charges are being earned and the income from other investments the Association may have.
At June 30,1982, principal instalments of $250,000 and service charges of $856,000 payable to the Association on development credits were overdue by more than 60 days. The principal disbursed and outstanding on these development credits amounted to $64,435,000. Of these amounts $231,000 of principal and $782,000 of service charges were due from Chad in respect of development credits on which principal disbursed and outstanding amounted to $36,139,000. The arrears of Chad's service payments date from June 1979. Disbursements of development credits made to Chad have been suspended since Juiy 1979. It is not anticipated that these delays in payments, including those due from Chad, will result in any loss to the Association.