Chapter One
The World Bank: Fiscal 1984, in Brief
After three years of almost uninterrupted decline in growth and trade, the global economy improved somewhat in the past year, with the most notable feature being a stronger-than-ex-pected recovery in the United States. There remain, however, serious concerns in several areas.
In particular, world trade has not responded, as it did in previous post-recession recoveries, to the resumption of growth in the industrial countries. In addition, in spite of a halt in the decline of commodity prices, current projections indicate that, in the medium term, terms of trade of the developing countries will not reach the levels realized in 1980. Finally, although the extensive rescheduling of debt carried out in 1982 and 1983 appears to have met the immediate objective of avoiding defaults and consequent disorder in the financial markets, there is no indication that capital flows are likely to return to earlier levels. The massive overhang of external debt has grown even larger, and concern about the financial situation has been rekindled because of a renewed increase in international interest rates.
Strains persist in the international structure of trade and payments—with particularly serious implications for the prospects of growth of the developing countries. Faced with the need to reduce imports, the developing countries have been forced to reduce the level and alter the composition of their investments. Capital formation has been shifted toward the energy sector and economic infrastructure at the expense of the social sectors. Priority has been given to meeting current expenses, rehabilitating existing facilities, and completing ongoing projects. Particular attention has been focused on projects designed to generate or conserve foreign exchange at the expense of other types of investment and more domestically oriented programs. (Details of actions taken by developing countries during the past year are contained in Chapter Four: "1984 Regional Perspectives")
The Bank has attempted to revive development momentum and to respond to the requirements for adjustment in a variety of ways. While continuing to stress the need to maintain the pace of social development, efforts to strengthen planning and policy reform have been stepped up. Where possible, disburse-
ments have been accelerated through the Special Action Program and have been accompanied by increasing levels of local-currency financing through revised cost-sharing arrangements. Structural-adjustment loans and credits and operations with structural-adjustment features have been given emphasis, as have efforts to strengthen the coordination of aid and technical assistance.
Bank responses, nevertheless, have been constrained by several factors. IBRD lending, at $11.9 billion, was slightly less than early plans had envisaged, as the difficulties faced by borrowers and the requirements of prudent financial management limited the number of operations that could meet the IBRD's normal requirements for financing. The particular constraint on levels of IDA financing has been widely documented. The practical effect of that constraint has been that although the number of IDA operations—particularly in sub-Saharan Africa and in low-income countries elsewhere—has been roughly maintained, the average real size of IDA operations has been reduced as compared with levels in previous years.
In this context, therefore, discussions that will take place during fiscal 1985 between Bank management and the Executive Board on the future role of the Bank take on an added importance.
In the two previous decades, the institution responded quickly to the opportunities to manage growth that were open to it. In the 1980s and for the foreseeable future, however, the Bank faces the necessity of managing change— change in the external economic environment, in the world's financial markets, and in the operational products and services it offers to its developing member countries. Throughout fiscal 1984, an intensive staff exercise, designed to provide the basis of discussion during fiscal 1985 between Bank management and the Executive Directors was conducted on how the Bank might best respond to changes in these broad areas. It is hoped that, as a result of intensive and detailed exchanges of views, a consensus will be realized on how the Bank should adapt and strengthen its development efforts in the years remaining in this decade.
Fiscal year 1985 will also be highlighted by a full-scale review by the Executive Directors of the Bank's Action Program for sub-Saharan Af-
Note on Dollar Amounts
Dollar amounts used in the text of the Annual Report refer to current United States dollars. Where special drawing right (SDR) amounts are used for the capital of the Bank, one SDR equals 1.03121 current United States dollars at June 30, 1984 (one SDR equaled 1.06835 current United States dollars at June 30, 1983).
For a detailed discussion and the basis for SDR amounts used for IDA subscriptions and contributions, see IDA Appendices: Appendix F—Notes to Financial Statements.
rica. The final version of the program, which will concern itself with long-term development issues confronting the region, will be submitted to the Development Committee in time for its meeting in September 1984.
Fiscal 1984—Some Highlights
In fiscal year 1984,1 lending commitments by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA), together with investment commitments by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), totaled 516,220 million, or $898 million more (or 5.8 percent) than in fiscal year 1983.2 IBRD lending was up $811 million (7.3 percent). IDA commitments increased $234 million (7.0 percent). Investment commitments by the IFC dropped $149 million (17.6 percent).
A total of 129 IBRD loans to forty-three countries were approved during the year; 106 IDA credits to forty-three countries were approved. IFC's sixty-two investment approvals went to some thirty-five countries.
IBRD loans and IDA credits helped finance about 32 percent of the costs of projects for which total amounts can be calculated.
India, Brazil, and Indonesia were the largest IBRD borrowers during the year. India borrowed $1,721 million for eight projects, Brazil borrowed $1,604 million for ten projects, and commitments to Indonesia totaled $1,033 million for nine projects.
The largest borrowers from IDA were India ($1,001 million for nine projects), China ($424 million for five projects), and Bangladesh ($393 million for ten projects).
Disbursements by the IBRD were $8,580 million, up $1,763 million over fiscal year 1983. IDA disbursements decreased by $72 million from the previous year to $2,524 million. Much of the increase in the IBRD's disbursements was the result of measures adopted under the Spe-
cial Action Program that were intended to accelerate disbursements to countries to ensure timely implementation of high-priority projects.
The net transfer of resources by the IBRD and IDA was $5,183 million, up $685 million (15 percent) over the previous year. The net transfer of resources is defined as disbursements minus repayment of principal, interest, and other charges.
At a time of scarce resources and exceptionally difficult market conditions, the Bank made special efforts to secure other sources of capital to help finance its projects. During the past year, a total of ninety-eight IBRD and IDA projects involved cofinancing funds amounting to $4,050.4 million. These projects represented 42 percent of the operations of the two institutions. The first test cases of the new instruments for cofinancing with commercial banks were successfully launched and, for the first time in many years, the Bank utilized its guarantee powers.
The Executive Directors approved a report recommending that the Board of Governors authorize a seventh replenishment of IDA resources for the period fiscal 1985-87 in the amount of $9 billion equivalent.
On the financial side, net income of the IBRD totaled $600 million, down from S752 million in fiscal 1983, a year in which net income increased by 26 percent over the previous fiscal year, primarily a result of very high returns on the IBRD's liquidity.
Borrowings by the IBRD amounted to S9,831 million. The IBRD was most active in borrowing (before swaps) US dollars ($3,181 million), Japanese yen ($1,700 million), Deutsche mark ($1,532 million), and Swiss francs ($1,407 million). Borrowings in fiscal 1983 were $10,292 million.
! The fiscal year of the IBRD, as well as of its two affiliates, runs from July 1 to June 30. All references to fiscal years in this Report, unless otherwise stated, refer to this time period.
2 Since the real value of loan commitments by the IBRD and IDA is eroded to the extent that cost inflation occurs over the period of disbursements, the Bank plans and monitors its commitments in "real terms." The deflator now used to express commitments in real terms is a weighted average of the price levels assumed to be prevailing over the period of disbursement of these commitments, where the weights are the proportion of a typical loan that would be disbursed each year. These price levels are US dollar-denominated indexes of the unit value of manufactured exports from developed countries to developing countries, which take account of both inflation in the former and changes in their currencies (for example, Deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and so forth) vis-a-vis the US dollar. If fiscal 1984 IBRD and IDA commitments were to be expressed in terms of, 1983 dollars, they would be $14,441 million.
The subscribed capital of the IBRD increased by SDR5,559 million during fiscal 1984. Of that amount, SDR5,203 million was the result of subscriptions authorized by the general capital increase approved in January 1980.
The Executive Directors approved a report recommending that the Board of Governors authorize a selective capital increase in the IBRD in the amount of $8.4 billion equivalent.
IDA
Negotiations for the seventh replenishment of resources of the International Development
Association (IDA-7) were launched with a meeting of IDA Deputies on November 22-23, 1982. Resources contributed under IDA-7 will provide the Association with funds for credit commitments in the period fiscal 1985-87. During fiscal year 1984, four meetings of the IDA Deputies, the representatives of thirty-three donor countries, were held to continue discussions of issues related to the size of IDA-7 and burden-sharing and implementation arrangements for the replenishment, including conditions of effectiveness, method of payment, and voting rights. These meetings were held in Tokyo (July
19-21, 1983), Washington, DC, (September 24, 1983), Paris (December 9-10, 1983), and. once more, in Washington (January 12-14, 1984).
At their final meeting, the Deputies reaffirmed their strong support for the Association and its activities. They felt IDA was one of the most effective multilateral institutions for transferring concessional resources to the poorest countries and should continue to play a key role in promoting development. At that meeting, the representative of the United States reiterated his country's earlier position to contribute to IDA-7 no more than $750 million a year (or a total of $2.25 billion), and to limit its share to 25 percent. All other donors repeated the concern they had expressed at an earlier meeting in Paris that the unchanged US position on its contribution to IDA-7 would result in limiting IDA-7 to $9 billion, an amount which they strongly felt to be inadequate in view of the pressing needs of the poorest countries for development assistance. They expressed regret and disappointment that the US had not responded to their concern. They felt, however, that in view of the pressing urgency of reaching a conclusive outcome and preventing a hiatus in IDA's commitment authority as of July 1, 1984, agreement should be reached on a replenishment size to which all donors could subscribe. Recognizing the clear need for additional resources, most donors felt that the Association's management should make further efforts to arrange supplementary financing for the fiscal 1985-87 period.
Accordingly, the IDA-7 Report and Resolution, which was transmitted for vote by the Governors after Board consideration on May 24, 1984, provides for a replenishment of $9 billion. The Association was also provided with a mandate to raise additional resources aiming at closing the gap between the $9 billion agreed upon and the level of $12 billion, which most donors regard as the minimum necessary level of resources required by the Association for its program for fiscal 1985-87. Donors in favor of supplementary financing were of the view that discussions on a scheme should be completed by July 1. 1984, to coincide with the start of IDA-7, and that any arrangements proposed by the management should enjoy the broadest participation possible. The unexpected delay of four months in Board consideration of the IDA-7 Report has had some repercussions on the timetable for mobilizing supplementary resources. The Association's management is striving to ensure that donor agreement on an acceptable scheme is reached at the earliest possible date.
The final arrangements arrived at during the meeting in January of IDA Deputies resulted in
a reduction of shares relative to 1DA-6 for five countries (the Federal Republic of Germany, Kuwait, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States) and an increase for ten other countries (Australia, Canada, Finland, France, Italy, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Norway, South Africa, and Spain). The Deputies representing Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands, and Saudi Arabia have indicated that in IDA-7 their countries would once again repeat the extra effort they had made for IDA-6 in assuming a larger share than would have been indicated by normally accepted burden-sharing criteria. The shares of France, Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom were based on understandings reached among these countries concerning their relative ranking in the shareholding of the IBRD.
The net effect of increases and decreases in donor shares resulted in an unallocated share which, at the time of agreement (January 14, 1984), amounted to $280 million, or 3.12 percent of the $9 billion replenishment. As of June 30, 1984, this gap stood at $246 million, or 2.73 percent. The drop was due to subsequent increases in the shares of Australia. Korea, South Africa, and Sweden.
Reflecting the widespread concern of many Deputies over recent volatility in exchange-rate movements, a new arrangement was adopted under IDA-7 for calculating donors' contributions in terms of their national currencies. It was agreed to convert the dollar equivalents of donors' shares into national currency amounts using the average rate of exchange between the dollar and the national currency over the six-month period ending December 9. 1983. As under previous replenishments, donors to IDA-7 were given a choice of using their national currency, the US dollar, or the SDR as their unit of obligation.
There was widespread support for a proposal by Canada that a comprehensive review of the experience under IDA-7 should be undertaken by the management of the Bank and IDA Deputies after the first eighteen months of the seventh replenishment period. Such a review would consider the extent to which the Association had been able to meet adequately the needs of IDA recipients, as well as subsequent developments in the donor countries that might improve prospects for mobilizing additional IDA resources. Deputies felt, however, that this review should not affect, in any way. ongoing efforts to mobilize supplementary resources.
FY84 commitment authority. In fiscal 1984. the United States provided two further installments (amounting to $1,190 million) of its IDA-6 contribution. There now remains a balance of $150 million of its IDA-6 contribution;
that amount is expected to be fully released in fiscal 1985. Commitment authority in fiscal 1984 was provided by (a) special contributions provided under the FY84 Account and Special Fund; (b) balances of donor contributions to IDA-6: and (c) other resources, including a part of the transfer to IDA from the net income of the IBRD for fiscal 1983.
Fiscal year 1984 should have been the first year of lending under the seventh replenishment. However, the stretch-out of the US contribution to IDA-6 did not render this possible. In order to augment the otherwise inadequate resources for lending to IDA borrowers in fiscal 1984, a scheme was set up for the year under which donors other than the United States pro-
vided special contributions through either the FY84 Account or the Special Fund.
Contributions to the FY84 Account add to the general resources of IDA and carry voting rights (unless deferred). Seventeen countries (Australia, Austria, Brazil, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany. Iceland, Ireland, Japan, the Republic of Korea. Kuwait, Luxembourg, Mexico, New Zealand. Saudi Arabia, Spain, the United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia), whose special contributions add to SDR1.203 million, provided their contributions through the FY84 Account during the year. Four others (Argentina, Greece, the Netherlands, and South Africa), whose contributions amount to SDR83 million, will be providing their formal notification of participations in the FY84 Account in the initial months of fiscal 1985.
Contributions to the Special Fund constitute a fund separate from IDA's other resources. Procurement eligibility is restricted to contributors, Part II countries, and contributors to the FY84 Account who have agreed that their contributions be treated in the same manner as Special Fund contributions for the purposes of any future adjustment of voting rights. Six countries (Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Norway, and Sweden) provided contributions totaling SDR400 million to the Special Fund in fiscal 1984. Italy's contribution to the Special Fund of SDR71 million is expected in earlv fiscal 1985.
Four other countries, whose special contributions amount to about 2 percent of total special contributions had not yet chosen as of June 30, 1984, the vehicle for their special contributions.
One hundred six IDA-assisted projects were approved in fiscal year 1984 for an amount totaling SDR3,382 million. Of this, SDR2,960 million represented credits financed by IDA's regular resources and SDR422 million were credits covered by resources provided under the Special Fund.
Cofinancing
The flow of funds to developing countries achieved through cofinancing with the World Bank over the past decade continues to be maintained despite exceptionally difficult market conditions affecting the availability of private and export-credit flows. Trends over an average of years are more telling than movements in any one year. Table 1-4 shows that the average cofinancing amount over the fiscal-year periods 1980-82, 1981-83, and 1982-84 stands at the level of about $5 billion a year. This comparison allows the volume of cofinancing in fiscal 1984 to be put into perspective.
In terms of the three main cofinancing sources—official, export credit, and private—
cofinancing with official lenders continues to be the most frequent form in numbers of projects cofinanced and the most important in amount cofinanced. Export-credit flows have been restrained by uncertainties surrounding the creditworthiness of many borrowers, as well as by cutbacks in their investment programs. These cutbacks in investment, which constitute a response by borrowers to their current economic difficulties, involve a shift in emphasis to sector loans concentrating on maintenance and rehabilitation types of projects and quick-yielding investments, both of which are less conducive to export-credit financing. Thus, while the number of operations with export-credit cofinancing in fiscal 1984 is within the range achieved in previous years, the volume has been affected by the absence of large operations. The volume of cofinancing with private commercial banks was slightly below the recent average in terms of indicative amounts from financing plans submitted at the time of Board approval, but represented a substantial increase in terms of actual placements in the market. (See Table 1-5.) In the light of the current external economic environment, this increase was accomplished only through the introduction of the new B-loan instruments for cofinancing with commercial banks.
Much effort was spent during the past year in developing ways to maximize the flows of external funds to developing countries from each of the three major sources of cofinancing.
In view of the $9 billion agreement on the seventh replenishment of IDA resources, every opportunity is being examined to channel, through cofinancing with official sources, funds needed to maintain the level of high-priority
investments to the poorest countries. A program of intensified contacts and frequent consultations with official donors, both within and outside existing cofinancing framework agreements, is being carried out, and new framework agreements are being pursued. In addition to the recent agreements being implemented with Italy, Belgium, and the Nordic Investment Bank, new agreements have been put into place with Australia and the Netherlands, and similar agreements with other official donors are likely to be concluded in fiscal 1985.
In the area of cofinancing with export-credit agencies, the main focus in fiscal 1984 was on concluding the review of cofinancing policies and procedures with them. A meeting with twenty-five credit and insurance agencies was held in Washington, DC, last November, and the review has been completed. A set of suggested measures, which can increase the flow of export credit for priority purposes and help secure the best terms available, is currently under consideration by senior management. Subsequent to this review, the focus of work in this area will switch to practical follow-up in the context of specific operations.
While the difficult market situation and the debt problems of developing countries continue, a key objective of the World Bank's cofinancing efforts is to help reinstate a net inflow of commercial funds on the long maturities appropriate for development finance. The current B-loan pilot program has produced good results and has established a base for future evolution of the B-loan instruments.
Nine B-loans were completed or substantially completed during fiscal 1984 for a total volume of $1.1 billion. This amount is significant when
a With optional cross-default clause and memorandum of agreement between the World Bank and the commercial syndicate.
b B-loans for Paraguay and Hungary were substantially completed by June 30, 1984, and are expected to be signed early in fiscal 1985. These account for $502 million of the total shown of $1,066 million.
compared with the total amounts of new lending (outside of reschedulings), estimated at $5 billion, by commercial banks to developing countries over the first nine months of fiscal 1984. All three of the options available under the Bank's B-loan pilot program were tested through these operations. Borrowers have derived substantial benefits from the B-loans arranged thus far, including lengthened maturities and improved access to commercial markets.
The first B-loan operation under the pilot program was arranged for the Telephone Organization of Thailand to finance a part of its investment program under two ongoing World Bank telecommunications projects. A $34 million equivalent yen loan was lead-managed by The Mitsui Bank, Limited, which also acted as agent bank, and was managed by a group of nine banks, including Bangkok Bank Limited. By cofinancing under the B-loan funding option, the commercial banks lengthened the maturities of their contribution by two and a half years—from what would have been twelve years under a conventional yen loan to fourteen and a half years, with the World Bank's participation of $8.5 million adding a further two years. The resulting sixteen-and-a-half-year maturity was judged by Thai authorities to represent a substantial improvement over the best terms and conditions achievable for Thailand under the market conditions of the time.
The next two B-loan operations, also under the funding option, were arranged for the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) to finance two ongoing Bank projects in the agriculture and energy sectors. A Eurodollar syndication of
$200 million was arranged by the Arab Banking Corporation and achieved a 58 percent sell-down in syndication with the participation of more than thirty Arab, European, Japanese, and North American banks. The other B-loan to NBH (for a $70 million equivalent yen loan) was lead-managed in two tranches by The Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, Limited and The Fuji Bank, Limited, with participation by about twenty Japanese banks on a fixed or floating-rate basis. Both B-loans achieved significant improvements over the terms and conditions of Hungary's most recent previous comparable borrowings in several ways: The amounts were larger, with substantially longer maturities, they were arranged in a much shorter period of time, and they were syndicated to a significantly wider market. The loans were perceived as sufficiently important for those banks, which had made competing but unsuccessful offers to arrange the loans, to join the management group. The World Bank's participation in both B-loans was $39 million.
Two further B-loans were made to the Finan-cicra Electrica Nacional (FEN) of Colombia in parallel with a World Bank loan, approved in March 1984 to the same entity, for the Power Development Finance Project. The operations consist of a $175 million B-loan and a $25 million equivalent yen B-loan. with a 15 percent direct-funding participation in each by the Bank. The cofinancing package represents something of a breakthrough, as the loans are among the first new market operations (outside of reschedulings) in Latin America since the emergence of the debt crisis, and the first syndicated loans to Colombia since 1983. In addition, the B-loans represent a significant improvement in the terms and conditions of lending to Colombia, compared with the Republic's most recent previous commercial borrowing, both with respect to maturities and syndicate participation.
As a result of the successful placement of the first two B-loans to the National Bank of Hungary, two additional B-loans to NBH under the direct-funding option are nearing completion. The proposed Eurodollar loan of $385 million and a Japanese yen loan of $102 million equivalent would not only be larger in size, but would also represent a significant improvement in the terms and conditions over those obtained for the previous B-loans to NBH.
Finally, two other B-loan operations have allowed the Bank, together with Brazil (in one case) and Paraguay (in the other), to test the two additional options under the B-loan pilot program. In the case of Brazil, the Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD) requested World Bank participation in a commercial-bank guar-
antec required to mobilize $60 million equivalent Deutsche-mark financing for the Carajas Iron Ore Project. World Bank participation facilitated the implementation of the guarantee arrangement against the background of a market reluctant to lend to Brazil except under collective arrangements, and improved the terms and conditions which CVRD would otherwise have received. Such improvements include a lengthening of maturity, acceptance of a lower return by commercial banks, and the forgoing of certain other benefits by commercial banks. A major benefit of the guarantee facility and the Bank's role in facilitating it is that it will also release other cofinancing resources not now being disbursed, mainly as a result of Brazil's debt situation.
In the case of Paraguay, a B-loan to the government, utilizing both the guarantee and contingent obligation options, was substantially completed by June 30, 1984. The B-loan will support a recently approved World Bank loan for livestock development and would be onlent to the implementing agency, the Livestock Fund. The transaction aims to combine in one operation the advantages of two of the new cofinancing options: First, with the guarantee option, the lenders agreed to a longer maturity (ten years) for the loan, which would not have
been possible for Paraguay without World Bank participation. Second, by accepting a contingent obligation, the Bank is making it possible for the lenders to offer the borrower a level debt-service stream, taking interest and principal together. This provision is important to the implementing agency in the management of its cash flow.
Thus, upon completion of these nine pilot operations, borrowers, lenders, and Bank staff alike will have a firm set of test cases on which to draw for the future development and application of the new instruments.
In terms of prospects for cofinancing in fiscal 1985, the Bank expects to maintain the level of official cofinancing, through progress in the implementation of framework agreements and in spite of the fiscal constraints applying in many donor countries. The economic conditions affecting commercial lending and export-credit flows, however, combine to make the prospects in these areas somewhat uncertain. Prospects depend largely on developments in the market place and the restoration of confidence needed to secure commercial lending and export-credit flows. The World Bank hopes to increase these flows through its continued focus on a cofinancing program responsive to the evolving needs of its member countries.
Procurement
Projects financed by the World Bank involve foreign and local expenditures necessary to achieve project goals. Disbursements are made to cover specific foreign costs and, in addition, are often made to finance some local expenditures.
Through the end of fiscal year 1984. more than 60 percent of IBRD and IDA disbursements covered goods and services provided directly by suppliers located outside of the borrowing country. While most foreign procurement comes from suppliers in developed member countries and Switzerland, developing-country suppliers have become increasingly effective in winning contract awards. Through the end of fiscal 1979, they had received 7.7 percent of foreign procurement disbursements. During the past fiscal year, they received 16.5 percent.
Table 1-6 shows consolidated foreign and local procurement disbursements to the end of fiscal year 1980 and for each of the next four years.
Table 1-7 shows IBRD and IDA foreign procurement disbursements by supplying country. Details for all developed countries and those developing countries with at least a 0.1 percent share of total foreign procurement are shown.
Locally produced goods and services usually include a significant foreign-exchange component. Through the end of fiscal 1979, local procurement disbursement accounted for only about 20 percent of total disbursements. Disbursements for locally produced goods and services increased from 37 percent of total disbursements in fiscal 1980 to 47 percent in fiscal 1984. Table 1-8 shows combined IBRD and IDA local procurement disbursements during recent fiscal years for the top fifty borrowing countries.
Bank Management and Staff
Fiscal 1984, as in fiscal 1983, was one of limited staff growth. Total staff on regular and fixed-term appointment at June 30, 1984, was 5,697, compared with 5,587 the year before. Higher-level staff, which grew by only 1.2 percent, numbered 2,855, representing 110 different nationalities.
As in the past, the Bank continued its efforts to increase the proportion of women and under-represented nationalities. The Young Professionals Program was particularly successful in this respect: In fiscal 1984. 63 percent of Young Professionals reporting for duty were nationals of developing countries, and 47 percent were women.
Some staff management activities were a continuation of initiatives introduced in the previous fiscal year, while others were new. Among the most important were:
• The new performance-appraisal system, called "Performance Planning and Review," was introduced to staff in the Bank and the IFC in May 1983, and is taking hold. Over the past year, performance planning by departmental managers was completed down to the division-chief level under this system.
• A revised reward system has gained general staff and management acceptance. Introduced in fiscal 1983. it provides managers more flexibility in determining individual salary increases in line with performance.
• A review of job grading continued, and the evaluation of some 450 benchmark positions at all levels was completed. Evaluations of the remaining jobs should be completed in fiscal 1985 in an effort to strengthen the Bank's management systems.
• A second Attitude Survey was conducted in fiscal 1984, with a highly satisfactory participation rate.
• Implementation of an integrated management-development training program, endorsed by senior management last year, continued.
• "Principles of Staff Employment" were issued, embodying the general conditions and terms of employment of the institution, its duties, obligations, and rights, and those of its staff members. Work continued on the Staff Rules, which will implement the Principles by documenting the institution's personnel and compensation policies in detail.
Other significant activities undertaken during the year included:
• An early-retirement incentive program was approved by the Executive Directors. As a result, a number of senior staff retired from the Bank, thus providing additional promotional opportunities for staff in a period of slow growth. Several new senior appointments were made.
• A long-term information-resource management strategy has been developed to take advantage of the advances in office technology, data processing, and electronic communication for all aspects of the Bank's operations and to address the emerging challenges in administration and management of information.
• Properties adjacent to the Bank's main complex in Washington, DC. were acquired, and plans developed for a new office building for occupation in 1987 to accommodate up to 1,400 staff, most of whom now occupy leased space.
Membership
Antigua and Barbuda, as well as Malta, joined the IBRD on September 22. 1983. and September 26. 1983. respectively, bringing the total membership of the Bank to 146.
At the end of the fiscal year, action was pending on membership in the IBRD for Mozambique and St. Christopher and Nevis.
IDA membership on June 30. 1984. remained at last year's level of 131 nations. At the end of the fiscal year, action was pending on membership for Mozambique and Portugal.
ICSID
The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) is an autonomous international institution, established in 1965 by the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States (the Convention). The purpose of ICSID is to provide facilities lor conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes between Contracting States and nationals of other Contracting States in accordance with the provisions of the Convention.
Contracting States are member States of the World Bank and any other State which is party to the Statute of the International Court of Justice that have signed and ratified the Convention.
During fiscal 1984, the Convention was signed bv Portugal3 (August 3, 1983). Barbados (November 1, 1983), El Salvador (March 6, 1984), and St. Lucia (June 4. 1984), bringing the number of Signatory States to ninety. On June 4, 1984, St. Lucia also deposited its instrument of ratification, thereby making a total of eighty-six Contracting States.
IFC
The International Finance Corporation is the affiliate of the IBRD that was established in 1956 to supplement the Bank's activities by promoting and providing support for the private sectors in developing member countries. With the authority to make equity investments and to provide loans without government guarantees, the Corporation can provide the type of financing and investment expertise particularly suited to attracting and lending confidence to private investors.
Even though it operates with its own staff and capital, the IFC—through joint ventures, by building upon the World Bank's infrastructural achievements or through the sharing of purposes and policies—works closely with the Bank towards the common goal of promoting economic development in member countries.
The IFC s role is to stimulate the flow of private capital into productive private and mixed private/public enterprises — not to replace it. Thus, the IFC operates as a catalyst in bringing
¦'Portugal ratified the Convention on July 2. 1984.
together entrepreneurship, investment capital, and production.
In addition to providing its own funds, the Corporation seeks to raise financing, either directly, through the syndication of its own loans, or, indirectly, by helping to attract parallel financing from international capital markets.
One important feature that distinguishes the IFC from commercial financial institutions is its commitment to provide project sponsors with the necessary technical assistance that will help ensure that their ventures are potentially productive and financially sound.
In addition, the Corporation provides policy assistance to its member governments in support of their efforts to develop the necessary investment climate that will encourage productive and beneficial domestic and foreign investment.
Recognizing the important contributions of financial markets to economic development, the IFC has a specialized department that is the focal point of the capital-market development activities of the IFC and the World Bank. The department provides specialized resources for addressing the financial market needs and problems of developing countries.
Five-year program and capital increase. On June 21, 1984, the Board of Directors approved for submission to the Corporation's Board of Governors a resolution proposing a $650 million increase in the Corporation's capital.
If agreed upon by the member countries, IFC's authorized capital would increase from the current level of 650,000 shares ($650 million) to 1,300,000 shares ($1,300 million).
The capital increase is needed to provide the financial support for the growth and diversification of the IFC's activities anticipated in the Corporation's new five-year program. This program, covering fiscal years 1985 to 1989, contains a number of initiatives designed to respond to the highest priority private-sector development needs in the Corporation's member countries. While building on the Corporation's strong performance during the previous five-year program for fiscal years 1979-83. the new program has been designed to maintain the basic financial soundness of the Corporation during a period of expansion and diversification.
Investments. During fiscal year 1984. the Corporation's investment operations and technical-assistance efforts reflected the difficult economic conditions encountered by many private-sector firms in the developing countries.
The prolonged economic recession has kept many private-sector investors from undertaking large, greenfield industrial projects in the developing countries. Not unexpectedly, therefore,
much of the investment demand from these countries was for consolidating and improving productivity in existing industrial facilities. In responding to this situation, the sixty-two projects approved by the Corporation's Board of Directors were more numerous than in the previous year, while the total dollar volume, of $696 million, was less. Of the sixty-two investments approved, thirty-four were to expand, modernize, or restructure existing businesses.
The Corporation's efforts to mobilize financing from other sources, its new program to assist in corporate restructuring, and a continuing emphasis on promoting business in low-income countries resulted in smaller IFC investments per project.
The Corporation's cofinancing efforts, even more important in light of the economic uncertainties in many countries, continued to attract commercial financing for private-sector project financing in developing countries through the syndication of its loans. At a time when there were serious cutbacks in net lending to developing countries, the Corporation has pending, or has completed the syndication of. $305 million worth of new loans—almost 50 percent of the total loans approved by the Board during the year. In fiscal 1984, seventy-five institutions signed a total of $415 million worth of participations in IFC's loans — a record for the Corporation.
In response to the economic situation, the Corporation began to expand its operations in a relatively new area—assisting in the physical and financial restructuring of existing firms (corporate restructuring). During the year, fourteen such efforts were undertaken. Eight resulted in new investment opportunities and. in the others. IFC arranged the corporate restructuring without investing new funds of its own.
In addition to corporate restructuring. IFC expanded its activities into several other new areas. For example, it helped create a bonding facility for construction firms operating outside their own country, helped establish a secondary mortage-market institution, and provided financing for a regionally oriented venture-capital company. And. for the first time, the Corporation is participating as a co-lead manager in a major equity underwriting for a diversified, closed-end investment company.
A major objective of the Corporation, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, however, continued to be expanding its assistance to resource-development projects—particularly agriculture. This year, thirty-six, or 58 percent of the projects, were in this sector of resource development.
Another central objective continues to be to increase efforts to promote and support ven-
tures in low-income countries. This year, twenty-four projects were in countries with a per capita income of $805 or less.
In sub-Saharan Africa, another major focus of the Corporation's efforts, sixteen projects— four more than approved during the previous year—were approved by the Board. The ventures have an estimated total cost of $342 million, of which IFC expects to provide $135 million, or about double that invested the previous year.
Usually, the average size of projects is small in low-income countries. This year, however, the total number of projects in these countries was about 40 percent of those approved and the dollar volume, of $272 million, was 39 percent of the total. This compares with S324 million approved during the previous year.
The estimated total cost of approved projects was $2,473 million, which meant that for every dollar invested by IFC for its own account, others invested about $5—about the same as during the previous year.
Commitments signed by the Corporation during the year reached a new high of $770 million but. due in part to the slower draw-down of funds by project sponsors, disbursements continued to lag. Although recovering somewhat from the previous year's sharp drop, disbursements amounted to $381 million during the year, of which $355 million was for loans, including amounts disbursed for participants in IFC loans, and $26 million was for equity.
Equity investments were $56 million in thirty-five companies.
The Corporation's investments were located in thirty-five countries. Of these, seven were in countries in which investments had not been undertaken in the past three years.
Project-promotion work has been stepped up. and new efforts were started to promote private investment in selected subsectors of agribusiness, such as aquaculture, and in the service sector.
Financial results. Total operating income rose from $137 million in fiscal year 1983 to $151 million in fiscal year 1984. Interest and dividend income equaled $134 million. Equity sales of $11.6 million included $7.4 million of capital gains.
While most firms continued to service their obligations and pay dividends throughout the year, a combination of the lack of foreign exchange and the continuing economic recession forced some companies into arrears.
Net income of $26 million, compared with $23 million in the previous year, was added to accumulated earnings and brought that total to $230 million.
Portfolio. IFC's investment portfolio is well diversified in terms of both industry and country. At the end of the year, the Corporation's investment portfolio held for its own account (including undisbursed balances) was $1,990 million, up from $1,882 million in the previous year. In addition, $1,255 million was being held and administered for participants in IFC financings.
Recognition of the potential effects of the continuing difficult economic conditions in certain countries prompted the Corporation to add $31 million to its Reserves Against Losses, up from $26 million added during the previous year. This brought the reserves to SI28 million, or 9 percent of the total outstanding portfolio. This is considered to be adequate. About $3 million of investments were written off during the year as against $10 million the previous year.
Borrowings. The Corporation borrowed $100 million from the IBRD during the year at market-equivalent rates. This was $45 million less than that borrowed the previous year. The Directors extended the concept of matching loans from the IBRD to IFC for specific IFC-ap-proved investments to include US-dollar financing. In prior years, the "back-to-back" borrowings applied only to non-US-dollar financing.
The Corporation continued the practice of offering other currencies as well as US dollars to its clients. A total of $90 million was made available in Deutsche mark. French francs, Japanese yen. Pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Equivalent funds were borrowed from the World Bank.
New members. The Gambia took up membership in IFC during the year. This brought the Corporation's total membership to 125 countries.
Chapter Two
The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Despite some recovery in industrial countries in 1983, economic recovery in the developing world was uneven. For some countries—in low-income Africa, in Southern Europe, and Latin America—1983 brought economic hardships more severe than in the year before. On the other hand, low-income Asian countries and the countries of East Asia and the Pacific posted impressive rates of growth. Relatively low rates of increase in export volumes and prices, high real rates of interest, and constraints on the availability of external finance forced many developing countries to pursue severely contractionary policies to compress their consumption and investment and limit their imports. These policies, combined with assistance from international institutions and some industrial countries and refinancing agreements with private institutions, provided sufficient foreign exchange to maintain interest payments on debt and avoid defaults, however. These events, and the adjustments that developing countries have made, and continue to make, in response to them have been costly and painful in both economic and social terms, and may have the effect of reducing immediate growth.
Growth in the industrial countries should be somewhat stronger in 1984. as more European countries participate in the recovery. Increased demand should result in an expansion of developing countries' exports and in increases in commodity prices. In turn, rises in commodity prices are likely to lead to an increase in imports by developing countries and in rates of growth. Developing countries' external positions should also improve somewhat—although the extent of improvement will be affected by changes in interest rates. Some improvement in the ratios of debt service to exports and debt to gross domestic product (GDP) may also take place. Indications are that the economies of most countries will be stronger in 1984 than they were in 1983; nonetheless, overall rates of growth will still be well below the average of 4.8 percent in the period 1973-80 and below the rate of increase in population in many countries.
Industrial Countries
After three years of stagnation, industrial countries1 achieved a 2.3 percent increase in their GDP in 1983. Performance was distinctly
uneven: The United States staged a strong recovery, of 3.4 percent. The year was characterized by a stimulative fiscal policy and some easing of monetary policy (in the early part of the year), declines in personal savings, a slowdown in the rate of destocking. and huge increases— of almost 40 percent—in housing construction. The average annual growth rate of 3.4 percent actually understates the strength of the recovery; from the fourth quarter of 1982 to the fourth quarter of 1983, GDP increased by 6.2 percent. Recovery was accompanied by a large capital inflow, as the US current-account deficit increased from SI 1 billion in 1982 to $43 billion in 1983. Japan achieved a growth rate of 3.0 percent, despite a successful effort to reduce the size of its budget deficit relative to investment and GDP. Foreign trade provided a strong stimulus. In the Federal Republic of Germany. GDP increased by 1.3 percent. The expansionary effect of reductions in personal savings was balanced somewhat by a further decline in the central-government deficit relative to output. Recovery continued in the United Kingdom in 1983. with GDP growth averaging 3.0 percent, supported by a sharp reduction in the personal-savings ratio, an increase in residential investment, and an increase in stocks. Growth in France was only 0.4 percent, while GDP declined in Italy, as both countries pursued relatively tightened policies in response to high rates of inflation.
Unemployment rates remained high in most industrial countries, and actually increased during the year in Germany. France, and Italy. The number of unemployed persons in European countries that are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)- increased to about 18 million in 1983. compared with 16 million in 1982. Unemployment declined sharply, however, in the United States, and Japan continued its low rate of
1 Australia, Austria, Belgium. Canada. Denmark. Finland. France, Federal Republic of Germany. Iceland. Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands. New Zealand. Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
2 OECD membership consists of the countries given in footnote 1 and includes, also. Greece. Portugal, and Turkey.
about 2 percent. Inflation declined in most countries, with all major countries achieving at least a one-percentage-point reduction in the growth rate of their GDP deflator. Since 1981, both the US and the UK have halved their inflation rates, and Germany has reduced its rate of inflation to the lowest point in fifteen years. Even some countries with higher rates of inflation, such as Italy and France, reduced the rate of price increases significantly last year.
Preliminary estimates for 1984 indicate that there will be a continued expansion in GDP, of over 4 percent, in the industrial countries, led by strong growth in North America and Japan. The major European countries should show increased growth relative to 1983, but at a slower rate than non-European industrial countries. Inflation should decline slightly in most major industrial countries.
Developing Countries
Since 1980, the recession in the industrial countries, combined with restrictive monetary policies pursued on their part to control inflation, has had a profoundly adverse effect on the rates of growth of many developing countries.3
The drop in demand for their exports has depressed both export volumes and prices. The value of exports from all developing countries increased by less than 1 percent in current dollars from 1980 to 1982. Real dollar interest rates
rose from 4.4 percent in 1980 to 7.1 percent in 1982, if US prices are used as the deflator. If developing-country export prices are used as the deflator (to measure the burden of interest payments in terms of earnings), then real interest rates increased from -10.0 percent in 1980 to 19.4 percent in 1982, reflecting increases in nominal rates, reductions in export prices, and the strengthening of the dollar. These interest rates, which are deflated by the export prices obtained by all developing countries, reflect the increase, and recent decline, of petroleum prices. Using middle-income oil-importers' export prices alone as the deflator, real interest rates still increased from -0.2 percent in 1980 to 20.4 percent in 1982.4 In a number of countries,
3 With a few exceptions, the data for developing countries presented in this chapter cover a sample of ninety countries. The historical data, therefore, may not agree with other data sources which attempt to make estimates for the universe of all developing countries. A sample has been used because many developing countries do not have a complete set of historical accounts. The sample includes all countries for which a rciiable set of balancc-of-payments. national-income accounts, trade, and debt data is available. For most data categories, the sample countries cover more than 90 percent of the total.
4 The real interest rates given here arc the ex post interest rates, which give the relationship between nominal interest rates and the inflation rate in a single year.
the legacy of inappropriate internal policies hampered efforts to adjust to these external shocks.
Despite the improvement in the external environment in 1983, GDP growth in developing countries continued to decline, falling to 1.0 percent, or well below the 1965-80 average and below the rate of population increase. A number of factors were involved. Depending on the particular commodity or good exported, increases in demand from industrial countries can affect the exports of developing countries with some lag; thus, although exports of developing countries did recover somewhat in 1983, the rate of increase was slightly below the 1965-80 historical average despite stagnation in the period 1979-82. However, for the first time since 1980, the terms of trade of nonoil developing countries improved—the result of improved prices for their exports and declines in the prices of oil and manufactured imports. The terms of trade of oil-exporting developing countries continued to decline, however. Real interest rates averaged 14.8 percent in 1983, if export prices are used as the deflator. As a consequence of continued high interest rates, a significant proportion of foreign-exchange receipts
had to be devoted to debt-service payments rather than imports. Thus, imports by developing countries stagnated, and growth continued to suffer.
The experience in the developing world during the past year varied greatly: Low-income countries in Asia, heavily dependent on agriculture, realized an increase in GDP of almost 8 percent. China benefited further from a series of internal reforms designed to make its economy more responsive to price signals, and India enjoyed a good harvest relative to the drought-plagued one of 1982, when there was a poor monsoon. Low-income African countries suffered a decline in income, despite some improvement in their terms of trade. Export volumes stagnated, a severe drought crippled large areas of the region, and political difficulties compounded economic problems in some countries.
Middle-income oil-importing countries were assisted by a decline in oil prices, and many were able to achieve increases in exports. Among the middle-income countries, only those in East Asia registered an overall increase in growth rates, however. Countries in this region continued their remarkable progress.
which is based on a combination of reliance on the market and a maintenance of realistic relative prices, incentives for export, successful government support for some key sectors, avoidance of biases against agriculture, and generally flexible economic management. The other middle-income regions experienced either stagnation or declines in GDP. In Latin American countries, income dropped steeply, as high interest rates and reductions in external finance, not compensated for by increased exports, necessitated severe cutbacks in imports and restrictions on domestic demand. Per capita GDP in oil-importing Latin American countries dropped by more than 10 percent between 1980 and 1983.
Oil-exporting, middle-income countries were subject to a sharp external crunch; the fall in the price of oil lowered export receipts and reduced the confidence of many lenders in their ability to service any increases in debt. Their access to external funds was curbed, many of their planned investment projects had to be dropped, and their GDP declined.
Exports. In volume terms, exports from all developing countries increased by about 4 percent in 1983. With most major industrial countries experiencing no more than modest growth in income, the main source of increased demand for the exports of developing countries came from the United States. Exports to the US from developing countries increased by almost 20 percent in current dollars from the fourth quarter of 1982 to the fourth quarter of 1983 as a result of strong economic recovery and a continued appreciation of the dollar.
Export performance also varied widely: Middle-income, oil-importing countries' exports grew at about 3 percent in constant prices, as declines in primary exports were balanced by stronger exports of manufactures. The exports of low-income countries increased by slightly under 4 percent, with stagnation and strength exhibited in low-income Africa and low-income Asia, respectively. Exports from middle-income, oil-exporting developing countries increased by somewhat less than 6 percent. Their exports of oil increased by over 7 percent, as the high-income oil exporters reduced their exports to prevent even further declines in price, thereby allowing the middle-income oil exporters to take a larger market share.
Nonoil commodity prices. The dollar prices of developing countries' exports of primary products other than oil increased for the first time since 1980. The rise, of about 4 percent in 1983, was relatively modest, considering that prices had fallen by about 25 percent during the period 1980-82 from their 1980 peak. The price performance of individual commodities varied widely. The prices of relatively income-sensitive metals and minerals generally fell or stagnated despite the recovery in the United States. Stagnation is partially explained by the fact that demand increased little in Japan and Europe; in addition, production of some commodities, particularly of copper, was at a relatively high level.
On the other hand, the prices of agricultural exports increased by 8 percent. Among foods, cocoa and tea prices increased by more than 20 percent owing to reductions in supply from poor harvests coupled either by some increase
in demand (cocoa) or by low levels of stocks (tea). Cereal prices increased by about 8 percent as a result of a poor harvest of coarse grains in the US. Fats and oils registered an increase in price of almost 20 percent, as poor weather seriously reduced harvests in many countries. The average price of agricultural raw materials increased by 16 percent in 1983: Cotton prices rose by 16 percent (the acreage-reduction program in the US and a poor harvest in other countries severely reduced production) and rubber prices increased by 23 percent (demand from automobile producers increased, although price rises were moderated by the high level of existing stocks).
The increase in commodity prices, coupled with higher demand, meant that most exporters of primary commodities other than oil enjoyed some increase in their export receipts. The prices of exports in this category from low-income countries rose by 3.5 percent; those of the middle-income oil importers increased by almost 4.5 percent. Among countries in the latter group, the increases mostly benefited those that also exported a large amount of manufactures.
Oil prices. The beginning of 1983 saw erosion continue in the spot price of petroleum, putting considerable pressure on the official selling price, which stood at $33 a barrel in January. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)5 revised the official price to $29 a barrel in March 1983, and reached a new production-allocation agreement, which set a combined production ceiling at 17.5 million barrels a day (mbd). The export receipts of oil-exporting developing countries, therefore, dropped by 5 percent, despite a healthy increase in volume. The value of merchandise exports from oil-exporting developing countries has fallen steadily since 1980, and the 1983 level was almost 9 percent below that of three years ago. Coming on the heels of large, rapid in-
creases in export receipts in the 1970s (from $24 billion in 1973 to $133 billion in 1980) and widespread expectations of continued increases, the recent falls in revenues have been particularly difficult to accommodate.
The March agreement has held up fairly well, although some countries did exceed their production quotas. OPEC production increased approximately 1 mbd over the ceiling in mid 1983, and spot prices drifted below the official price in the fourth quarter before firming up when cold winter weather hit the US. This increase in demand, cooperation on the part of non-OPEC producers in maintaining prices, and some strengthening of demand resulting from the recovery in the US enabled the official price to be maintained.
Despite the relative quiet in the petroleum market, considerable uncertainty remains over price prospects. Because petroleum is priced in terms of dollars, the continued strength of that currency throughout 1983 increased the real price of oil in Europe. The increase in the price of oil in European currencies reduced demand and put some pressure on the dollar price. On the other hand, the appreciation of the dollar also increased the purchasing power of oil revenues, much of which are spent in markets other than the US.
The fear that trade might be disrupted as a result of the Iran-Iraq conflict may have increased the spot price at times over the past year. The market is now undergoing significant changes; the oil-trading system is switching from longer-term to shorter-term contracts, and dependence on the spot price, rather than the official price, is increasing. Hence, considerable
5 Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran. Iraq. Kuwait. Libya. Nigeria, Qatar. Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela.
uncertainty remains over future developments in the oil market.
The middle-income oil exporters: a difficult year. The sharp fall in the price of oil in March 1983 and the continuing uncertainty over price prospects have seriously hampered development programs in the middle-income oil-exporting developing countries. Unlike the high-income oil exporters, most do not have large external assets to cushion sharp changes in their export revenues. Indeed, the major middle-income oil exporters have significant amounts of commercial debt. For these countries, the fall in the price of oil not only reduced export receipts, but also led to fears on the part of external creditors concerning their ability to service existing debt; this fear, in turn, had the effect of reducing the amount of external finance available to them. Public investment was cut sharply, and a number of major development projects had to be shelved.
The fall in oil receipts was particularly difficult to handle for these countries, for the rapid increase in the real price of oil during the 1970s greatly increased their reliance on oil for revenues; in many countries, incentives for nonoil
production were reduced. A sustained windfall profit, such as the one derived from greatly increased oil revenues, often has the tendency to affect other sectors adversely by raising production costs, as, for instance, when a government bids up domestic prices by launching major domestic-expenditure programs. As these programs are financed by oil revenues that accrue in foreign exhange, they may cause an appreciation of the real exchange rate, thus (other things being equal) reducing the incentive to export other goods and encouraging a greater reliance on imports.
In some countries, such potentially harmful effects were offset by using oil revenues to raise productivity in nonoil sectors, so that the fruits of the oil boom could be enjoyed in a balanced economy. In other countries, however, the non-oil sector was allowed to decline. These latter countries have been particularly vulnerable to the sharp fall in the price of oil. There has been a marked contrast, for instance, between Indonesia and Nigeria in this respect. In many countries, it will take considerable time to shift resources to other sectors, particularly when the infrastructure and directly productive capital in
those sectors have been eroded and the economy as a whole is undergoing sharp reductions in expenditures.
Debt and financing. The current-account deficit (excluding official transfers) of developing countries increased from $69 billion in 1980 to $98 billion in 1982. Most of the rise in the deficit was financed either by private flows or reserve drawdowns, as official flows changed little over the period. As a result, the medium-term and long-term external debt outstanding and disbursed of developing countries rose from $425 billion to $538 billion over the period 1980-82.6 This build-up of debt resulted from a surge in borrowing in 1981. In that year, many developing countries attempted to maintain the growth of imports at a time when interest rates were high and when, especially for the oil importers among them, terms of trade were falling precipitously. While net disbursements of medium-term and long-term loans fell from their 1981 peak of $70 billion, they were still at $55 billion in 1982. Apparently, many countries were willing to borrow large sums in 1981 (and to some extent in early 1982) in the expectation that the recession would be short-lived. High interest
rates and reduced demand did continue, and developing countries found that they could no longer ride out the bad times by borrowing more.
Because of the build-up of debt, falling export revenues, low GDP growth, and high real interest rates, the external position of developing countries worsened considerably in 1983. The net resource transfer (net disbursements of medium-term and long-term loans minus interest payments) was negative in many countries, indicating that they paid more to service their debt than they received from new borrowing. Most indicators of creditworthiness showed a serious decline in the ability of developing countries to service their debt. Thus, the debt-service ratio (service payments on medium-term and long-term debt divided by exports of goods and services) for all developing countries increased from 15.6 percent to 20.5 percent in
6 These data are based on a sample of ninety developing countries, and hence will not agree with the debt data given in the tables in the Statistical Annex.
the period 1980-83, and the ratio of medium-term and long-term debt to GDP worsened from 20.1 percent to 26.0 percent during the same period.7
Thus, developing countries' debt and debt-service payments increased relative to their income and exports, and private lenders became increasingly reluctant to provide new financing. The problem was compounded, for some countries, by large outflows of capital resulting from uncertainty on the part of domestic investors over economic prospects and exchange-rate movements. While net private medium-term and long-term loans to all developing countries increased from $34 billion in 1982 to about $40 billion in 1983, perhaps as much as $20 billion of this total represented the conversion of short-term debt to medium-term maturities. New private loans, therefore, actually declined in 1983, although many banks continued lending to reduce the risk of large losses on past loans. A large portion of total lending has been characterized as "involuntary" as much of it was provided under refinancing agreements brought about with the support of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the central banks of industrial countries. Formal defaults have thus been avoided. Inflows of direct foreign investment dropped from $14 billion in 1982 to an estimated $10 billion; the drop was due both to the financial problems facing investors and to the belief on the part of potential investors that business prospects in developing countries were becoming increasingly less attractive. Official development assistance showed a slight decrease in 1983. In sum, developing countries in
1983 were faced with severe constraints on their ability to obtain foreign exchange (through both exports and borrowing), and many sovereign borrowers found themselves unable to continue service payments on outstanding debt, or at least were unwilling to suffer the severe consequences of an even further contraction to keep payments current.
The response of the international community to this liquidity crisis provided evidence of determined international cooperation to avoid damage to the financial system. Prompt action by the IMF, the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), major industrial-country governments, and private banks enabled developing countries, in general, to remain current on their external obligations. The World Bank also contributed by accelerating disbursements through its Special Action Program (see page 47) and through its design of operations in support of countries in immediate need of funds. Including those currently in debt-relief negotiations, thirty countries, ranging from some of the richest in the developing world to some of the poorest, restructured about $100 billion of debt in the two years. 1982-83. Most prominent
These aggregate indicators must be viewed with some caution, as the appropriate level of each indicator varies according to the structure of an economy. Also, regional indicators are open to serious misinterpretation. They do not provide a true picture of the creditworthiness of individual countries, since one country's export receipts arc not available to another country to service debt. Still, the increase in these ratios gives some indication of the rapid decline of the ability of many countries to meet scheduled payments.
among countries that rescheduled debt were those with a heavy commercial debt burden (primarily middle-income countries) and those in low-income Africa, which rescheduled primarily official debt.
One principle underlying many of the agreements to reschedule private debt appears to have been that a country which is unable to meet its scheduled payments should undertake an adjustment program designed to facilitate its medium-term prospects for growth. Reforms are usually undertaken to restore export incentives and reduce fiscal deficits, usually under an IMF program. Countries thus avoid a declaration of formal default, the consequences of which can include being cut off from further loans. For their part, international institutions provide some finance, and banks agree to a rescheduling of principal repayments.
This compromise has worked well in avoiding a complete break between the banks and devcl-oping-country debtors. However, the process has not resolved four significant problems.
• Debt problems have been so widespread that many developing countries have been required to pursue contractionary policies. While any one country (with the exception of the United States) can reduce its level of economic activity without greatly affecting the rest of the
world, the danger exists that simultaneous contractions by most of the major developing countries can seriously reduce global demand. The extent to which contraction in 1983 by many developing countries affected global economic activity was offset only by the strong recovery in the United States.
• Overall restraints on final demand were complemented (or in the case of the most successful among the adjusting developing countries, mostly in East Asia, rendered unnecessary) by successful attempts at import substitution and dynamic export promotion. Individual countries responded to the need to restrain demand in various ways; no matter what the response was, reductions in capital flows and increases in interest payments (particularly among the heavily indebted developing countries) meant that trade surpluses had to be realized. These surpluses have been offset by trade deficits in the industrial countries; trade deficits have thus become visible targets of complaints from export industries and industries that compete with imports from developing countries. Protectionist pressures have been mounting not only in labor-intensive manufactures, such as clothing and electronic consumer goods, but in steel and some primary commodities, as well. There would be an inherent contradiction be-
tween the financial pressure on borrowers to generate outflows of net resources and possible resistance in industrial countries against accepting a corresponding trade deficit.
• Some of the severe measures undertaken to solve a liquidity crisis reduce growth. If such measures were pursued over a period of years, the ability of countries to repay their debt could be impaired in the long term. Sharp reductions in demand, cutbacks in imports, and devaluations can lead to widespread bankruptcies and large increases in unemployment. Hence the importance of reducing reliance on overall demand restraints through the implementation of structural-adjustment measures that directly help to increase export growth or improve import substitution.
• The rescheduling process is only a postponement of that day when repayment of debts is due. Problems may occur in the future, all the more so, as interest on the rescheduled amounts continues to accrue. Agreements on the rescheduling of private-source debt have generally granted no more than a three-year postponement of repayments: a large amount of debt will thus become due in 1986-87.
The existence of these four problems does not imply that the policies pursued by developing countries, the IMF, or the banks have been unwise. Developing countries would have been forced into adopting even harsher measures had the rescheduling agreements not been adopted, with even graver consequences for long-term growth. Success in reaching agreements between lenders and borrowers over the past year should not encourage complacency about the current situation, however; the resolution of the liquidity crisis in 1983 was generally achieved through the maintenance of the terms on which debt was contracted:s the actual repayment of the debt has only been delayed.
Other, worrisome aspects of the international response to the events of last year were the lack of significant increases in official development assistance (ODA) and the refusal, by the industrial countries, to take action to reduce the restraints on the exports of developing countries. ODA decreased marginally in 1983, despite the greatly increased need for it. More distressingly, not only was there no progress in easing some of the trade restrictions that affect exports from developing countries (particularly the Multifiber Arrangement), but some countries actually raised further their barriers. A particularly notable example are the restraints, both formal and informal, that are being placed by a number of countries on Brazilian steel just as that country is making great efforts to increase its exports in order to repay banks in industrial countries. Pressures for further pro-
tection are also evident in a number of countries. Clearly, developing countries will not surmount their problems if they are denied the means to obtain foreign exchange.
Differing ways of adjustment. Debtor countries particularly affected by declines in capital flows and continued high interest rates must reduce their reliance on foreign lending. In principle, they can do so by increasing their exports or by reducing imports. Import reduction can be accomplished by some mixture that includes increasing domestic production of goods normally imported, reducing the volume of imports from selected categories, or reducing the genera] level of economic activity so that demand for imports falls. While any one of these methods may be feasible, each has a very different consequence for growth. If. for example, imports constitute 20 percent of a country's GDP, and the required reduction in its foreign-exchange position is 10 percent of imports, the reduction can be obtained by reducing overall domestic demand by 10 percent. Reduction of imports can also be realized through increased import substitution, which might require no more than a 2 percent reduction in overall domestic demand; or by increasing exports, which, in principle, could even be combined with increased domestic consumption. In general, all three means have to be employed to some extent, but a government's ability to stimulate exports and an economy's ability to respond to such a stimulus largely determine the degree to which it is necessary to compress current consumption and compromise the potential for future growth.
While the external nature of recent shocks causes attention to be focused on the foreign sector, it must be remembered that successful adjustment entails a change in the internal economy. Fundamentally, adjustment to an adverse shock requires that real expenditures, relative to real output, be reduced. Changes in the external balance are the result of these internal changes. A reduction in imports, which reflects an absolute decline in demand, will lead to a decline in output, while a fall in imports, as the result of a switch in consumption to domestic substitutes, may allow output to increase. Unfortunately, it is likely that the recent decline in imports in most developing countries reflects the former process rather than the latter. In this respect, there are highly significant contrasts.
In the export-oriented economies of East Asia, adjustment mostly took the form of ex-
s There has been some easing of the terms in 1984 as banks have begun to adjust to the political and economic realities implicit in the rescheduling process.
port growth. Thus, in 1983 in Korea, exports grew by 17 percent, and, as a consequence, GDP itself could expand by 9 percent. In Southern Europe, Turkey pursued a difficult adjustment process that began several years ago, and exports increased 13 percent, GDP by 3 percent. In contrast, in most Latin American countries, adjustment took the form of restraint on overall demand. The path these countries took may be explained by the fact that not only were their adjustment policies insufficiently export oriented, but, also, by the fact that the structure of their economies, characterized by often complex and numerous distortions, did not permit a rapid response to export incentives. This problem was most serious in those economies that rely on the production of primary commodities, particularly in Africa, where the structural adjustments needed to develop export potential often require many years, and may not occur at all if overall demand, including investment, must meanwhile be restrained.
One widely used means of discouraging imports and increasing exports and import substitution is to devalue the currency. Devaluation has the effect of increasing the local-currency price of tradeable goods, thus reducing the demand for imports and increasing the demand for domestic substitutes. In the many countries with overvalued currencies, the incentive to import (and hence borrow) increased; recent devaluations corrected a significant distortion in these economies.
Devaluation is designed to, and did, reduce the consumption of imports. Devaluation should also have had the effect of promoting the production of import substitutes and exports; in many countries, however, the domestic economy has not been flexible enough to respond quickly to the stimulus devaluation sought to provide. In these cases, devaluation and import controls reduced the availability of both consumption items and intermediate inputs, thus lowering GDP growth. Where devaluation was successful in redirecting production to exports or domestic substitutes, on the other hand, growth continued.
For urban consumers and entrepreneurs in particular, devaluation often leads to increased hardship. The prices of imports and of domestic goods that use imported inputs rise sharply. The prices of other domestic goods also increase, as the supply of these goods cannot quickly respond to increased demand. Partly as a result of exchange-rate depreciations, inflation in developing countries increased significantly in 1983. For producers, the speed of the change in relative prices sharply reverses the profitability of different products, and makes it difficult to shift
smoothly to domestic sources of supply. In some cases, domestic substitutes are not available. Thus, in the short run, devaluation often reduces both output and employment.
Given that devaluation may take some time to work, and given, also, that import-substitutes for some items are lacking, adjustment, in part, has been undertaken through a lowering of the general level of economic activity. This has been particularly true in those economies in which real wages have not been sufficiently flexible to absorb the fall in expenditures without resultant unemployment. Policy measures that tend to lower the general level of economic activity have included reductions in government expenditures and the elimination of subsidies, a slowing of monetary expansion, an increase in interest rates, a rise in controlled prices, and a lowering of the minimum wage. Many countries had incurred large fiscal deficits that had been financed by foreign borrowing; reduction in government expenditures, therefore, became a common policy, and, in fact, was required in many of the agreements reached with the IMF. In some cases, price controls and subsidies had the effect of worsening a country's potential for growth by increasing the mis-allocation of resources; it was hoped, therefore, that the elimination of these distortions would have the dual effect of lowering current expenditures and aiding future growth.
Each one of these measures adversely affects someone's income, however, and most have a disproportionately adverse effect on the incomes of middle-income and low-income urban groups, which are particularly dependent on government subsidies and price controls. (The rural poor, on the other hand, have often been less affected by such policies, and, in some cases, they have benefited from increased incentives for agricultural production.) These reform measures have often met with vigorous opposition in the cities, to the point of civil disorder in some Latin American and North African countries. The political difficulties in enforcing some of these adjustment measures have been exacerbated by the general impression that they arc being imposed by foreigners, or that they are necessary solely for the purpose of repaying foreign banks.
Despite the tremendous difficulties involved in cutting expenditures, a number of major debtors have been successful in reducing their reliance on external finance. Indeed, many countries ran significant trade surpluses in 1983, indicating that they provided more physical resources to the world than they received. For example, the trade surplus in Latin America is estimated at over $30 billion for the year. And, in the aggregate, the trade deficit of all develop-
ing countries was greatly reduced. Unfortunately, however, reduction was achieved not by an increase in exports (which actually fell by over $2 billion), but by a fall in imports (of almost $20 billion). While some reduction in imports was compensated for by the production of domestic substitutes, most of the fall resulted from reduced demand and growth. Many developing countries thus paid a high price for their successful efforts to service their external debt.
Given the constraints of the international environment (low demand from industrial countries, high interest rates, and commodity prices that are still far below levels of a few years ago), the sacrifices of the past year were unavoidable. In many countries, these sacrifices have established a base for a return to increases in output. Indeed, in some countries, the return to high growth rates has already begun. This is particularly true of the export-oriented economies of the Far East. Some of the indebted countries that adjusted by cutting consumption in 1983 are also beginning to achieve faster growth. Nevertheless, recovery will be slow. In many countries, it will take years until a return to the per capita consumption levels of 1980 is achieved. Actions the industrial countries take in the months ahead, as their recovery gathers strength, will profoundly affect—for better or for worse—the pace of the return. The last year has shown that adjustment to external shocks can be very painful; 1983 has also shown that many developing countries have been willing and able to undertake the necesssary sacrifices to ensure their future growth.
Official Development Assistance
Net disbursements of official development assistance (ODA) from member countries of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC)9 to the developing countries in 1983 fell to an estimated $27.3 billion, down $500 million from the level in 1982. The effect on individual countries varied, depending on the source of assistance and the currency composition of their imports. Net disbursements of ODA from DAC countries represented 0.36 percent of these countries' GNP, a slight decrease from 0.38 percent of GNP provided in 1982 (although the latter figure was distorted somewhat by payments made in 1982 but delayed from 1981). Only five countries (Denmark, France, the Netherlands. Norway, and Sweden) provided more than 0.7 percent of their GNP in assistance, which is the target set by the United Nations for the Second and Third Development Decades.
Provisional data for 1983 indicate that OPEC countries provided $3.8 billion in ODA to developing countries, a decrease of $2 billion from the year before, reflecting the impact of the de-
cline in oil prices. Still, these countries provided 0.77 percent of their GNP in net disbursements of ODA. In particular, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait provided a substantial portion of their income as ODA—1.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively.
The International Dialogue
Progress in the international dialogue was slow in the face of a prolonged recession affecting developed and developing countries alike. Issues of trade, debt, and financial flows, three matters that, in particular, have reflected the adverse international environment for developing countries, were the main themes of the dialogue. In various fora — the Development Committee, the Commonwealth meetings, and the nonaligned group—there were efforts to promote an international consensus on money, finance, and trade issues.
Development Committee meetings. In September 1983, the Development Committee met in Washington, DC, under the chairmanship of Ghulam Ishaq Khan, Minister of Finance, Commerce, and Economic Coordination of Pakistan. The Committee took note of the difficult economic situation facing the developing countries, as well as the importance of recovery in the industrial countries, and of increased capital flows of all types, to their development prospects. There was consensus among donors in support of a selective capital increase in the amount of approximately $8 billion for the World Bank. Proposals affecting the future role of the Bank, a topic currently under study by the Bank's management, which would include an examination of the implications for a general capital increase of the institution, were also welcomed. The need for a greater flow of concessional funds to the low-income countries, particularly through a seventh replenishment of IDA resources (IDA-7) at a realistic level, was recognized. The World Bank was asked to give particular attention to the problems of sub-Saharan Africa. On the subject of private investments, the Committee noted a proposal to increase IFC's capital by $750 million. The subject of trade and the promotion of development were discussed, and the Committee urged the reduction of a reliance on protectionism by all trading nations.
At the April 1984 Development Committee meeting, also held in Washington, attention fo-
Australia. Austria. Belgium. Canada. Denmark. Finland. France. Federal Republic of Germain. Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand. Norwav. Sweden. Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Commission of the European Communities.
cused on IDA-7 and the linkages between trade and the promotion of development. All members but one expressed concern at the implications of a $9 billion replenishment for IDA-7, and all noted the urgent need for approval by governments of the implementing resolutions for the seventh replenishment and a selective capital increase so as to allow the legislative action to be completed in time for IDA-7 to become effective on July 1, 1984. Bank management and donor countries were urged by most members of the Committee to mobilize up to $3 billion in a supplementary funding arrangement so that these funds could become available by that date. A general capital increase for the World Bank would be kept in mind when the Bank's management puts forward proposals relating to the future role of the Bank at the September 1984 meeting of the Committee. On matters concerning the International Finance Corporation, early action was called for by the IFC board on a proposal by its management for a $750 million capital increase.
In its discussion on the linkages between trade, finance, and development, there was agreement in the Committee on the need for structural adjustment in both developed and developing countries and for the removal of trade barriers. The Committee concluded that trade liberalization and improved domestic economic policies, combined with enlarged flows of external finance, were required to accelerate the impetus of growth in developing countries. Indications of interest by governments in a new round of multilateral trade negotiations were noted, as well as the suggestion that at such a round, the question of dismantling nontariff barrriers and other measures affecting the trade of developing countries be considered. The Committee agreed that at future meetings, progress reached on improvements in trade opportunities, particularly for the developing countries, be discussed. The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund were asked to continue their efforts to encourage an expanding and open world trading system.
In reviewing the world economic situation and the prospects for the developing countries, special note was taken by the Committee of the grim outlook for sub-Saharan African countries, an outlook that has been exacerbated by conditions of catastrophic drought. Agreement was reached on the urgent need for increased concessional assistance for the region and that the region should command a high priority in the allocation of IDA resources. The management of the Bank will present an action-oriented program for Africa for presentation at the Committee's meeting in September 1984. The program is designed to act as a guide to the
Bank and the international community in dealing with the human, social, and economic problems of the region. On matters concerning the problem of debt of many developing countries, the Bank and the IMF were requested to continue their examination of the subject. The Committee also expressed concern at the possible consequences of recent increases of key interest rates from already high levels.
Commonwealth meetings. The annual meeting of Commonwealth finance ministers took place in Port of Spain, Trinidad, in September 1983 under the chairmanship of George Chambers, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Trinidad and Tobago. Discussions at the meeting focused on a report by the Commonwealth group of experts on the international financial and trading systems. Ministers agreed on the need for a more integrated approach to the interrelated issues of money, finance, and trade through a careful international process that could lead to an international conference. The report was commended to the Commonwealth heads of government meeting that was held in November 1983 in New Delhi, India. Commonwealth finance ministers also emphasized the importance of the role to be played by multilateral institutions and the need for these institutions to obtain adequate resources to expand their operations. Ministers agreed to play a positive role in the IDA-7 negotiations, taking into account the needs of an expanded IDA recipient community. Early agreement on a selective capital increase by the Bank to support an expanded lending program was also called for at the meeting.
In November, the Commonwealth heads of government, meeting in New Delhi, reviewed the global economic situation and how the problems arising from that situation might be resolved through action by the international community. Heads of government issued a "New Delhi Statement on Economic Action," which noted that the economic situation called for a comprehensive review of international monetary, financial, and relevant trade issues. The statement added that a preparatory process of consultation was needed to identify areas requiring further consideration which could result in a consensus on the convening of an international conference.
To this end, heads of government agreed to establish an eight-nation Commonwealth Consultative Group, whose task it would be to promote consensus on international economic issues. The group, which has been constituted at the official and ministerial level, will report to the next meeting of Commonwealth finance ministers in Toronto, Canada, in September 1984.
Global negotiations. Discussion continued at the United Nations on the logistics and substance of the global negotiations on trade, energy, raw materials, development finance, and monetary issues. Two concepts were put forward at the last General Assembly session. One was a two-stage approach, which would focus first on immediate economic measures to be taken in the face of current economic difficulties; the first stage would then be followed by discussion of structural issues at a global conference, as suggested by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi at last year's Nonaligned Summit in New Delhi, and subsequently endorsed by the Group of 77 (G-77). A more specific and related proposal was the call for an international conference to structure an improved international monetary and financial system.
Nonaligned Movement. The Prime Minister of India, as Chairman of the Nonaligned Movement, convened a meeting of twenty world leaders, largely from the developing countries, in New York on September 27-29, 1983, to review various international economic problems. Discussions focused on the specific proposals drawn up by the New Delhi summit meeting of the nonaligned group in March 1983. These included immediate measures that might be taken to resolve current economic problems by a strengthening of international financial institutions and the United Nations system.
UNCTAD VI. Some 200 countries and agencies attended the meeting of UNCTAD VI in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, in June and July 1983. Many were disappointed that the meeting arrived at no specific understanding on key issues such as market opportunities, commodity support, monetary and financial reform, technology transfer, and the securing for the developing countries of a greater share in international shipping. Others felt that the lack of progress reflected the current economic climate and argued that a more integrated and multipolar world economy required a different approach to global negotiations than that based on a static North-South concept. Member governments agreed, however, that UNCTAD should carry out a work program in matters related to these key issues, especially in the field of trade. Some OECD countries, in addition, felt that UNC-TAD's mandate needed to be clearly defined so as to consolidate and streamline its operations.
The Lome Convention. There was an active dialogue during the year between the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) Group of sixty-four developing countries10 and the European Economic Community (EEC) on negotiations over a successor to the Second Lome Convention. The negotiations opened on October 6, 1983, in Luxembourg, and were followed by a
number of sectoral negotiating sessions in Brussels, Belgium. The Third Negotiating Conference was held in Fiji on May 2-5, 1984. Taking part in the negotiations, in addition to the sixty-four signatories to the Lome Convention, are Angola and Mozambique. Negotiations must be completed in time for the new convention to come into effect by March 1, 1985. Among the major issues under discussion are the size of the European Development Fund (EDF), the introduction of the concept of policy dialogue in the development assistance provided by the Convention in light of its contractual nature, and a review of STAB EX—a scheme for the stabilization of export commodities and trade arrangements between the ACP and EEC countries.
The London summit. In early June 1984, the leaders of seven industrial countries—Canada, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States— as well as the President of the Commission of the European Communities met in London to review the world economic situation for the tenth consecutive year.
Consensus was reached on a number of issues related to relations with the developing world. Thus, they agreed to:
• Maintain, and wherever possible, increase, flows of resources, including ODA and assistance through the international financial and development institutions, to the developing countries and particularly to the poorest countries;
• Help debtor countries make necessary economic and financial policy changes, taking due account of political and social difficulties:
• Encourage, in cases where debtor countries are making successful efforts to improve their position, more extended multiyear rescheduling of commercial debt;
• Work with developing countries to encourage more openness towards private investment flows;
• Strengthen the role of the World Bank in fostering development over the medium and long term;
Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados. Belize. Benin. Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde. Central African Republic. Chad, Comoros. Congo. Djibouti. Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia. Fiji. Gabon, The Gambia. Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana. Ivory Coast, Jamaica. Kenya, Kiribati. Lesotho. Liberia. Madagascar, Malawi, Mali. Mauritania. Mauritius, Niger. Nigeria, Papua New Guinea. Rwanda. Solomon Islands. Sao Tome and Principe, St. Christopher and Nevis, St. Lucia. St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Senegal. Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia. Sudan. Suriname. Swaziland, Tanzania. Togo. Tonga. 7'rinidad and Tobago. Tuvalu. Uganda, Upper Volta. Vanuatu. Western Samoa. Zaire. Zambia, and Zimbabwe.
• Urge all trading countries to resist continuing protectionist pressures;
• Renew their efforts to liberalize and expand international trade in manufactures, commodities, and services; and
• Reaffirm their agreement on the important contribution that a new round of multilateral trade negotiations would make to strengthen the open multilateral trading system for the mutual benefit of all countries.
In their communique, released at the end of the meeting, the leaders also noted that they attached "major importance" to the Special Action Program for Africa that is being prepared by the Bank. That program, they noted, "should provide renewed impetus to the joint efforts of the international community" to help in alleviating the problems on the continent caused by poverty and drought.
The communique also stated that ministers of finance have been asked to "consider the scope for intensified discussion of international financial issues of particular concern to developing countries." The Development Committee, the communique continued, would be "an appropriate and broadly representative forum for this purpose."
Cartagena conference. Foreign and finance ministers from eleven Latin American nations11 meeting in Cartagena, Colombia, on June 21 and 22, reached agreement on a formal system for consultations on payments of their foreign debt. The first step in the consultation process, according to officials at the meeting, would be
to seek a meeting with industrialized country governments on ways to resolve the debt crisis. In addition, the Development Committee will be asked to set up a working group on the issue.
The "Cartagena Consensus," embodied in a fifteen-page declaration released at the end of the Conference, went on to state, however, that each of the eleven countries would continue to bargain individually with private banks on loan conditions.
Among the Consensus proposals were that debt repayments be linked to a reasonable percentage of export earnings, and that the IMF, in formulating austerity measures, "assign priority to growth of production and employment." The IMF was also urged to create a mechanism to provide compensatory financing to debtor countries when interest rates rise unexpectedly. The communique also called for controls on interest rates, increased access for Latin American exports into the markets of industrialized countries, lengthened periods for loan repayments, and the elimination in refinancing agreements of commissions and late-penalty payments.
The eleven nations are to meet in Buenos Aires in advance of the World Bank-IMF Annual Meetings in September 1984.
11 Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile. Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Equador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela.
Chapter Three
Bank Policies, Activities, and Finances, Fiscal 1984
Bank Policies
The IBRD's Funding Strategy
The funding strategy of the IBRD has four basic objectives: to ensure a continuing availability of a substantial volume of funds to the institution, to minimize the "effective" cost of those funds to its borrowers, to control volatility in net income and overall loan charges, and to provide an appropriate degree of "maturity transformation" between its borrowing and lending.
Availability of funds. The primary funding objective of the IBRD is a quantitative one—to ensure the availability of funds to the institution. In the realization of this objective, the institution seeks to maintain a margin of "excess capacity," or unutilized access to funds, in the markets in which it borrows.
So that it has access to adequate resources, the IBRD has sought to diversify—by currency, market, type of investor, and borrowing technique—its borrowings. The main guiding principle in the planning and negotiation of the IBRD's borrowing operations so as to build up its funding capacity is the diversification of sources and a concern for maintaining a long-term position in the market.
Minimizing "effective" cost. This second element in the IBRD's funding strategy affects the currency mix of its borrowings and the timing of borrowing. As to the mix, the IBRD tends to maximize borrowings in currencies with low nominal interest rates except in cases in which potential movements in currency exchange rates seem likely to offset or reverse the nominal interest-rate savings. Costs are minimized by the timing of borrowings. When interest rates are expected to rise, the IBRD may seek to accelerate its borrowings. Conversely, when interest rates are expected to fall, the IBRD may seek to defer borrowing. The institution is afforded such flexibility because of its policy of maintaining liquid assets at a range of between 40 percent and 45 percent of its estimated net cash requirements over the next three years.
Controlling volatility. By the early 1980s, it became clear that the interest rates on IBRD borrowings were becoming so volatile that the adverse effects those changes would have on its net income could not be adequately recouped by frequent changes in the interest rate charged
on newly arranged fixed-interest-rate loans. Thus, in July 1982, the institution inaugurated a pool-based variable-rate lending system that uniformly adjusts interest charges applicable to the outstanding balance on all loans made under it. Existing loans were not affected.
When, over the next few years, the majority of loans and borrowings in the balance sheet are incorporated into the new lending-rate system, the interest-rate risks currently carried by the IBRD will be much reduced. Hence, one cause of the volatility of the IBRD's net income will be contained. Furthermore, the interest costs borne by the IBRD's borrowers will be more equitably shared.
The introduction of a system of variable-rate lending has added a potential element of volatility into borrowers' costs. Because interest rates on short-term instruments can be volatile, the pool-based lending rate will be affected by the proportion of variable-rate liabilities in the borrowing pool. A minimum of volatility, however, is today unavoidable; the issue that the IBRD faces is to find that point at which a balance can be struck between the susceptibility of the lending rate to change and the pursuit of its other important funding-strategy objectives.
Appropriate maturity transformation. Maturity transformation is the term used to express the capacity of a lender to lend at longer maturities than it borrows.
The IBRD's objective in this regard has been to provide its borrowers with a modest degree of maturity transformation while maintaining for itself a prudent financial structure. In practice, this has meant that the IBRD has maintained a broad balance between the average lives of its loans and borrowings.
The change in lending-rate policy in July 1982 removed one of the two principal reasons for setting a limit on the degree of maturity transformation, namely, to restrict the IBRD's exposure to interest-rate risk. Under the fixed-rate system, funding loans with shorter-maturity resources would have exposed the IBRD to the possibility of having to refinance loans at future interest rates that were higher (or lower) than rates prevailing at the time the lending rate was set. The new lending-rate policy enabled the IBRD to pass on future changes in interest
rates to borrowers in a nondisruptive way, opening up the possibility of more extensive maturity transformation on their behalf.
This funding strategy, and the questions arising from it, as well as plans to proceed with two new borrowing instruments, and to increase the Discount-Note Program, were the subjects of detailed review by the Executive Directors during the past fiscal year.
The two new instruments were, first, an IBRD Central Bank Facility and, second, borrowings in floating-rate notes (FRNs).
The IBRD Central Bank Facility is a one-year, US-dollar denominated facility for borrowing from official sources (in particular, central banks) and was designed to reverse the declining relative trend in the IBRD's borrowing from such sources. The share erf such borrowings dropped from over 40 percent in the mid 1970s to under 20 percent at the end of fiscal 1983. Instruments in the Facility have several attributes designed to satisfy the particular investment requirements of central banks: They are dollar denominated (and dollars comprise the bulk of foreign-exchange reserves); they provide flexibility in the timing of investment; and they carry a competitive interest rate which is adjusted monthly to provide a yield that varies in line with market interest rates. To provide the assurance of liquidity, which is a particular concern of central banks, investment in the Fa-cilitv will be prepaid upon request.
The decision to enter the FRN market was designed to help the IBRD meet some of the objectives of its funding strategy. This market enables the institution to gain access to a set of investors (commercial banks and certain other financial institutions) which have not traditionally bought IBRD paper. This type of funding helps reduce pressure (and hence reduce costs) in the IBRD's more traditional markets —medium-term and long-term bonds at fixed rates. Like discount notes, this form of fund raising can add volatility to the lending rate, but FRNs, which carry a long/medium-term maturity, do not, unlike the discount notes, expose the IBRD to the risk of liquidity problems should it be unable to rollover such borrowings as they mature.
As a result of their discussions, the Executive Directors:
• Authorized an increase in the discount-note program with the understanding that the total amount of IBRD borrowings with a maturity of one year or less (including discount notes and the Central Bank Facility) would not exceed S3 billion at any time in fiscal 1984;
• Approved the establishment of the Central Bank Facility and authorized the Facility to accept funds with a one-year maturity from official sources up to an aggregate amount outstanding not to exceed $750 million plus the amount of funds in the Facility maturing within one month; and
• Approved a resolution authorizing the IBRD to borrow FRNs up to an aggregate amount of $400 million.
Authorizations by the Executive Directors for short-term and variable-rate borrowings will be discussed annually, and will continue to be provided by resolutions setting ceilings for certain programs such as the discount-note program and the Central Bank Facility and by approving resolutions authorizing individual borrowings.
Special Action Program: A Progress Report
In February 1983, the Executive Directors gave approval to a specific program to strengthen the Bank's ability to assist member countries in adjusting to the current economic environment. The Special Assistance (or Action) Program (SAP), as it was called, involved financial measures and policy advice to help those countries that were demonstrating a willingness to cope with that adverse environment through policies aimed at improving export competitiveness, mobilizing additional domestic resources, and adjusting overall expenditures to diminished foreign and domestic resources in a manner least damaging to their future prospects of growth.
The Program's major elements included:
• An expansion in lending for high-priority operations that supported structural adjustment, policy changes, production for export, fuller use of existing capacity, and the maintenance of crucial infrastructure;
• Accelerated disbursements under existing and new commitments to ensure timely implementation of high-priority projects;
• Expanded advisory services on the design and implementation of appropriate policies; and
• Efforts aimed at enlisting similar action from other donors.
In March 1984, the Executive Directors met to assess the progress of the SAP during calendar year 1983.
It was agreed that, although it was too early to come to any definitive judgment on the Program's impact, rapid strides had been made in meeting the objectives of the SAP's major elements.
Expansion in lending for "adjustment" operations. Twelve new operations were approved
under the SAP during the first ten months of the Program: two structural-adjustment loans, six sector-adjustment loans, and four supplemental loans. Twenty-eight new operations— those already in the lending program—were modified before Board approval to include one or more SAP elements: increased cost sharing, establishment of revolving funds, financing of working-capital/'recurrent costs, "front loading" of disbursements, and increased loan amounts. A total of thirty-five countries—about one third of current Bank borrowers—were affected. In addition, a total of 144 ongoing projects (8 percent of the total portfolio and with costs totaling about S30 billion) were kept onstream through modifications to include SAP elements.
Accelerated disbursements. It is estimated that incremental disbursements during the period fiscal 1984-86 attributable to SAP operations in 1983 will amount to $2,500 million, all but $100 million of which are disbursements by the IBRD. (The SAP cannot easily be applied to IDA credits, because IDA already finances a large proportion of local costs. Moreover, even the relatively modest volume of accelerated disbursements that will be realized through the Program are difficult for IDA to finance, as IDA disbursements are financed through calls on donors facing severe problems in meeting existing calls as a result of current budget restraints.) This increment, however, resulting from both accelerated disbursements on ongoing projects and substitution of SAP operations for more traditional projects, represents advances of post-fiscal 1986 disbursements.
Expanded advisory services. The Bank maintains a continual, and in most cases, long-standing policy dialogue with its borrowing member countries. This dialogue has intensified with the recent implementation of lending for structural and sector adjustment. Nonetheless, the SAP has had the effect of reorienting the Bank's country economic and sector work to provide the analytical underpinning for the design of appropriate adjustment programs. The work program in this area for the period fiscal 1984— 86 shows a continuing shift in that respect. It includes reviews of state enterprises, studies to strengthen development-administration and project-implementation capabilities, studies to increase the mobilization of domestic resources, reviews of incentives for export diversification, and an exploration of ways to strengthen debt-management capability.
Enlisting similar efforts. In approving the SAP, the Executive Directors noted that active participation by other donors would be needed for the Program to achieve its maximum effect. Discussions have taken place throughout the year with other donors—at consultative-group
meetings, within the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (the DAC has urged bilateral donors to implement SAPs), with the European Economic Community, and in the Bank's regular consultations with regional development banks, bilateral aid agencies, and private banks. The response has been generally positive, as many donors have indicated a willingness to prepare more fast-disbursing assistance in support of programs of the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), as in Sudan and Ghana. And the Asian Development Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank have launched SAPs of their own.
A further assessment of the Program, covering operations through June 1984, will be made by the Executive Directors later in this calendar year. By that time, a more definitive judgment on the program's effect on disbursements, project-implementation performance, and policy review will be possible. That occasion will also provide an opportunity for the Directors to consider whether the program should be extended for an additional year.
Furthermore, some questions raised by the implementation of the SAP—the implications for the Bank's capital structure, the relationships between the Bank and the IMF in dealing with immediate economic difficulties, and the difficulty of providing a short-term infusion of increased assistance to the poorest borrowing members of the Bank—will be addressed in the wider discussions that will be held on the future role of the Bank.
Estimation of Internationally Comparable per Capita GNP Figures
The World Bank annually estimates per capita gross national product (GNP) for most countries and territories; the results are published in the World Bank Adas.
It is recognized that perfect comparability of such figures cannot be achieved. Beyond the classical and strictly intractable "index-number problem," two types of obstacles stand in the way of adequate comparability. One concerns GNP numbers in local currency. There are differences in the national-accounts systems of countries and in the coverage and reliability of the underlying statistical information between various countries. The other relates to the conversion of national GNP data, expressed in a variety of national currencies, into a common numeraire (conventionally, the US dollar) in order to compare them across countries. To improve the international comparability of the estimates of per capita GNP, the Bank prepared a number of recommendations, which were the
subject of discussion by the Executive Directors during the past year. It was proposed that, to improve the data in national currencies, the Bank should periodically make a benchmark survey on methodological divergences and data weaknesses in national accounts, and when approached, should help upgrade the statistical and national accounting systems of member countries.
To improve the method for converting national data into a common numeraire, it was recommended that in the long term, but subject to certain conditions, the Bank should study the feasibility of switching to the use of purchasing-power parities (PPP) of currencies as established by the International Comparison Project (ICP) for converting national GNP data into US dollars for those countries with PPP information.
In the meantime, the Bank should continue to rely on the official exchange rates for most countries. However, when this differs by an exceptionally large margin from the rate effectively applied to foreign-exchange transactions, a conversion rate different from the official exchange rate should be calculated.
In their discussions, the Executive Directors generally supported the staff recommendations. However, many Directors advised great caution before the Bank decides to use the purchasing-power parity calculations as the basis for GNP per capita estimates, in view of the many issues still unresolved. (It was recognized, for example, that further study was called for on the application of PPP-converted per capita GNP to small island economies, as the relationship between PPP and exchange rates markedly diverges from the norm in such cases.)
Subsequent to the Board's discussion, a program of work was developed to carry out and implement these proposals.
Sub-Saharan Africa
Progress Report on sub-Saharan Africa. In
1981, the World Bank issued its report. Accelerated Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: An Agenda for Action. The report was written in response to a request of the African Governors of the Bank for a special program of action to deal with the severe and complex economic problems facing the sub-Saharan African countries. It analyzed the basic causes—both domestic and external—of Africa's slow growth and focused on policy reforms that could reverse the declining trend of per capita incomes and agricultural output during the 1980s.
In the twenty-four months that followed the report's publication, the countries of sub-Saharan Africa have been severely affected by the worsening economic climate. A slowdown in
world trade, falling export prices, rising debt-service commitments, and stagnating levels of official development assistance have combined to undermine attempts by governments to pursue politically difficult reforms.
Early in fiscal 1984, the Executive Directors reviewed the economic climate in the sub-Saharan African countries published in a staff report, "Sub-Saharan Africa: Progress Report on Development Prospects and Programs." The report, which was not intended to be exhaustive in either its coverage of countries, or of issues:
• Highlighted some of the major problems confronting these countries in designing and implementing programs of reform in a period of global economic malaise;
• Examined changes in the level, pattern, and design of World Bank economic work and operations in support of reforms by African governments; and
• Reviewed the extent of donor responses to the increased and changed needs of African countries for external assistance.
The report concluded that African governments are more clearly aware of the need to take major steps to improve efficiency in the use of resources—especially in the productive (agriculture, industry) sectors of their economies. It was noted that in the agriculture sector, in particular, measures are being taken to improve the incentive framework and the working of markets. But, the report added, the number of countries adopting measures of policy reform is inadequate to meet the crisis. Inadequate, too, are the extent and speed with which reforms are being implemented. "A modest beginning" is the term used in the Progress Report to sum up actions taken by African governments in the past two years.
The Progress Report also reiterated a major theme elaborated upon two years earlier—that increased external assistance, especially assistance on concessional terms, is critical to the process of policy reform. Unfortunately, as readers of the Eastern and Western Africa regional chapters of this Annual Report will learn, such increases have not been forthcoming. According to the Progress Report, the prospect for increases is "unlikely"; "yet," the report continues, "both the need for a markedly high level of external assistance and the justification in terms of support for programs of major policy reforms have increased since 1981 and are rising."
When the 1981 study was submitted to the Governors of the Bank, the management of the Bank proposed that Africa would be an area of priority when it came to the allocation of IDA and IBRD resources. The Progress Report notes that IDA lending to sub-Saharan African
countries has reflected that commitment, rising from a 27 percent share in fiscal 1981 to one of 37 percent in fiscal 1983—admittedly a rather exceptional year in this respect. Creditworthiness considerations, combined with severe economic difficulties in Nigeria, however, caused IBRD lending to the region to decline in fiscal 1983 after rising to almost $1 billion in the preceding year.
The Progress Report notes that Bank assistance—apart from traditional lending operations—has also been reshaped or increased. Technical assistance, for instance, is on the rise. In fiscal 1983, the Bank introduced a special program of seconding Bank staff to advisory-positions in countries eligible for IDA assistance only. Twenty staff positions and ten staff years were allocated for this purpose. By the end of fiscal 1983, eight such arrangements had been approved: in Benin, the Central African Republic. Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Senegal. Sierra Leone, and Togo.
In addition, in recognition of the specific needs of African countries for assistance, the Bank has increased the volume of country economic and sector work in the two African regions and has modified its content and form. Increasing emphasis is being given to the analysis of policy issues and to the design and implementation of the conclusions in a form that is appropriate for decisionmakers in governments and in other agencies.
New Bank research has been guided into topics of concern to a broad spectrum of African countries, and, when possible, field work has been undertaken in Africa. Thus:
• A small econometric study is reviewing the experience of sub-Saharan Africa over the past twenty years to try and quantify the major domestic and external factors that can be expected to have the greatest effect on the growth of national income;
• A project on the economic consequences of the coffee boom in East Africa will trace the effect of macro policy changes to the micro level, drawing lessons for government policy and the form of external assistance;
• A study in Mali is measuring rural demand for health and schooling services so as to draw-conclusions about the potential for recurrent-cost financing of these services through, in particular, user fees, which may help to broaden their availability;
• A study in Kenya and Tanzania is examining the adaptation of East African labor markets to the rapidly growing supply of educated workers: and
• A global study, examining the nature and sources of production-cost changes over time in infant industries, includes Nigeria in the sample
of countries that the research will cover.
In their deliberations, the Executive Directors took note of the adverse effects the deteriorating external economic environment has had on the sub-Saharan African economies and observed that Africa was still very far from a path of accelerated development that had been set for it in mid 1981. And they emphasized the acute need for mobilizing and channeling a large volume of external concessional resources toward that region in support of countries embarking on programs of economic reform aimed at reversing the declining trends in growth.
The Directors endorsed the Progress Report as a timely and well-balanced assessment of the internal and external developments since 1981 that had affected sub-Saharan Africa and agreed that it should be forwarded to the Development Committee, along with a summary of the issues that had emerged from their discussion.
The drought in sub-Saharan Africa. In February 1984, the Executive Directors requested Bank staff to prepare a short study on the impact of the current drought in sub-Saharan Africa and, in that study, to consider the longer-term issue of desertification that has so contributed to the region's immediate problems.
The immediate impacts of the 1983-84 drought are detailed in the sections in this Annual Report on Eastern and Western Africa (Chapter Four). They provide a picture of declines in food-crop and export-crop production, of losses of cattle, and of drops in hydropower production—all of which have had profoundly deleterious effects on the already fragile economies of many countries in the region. And, though the available data, in many respects, are not the best, there can be no doubt that governments are being forced to confront the worsening of already critical public-finance and bal-ance-of-payments situations, which will further strain economies already severely weakened by-three years of recession and depressed commodity prices.
The staff study noted that the ecological efficiency of traditional farming systems in the region—based on shifting cultivation, constant migration of people, long fallow periods, and selection of drought-resistant crops and varieties—has been maintained through low population densities. At the heart of the current process of desertification is a rate of population growth that far exceeds the modest and fragile ecological potential of the land. Overpopulation has had the effect of increasing demand for land (thus shortening fallow periods and/or necessitating the removal of vegetation cover so that new land, much of it of marginal value, can be exploited) and fuelwood (thus removing pro-
tection against wind and soil erosion and denying enrichment of soils through the recycling of mineral nutrients).
A second major element in the process of desertification—overgrazing—is the result of a rapid growth in the numbers of cattle, which is, itself, linked to the increases in the numbers of herders among the population and the relative success of animal-health programs. Creation of new water points has extended the available grazing areas, but it is often around deep boreholes that overgrazing has taken place, with resultant prevention of seed regeneration and the eventual destruction of pastures. In fact, the current trend is to an overall reduction in available pastureland as a result of low rainfall, overgrazing, and the encroachment of farming activities on traditional pastoral areas.
Considerable progress, the study concludes, must be made in areas of technology, land tenure, and production incentives if a gradual and inexorable destruction of the ecosystem is to be avoided. Technological progress in this context would consist of the development of drought-resistant, high-yielding varieties of sorghum and millet, and a fast-growing, drought-resistant tree species that could serve the varied uses of rural populations. Progress in land-tenure systems would consist of an evolution in the traditional structure of collective ownership of the land in such a way that would make room for land-allocation systems that would stimulate on-farm investments by individual farmers. Progress in financial incentives would include reforms in food-pricing and marketing policies that would ensure that farmers could sell surpluses at attractive prices and that rural communities would be financially rewarded for the costs incurred in expanding tree plantations.
These are all areas, the staff study reported, that cannot, however, be resolved overnight by massive tranfusions of external assistance.
The Executive Directors welcomed the analysis of the situation in sub-Saharan Africa, and several pointed out that the study provided a timely link between the 1981 study. Accelerated Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: An Agenda for Action, and the Action Program for sub-Saharan Africa that is being prepared for submission to the Development Committee in September 1984.
The discussion on the report on drought and desertification provided the Executive Directors an opportunity to express their views on the general direction they wished to see the Action Program paper take.
The Bank, they noted, was but one donor among many, and its financial resources are limited. Thus, through the Action Program, it should take the lead in constructing a comprehensive framework of actions to reverse economic decline among sub-Saharan countries around which the international community could rally.
The Directors took note of the urgency of the situation confronting many African countries; nonetheless, they acknowledged that the Bank's role in alleviating the situation was not at the short-term end of the spectrum. But. by increasing efforts to coordinate actions by multilateral and bilateral sources and through its ability to delineate medium-term and long-term development strategies and help finance the means by which those strategies might be realized, the Bank can play a crucial role in both the near-term and longer-term development of the region.
Bank Activities
Economic Development Institute
Fiscal 1984 was a year of transition for the Economic Development Institute (EDI), as preparations began for a new Five-Year Plan for fiscal 1985 through 1989. The Plan defined new objectives and the instruments to achieve them, so as to implement the report on "The Future of the EDI" approved by the Executive Directors the previous year.
Fiscal 1984 was also a year of experimentation with new course and seminar designs, while continuing core training activities. A total of seventy-two courses and seminars were held, nineteen in the US and fifty-three overseas. (Details are given in the table in this section.) EDI staff also assisted in fourteen courses held by developing-country institutions. Some 2,400 participants benefited, about 40 percent from smaller or poorer countries.
New courses and seminars introduced in fiscal 1984 included those in Washington on technical and vocational education; in New York (with the United Nations Development Programme) on energy assessment and planning; in Kenya on railway projects and policies; in Thailand on planning, financing, and managing city growth; and in China on port projects.
Anticipating the new Plan, there was an increase to eight in the number of high-level policy seminars. Topics were development management (based on the Bank's 1983 World Development Report), management of agricultural research, rural health care, industrial policy (three seminars), energy policy, and railway management. Seminars on the last three topics were specifically for participants from sub-Saharan Africa.
Also anticipating the new Plan, training-of-trainers activities increased to eleven. One in Washington and another in Rwanda, both for rural-development trainers, experimented with a new approach. Instead of one participant each from some twenty-five countries, teams were invited from a smaller number of countries. This greatly enhances the possibility of reflecting the results of the EDI training in the national training courses carried out in participants' institutions. As another example of the training of trainers, case-method workshops were held in Malaysia and Pakistan.
Trainers' seminars are part of a broad strat-
egy, reemphasized in the new Plan, to strengthen training institutions in developing countries. During fiscal 1984, thirty-nine such institutions acted as partners for EDI activities—three in Africa, eighteen in Asia, nine in Europe, Middle East, and North Africa, and nine in Latin America and the Caribbean. Joint activities were aided through cofinancing provided by some twenty international and devel-oped-country institutions. While most of the cofinancing is provided by UN agencies, new financial partners in fiscal 1984 included the Australian Development Assistance Bureau, the Gulbenkian Foundation of Portugal, the Organization of American States, and the Statistical, Economic, and Social Research and Training Center for Islamic Countries of the Organization of the Islamic Conference. EDI also mounted, with other aid agencies, its first broad review mission for a training institution—the Eastern and Southern African Management Institute in Arusha, Tanzania.
Increased production of high-quality training materials, for use by both EDI and cooperating institutions, is emphasized in the new Plan. To set and administer standards, a Training Materials Policy Committee was created. Production of new written materials during the year included some thirty course notes, fourteen project case studies, twenty exercises, and four collections of seminar papers. EDI also brought to fruition its first computerized policy-simulation model. Work was completed on eight new multimedia modules in the series of sixteen planned on water supply and sanitation. Eleven have been finished, of which three have been translated into Spanish and French. Finally, a number of revisions or translations of EDI books were published. The revisions were Economic Appraisal of Transport Projects and Compounding and Discounting Tables for Project Analysis. Translations were published of various works into Arabic, Chinese, French, and Spanish.
A crucial feature of the new Plan is the close cooperation envisaged with the policy and operational departments of the Bank. Participation of staff from the other departments will be of particular importance in the preparation, participant selection, actual delivery, and follow-up for many of the courses and seminars planned.
The EDI will also assist the experimental assessments of training needs in selected countries, which are planned by most of the Regional Offices of the Bank. During the transitional year 1984, such an assessment was completed for the South Pacific islands, in cooperation with the University of the South Pacific
and the Commonwealth Secretariat. Another was done of training needs in Jordan.
To prepare the new Plan and enable effective revision each year, new procedures were established for systematic consultation with the Bank Regional Offices and central policy departments. Extensive discussions were held with
past and potential training and financing collaborators. The Plan establishes eight major objectives for the EDI during fiscal 1985 through 1989, to be achieved through the instruments described earlier, A strategy consisting of appropriate combinations of the instruments is specified for each major region of the world, although, of course, these strategies will be subject to revision in the light of experience.
Operations Evaluation
The selective system of project-performance auditing, introduced in fiscal 1983, continued to function effectively during fiscal 1984. Under the modified system, member governments and Executive Directors receive staff reports on the outcome of all completed projects. These project-completion reports (PCRs) are read by staff of the independent Operations Evaluation Department (OED), and borrowers' comments are sought for all completed projects. Fifty-seven percent of the projects reviewed were subjected to performance audit by OED staff during fiscal 1984. The criteria for selection as applied by OED have been approved by the Joint Audit Committee of the Executive Directors.
The system of selective auditing does not jeopardize the integrity of the Bank's project-evaluation system. There is increasing evidence that project-completion reporting by operational staff is now firmly established in the Bank and that major inadequacies are being spotted by OED's evaluation officers, who continue to scrutinize all PCRs.
During fiscal 1984, borrowers made increasing contributions to PCRs. They also commented on most project-performance audits prepared by OED. Project-evaluation capacities in several borrowing countries were initiated or strengthened with support from the Bank and OED. Borrowers' representatives visited OED for consultations and attended courses on monitoring and evaluation arranged by the Economic Development Institute.
One hundred ten projects were subjected to performance audits in fiscal 1984, bringing the cumulative total of completed projects evaluated by OED to 982. In addition, eighty PCRs (covering eighty-four projects) were passed on to the Executive Directors after scrutiny by OED, but without OED audit. Reflecting the expansion of Bank operations in the mid and late 1970s, the number of PCRs submitted by the Bank's operating departments to OED is expected to increase to approximately 250 in fiscal 1985.
The ultimate objective of Bank evaluation continues to be to identify and disseminate lessons that can contribute to improvements in the design and implementation of future Bank-
supported projects. By bringing together experience with similar projects, lessons can be more readily drawn and more efficiently confirmed and disseminated. The Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results continues, as in the past, to be a valuable mechanism for summarizing experience by sector and, through a process of review with operating staff, bringing that experience to bear on the design of future projects.
OED's ninth Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results was published in December 1983. It dealt with the experience of 127 operations supported by IBRD loans and IDA credits. The total amount of IBRD and IDA finance provided for these projects was approximately $3,500 million; the total cost of the projects assisted was approximately $7,900 million. As in earlier reviews, the ninth Review concluded that the great majority of these projects were either successful in achieving their principal objectives, or were well on their way to being so, and that they had contributed substantially to the development of both material and human resources in the countries concerned. However, it was also noted that the share of projects with uncertain, marginal, or unsatisfactory results has been increasing in recent years. The reasons for the declining trend in project results include an increase in the proportion of more complex and risk-prone agricultural projects—especially in Africa—and a worsening world economic environment.
Most of the projects reviewed were changed during implementation, and many of them experienced time and cost overruns. The dominant reason for these changes was the high rate of inflation in the mid and late 1970s, which frequently led to a reduction in project scope in order to keep down total expenditures. Some of these changes reflected built-in flexibility in design and implementation management; but there were others that were judged as having initially deficient project preparation and design. A number of projects were also affected by weak management, general instability of economic conditions, and political changes in the countries in which they were located. Many of the lessons of the projects covered in the ninth Annual Review are similar to those noted in earlier reviews: the importance of full understanding and agreement between the Bank and borrower on project objectives and the institutional arrangements for achieving them; project designs that are realistic and responsive to local conditions; and borrower policies that are conducive to the success of the project within a longer-term plan of development.
Parallel with the project-performance auditing system, OED continued to prepare special
studies. A number of such studies were completed during fiscal 1984; they were reviewed by the Joint Audit Committee of the Executive Directors, and some were also discussed in the full Board.
The Joint Audit Committee maintains continuing oversight of the OED work program and of its effectiveness. The conclusions of the Joint Audit Committee, the annual report of the Director-General, Operations Evaluation, on the status of the Bank's evaluation system, and OED's ninth Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results were all reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Internal Auditing
Internal auditing is an independent appraisal function within the World Bank that examines and evaluates Bank activities as a service to the Bank. This appraisal function is accomplished through operational audits of the financial and operating systems and procedures used in the conduct and management of the Bank's operations. The principal objective of the Internal Auditing Department (IAD) is to assist all levels of management in the effective discharge of their responsibilities by furnishing periodic reports on audits and appraisals carried out on activities within their respective areas of responsibility. Emphasis is placed on examining, reporting on, and where necessary, recommending improvements concerning the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank's system of internal control and the identification of possible means of improving the efficiency and economy of operations and use of resources.
The department's examination and evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems, procedures, and internal controls used in the conduct and management of an activity include, to the extent appropriate, an assessment of the reliability and integrity of financial and operating information and the means used to identify, measure, classify, and report such information. IAD, also as appropriate, reviews the systems established to ensure compliance with those governing agreements, instruments, and related decisions, regulations, policies, plans, and procedures that could have significant impact on operations and reports, and determines the extent of such compliance. Each audit, in addition, where appropriate, includes an evaluation of the means employed to safeguard Bank assets from various types of losses, an appraisal of the efficiency and economy with which resources are used, and the accomplishment of established objectives and goals of specific programs or operations.
IAD's work program is designed to cover a broad range of activities, including financial, ac-
counting, administrative, and data-processing areas, and the supervisory aspects of IBRD loans and IDA credits under disbursement. Some of these activities are reviewed annually, others biennially or less frequently depending upon the materiality or risk aspects of the activity.
The audits of electronic data-processing (EDP) and project-supervision systems form an important part of the department's work program. The EDP systems audits include the review of controls, security, and efficiency of computer facilities and information-processing systems in operation and those under development. IAD's involvement in the development of new EDP-information systems before they become operational provides a timely and cost-effective opportunity for an independent assessment of the operational and control aspects of such systems. The department has also carried out effectiveness reviews of major EDP systems to determine whether the systems are functioning as intended. Project-supervision activities are selected for audit on a sectoral/regional basis and are reviewed in the light of policies and guidelines established by the Bank.
Progress in implementing recommendations arising from its review work is monitored by the department. IAD advises Bank management where such recommendations are not being acted upon and on the effects or risks associated with such inaction. The review work of IAD also includes various special assignments from management, including requests to visit selected countries to review the auditing standards applied by borrowers' external auditors, to review financial reporting and internal auditing standards of selected borrowers, and the extent to which national auditing and accounting education and practices in countries might be upgraded where needed.
To carry out each assignment, the director and staff of the department have unrestricted access to all Bank records, documents, and personnel relevant to the activity under review. Where relevant, IAD coordinates its work with the Bank's external auditors to assist them in planning and coordinating their examinations of the annual financial statements of the Bank.
The IAD reports administratively to the Senior Vice President, Finance, but, in order to enhance its independence, the director also has direct access to the President and to the Joint Audit Committee (JAC) of the Executive Directors. The results of each audit undertaken are reported to the vice presidents, department directors, and others concerned, as considered appropriate. Liaison is maintained with the JAC, which has, among other things, the responsibility of satisfying itself that the Bank's
internal auditing function is adequate and efficient. In this context, the JAC reviews the IAD's work programs, receives periodic briefings on its activities, and, through a subcommittee, reviews selected reports of the IAD.
Economic Research and Studies
The World Bank devoted about $20.9 million in fiscal 1984, or about 3 percent of its administrative budget, to economic and social research. Since the formal inception of the research program twelve years ago, 165 centrally funded research projects, including five in the past year, have been completed. Some 160 research projects, including fourteen new starts in fiscal 1984, are currently in progress. In addition, there are more than 100 generally smaller research studies undertaken at the discretion of Bank departments.
The program of research is shaped by the Bank's role as a leading institutional analyst of economic-development issues worldwide and its needs as a lending institution and a source of policy advice to member governments. Its main purposes are to gain new insights into the development process, to provide and improve the analytical bases for the Bank's major policies, as well as its country, sectoral, and project operations, and to help strengthen research capacity in member developing countries.
In the past year, the Bank's management revised the internal processes for setting research priorities, approving projects for funding, and evaluating research projects upon completion. As part of this effort, a Research Policy Council was established to provide leadership in the guidance, coordination, and evaluation of all Bank research. Chaired by the Vice President, Economics and Research Staff, the Council is responsible for establishing Bankwide strategic objectives, overall policies, and plans for research and funding priorities for research activity. Among its first actions, the Council recommended the creation of a smaller and more technically oriented Research Projects Approval Committee to replace the Research Committee as the group responsible for vetting research proposals. A Bank Research Advisory Group, representing broad constituencies within the Bank, was also set up to advise the Research Policy Council.
The broad concerns of Bank research—centering on poverty and distribution issues, as well as issues of efficiency and growth—persist, but the research program's priorities are being reassessed by the Research Policy Council. Underlying that reassessment are three main considerations: first, that the Bank should undertake more applied research, with direct links to Bank policy and operations; second, the need
for a better understanding of the international economy as the context for domestic economic policy, as well as of the role and effectiveness of development-aid strategies; and third, that the Bank has a particular advantage in conducting multicountry comparative studies of development policy. Also, in accordance with the Bank's special emphasis on Africa, major efforts are being made to address development issues in an African context. New research projects are aimed at analyzing issues of welfare distribution in the Ivory Coast and issues of rural financial intermediation and savings mobilization in western sub-Saharan Africa.
Given the importance of global factors on the performance and policies of developing countries, in particular, difficulties in their capacity to service debt, analyzing the trade-offs implicit in choices between alternative policies affecting growth and welfare has become an important part of the research program. In April 1984, the Bank sponsored a major research conference on international debt issues as a prelude to further research work on debt issues.
The need for more effective policies that enable developing countries to respond to conditions and fluctuations in the international environment has prompted initiation of more projects on trade issues. The first in a series of major multicountry comparative studies on development-policy issues is a research project on trade liberalization, focusing specifically on the phasing and sequencing of trade-policy reforms. Based on evidence from about fifteen countries, the research will attempt to identify factors affecting the survivability of trade reforms, as well as their short-run costs and benefits. The principal objective is to develop policy prescriptions regarding the implementation of trade-liberalization reforms. Another study will look at nontariff barriers on developing countries' trade and the implications of those for the global economy.
Concerning social infrastructure, the pricing and standards of public services and the difficulties associated with achieving a balance between recovering recurrent costs without putting services beyond the reach of low-income families have been a focus of Bank research. New research is under way to examine the issues of cost recovery and user charges in the health sector in Peru, to compare the efficiency and equity of public and private social services in Chile, to evaluate low-income housing schemes in Ecuador, and to review housing finance and demand in several developing countries.
With the household recognized as an integrated unit of economic analysis and with improvements in the design of survey instruments,
a larger number of research initiatives are looking at household behavior to determine, for instance, the impact and cost-effectiveness of investments in school quality in rural northeastern Brazil, or the factors affecting the allocation of labor across all sectors and markets of the Peruvian economy. One study of rural households in Thailand will attempt to assess the link between land-title security and farm productivity, while another study will analyze the determinants of private agricultural investment in rural India.
Efforts continue within the program to improve the dissemination of findings of the Bank's research projects. World Bank Staff Working Papers and books originating from the research program continue to generate considerable interest among professional audiences. The Bank's wide-ranging research portfolio is updated annually in Abstracts of Current Studies: The World Bank Research Program. Research News, a bulletin about the results of completed research projects and the objectives of newly funded ones, enters its fifth year of publication with a circulation of 17,000 development-oriented professionals worldwide.
Interagency Cooperation
In the 1980s, the multilateral financial system is having to respond to major changes in the international economy that have significant implications for developed and developing countries alike. To pursue interagency cooperation for development during a period of rapid adaptation to changing circumstances, it is particularly important to have continuous policy dialogue and to sustain coordinated activities. Current resource constraints demand effective allocation of both aid funds and expertise for development projects and programs. World Bank initiatives, particularly in the policy area, benefit from the support that other institutions can provide, and, in turn, Bank concerns reach a wider audience when shared with a range of institutions. The scope and style of Bank collaboration are wide and varied, and those that are mentioned here provide only a sampling.
The UN system. As a member of the UN system and as a development-finance institution, the Bank continued to fulfill its liaison responsibilities with the system and various specialized organizations within it, and gained support of its development policies at various UN fora. Bank staff attended the meetings of the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), and the Administrative Committee on Coordination (ACC)— which is made up of heads of agencies and organizations of the UN and chaired by the Secretary-General— as well as the governing boards
of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO), and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). It also participated in major UN program analyses such as the review and appraisal of the implementation of the International Development Strategy (Third UN Development Decade).
The Bank responded to Secretary-General Perez de Cuellar's call for initiatives to mobilize the will and means to cope with the acute economic crisis, including drought and food shortage, in sub-Saharan Africa. With other aid agencies, the Bank is seeking support for needed government policy changes, while directing resources toward food production and the control of desertification and land depletion. In response to critically low stores of food, the Bank approved an emergency donation of $2 million to the World Food Programme (WFP) to expedite the internal delivery of food supplies to the most severely affected countries. The international community has been generous in its aid, but weak country infrastructure has made distribution of goods a problem. Bank resident missions are in close contact with United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) field representatives to coordinate the Secretary-General's initiative at the country level. The Bank is following closely the work of UNEP, the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), and the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) on climatic and drought conditions in Africa. In addition, the Bank is preparing a report suggesting actions donors and country officials in Africa might take in the context of the region's economic prospects, requirements for external concessional assistance, and domestic development priorities. This report will be reviewed at the September meeting of the Development Committee.
A novel joint effort with the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) was launched in late 1983 when the Bank agreed to act as administrator for an income-generating public-works program, which has been designed to restore the damage done to Pakistan's ecology by the influx of almost 3 million refugees from Afghanistan, The $20 million project, funded through the UNHCR, would benefit both refugees and host populations. The Bank also extended assistance for the preparatory work for an international conference on African refugees (ICARA II), spon-
sored by the UN and the UNHCR, in July 1984. African governments, faced with 2 million to 3 million people fleeing both political turmoil and economic hardship, are seeking financial assistance for projects that will benefit refugees/ returnees within the general development plans of the host country.
Population, health, nutrition, and food issues have involved the Bank in joint research and lending activities. To assist member countries achieve their demographic objectives, the Bank is actively pursuing opportunities to expand cooperation with the UN Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) through joint sector missions and cofinancing of projects. The World Health Organization (WHO), the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF), the Bank, and the UNDP sponsored a conference in Bellagio in April 1984, attended by major leaders of the international health, scientific, and donor community. Attention was focused on ways to reduce child mortality in the developing nations by using improved health-care programs as the vehicle for delivery. The Bank has been active in the Administrative Committee on Coordination/ Subcommittee on Nutrition, composed of twelve UN agencies. In this Committee, the Bank has given particular attention to helping strengthen nutrition concerns in international agricultural-research programs and in the design and implementation of an interagency-ap-plied nutrition-research program. The Bank shares the World Food Council's (WFC) concern about the food situation in Africa; WFC's report, "Progress Toward the Eradication of Hunger," notes the tangible progress being made through Bank project work and support for research to increase food production.
The Bank has had an agreement with the UNDP since 1978 covering projects for which the Bank is the executing agency. In addition, an exchange of letters between the heads of the two agencies last year resulted in a high-level task force to facilitate financial and nonfinancial cooperation in preinvestment and implementation work. Staff will be exchanged, and projects with basic-needs components cofinanced with the UN Capital Development Fund of the UNDP. There has been an extremely encouraging response to the joint Bank/UNDP Energy Sector Assessment Program. This program seeks to help developing countries establish a realistic strategy for increasing energy production and using energy more efficiently. Missions have visited fifty countries to date, and thirty country reports have been completed. The Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) follows on the assessment reports by assisting countries, as well as donor agencies and the private sector, to implement priority in-
vestment and technical-assistance activities included in the agreed strategy. The program became operational in 1983, when it was active in Bangladesh, Burundi, Kenya, Malawi, Papua New Guinea, Sudan, Uganda, Zambia, and Zaire. The Bank, through its Energy Department, is executing agency for both programs.
In addition to a vast array of ad hoc policy, country, and operational cooperation, the Bank has agreements and formal cooperative programs (CPs) with a number of UN agencies. In 1978, the Bank entered into an agreement with IFAD under which sixty-one projects have been cofinanced to date. In addition, the Bank has appraised many IFAD-funded projects. Cooperative programs exist with the FAO and the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (Unesco), both dating from 1964; WHO, begun in 1971; and UNIDO, entered into in 1973. Cooperative programs involve joint financing of a core team of technical staff housed in the partner agency. Some of the CPs carry out sector studies, while others, such as the FAO CP, concentrate on assistance to governments in the identification and preparation of projects for Bank funding. Twenty-five percent to 30 percent of Bank lending for agriculture is prepared through this program. The early rationale for the CPs was based on the Bank's relative lack of expertise in certain sectors, particularly education and agriculture, and the inexperience of borrowing countries with project identification. As their characteristics have changed, the standing agreements (most recently, the Unesco CP) have been carefully reviewed; it has been suggested, for example, that costs and management decisions be more equally shared, and that the program focus on achievable benefits to developing countries, as well as effective exchange of information to ensure their efficiency and relevance.
In addition to the CPs, the Bank has a significant number of joint specialized programs. For example, the Bank serves as fiscal agent for the Onchocerciasis Control Programme (OCP), which is executed by WHO and cosponsored by the UNDP and the FAO. After a decade of work, the program is considered an unqualified success, with riverblindness already controlled in 80 percent of the original program areas; full control is now expected by 1988. The program focus is shifting toward long-term surveillance and drug development. In cooperation with the WHO program for the Control of Diarrheal Diseases (CDD), the Bank is studying cost-effective approaches to diarrheal prevention and treatment. It is cosponsor, with WHO and the UNDP, of the Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases (TDR), launched in 1977. The TDR's two principal ob-
jectives are (1) to undertake research into and development of better tools to control tropical diseases, and (2) to provide training and strengthening of institutions to increase the research capability in tropical countries. The Bank's contribution to this Programme in fiscal 1984 was $2.58 million.
Sector cooperation is managed through many-departments. Examples include the Environmental staff's work with UNEP, including active involvement with the Committee of International Development Institutions on the Environment (CIDIE), whose purpose is to harmonize and strengthen environmental policies and practices. For over a decade, the Bank has used a Trust Fund to conduct research on labor-intensive methods of construction; the results are now being applied in such countries as Honduras, India, Indonesia, and Kenya. For several years, a Special Public Works Program (SPWP) to develop effective methods of construction for capital-scarce, labor-abundant economies has been run by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the UNDP. A joint task force has now been established by the two agencies and the Bank, involving the Bank's agriculture, transportation, and water and urban-development departments, in order to integrate the technical findings of SPWP pilot projects (Kenya, Nepal, Rwanda) into Bank-assisted projects. Joint Bank-ILO (Technology and Employment Branch) work in Botswana, Kenya, and Malawi has led, also, to the refinement of labor-intensive methods of road building. The Bank has also worked with the ILO Expert Group on Poverty and Employment. Both operational and research departments have a wide range of contacts throughout the UN system, as well, including staff visits and consultations, information exchange on data and modeling, and attendance at meetings. Cooperation also exists with the International Trade Center (ITC) on export development, export promotion, and institution building and training; the United Nations University (UNU) on exchange of information and views on research prospects and on institution building, especially in Africa: and with UNCTAD on a range of trade and finance issues.
Governmental and nongovernmental groups.
The Bank has pursued policy dialogue on issues of importance with a variety of governmental and nongovernmental organizations. At the Society for International Development's North-South Round Table on Money and Finance meetings in the past year, the relationship between monetary, fiscal, and human-resource development and the problems of adjustment in the Third World were discussed by a broad range of participants in their private capacities.
In support of aid coordination and efficiency, the Bank organized fifteen country consultative group meetings during the year,1 and participated in a number of other aid-coordination groups sponsored by other agencies and countries. The Bank also hosted the sixth meeting of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development, a group established in 1981 to coordinate development assistance for the area. The Bank maintains close policy, sectoral, and operational relations with the five regional development banks; their joint annual lending now amounts to about 40 percent of World Bank commitments. The Bank's work with the Islamic Development Bank includes cofinancing of projects and technical training of staff. The World Bank lends to the Caribbean Development Bank for onlending to member countries. With the Inter-American Development Bank, the World Bank has had discussions about lending for population, health, and nutrition. Cooperation between the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank emphasizes economic and sector work, as well as cofinancing. In the last six years, cofinancing with the African Development Bank (AfDB) has reached $247.4 million, covering forty-six projects, and the World Bank continues to provide technical training to AfDB staff.
The Bank attends a number of regional group meetings that address programs of development from an integrated, local perspective. One such forum, which is conducted at the head-of-state level, is the Southern African Development Coordination Conference, now in its third year. The focus of the conference meetings ranges from the need for integrated infrastructure among the nine member countries2 to the recent drought and its effect on the region.
Cooperation with the European Communities was reflected by senior-level consultations with the Commission of the European Communities on development issues: Africa and food security, the prospects of Lome III negotiations, and the economic-policy dialogue with aid-recipient countries. Relations with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development are extensive and substantive, and cooperation extends into areas such as economic modeling, energy, international capital and trade flows, and development-assistance issues. With its representation in the meetings of the OECD's Development Assistance Committee (DAC), the Bank made a special contribution
1 Bangladesh, Colombia, Ghana. India. Kenya. Nepal, Pakistan (two meetings), the Philippines, Somalia. Sri Lanka. Sudan, Uganda, Zaire, and Zambia.
2 Angola, Botswana, Lesotho. Malawi. Mozambique. Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.
on the subject of donor aid coordination at the country and project level—a priority in DAC's work program. The Bank is also active in the OECD's Economic Policy Committee (stressing economic interdependence) and in its Committee on Financial Markets.
Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) have diverse and valuable experiences to share, particularly in the development of the social sectors at the grassroots level. Relations between the Bank and NGOs were much strengthened as a result of the most recent annual meeting (October 1983) of the Bank-NGO Committee held in Tunis, Tunisia. The Committee decided to expand its agenda through the addition of development-policy issues and development education and to expand NGO representation on the Committee by increasing the number of NGOs from developing countries. A Bank-NGO Steering Committee was created to reinforce the continuity of dialogue; the Committee met for the first time in February 1984 to set out its work agenda. Encouraged by positive results of a workshop on education held in Kenya in June 1983, plans have been made for meetings in other sectors and regions. Participants at that workshop included representatives of the Bank, NGOs, and of East African education ministries. A round of Bank-NGO briefings was held during the year on population issues, and a meeting was organized with major NGOs involved in relief programs to discuss coordination of relief and of rehabilitation and reconstruction work after natural or manmade disasters. Education, health, population, and food security are priority areas for the consultations that are being planned for fiscal 1985.
Cooperation in agricultural research. The Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) is an association of countries, private foundations, and multilateral development agencies funding a worldwide network of thirteen international agricultural-research centers.3 Sponsored by the World Bank, the FAO, and the UNDP, the CGIAR was set up in 1971 to coordinate and increase support for international research directed at generating the knowledge and technology developing countries need to produce more food. The CGIAR has grown from a modest start to a substantial enterprise. In 1972, fifteen donors provided $20 million to five centers. In 1984, thirty-eight donor members4 are expected to contribute $182 million to thirteen centers. The World Bank will provide $24.3 million.
Agricultural research is a long-term commitment. It often takes eight to ten years to breed a finished plant variety, and even three to five years to develop improved experimental lines. The two oldest CGIAR centers, which pre-
dated the formation of the Group, have made a well-known and large contribution to the production of wheat and rice in the developing world. Many of the other CGIAR-supported research centers are now over ten years old, and the technologies developed at them are emerging from the research pipeline and are making their way into farmers' fields. Lower production costs per unit of land should result, as well as increased food output, especially in crops like beans, cassava, millet, potato, and sorghum on which the poorer people of the world depend. There was clear evidence in the past year that such results were already occurring in many countries.
In Argentina, for example, black beans are grown on 50,000 hectares. As recently as 1978, none of the varieties could be traced to CIAT, the Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical, in Cali, Colombia. Today, over three quarters of the black beans grown in Argentina are improved CIAT-generated varieties. In all, thirty bean varieties have been developed by CIAT in collaboration with national research programs and released for commercial seed production in eleven Latin American and two African countries. Not only in Argentina, but also in Cuba, Guatemala, and Mexico, the beans have reached the farm level to a significant degree.
One bean variety, in particular, shows great promise: Negro Huasteco 81. Made.available to farmers in Mexico in 1983, Negro Huasteco 81 yields 1,400 kilograms a hectare more than the best local varieties. Almost more important, though, Negro Huasteco 81 has an inbred re-
3 The International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT); the International Potato Center (CIP): the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYTJ: the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources (IBPGR): the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA); the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT): the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI): the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA): the International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases (ILRAD); the International Livestock Centre for Africa (ILCA); the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI); the International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR); and the West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA).
4 Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada. China, Denmark. Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, India. Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia. Spain. Sweden. Switzerland, United Kingdom. United States. African Development Bank. Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, Asian Development Bank. Commission of the European Communities. Inter-American Development Bank, International Fund for Agricultural Development. OPEC Special Fund, United Nations Development Programme, United Nations Enviroment Programme. World Bank, Ford Foundation, International Development Research Centre, Lcvcrhulme Trust, and the Rockefeller Foundation.
As a result of technological developments at CGIAR research centers, crops of cassava (shown here in Nigeria) and of beans, millet, potatoes, and sorghum are increasing.
sistance to golden mosaic, a major bean disease and an obstacle to increased production. Farmers do not have to purchase expensive chemical insecticides and can save thousands of Mexican pesos a hectare.
In 1983, there were also major developments on the African continent. The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) laid the foundation stone of a Sahelian center near Niamey, Niger. The center will focus on millets and groundnuts and their related farming systems. Development of new and reliable high-yielding millets could help raise the standard of living of millions of poor people in drought-stricken areas of Africa. The 500-hectare campus will also serve as a site for regional research by two other CGIAR centers, the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and the International Livestock Centre for Africa (ILCA). In addition, the International Fertilizer Development Center, Texas A&M University (the United States), and the University of Wageningen (the Netherlands) will post scientists at Niamey to conduct research on fertilizer, soil, and water management.
Africa, with its declining food output per capita, is also becoming a major subject of research for the International Food Policy Research In-
stitute (IFPRI). In October 1983, IFPRI organized a major conference on agricultural policy in Africa, held at the University of Zimbabwe. Two thirds of the participants were senior African government and university policymakers. IFPRI is currently working with several African institutions to analyze food-policy implications of the rise of rice and wheat consumption at the expense of traditional coarse grains.
The tragedy of declining food production in Africa is being compounded by heavy damage to cassava harvests inflicted by the mealybug and green spider mite. Cassava is an important staple in much of tropical Africa; it is planted in some areas as an insurance against famine. These two pests, introduced accidentally from Latin America ten years ago, have no natural predators in Africa. Moving at the rate of about 475 kilometers a year, the cassava mealybug already affects an area the size of the continental United States. In 1982, losses due to these pests were estimated at $1.2 billion. IITA is responding to this threat with an aggressive breeding program and an innovative biological project. IITA has identified insect predators, which feed on the mealybug, in Latin America and has brought them to its headquarters in Ibadan, Nigeria, via a quarantine station in England. In 1983, there had been sufficient research prog-
ress for an Africanwide biological-control project to be considered. Field tests showed the predators are effective. IITA, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the Organization of African Unity (OAU), and other donors are now cooperating on this initiative. The project will include mass production of the insect predators and the coordination of their release in affected African countries. The mealybug population is expected to be brought under control within several years.
The World Bank is a major consumer of the new technologies emanating from the international centers in its agricultural projects. In addition to involving the centers in the agricultural-research components of a number of projects, the Bank has made arrangements with several centers to contribute directly to national research programs. In Peru, for example, the three Latin American-based centers are providing staff at the Bank's expense to work on major commodities, and in Ethiopia and Sudan, Bank funds are being provided to strengthen links with the international centers.
Technical Assistance
Technical assistance financed and administered by the Bank consists of two broad categories of services: (a) engineering-related, such as feasibility studies, engineering design, and construction supervision ("hardware") and (b) institution-related, such as diagnostic policy and institutional studies, management support, and training ("software"). In earlier years, the Bank was primarily involved with the first type of activities to ensure the technical quality of projects. Today, there is a greater emphasis on institutional improvements, project-related training, and policy studies. Lately, Bank-financed technical assistance has also focused on improving national economic management within the framework of structural-adjustment loans.
The largest element of technical assistance continues to be that financed under the lending program, particularly as a component of loans for other purposes. Some 90 percent of loans and credits now have some provision for Bank-financed technical assistance. In fiscal 1984, these technical-assistance components totaled $1,093.2 million in 203 operations, compared with $1,275.3 million in 219 operations in fiscal 1983. In addition, fifteen free-standing, technical-assistance loans and credits were approved for a total of $135 million, up from fiscal 1983 comparable figures of seven loans and credits for a total of $52.7 million. Sixty percent of these free-standing loans and credits were for sub-Saharan Africa. Three were primarily to build a pipeline of projects, five were in sup-
port of structural-adjustment lending, and seven were primarily for other institutional-development objectives.
Among the larger amounts of technical assistance financed as components of Bank loans and credits were $32 million in a $95 million power loan to Kenya, $26.9 million in a $40 million railway loan to Zimbabwe, $19.6 million in a rural health credit to China, $41.4 million in a $242.5 million energy loan to India, and $35 million of a $240 million highway loan to Indonesia. Also included in this category are sectoral technical-assistance or engineering loans and credits to Bangladesh, Guinea, Mali, Nigeria, and Zaire in energy; to Colombia, Tunisia, and Upper Volta in industry; to Nepal for power; to the Dominican Republic in transportation; to Senegal for urban development; and to Egypt in water supply and sanitation.
The free-standing technical-assistance loans and credits approved during fiscal 1984 went to Bangladesh ($25 million), Bhutan ($3 million), Burundi ($5.1 million), China ($10 million), Equatorial Guinea ($6 million), Ghana ($17.1 million), Jamaica ($4.5 million), Malawi ($1.5 million), Mauritania ($8.1 million), Mauritius ($5 million), Niger ($11.7 million), Pakistan ($7 million), Panama ($5 million), Senegal ($11 million), and Uganda ($15 million).
Since 1975, the Bank has had a Project Preparation Facility (PPF), created to help overcome weaknesses in borrowers' capacities to complete project preparation and to support the entities responsible for preparing or carrying out projects. Under the facility, the Bank advances funds to meet gaps in project preparation and for institution building. During the past year, advances from the PPF amounted to $32.3 million. At the end of the fiscal year, commitments of the amount of advances refinanced under subsequent loans and credits stood at $72.1 million against a net commitment authority of $99.5 million authorized by the Executive Directors in August 1981.
While the Bank's lending operations, including the PPF, are the major channels for the provision of technical assistance to its member countries, there are a number of other mechanisms that figure prominently in the Bank's overall technical-assistance effort. Among these is the program announced in fiscal 1982 to place and fund up to twenty staff in technical-assistance advisory positions in IDA-eligible countries. Ten advisers were recruited in fiscal 1984, and terms of reference were being prepared for five others.
The Bank continued to serve as executing agency for projects financed by the UNDP. At the end of fiscal 1984. the number in progress stood at 115 for a total allocation of $170.5 mil-
lion, compared with 127 projects with an allocation of $160.4 million at the end of fiscal 1983. Twenty-six new projects, involving commitments of $12.3 million, were approved during the year, down from thirty-three projects involving commitments of $33.1 million approved in fiscal 1983. This decrease reflects the resource constraints under which the UNDP operates.
One of the growing features of the World Bank's association with the UNDP is the frequency with which borrowers from the Bank are combining the proceeds of Bank loans and credits with the grant funds of the UNDP for the financing of technical assistance. By the end of the fiscal year, there had been twenty-nine such arrangements in Bank-executed UNDP projects.
Among the largest new UNDP-financed projects for which the Bank has been designated executing agency are a coal preinvestment study in Colombia and the third phase of a planning project in Sudan. Others include two related to the ongoing Energy Sector Assessment and Management Assistance Programs: one for an energy assessment in Paraguay, the other for the first of four EDI seminars in energy policy for delegations from the Bank's sub-Saharan Africa members.
In the largest of its global/interregional undertakings, the Bank and the UNDP continued the sixty-country Energy Sector Assessment Program, jointly launched by the two organizations in 1980, and the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program, inaugurated in fiscal
1983. The total funds committed for these two projects stood at $8.7 million at the end of the fiscal year. The balance is being sought from other sources in the donor community.
Reimbursable technical assistance. The Bank's technical cooperation is extended to capital-surplus developing countries in the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa region on a reimbursable basis when the annual program exceeds one staffyear of Bank input, such as in the case of Saudi Arabia and Oman, and on a nonreimbursable basis in response to ad hoc requests for programs requiring less than one staffyear, such as in the case of Kuwait. In fiscal
1984, about thirty-two staffyears of reimbursable technical assistance were provided by the Bank.
Saudi Arabia received more than twenty-nine staffyears of reimbursable technical assistance, thus accounting for about 90 percent of the 1984 reimbursable program. The activities were provided to several ministries and agencies and
Educating girls may be one of a country's best investments toward future growth and progress.
Women in Development Issues in Project Design
Agriculture. Although more than half of all agricultural labor is performed by women, the image of the male farmer persists. As a consequence, men are usually the exclusive targets of such inputs as tools, and techniques and information on how to increase productivity. In rural areas from which males have migrated in large numbers in search of work, many farms are managed by women who may not have legal control of the land, or authority or resources to change cropping patterns, and who must also continue performing their household-maintenance tasks. Those responsible for the design of agricultural projects must be aware, therefore, that:
• Any expansion of agricultural lands for the production of cash crops may displace farms worked by women for the production of subsistence crops. Cash-crop expansion may also require from women additional labor for transportation, weeding, and harvesting the cash crop, the income from which goes to men. As for food-crop production, because women are responsible for weeding on the small farms in most countries, expansion of cultivable land, or any increases in land under irrigation, may be beyond the capabilities of women who do much of the work.
• Technological improvements that save labor and improve productivity frequently are directed to tasks that only males perform.
• The commercialization of a crop traditionally grown by women and its transfer to male control alter the balance between male and female economies and frequently affect family nutrition.
• Women may not have the same opportunities as men for financial assistance, such as farming credit. Project designers, therefore, should know, in advance, if women can borrow individually or as members of a cooperative.
• Agricultural services, extension, and other opportunities for training farmers often are avail-
able to female farmers only indirectly through males.
Urban development. There are many legal, economic, and social constraints on women's access to the benefits of urban-development projects. Urban conditions bear hardest on households headed by women, which represent a significant and growing proportion of the poorest urban households. Many women depend on the informal sector for their earnings, which therefore fluctuate, and their earning capacity is limited both by their lack of skills and by their child-care and domestic responsibilities. The location of markets and other services frequently represents a cost in time that the poor cannot afford. The relocation of the poor through urban-development improvements disturbs their survival networks and distances them from markets for their labor.
Transportation. In many countries, women play an important role in the marketing of produce. Because transportation costs are high and tertiary roads and paths are few in number, the method of transport is often limited to carrying goods on the head, and portions of the harvest may not be brought out. On the positive side, therefore, projects that improve access roads reduce the relative isolation of villages and help make services and supplies more easily available—of special benefit to women who are kept secluded and may never leave their villages. Women also engage in a variety of tasks in minor road construction and maintenance. On the negative side, these roads may bring in manufactured goods that displace local income-earning opportunities. Middlemen are better able to purchase produce from males at the farm gate, displacing earnings women collect from their own efforts. Improved transportation conditions and
covered various sectors and subsectors, such as human resources, systems analysis, infrastructure, and engineering. Oman received over two staffyears of assistance, including the services of two field-stationed specialists, mainly for establishing a manpower-planning department in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor.
The Bank also provided nonreimbursable technical assistance to Kuwait in the form of a general economic review and assistance in manpower planning.
Women in Development
Women tend to be economically invisible. Their activities directed at the maintenance of the family are not valued. Their subsistence or cash contributions as family workers are not
separately accounted for. As many of their income-earning activities are "own-account" and are in the informal sector, they, too, escape valuation for national accounts. Further, the productivity of many of these efforts is low, in part, because failure to recognize their economic contribution implies failure to consider factors such as women's need for training, tools, or credit.
In recent years, awareness that what happens to women is important to the process of development has increased. In particular, development practitioners have become aware that women's status influences three major determinants of development.
1. The extent to which returns on developmental investments are maximized. Experience indi-
changed marketing patterns may change agricultural production and its labor demands.
Water supply and sanitation. In areas where piped water supply is not available, fetching water is a task usually assigned to women, who are assisted by their children. The quantity of water available for the use of the family is determined by distance (and time) and the capacity of women to carry it. Women must also carry water for needs other than for immediate family use: Water is needed for certain agricultural tasks, food processing at the household level (soaking and parboiling rice, for instance), and for watering livestock—especially small animals for which women usually have sole responsibility. These uses are frequently overlooked in planning the location of water supplies.
Morbidity and mortality related to parasitic and other infections originating from impure water, improper food handling and hygiene practices, inadequate latrines, and the lack of insect and rodent control are extensive in the developing world. Responsibility for proper sanitation and for the inculcation of healthy habits in the young also falls within the women's sphere of responsibility.
Population, health, and nutrition. An important set of variables that affects fertility rates and thus overall population growth relates to women. The level of women's educational attainment is strongly associated with rates of fertility. Better employment prospects and increased economic autonomy for women are also related to the reduction of fertility. Women derive status, security, and insurance against the time in the future when they can no longer work from bearing children, whose labor may also be significant to the family economy. Decisions on family size are usually determined by males.
The provision of primary health care is essentially a multisectoral activity. Women play important roles in many of the key interrelated activities affecting health and nutrition: water supply and environmental sanitation; food production, preparation, and nutrition management; and provision of front-line health care and traditional medicine.
Women have particular health problems and morbidity patterns that are related both to cultural constraints and to the household environment. Their health and nutritional status affects that of their infants, as well; high rates of infant and early childhood mortality are associated with high fertility rates.
Education. There has been substantial investment in education in developing countries. Most developing countries seek to achieve universal primary education, and evidence indicates that educating girls may be one of the best investments a country can make towards its future growth and progress. Nonetheless, two thirds of the world's illiterates are women who, in many countries, only complete, with erratic attendance, the equivalent of two or three years of primary schooling. Children's educational attainment is related more to the education level of their mothers than fathers.
Factors affecting girls' access to education include: the social requirements for sex segregation and that girls be taught by female teachers; parental unwillingness to allow girls past the age of puberty to walk long distances to school; attitudes of parents towards the value of educating girls; and the opportunity cost to the family of child labor, especially of girls, which is required for family survival.
cates that project objectives will not be realized in cases in which their design does not take account of the economic and social realities of the project population, including women. Thus:
• The goal of universal primary education is thwarted, and investment in education is wasted, when school places are unused because a large proportion of the school-age population (girls) is not permitted to attend;
• Improvements in agricultural productivity that stem from provisions of potable water will not be attained when women, who have the main responsibility for providing a family's water, still collect, transport (often over long distances), and store it in dirty vessels.
2. The rate of population growth. Evidence exists that there are correlations between fertil-
ity and the situation of women. Thus:
• The lower the level of education, the higher the rate of fertility;
• The lower the threshold of economic well-being, the higher the rate of fertility;
• The greater the likelihood of an urban residence, the lower the rate of fertility;
• The higher the labor-force participation of women, the lower the rate of fertility.
3. 77ze relationship of social equity to economic growth. Designing development strategies to benefit the poorest groups requires a knowledge of who the target group is and an understanding of how interventions can be made to work. Thus:
• In the poverty target groups, households headed by women — they number from one
fourth to one third of the total worldwide and are increasing—are among the poorest;
• Sociocultural factors limit women's ability to take advantage of new opportunities.
The Bank's approach to the issue of the role of women in development has been an integral part of its development strategy which, starting in the early 1970s, has called for investments to be designed that directly contribute to the well-being of the masses of poor people in developing countries by making them more productive and by integrating them, as active partners, into the development process. The Bank, therefore, tries to ensure that staff are aware of the roles of women in the project area that are relevant to the objectives of the project. Staff are asked to consider the impact of project interventions on women and to determine, to the best of their ability, how those interventions might affect project goals. Projects are tailored to:
• Prevent effects that are detrimental to women—for example, where the process of individualized titling to land discriminates against women;
• Create opportunities for women to participate and share in project benefits—for example, by making appropriate provisions within loans and credits for the generation of income:
• Respond to women's needs and to make use of their capacities—for example, by recog-
nizing the particular health problems of women, and by upgrading the skills and status of traditional female health personnel; and
• Address the problems posed by potential limitations on women's access to funds and services—for example, by recognizing that, in certain cultures, they must be delivered within the narrow sphere of relationships permitted to women.
Efforts are also made to ensure that these operational concerns arc brought to bear on other Bank work that contributes to the data base for lending operations; such work might include general economic studies of countries and of the performance and potential of particular sectors, Bank-financed research, and staff-development programs.
It is the responsibility of all Bank staff to deal with the problems of women in development in sensitive and creative ways. Since 1977. staff have been aided in this effort by an Adviser on Women in Development, who holds a position within the Bank's operations policy staff (OPS). The adviser assists in focusing attention on the subject, promoting an understanding of the issues involved and ways of dealing with them in the context of the Bank's work and of the local conditions in which the Bank operates.
The efforts of the past seven years have resulted in improved methodology for policy and
project analysis, as well as an improved data base. Many projects have now reached the stage at which the effectiveness of these efforts and the extent to which women, in fact, are benefiting can be analyzed. Such analysis requires increased attention to the methodology for impact analysis and the development of indicators for this purpose. This has been an area of concentration in the fiscal 1984 work program, which has included organization of project data to facilitate the implementation of reviews, evaluation of selected projects in five countries (in Rwanda, the Mutara Agriculture and Livestock Project; in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, the Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project; in Indonesia, the East Java Province Irrigation Project; in Haiti, the First Education Project; and in Jamaica, the Jamaica Sites and Services Project), and analysis of how issues of women in development are reflected in the supervision/implementation reports of some cofinanced projects.
Sector reports are reviewed as a basis for discussing women's roles in the sector and highlighting issues, resulting from the sectoral analysis, that will be relevant to the formulation of projects. Research studies are also carried out. These have included topics such as the implications of technology choice on the status of women, sectoral reviews (forestry projects and their impact on women, for example), and country reviews, which examine aspects of women's situation that are related to particular
lending programs (employment opportunities for rural women in Bangladesh, for instance).
The Bank is documenting its experience in this field during the International Decade for the Advancement of Women, which ends in 1985. As with other areas, the lessons learned will be used to guide the work program for future years and improve performance in this aspect of Bank work in order to ensure that the quality of project work will be enhanced through the recognition of women's contribution to the development process.
The Bank's concern with the implications of its activities for women complements efforts for the advancement of women by other organizations and individuals, nationally and internationally. Active liaison with multilateral and bilateral agencies helps ensure their support for the Bank's efforts in cofinanced projects, including the monitoring of projects as they arc implemented. These agencies, as well as nongovernmental organizations, can sometimes also provide funds for activities which, although not formally a part of a Bank project, improve women's chances of benefiting from one. Some of these activities can be implemented concurrently with a Bank project, such as technical assistance to help women entrepreneurs make efficient use of small industry credits; others can be implemented in anticipation of a Bank project (leadership training to help women contribute to community motivation, for example).
Bank Finances
Financial developments during fiscal year 1984 included variable-rate borrowings by the IBRD through a new Central Bank Facility (CBF); the IBRD's first offerings of floating-rate notes, amounting to $400 million; and further diversification of markets through first-time borrowings of European Currency Units (a composite currency unit) and Luxembourg francs and the re-entry into the Canadian domestic market after a twelve-year absence. In addition, there were expanded use of short-term discount notes and substantial use of currency swaps.
Income, Expenditures, and Reserves: IBRD
The IBRD's gross revenues, generated primarily from its loans and investments, reached a total of $4,655 million in fiscal 1984, up $422 million, or 10 percent, from last year. Gross revenues have risen steadily during the last decade as loan and investment balances have continued to expand.
The outstanding loan portfolio totaled $37,840 million at the end of the fiscal year, an increase of $4,093 million over fiscal 1983. The average interest rate on outstanding loans during the year was 8.2 percent, producing income of $2,962 million. In addition, commitment charges on undisbursed loan balances produced $240 million, and front-end fees earned on new loans, $34 million. Altogether, the income on loans was $3,236 million, for a rate of return on average loans outstanding of 9.0 percent. In fiscal 1983, the average interest rate was 7.9 percent, interest income was $2,487 million, commitment charges were $213 million, and front-end fees were $97 million, for a total of $2,797 million—an 8.9 percent rate of return on average loans outstanding.
Under the pool-based variable-rate lending system, applicable to loans for which invitations to negotiate were sent after July 1, 1982, the lending rate is adjusted semi-annually, on January 1 and July 1, by adding a spread of 0.50 percent to the IBRD's average cost during the prior six months of a "pool" of borrowings. Borrowing costs for the pool continued to decline. On July 1, 1983, the lending rate was reduced from 10.97 percent to 10.47 percent. On January 1, 1984, the rate declined to 10.08 percent,
and on July 1, 1984, it was reset at 9.89 percent. The variable-rate lending system has enabled the IBRD to make substantial progress in reducing the "overhang" of undisbursed loans carrying fixed-rate disbursement obligations, which might differ markedly from the actual cost of financing the disbursements on such loans.
In fiscal 1984, the Executive Directors raised the authorized ceiling on discount notes outstanding. The notes may have maturities of up to one year. They are sold at a discount from par, which accounts for the return on the investment. Also authorized, with a $750 million ceiling, was a new Central Bank Facility, which was designed to accept funds with a one-year maturity from official sources, in particular, central banks. At June 30, 1984, outstanding discount notes totaled $2,000 million, and the CBF deposits totaled $749 million.
The objectives of the short-term borrowing program (discount notes and the Central Bank Facility) are to achieve additional financial flexibility by gaining access to the growing markets for short-term instruments and their diverse customers and to reduce the overall cost of funds through lower-cost dollar borrowings. The IBRD's discount notes have been widely accepted as a premier credit and generally have been sold and traded competitively within the price range for the highest quality short-term securities. The IBRD's average cost of discount-note borrowings during fiscal 1984 was 290 basis points lower than the cost of the alternative borrowing— intermediate-term US-dollar bond issues.
The IBRD issued floating-rate notes (FRNs) for the first time in the second half of the fiscal year. These are not short-term notes, but, typically, have longer maturities—five, ten, or fifteen years. While usually the interest rates on FRNs are reset at regular intervals and are set at fixed spreads over LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) or a similar banking benchmark, the initial two IBRD FRNs, totaling $400 million, were priced, instead, at spreads over the substantially less volatile three-month US Treasury-bill rate. One of these floating-rate note issues was in the Eurodollar market, and the other was in the US domestic market.
The IBRD aims to maintain a liquid position of short-term assets equal to 40 percent to 45 percent of its estimated net cash requirements over the next three years. This liquidity policy is designed to ensure flexibility in the IBRD's borrowing decisions and to permit it to meet adequately its cash requirements in case borrowing operations are temporarily affected by adverse conditions in the capital markets. At June 30, 1984, liquid assets aggregated $14,869 million net of commitments for settlements and cash collateral received on loaned securities, an increase of $1,673 million over June 30, 1983. The IBRD invests its liquid assets throughout the year. In fiscal 1984, these investments yielded an average realized rate of return of 9.95 percent and generated $1,399 million of investment income, compared with 12.15 percent and $1,417 million in fiscal 1983.
The IBRD's security-loan program grew during the past fiscal year. This program produced about $14 million in additional income in fiscal 1984, and a total of over $44 million since its inception in January 1982. Under the program, the IBRD lends its securities to primary security dealers and to the Federal Reserve system for its open-market operations. Each of these security loans is secured by collateral of at least equal market value delivered to the IBRD by the borrower. If the collateral is another security, then the IBRD earns a fee on the transaction. If cash is given as collateral, the IBRD earns income by reinvesting this cash in the money markets. Legal agreements covering these transactions with a select group of primary dealers further guarantee the safety of these security loans.
An additional $20 million of revenues was derived from other income.
Expenditures of the IBRD, which include administrative expenses, interest, contributions to special programs, and issuance costs on borrowings, totaled $4,054 million, up 16 percent from the previous year. Costs associated with the IBRD's borrowings—interest of $3,638 million and bond-issuance charges and other financial expenses of $54 million—were by far the major expenditures. Administrative costs totaled $330 million, up $8 million, after deducting $249 million for the management fee charged to the International Development Association and $3.1 million for the service-and-support fee charged to the International Finance Corporation.
Net income for fiscal 1984 was $600 million, down $152 million from the year before. The 20 percent decrease was anticipated, since the previous year's net income was primarily a result of very high returns on the IBRD's liquidity. Another cause was reductions in the front-end fee
on new loans to 0.25 percent. Factors that continued to contribute to the IBRD's net income were: the IBRD's substantial access to low-cost currencies, which is discussed under "Borrowings" in this section; the expansion of the discount-note program and initiation of the Central Bank Facility; and positive spreads on the IBRD's liquidity at rates higher than both the cost of its outstanding debt and its cost of new borrowings during the fiscal year.
During fiscal 1984, $316 million was added to the General Reserve of the IBRD, bringing the total to $3,450 million. Of the $752 million in net income earned in fiscal 1983, $200 million was allocated by the Board of Governors as a grant to IDA; the remaining $552 million was allocated to the General Reserve.
The IBRD does not trade in any currencies for its own account. Adjustments arising from translation of currencies to US-dollar equivalents do not result in realized gains or losses as would occur with actual conversions into US dollars. Because of this, the General Reserve, rather than net income, is charged or credited annually with the amount of adjustment resulting from currency depreciation or appreciation. In fiscal 1984, the translation of currencies into US-dollar equivalents resulted in a debit to the General Reserve of $265 million, compared with $191 million debited in fiscal 1983.
When gold was formally abolished in 1978 as a common denominator of the monetary system, the IBRD began expressing its capital, for purposes of the financial statements, on the basis of the special drawing right (SDR). As a result, the portion paid in US dollars and the national currency portion of the capital subscriptions released by certain member countries for lending in US dollars are revalued at the rate of exchange of the US dollar to the SDR. The adjustment resulting from this revaluation is also charged against, or credited to, the General Reserve. In fiscal 1984, these adjustments resulted in a credit to the General Reserve of $29 million, compared with $22 million credited in fiscal 1983.
Other Financial Operations: IBRD
As of June 30, 1984, the IBRD held $76,365 million of loans. This amount included $8,494 million of loans that had been approved but had not yet become effective and $866 million of loans to the International Finance Corporation. Loans disbursed and outstanding totaled $37,840 million, including $548 million to the International Finance Corporation.
Disbursements on loans to countries totaled $8,580 million in fiscal 1984. up $1,763 million from fiscal 1983. This increase resulted in part from measures adopted under the Special Ac-
tion Program that were designed to accelerate disbursements to countries to ensure timely implementation of high-priority projects. Since the IBRD began operations, it has disbursed a total of $59,785 million to its borrowing member countries.
Repayments of principal on the IBRD's loans, based on the exchange rates at the time of disbursement, amounted to $2,702 million in fiscal 1984. This included $11 million to investors who had purchased portions of loans. Cumulative loan repayments as of June 30, 1984, were $19,090 million: $16,130 million to the IBRD and $2,960 million to purchasers of loans.
Borrowings: IBRD
Borrowings in international capital markets provide a major portion of the funds necessary for the continued growth of the IBRD's lending operations and are supplemented by the other principal financial resources of the IBRD, which are its paid-in capital, accumulated earnings, and loan repayments. Total borrowings by the IBRD in fiscal 1984, including incremental discount notes outstanding on June 30, 1984, amounted to the equivalent of $9,831 million. While this amount of borrowings was some $461 million under fiscal 1983 totals, it does not include refinancing of some $1,501 million in discount notes that were outstanding at the end of fiscal 1983.
During the fiscal year, the IBRD continued to engage in numerous currency-hedged transactions, commonly referred to as currency swaps. These transactions are viewed as a means of increasing the IBRD's access to low nominal-cost currencies. In fiscal 1984, the IBRD executed forty-four currency-swap transactions aggregating $1,299 million; $893 million was swapped into Swiss francs, $306 million into Deutsche mark, $59 million into Netherlands guilders, and $41 million into Austrian schillings. From the beginning of fiscal 1982, the IBRD has engaged in currency-swap transactions which, by the end of fiscal 1984, aggregated $3,788 million.
Swaps have been employed to lower the costs of funds available for its lending operations. They have enabled the IBRD to increase its access to low nominal-cost currencies beyond that which would have been available through direct borrowing operations. Swaps have also enabled the IBRD to broaden the base of its direct borrowing operations by permitting it to tap a wider range of capital markets and currencies than it would otherwise have done on cost considerations alone. For example, the availability of swap opportunities was an important consideration in the decision to borrow in the
European Currency Unit market and in the Canadian-dollar market. Moreover, swaps have allowed the IBRD to obtain currencies at costs significantly lower than those available through direct market borrowings. Between fiscal years 1982 and 1984, the IBRD was able to swap out of currencies with an average nominal interest rate of 12.9 percent into currencies with a nominal cost of 7.3 percent.
The IBRD sells its securities through direct placement with governments, government agencies, and central banks, and in the public markets where securities are offered to investors through investment-banking firms, merchant banks, or commercial banks. Of the ninety-four medium-term and long-term borrowing operations that the IBRD conducted during fiscal 1984, seventy-one were public issues or private placements throughout the
world and accounted for $6,502 million, or 66 percent, of the total amount of funds borrowed. The other medium-term and long-term issues, totaling $2,072 million, or 21 percent of the funds raised, were placed with official sources, namely, member governments of the IBRD, central banks, and government institutions. Short-term borrowings outstanding on June 30, 1984, totaled $2,749 million: $2,000 million in market borrowings of discount notes, an increase of $499 million over the amount outstanding at the end of fiscal 1983, and $749 million in official borrowings through the Central Bank Facility. These increases accounted for 13 percent of the fiscal year's total borrowing program.
The IBRD's securities have been placed with investors in more than 100 countries in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, and North and South America. This diversity allows the IBRD flexibility in selecting the markets that will allow optimum borrowing conditions and lessens its dependence on any specific market.
The $9,831 million borrowed by the IBRD in fiscal 1984, including $1,248 million of incremental short-term obligations outstanding on June 30, 1984, consisted of the currencies listed in the table on this page. Of these borrowings, $8,251 million represented new funds, and $1,580 million represented refinancing of outstanding medium-term and long-term borrowings.
A total of $2,544 million equivalent of debt, not including short-term notes, matured during the year. Additional debt, not including short-term notes, aggregating $113 million, was retired by means of sinking-fund and purchase-fund operations.
Outstanding obligations of the IBRD increased $5,622 million to $45,029 million as of June 30, 1984. These obligations were denominated in twenty different currencies or currency-units. A summary classification of outstanding borrowings by currency at June 30, 1984, is set forth in Appendix E of the IBRD Financial Statements.
Borrowing Costs: IBRD
The cost of total new borrowings by the IBRD in the fiscal year, weighted by amount, was 8.42 percent. The average cost of all funds to the IBRD, including paid-in capital and retained earnings, was 7.44 percent. The cost of the IBRD's average outstanding borrowings was 8.70 percent.
The cost, after currency swaps, of the IBRD's average outstanding borrowings for each of the past six fiscal years is summarized in Table 3-6 on page 76.
331,500 shares; this provided for a paid-in portion of 7.5 percent, compared with the 10 percent paid-in portion of previously existing capital stock. Subscribing members are required to pay 0.75 percent of the subscription price in gold or United States dollars and 6.75 percent in their respective currencies. The Governors also adopted a resolution that increased the authorized capital stock by an additional 33,500 shares (representing a further increase of approximately $4,000 million) and that authorized each member to subscribe to 250 shares of this
Capitalization
The capital stock of the IBRD and the subscriptions thereto of its members are expressed, under the Articles of Agreement, in terms of the United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944 (1944 dollars). Until 1971, the current United States dollar had the same value as the 1944 dollar and the special drawing right (SDR), which was instituted in 1969. In 1972, the current dollar value of the 1944 dollar and the SDR increased to $1.08571, and in 1973, to $1.20635, as a result of devaluations of the dollar. Until mid 1974, both the 1944 dollar and the SDR continued to be valued in gold and had the same gold value. Thus, on July 1, 1974, the value of the SDR, expressed in terms of United States dollars, was SI.20635, which was the equivalent of one 1944 dollar.
Since July 1, 1974, when a valuation method for the SDR that was based on a number of major currencies was adopted, the value of the SDR has fluctuated daily against the US dollar. The current dollar value of the 1944 dollar, on the other hand, was deemed to remain fixed at the rate established bv the US par-value legislation of 1973.
Since the effectiveness on April 1. 1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), currencies no longer have par values, and the basis for translating the 1944 dollar into current United States dollars no longer exists. The IBRD is examining the implication of this change on the valuation of its capital stock and the impact it will have on its financial statements.
For purposes of its primary financial statements, the IBRD has expressed the value of its capital stock on the basis of the SDR in terms of United States dollars as computed bv the IMF on June 30, 1984 ($1.03121 per SDR).
On January 4, 1980. the IBRD's Board of Governors adopted a resolution that increased the authorized capital stock of the IBRD by
additional capital, none of which had to be paid in. Increases in subscriptions authorized by the terms of these resolutions amounted to SDR20.674.8 million as of June 30, 1984.
On May 24, 1984, the Executive Directors approved a resolution to authorize a selective capital increase (SCI) of 70,000 shares representing about $8,400 million. The closing date for the subscription period is December 31, 1986.
The resolution represented a compromise. On the question of size, the increase is larger than the minimum needed to adjust the position of countries whose quotas in the IMF increased by more than the average. On the other hand, the increase is smaller than that which would be needed to mirror fully the changes in the IMF in the relative position of all member countries. The principal justification for the size of this SCI is the fact that it was generally acceptable to member countries, whereas both smaller and larger increases would not have commanded such a consensus.
Issues related to the SCI will be addressed and resolved separately—some in the near future and others in conjunction with the next general capital increase. These include the aggregate voting power of the developing countries, the linkage between the size of the IBRD's capital base and its level of lending, the prospects for completing the allocation (which would permit full parallelism with the IMF's Eighth Review of Quotas), and the exercise of preemptive voting rights.
Capital subscribed during fiscal 1984 is shown in Table 3-7.
On June 30, 1984, the authorized capital stock of the IBRD stood at SDR71,650 million; its subscribed capital was SDR54,315 million.
Finances: IDA
The International Development Association (IDA) held a total of $31,557 million in credits on June 30, 1984, including $2,204 million approved but not yet effective. Of the $29,353 million of effective credits, $9,629 million was undisbursed at the end of the year.
Disbursements totaled $2,524 million (including disbursements from the IDA Special Fund) in fiscal 1984, compared with $2,596 million in fiscal 1983. As of June 30, 1984, IDA had disbursed a total of $20,263 million since the start of its operations.
The resources provided to IDA increased $3,131 million in the period, primarily from subscriptions and contributions to the sixth replenishment and the FY84 Account, which aggregated $3,007 million. The value of resources provided by members in prior fiscal years decreased by $318 million, mostly the result of currency depreciations. The IBRD granted $200 million to IDA from its fiscal 1983 net income.
Other resources that became available to IDA during the fiscal year totaled $242 million, and were derived primarily from releases by Part II countries and grant participation in, cancellations of, and repayments on credits.
Financial Statements in SDRs
A summary of the financial position and results of operations of the IBRD and IDA, expressed in terms of SDRs, is presented below. Comprehensive financial statements in English, French, and Spanish for both the IBRD and IDA, expressed in terms of SDRs, are available upon request from the Secretary's Department.
Chapter Four
1984 Regional Perspectives
Eastern Africa
The economic crisis in the countries of the Eastern Africa region, detailed in the Annual Reports of recent years, continued largely unabated during the past fiscal year. Per capita income declined in the region as a whole and dropped substantially in a number of countries. Exogenous factors, as usual, played their part in contributing to these declines; but, most cruelly, what may turn out to be, for several countries, the worst period of drought in this century deepened the difficulties of the year.
In addition, the economic recovery that is taking place in some industrial countries did little to help improve the region's export prices and earnings, and the stagnation of official development assistance (ODA)' and reduced access to private financial markets resulted in a contraction in the volume of imports, with resulting adverse effects on capacity utilization and growth. Efforts to reform domestic policy
intensified in a number of countries, but the bleak climate of both trade and aid represented a major obstacle against the implementation of adjustment policies that might lead to growth in production and expansion of exports. During the year, there was some faltering in the rate of growth of production and exports in several countries—Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Somalia, Sudan, and Uganda.
Recent Developments
Of the eleven countries that account for over 90 percent of the region's population and gross
1 ODA includes concessional aid flows from countries that are members of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), and multilateral institutions.
domestic product (GDP), only five (Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Somalia, and Uganda) posted GDP growth of 3 percent or higher in 1983. Population growth rates at nearly the same level, or, in the case of Kenya, exceeding it, meant that per capita GDP growth was almost nil or even negative. In three countries—Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—real GDP declined for a second consecutive year. Sudan suffered a decline in GDP after two consecutive years of growth; the economies of Madagascar and Zaire continued to stagnate. The prolonged drought, which began in the 1981/82 crop season in southern Africa, has most severely affected Botswana, Lesotho, and Zimbabwe. Rainfall in the 1982/83 crop season was 60 percent below normal in those countries; crop losses are estimated to be between 40 percent and 80 percent, and the drought's toll on all sectors of the economy and on public revenues has been severe. Livestock losses were substantial in Botswana; Lesotho currently depends heavily on food aid; Zimbabwe's cereal production fell from 3.4 million tons in 1981 to 1.4 million tons in 1983, and, for the first time, maize had to be imported. In fact, all three countries, as well as Swaziland, will have to rely on substantial grain imports in 1984 to feed their populations. Zambia, too, particularly its commercial farmland, has been affected by the
drought, as have parts of Ethiopia. The drought also caused a substantial decline in the production of hydroelectricity in Zambia and Zimbabwe, and thermal power generation had to be reduced drastically in Botswana and Swaziland because of a shortage of cooling water.
In the southern belt of Africa, only Malawi remained unaffected by the drought; it became a grain exporter to its neighbors during the year. The rest of the region, with one exception, had a normal crop year: Kenya had a larger-than-usual harvest, permitting grain exports to African countries.
The beginnings of economic recovery in the industrial countries did not bring about a general increase in the prices of the region's major export commodities:
• The average price (in current dollars) of copper in 1983 rose 7.5 percent above the 1982 level, but remained substantially below prices prevailing in the period 1979-81.
• Cobalt fetched, at best, half the price obtained in recent years.
• The price of coffee was below that in 1982 or any year during the period 1976-80. Copper, cobalt, and coffee account for over half of the region's exports.
The prices of cotton, sugar, and hides and skins were higher than those in 1982—a year of particularly depressed prices—but were lower
At work on the highway between Embu and Mem in Kenya. A joint Bank-ILO study has led to improved labor-intensive methods of road building.
than prices during the period 1979-81. Tea and tobacco were the only regional exports (accounting for less than 10 percent of total exports) that posted price increases in 1983 over levels prevailing during the past several years. Tea prices increased substantially, mainly the result of a cutback by India of tea exports; Kenya, therefore, raised both production and exports. At one point during the past fiscal year, tea prices had risen to a level 21 percent higher than in 1982, but, by the end of February 1984, prices fell sharply, eroding much of the gains.
Overall, while the estimated weighted export-price index of the region was roughly the same as in 1982, it was 20 percent lower than the average for 1978-80. Thus, the region's 1983 export earnings in current dollars were no higher than in 1982, and were again much lower than in 1980 or 1981. There was, however, diversity in country experience. Export earnings of Somalia and Sudan have increased for two years in a row. Those of Madagascar, Malawi, Tanzania, and Zimbabwe have decreased during the past two years. After two consecutive years of decline, earnings improved in Ethiopia, Kenya, Zaire, and Zambia. Uganda's earnings declined slightly in 1983 following a major increase in the previous year.
Led by a substantial (13 percent) drop in the price of petroleum, the region's estimated import-price index fell by about 5 percent in 1983, while the aggregate value of imports fell by 9 percent, indicating a reduction in the volume of imports. The region's aggregate current-account deficit was also in substantial decline, reflecting the scarcity of external finance to cover deficits. The net inflow of long-term and medium-term loans to the region increased by less than $500 million; excluding Sudan, whose net inflows increased by about $1 billion, there was an actual decrease in the net inflow to the region as a whole. Because of increasingly severe financial constraints, import volumes declined sharply in Madagascar, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Shortages of imported inputs and essential consumer goods remain acute in a number of countries, with adverse effects on growth of output and production for export.
The region's external debt increased further in 1983. Despite the high proportion of external financing in the form of ODA, the burden of debt is both heavy and on the increase. A number of countries continue to find it difficult to service debt while trying to maintain a minimum required level of imports. Six of eleven major countries—Madagascar, Malawi, Sudan,
Uganda, Zaire, and Zambia—had their debt rescheduled during the past two years.
Adjustment Efforts and the Outlook
In the last year or two, there has been a turnaround in the willingness of governments to reconsider domestic economic policies. Major efforts have been made to implement financial-stabilization policies and to design adjustment policies that aim at renewed growth. This is particularly true in the case of Madagascar, Somalia, Zaire, and Zambia. In some other countries, notably Kenya, Malawi, Sudan, and Uganda, these efforts were begun even earlier.
In several countries, some progress has been made toward financial stabilization. During the past year, budget deficits and balance-of-pay-ments deficits as a proportion of GDP declined in Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Sudan, Uganda, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. These achievements have not been without cost: Investment and per capita consumption have declined. These declines were the result of many factors, and they were exacerbated by the fact that efforts at stabilization were undertaken during a time when the external economic environment was especially difficult. In the case of Zimbabwe, stabilization efforts were hindered by the prolonged drought, which had the effect of reducing exports and public revenues and increasing the need for imports and public expenditures. Stabilization policies moderated rates of inflation in most countries of the region. Only in Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire was the rate of inflation 30 percent or higher during the year just ended.
Some progress has also been made in restructuring the incentive system through adjustments in exchange-rate and pricing policies. Several countries—notably Burundi, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—corrected serious distortions in their exchange rates; Madagascar and Tanzania also made some adjustment. Others—Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Somalia, Sudan, Uganda, and Zaire—experimented with a dual exchange rate that consisted of an official rate and a free-market rate; in February 1984, however, Zaire adopted a single floating rate against the US dollar. Agricultural producer prices have been liberalized (Zaire) or substantially raised in most countries in the past eighteen months. Many countries have also decontrolled prices of a number of products and have eliminated or reduced budgetary subsidies. These measures have had the effect of considerably reducing the underpricing of foreign exchange, increasing farmers' incentives to produce crops for both domestic and export markets, and helping correct price distortions. The structure of incentives, whereby the alloca-
tion of resources is influenced in ways that foster increased production in agriculture and industry and reduce amounts to the services sector, has also been improved to some extent.
Several countries have taken steps to improve public-resource management, particularly through the preparation and implementation of their resource-constrained public-investment programs. Greater attention is being paid to setting priorities for the rehabilitation and fuller utilization of existing capacity in agriculture and industry and to eliminating infrastructural bottlenecks. A beginning has also been made in improving the efficiency of parastatal organizations, as more and more governments come to the realization that their public sector has been overextended. In several countries— Madagascar, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire—the role of agricultural parastatals has been both redefined and reduced in varying degrees. Madagascar is experimenting with management contracts with the private sector; Zaire is "privatizing" a number of public enterprises; Tanzania is conducting investigations into high parastatal costs; and a Bank-financed study of parastatal performance is under way in Uganda.
In these and other adjustment efforts, the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) continued to play important roles in carrying out policy dialogue, conducting relevant analytical work, and providing financial support for policy changes through stand-by credits (the IMF) and project loans and credits (the Bank). Structural-adjustment loans have been approved for Kenya, Malawi, and Mauritius. But the Bank's financial support for policy reform is not channeled only through lending for structural adjustment; because of the serious administrative and political constraints that limit extensive economywide structural-adjustment programs, the Bank has extended quick-disbursing sector and subsector rehabilitation credits in a number of countries to support important sectoral and certain macro policy reforms. Credits for reconstruction (Uganda), agricultural rehabilitation (Sudan), and a loan for export rehabilitation and development (Zambia) are a few recent examples. Even in project financing, the Bank is placing greater emphasis on sectoral policy reforms (examples include the elimination of input subsidies and movements to a rational pricing regime in a cotton and a rice project, respectively, in Madagascar.)
During the past year, the Bank also played a leading role in organizing Consultative Group meetings for Kenya, Somalia, Sudan, Uganda, and Zaire. In each case, the meeting had as its aim the building of a consensus on development priorities and financial needs, the mobilization
of financial support of donors for programs initiated by governments, and an improvement of aid coordination around public-investment programs that focus on high-priority areas.
Initial results, as measured by increases in production and exports in a number of countries—Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Somalia, Sudan, and Uganda—seem to provide evidence of some success for these policy-reform efforts. However, the beginnings of economic recovery in Somalia, Sudan, and Uganda have not so far made up for the many years of economic decline. In Kenya, numerous factors, including a shortage of foreign exchange, are inhibiting the implementation of reforms of the country's protective trade and industrial policy that are designed to improve the structure of industrial incentives. Mauritius also faces a difficult task in stimulating industrial production and exports and diversifying agricultural production.
In order to sustain economic recovery and growth, more remains to be done in implementing reforms of restrictive agricultural pricing and marketing policies and highly protectionist trade and industrial policies. Initiatives in these areas are expected to become stronger and include more countries in the coming years. The Bank's assistance through structural-adjustment and other policy-related lending, as well as through public-investment review and aid coordination, will also be strengthened. However, the experience to date of efforts at policy reform indicates that external economic circumstances are now a major constraint to any recovery and growth. Because adverse economic circumstances undermine attempts to expand exports, policy adjustments have so far only mitigated, not reversed, the economic deterioration in the countries of the region.
The adverse trade environment of Eastern African countries is unlikely to be reversed radically in the 1980s. The current economic recovery in Canada, Japan, and the US has not yet been matched in Europe. Nor are price prospects of Eastern Africa's export commodities bright. Even under optimistic assumptions about economic recovery in the industrial countries, prices of copper, coffee, cobalt, cotton, and sugar are not expected to increase in real terms by the late 1980s; in fact, they are likely to be lower than those prevailing in 1980 and about 15 percent to 20 percent lower than they were in the 1960s. As these commodities represent over two thirds of the region's exports, there is little prospect of any rapid expansion— as occurred in the 1960s—of traditional exports. While efforts are and should be made to diversify exports, the areas into which diversification might take place are not easy to identify, and market entry is difficult in times when
world trade is expanding slowly, if at all. Diversification of a very narrow export base is a particularly formidable task for the least developed countries of the region. In the years to come, the countries of the region, in all probability, will still be in search of an engine of growth. Increases in external financial support on relatively concessional terms are thus critical for the implementation of policy reforms and for a resumption of growth. In this context, the recent stagnation of ODA levels is a matter of serious concern.
Crucial Need for ODA
Official development assistance has played a central role in the development of Eastern Africa. During the past two decades, especially during the 1970s—a decade of growing balance-of-payments deficits—net disbursements of ODA to the countries of Eastern Africa increased briskly and accounted for most of the total net capital inflow. In current dollars, ODA to the region increased from $503 million in 1970 to $4.4 billion in 1980, or by 12.5 percent a year in real terms. ODA accounted for about 71 percent of total net capital inflows (excluding short-term borrowing) in 1975, 74 percent in 1978, and 78 percent in 1980; the rest was accounted for by commercial loans and a small amount of net private foreign investment. Several, mostly low-income, countries (Burundi, the Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Lesotho, Malawi, Rwanda, Somalia, and Tanzania, for instance) depended almost entirely on ODA for net capital inflows.
When the trade deficits of Eastern African countries rose sharply in 1974, as large increases in import (especially oil) prices exceeded the rise in export prices in the prevailing commodity boom, the international community responded to the urgent need for external finance: Member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) increased their aid considerably between 1973 and 1975; OPEC members did the same; the multilateral development agencies increased their commitments; and the IMF arranged oil facilities. Thus, between 1973 and 1975, ODA to Eastern Africa increased by 73 percent in real terms, and compensated, to a large extent, for the loss in terms of trade suffered during the first oil shock.
During the second oil price rise in 1979/80— notwithstanding the partially offsetting advantage of higher export prices for copper, coffee, and sugar—the region's increased trade deficit was again covered by increased amounts of aid, mostly ODA, which rose from $2.6 billion in 1978 to $4.4 billion in 1980, or by 34 percent in real terms. In addition, several bilateral donors
wrote off their claims, thereby reducing the debt-service burden of some countries at a time of economic difficulty.
During the 1970s, Eastern Africa's imports would have declined more than they did had it not been for the large increases in ODA. ODA amounts were equal in value to 15 percent of the region's import bill in 1970, and to 32 percent in 1980.2 In the latter year, ODA totals came to more than two thirds of the import bills of Burundi, Somalia, and Rwanda, more than 50 percent in Tanzania and Zaire, and about 30 percent to 40 percent in Ethiopia, Malawi, Sudan, Uganda, and Zambia. ODA accounted for 30 percent to 40 percent of total investment in three countries, 50 percent to 55 percent in three others, and 60 percent to 100 percent in seven—Burundi, Lesotho, Rwanda, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, and Zaire. ODA was equivalent to more than 70 percent of public capital expenditures in most countries and was larger than the public capital expenditure in Rwanda, Sudan. Tanzania, Zaire, Zimbabwe, and Zambia.
In contrast with the 1970s, there has been no recent increase in ODA to offset the effects of the worldwide trade recession that began in 1980. In 1982, ODA to Eastern Africa amounted to S4.3 billion, indicating that absolute stagnation had taken place since 1980. The net flow of commercial loans to the region fell sharply at this time; it declined from about $950 million in 1980 to about $350 million in 1982.
ODA has always been largely (about 70 percent) in the form of bilateral aid, aid usually tied to projects preferred by and procurement limited to donor countries. Bilateral assistance, therefore, has frequently not financed the most urgently needed imports, such as inputs and
spare parts. Levels of nonproject aid, as a proportion of total bilateral ODA, have varied widely from country to country; in 1979, in terms of commitments, the share of such aid was as low as between 1 percent and 10 percent (consisting mostly of food aid) in the Comoros, Djibouti, Lesotho, and Zimbabwe; about 14 percent in Tanzania; and between 30 percent and 40 percent in Sudan and Zambia.
Donors have divergent policies, preferences, and areas of emphasis. There is, therefore, a need for aid coordination to ensure that donor funds are targeted to high-priority areas of a recipient's economy. Recent experience (aid groups for Kenya, Somalia, Sudan, and Uganda, for example) has shown that the consultative-group mechanisms can help donors, whether bilateral or multilateral, combine their efforts in support of policy reform and make effective use of project and nonproject assistance for priority recovery programs of the governments of the region.
As a result of successful aid coordination, for instance, about two thirds of ODA disbursements to Uganda in 1983 were for nonproject assistance that responded to the country's adjustment needs. Aid coordination, however, is no substitute for increased aid. While commercial capital, including debt rescheduling, is important, increased ODA must play the major role in the economic recovery and growth of the Eastern African countries. Without increased external financial support through ODA, programs for adjustment and growth will continue to be in jeopardy.
About 10 percent and 23 percent, respectively, excluding technical assistance, which constitutes about one third of ODA.
Western Africa
The current economic recovery in the United States and several other major industrialized countries has yet to have a significant effect on West African countries. During fiscal 1984, the countries of the region continued to grapple with a severe and prolonged domestic recession, made worse by the unsettled international economic environment, an acute drought, high real interest rates on commercial debt, and a stagnating level of official development assistance (ODA).
The continuing economic crisis is reflected in the poor growth of gross domestic product (GDP) that most countries of the region experienced during the past year. In all but a few cases, per capita real income either stagnated or declined. Only a few countries managed to
steer their economies out of the slump. Thus, in Mali, despite the drought, real GDP continued to grow at 2 percent; in Cameroon, largely because of expanded oil production, a remarkable 7 percent growth rate is being achieved; Ghana's economy may have started to turn around after years of virtual collapse; and the decline in Liberia's economy slowed.
The balance-of-payments situation remained critical throughout the region. While the terms of trade improved slightly for a few countries, for most, they deteriorated. Because international prices of coffee, cocoa, cotton, rubber, and groundnut oil improved over the past twelve to eighteen months, the balance of trade and current account of countries such as Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, and Senegal were affected
favorably. At the same time, iron ore, uranium, phosphate rock, and oil prices remained depressed, with adverse effects in Liberia, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, and Togo.
In some cases (Ivory Coast, for instance), a sharp curtailment of imports, coupled with a slight improvement in the terms of trade, led to a large improvement in the balance-of-trade account. For most countries, however, declining export earnings and heavy interest payments on external-debt obligations resulted in large current-account deficits; thus, in Mauritania, for example, the deficit amounted to 40 percent of gross national product (GNP). Given reduced commercial and official capital inflows, most countries experienced overall balance-of-pay-ments deficits, financed by an accumulation of arrears on import payments and debt service or through a drawdown of reserves. Several countries were compelled to seek rescheduling of their debt payments through the London and Paris Clubs.
On the fiscal side, in every country save for Gabon and Cameroon, budget deficits were experienced; here again, the decline of commodity prices (uranium, phosphate, iron ore, oil) adversely affected government revenues, while a massive wage bill, stemming from an oversized civil service, worsened the fiscal position in most countries. Moreover, parastatal en-
terprises continued to impose a serious net drain on public resources: In Cameroon, for example, large government subsidies are granted annually to the public-enterprise sector. In a few countries, fiscal adjustments, including cuts in budgetary expenditures, reductions in the recruitment of civil servants, and reduced subventions to public enterprises, have been undertaken to respond to the fiscal constraints.
Drought and Food-supply Problems
Throughout sub-Saharan Africa, the imbalance between the demand for and supply of food has been increasing for more than a decade. In practically all West African countries, per capita production of cereals declined steadily from 1970 to 1982. At the same time, imports of food increased to meet domestic food requirements. This long-term trend has been particularly marked in Chad, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Mauritania, and Togo. Mali, Senegal, and Upper Volta experienced only modest declines. Inappropriate policies (Ghana, Guinea, Senegal), variability in rainfall (The Gambia, Mauritania, and Senegal), and the lack of proven technologies appropriate to the agroclimatic conditions of the Sahelian zone have all contributed to the inadequate growth of food production. Apart from questions of policy and technology, import substitu-
facilities at the port of Cotonou in Benin are being expanded, and productivity is being increased through improvements to the port and in cargo handling, and through training.
tion of food in Western Africa also faces a major structural problem: The two main cereal imports, wheat and rice, which are the staple foods of the urban population, are difficult to grow economically under the agroclimatic conditions of the region.
If these trends in the growth of demand and domestic food production continue, food deficits will reach alarming proportions by the end of the present decade. These trends in food production can only be reversed if countries pursue appropriate policies in agriculture, and if suitable technological packages, requiring sustained efforts in agricultural research, can be
devised for African farmers in drought-prone areas.
Given the growing dependency on food imports of African economies, the 1983/84 drought, the most damaging in fifteen years, has had devastating effects throughout the continent. In contrast with most droughts of the past, which were limited to the inland countries of the Sudano-Sahelian belt of East and West Africa, the current drought has also affected certain coastal regions of Western Africa, as well as large areas of Eastern and Southern Africa. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO) has identified a total of twenty-
four "most severely affected" (MSA) countries, of which fifteen are in Western Africa. Within Western Africa, the drought's effect has been particularly serious for livestock and cereals production. The impact of the drought on shortfalls in production has been uneven among countries: Mauritania has suffered heavy losses of its livestock population due to a lack of drinking water and fodder. Senegal's groundnut and cereals production is estimated to have fallen 40 percent below normal levels; in Mali, output of rainfed cereals, as well as flooded rice, were sharply reduced from the already low levels of 1982/83. The Gambia and Niger also have had to import grains to offset shortfalls in the production of domestic grains. In the coastal countries, the drought has had less impact on food production for domestic markets; rather, it has fallen predominantly on cash crops and on water supplies. Cocoa and coffee plantations have been damaged in Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo, while available water supplies for irrigation and power generation have been reduced in these countries and in Liberia and Nigeria, as well.
The FAO has estimated requirements of food aid for the MSA countries at 3.3 million tons. Thirty bilateral and international agencies, including those from Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States, the European Economic Community, and the World Food Programme, have pledged 2.3 million tons. It is expected that additional contributions, notably from the US, could help close the gap. At the same time, the World Bank has provided a $2 million grant to the World Food Programme to assist in food distribution in the needy countries in Africa.
Structural Problems and Policy Responses
In response to these adverse internal and external developments, numerous governments have initiated strict austerity programs to stabilize their economic and financial situations. Medium-term programs of structural reform are also being formulated, or are already being implemented, which would establish conditions for future economic growth and development. Countries vary in the magnitude of the internal and external imbalances to be corrected, but a measure of receptivity of the countries to the formulation of such programs is clearly noticeable in the policy dialogue between them, the World Bank, and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The response of the Bank in support of efforts at adjustment has taken the form of expanded economic and sector work programs, which lead to increased policy advice
and technical assistance and to programs of structural-adjustment lending.
Nigeria—the dominant economy in sub-Saharan Africa—was in a state of financial crisis during most of fiscal 1984. Both the production and price of oil dropped sharply.3 As a result, export earnings and government revenues, as well as the external current account and the government's fiscal position, weakened dramatically. The capacity of the country to import dropped considerably as trade credits dried up under the impact of accumulated trade arrears. The drop in imports (28 percent in real terms) was equal to 5 percent of Nigeria's GDP and induced a decline in national income (7.4 percent in real terms). Manufacturing industry, highly dependent on imported inputs, saw capacity utilization drop to levels below 50 percent in some subsectors.
The Nigerian government responded to the crisis by adopting stabilization measures and sought the support of the IMF and the World Bank to address both the short-term difficulties and the underlying structural problems. There appears to be a broad measure of agreement between the government, the Bank, and the IMF on steps necessary to stabilize and restructure the economy. Trade arrears of about $4.9 billion to $5.4 billion have already been rescheduled. There remains an additional $2 billion to $2.5 billion in trade arrears to be rescheduled. Much progress has been achieved by the government and the IMF in working out the details of an Extended Fund Facility (EFF). In the meantime, the Bank approved a $250 million Fertilizer Import Project for Nigeria, which will provide support to the balance of payments, as well as significant fiscal adjustment, by reducing fertilizer subsidies and thereby increasing government revenues.
Cameroon's economy continued to perform well. Oil production rose from 0.130 mbd in 1983 to an expected 0.156 mbd in 1984, resulting in increased revenues for the government. However, the government has yet to set out clear lines of economic policy indicating how it plans to direct its rising oil revenues into cost-effective and productive investments. The Bank's policy dialogue with the Cameroonian government has concentrated on macro-economic issues and institution building. Technical assistance has increased, with particular emphasis on policy formulation and planning. A review of agricultural pricing has also taken place; however, the government has not yet de-
3 In 1980, oil production totaled 2.0ft million barrels per day (mbd); in 1983, production averaged 1.23 mbd.
cided upon a program for a gradual phasing out of fertilizer subsidies. The poor performance of the public-enterprise sector continues to require careful study, and the Bank is ready to provide technical assistance/training, as well as support for a comprehensive public-sector rehabilitation project.
The Congo experienced a deceleration of economic growth during the past year due to lower-than-expected production of oil and the continued stagnation of the nonoil productive sectors. As a result, government revenues declined in real terms, worsening the prospects of realizing the targets of the ambitious 1982-86 Development Plan. In addition, arrears were accumulated on external and domestic debt-service payment obligations. In response to these severe constraints, the government has reduced the 1984 operating budget in real terms, and is reviewing measures to reduce the public-investment program, and to revive the nonoil productive sectors.
In Ivory Coast, GDP is estimated to have declined by 4.4 percent as a result of the combined effect of the drought, a decline in public investment caused by a reduction in inflows of capital from abroad, and delays in petroleum production. In response to the adverse economic situation and in an effort to restore quickly the conditions for balanced growth, the government has intensified its adjustment efforts with the aim of reducing the external current-account and public-sector deficits to 7 percent and 4 percent of GDP, respectively.
In Togo, the stagnating economic situation and a severe debt-service burden led the government to introduce both a stringent financial program (backed by an IMF standby arrangement) and a structural-adjustment program (supported by a $40 million IDA credit in fiscal 1983). To stabilize and restructure further the country's financial and economic situation, steps were taken during the past year to rehabilitate the public-enterprise sector. Several unprofitable state enterprises were closed, and others are being reorganized or sold to the private sector. The government's investment-programming system is being improved, and public investments are being concentrated in rural development. Prices paid to producers of export crops have been increased, and an effort is being made to improve the environment for private investment in small-scale industry and commercial enterprises.
Ghana has confronted its serious economic predicament with a series of policy reforms, which include a massive devaluation, increases in cocoa producer prices, reductions in subsidies to state-owned enterprises, and reductions in the budgetary deficit. The government
also announced a "realistic" three-year investment program that aims at rehabilitating and increasing the capacity utilization of the existing assets in the economy. For the first time in thirteen years, a consultative group meeting for Ghana was convened in Paris under the chairmanship of the Bank. The meeting led to a renewal of financial support from the donor community. During the year, IDA supported the government's recovery program through a $40 million Reconstruction Import Credit and $91 million in credits for export rehabilitation and technical assistance. The IMF has also assisted the government's effort: It approved a standby agreement (SDR238.5 million) and a drawing from the Compensatory Financing Facility (SDR120.5 million). There are signs that the export sector, particularly mining and timber, is picking up, and that government revenues and capital flows are rising. If the critical constraints are addressed, Ghana's economy holds the promise of positive, though limited, growth after a long period of decline.
In Guinea, overall GDP is estimated to have grown at a slower pace than population; in addition, the country's balance of payments remains in difficulty. The government has taken, during the past year, limited measures to liberalize the economy and has been engaged in an intensive policy dialogue with the Bank that focuses on ways to encourage domestic private enterprise, strengthen sector institutions, rehabilitate existing assets, and develop smallholder farming. The Bank also is discussing with the government ways to mobilize aid and coordinate efforts that support Guinea's economic-recovery program. Early signs from the new government appear very encouraging.
Following several years of negative growth, the overall performance of Liberia's economy improved slightly in fiscal 1984. Progress was due, in part, to a recovery in the international rubber market, in which prices rose by about 25 percent in 1983 and to better fiscal management under successive IMF stabilization programs. Liberia was successful in obtaining relief for its 1984 debt-service payments from the Paris and London Clubs. With the assistance of the Bank, the government has initiated preparation of a package of structural-adjustment policy reforms that are directed at increasing efficiency in public enterprises, improving wage and employment policies, rationalizing the public-expenditure program, and increasing agricultural exports.
The economy of neighboring Sierra Leone continued to drift downward. Output of the agriculture and mineral sectors declined further during the past year. Real GDP remained stagnant, and the erosion of the export base con-
tributed to a deterioration in fiscal performance and a further weakening of the country's bal-ance-of-payments position. The government has taken several important measures to correct the internal and external imbalances: The leone was devalued by 100 percent in fiscal 1984; public expenditures were contained (included was a freeze on all extrabudgetary expenditures); and agricultural prices were increased by as much as 100 percent. The government has also prepared, with Bank assistance, a plan to reorganize agricultural services. In response to these initiatives and to requests from the government, the Bank is assisting the government in developing a program of structural adjustment with objectives that include increasing the efficiency of public enterprises and rationalizing the public-expenditure program.
Senegal's economic and financial difficulties were compounded during the past year by the return of severe drought conditions; as a result, the economy is expected to experience a decline in overall production of between 2 percent and 3 percent. The adverse effects on the balance of payments and on consumption have been largely mitigated by a substantial improvement in the country's terms of trade and by the response of the donor community to Senegal's appeal for 150,000 tons of emergency food.
Senegal needs to continue its efforts to restrain growth of public consumption and stimulate a recovery in economic activity. Before the drought began to affect the economy, strong measures were taken to reduce subsidies on a number of consumption items and to impose taxes on rice imports. Under a standby program with the IMF, the government agreed to curb public expenditures (strict limits were imposed on the expansion of the civil service, for instance) and to control the growth of domestic credit and foreign borrowing.
In fiscal 1984, Mali entered its fourth year of economic and financial reform. Economic stabilization measures have been supported by two IMF standby programs, the second of which was approved in late 1983. Despite serious domestic problems, difficult and politically sensitive action, which was necessary to consolidate past structural reforms, continued to be taken. Thus, a liberalization of grain marketing is being pursued (despite large domestic price increases induced by the drought) and a new cotton-export system has been established to prevent profits from being used automatically to subsidize consumer goods. Discussions have advanced significantly on rehabilitation of state enterprises. Mali has also rejoined the West African Monetary Union, which, among other things, will lead to more stringent credit restrictions for public operations.
Niger's real GDP fell by an estimated 4.4 percent as a result of a sharp drop in uranium and agricultural production. Among other adverse occurrences during the year were the development of a public-sector deficit and a sharp increase in public debt-service obligations, the consequence of heavy commercial borrowings contracted during, and immediately after, the uranium boom of 1977. In response to these developments, the government reached agreement with the IMF on an SDR18 million standby arrangement and an SDR12 million Compensatory Financing Facility in support of its fiscal 1984 austerity program. Through the program, it is expected that a fiscal-reform scheme will be implemented, measures to stabilize the financial situation of seven major public enterprises will be initiated, public-investment expenditures will be reduced by nearly 40 percent, and public debt, due in 1984, will be rescheduled. To complement IMF assistance, the Bank supported a program of technical assistance designed to help the government define a two-year consolidation program and prepare a structural-adjustment program for the medium term.
Official Development Assistance
As the discussion of the severe problems and adjustment efforts of West African countries suggests, additional external financial assistance is of critical importance to the realization of positive and sustainable results. In that context, ODA plays a crucial role. Recent trends in aid are of serious concern when seen against the urgent need to reverse the downward trend in the overall economic growth of sub-Saharan Africa. The level of ODA is especially critical to the development of West African economies. If the Sahel is taken as an illustration, official development assistance represents about 85 percent of the financing that this subregion acquires from external sources.
This share contrasts with the average for all developing countries, which receive the largest portion (70 percent) of their external financing from nonconcessional sources. Terms of aid are also of great significance for the low-income countries of Western Africa. Using the Sahelian countries as an illustration once again, the proportion of grants in their ODA reached an average of 70 percent over the period 1975-82. During the same period, according to a recent OECD/Club du Sahel study, nonproject assistance represented about 35 percent of total ODA flows. Included in the nonproject assistance were food aid (10.3 percent), technical assistance in terms of fellowships and training (13.2 percent), and balance-of-payments budgetary support (12 percent).
It is against this background of heavy dependence on aid inflows for the financing of their investment programs that African governments find the recent stagnation in aid so difficult to accommodate. Available statistics for the 1978— 82 period suggest that net disbursements of total ODA (bilateral and multilateral) from DAC and OPEC countries to the Western Africa region amounted to $11.7 billion; of that amount, bilateral ODA from DAC members accounted for about 60 percent of the total. However, while total ODA disbursements to the region increased from $1.9 billion in 1978 to $2.6 billion in 1981, they declined to $2.4 billion in 1982.
Over the medium term, aggregate ODA from DAC countries is expected to increase in real terms, but at a slower pace than in the past, something on the order of 2 percent to 3 percent a year, on the average. A very slow growth, or even possibly a decline, in aid in real terms is projected by DAC for the contributions of the largest DAC countries. At the same time, the result of the negotiations on the level of contributions to the seventh replenishment of IDA resources does not give encouragement for the future of multilateral ODA. The essential point is that, if the adjustment efforts undertaken by African governments are to succeed, the declining trend in real flows of ODA has to be reversed.
Aid-coordination efforts can also be improved and strengthened:4 Aid coordination, however, is only a complement to, not a substitute for, increased flows of aid. In this re-
spect, it would be helpful if agreements were to be reached by donors and recipient countries alike on the need to accord priority to the maintenance/rehabilitation of existing assets and to respond to the needs for nonproject and sector lending. Measured against these criteria, the Consultative Group for Ghana, reactivated in November 1983 in support of that country's recovery program, can be judged as successful. Thus, too, the formal consultative group planned for Senegal has as its aim an agreement between Senegal and its principal aid donors on ways to reorient part of that country's investment program toward urgent rehabilitation efforts. In addition, support in the form of ODA for policy reforms that African countries are willing to undertake should be heightened. A measure of consensus should also be reached on how to design ODA-financed technical assistance in ways to make it instrumental in dealing with the requirements of human-resource development. The development of institutional capability looms large in bringing about economic advance in Africa: This area deserves the full involvement of aid donors.
4 During fiscal 1984. the Bank and the United Nations Development Programme began a joint review that is directed at rinding ways to improve the effectiveness of "Donor Round Tables." The Round Tables held during the past year include those for Benin, Liberia, and Mali. They were sponsored by the UNDP, which has been given a mandate by the Conference on the Least Developed Countries, held in Paris in 1981, to organize such meetings in order to increase concessional aid flows to these countries.
East Asia and Pacific
In general, the countries of the East Asia and Pacific region have survived the deep and prolonged international recession better than most other developing countries. Although the growth rate of gross national product (GNP) in the five large market economies—Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand—was but half the average of the 1970s, at 4 percent a year during 1982-83, it was more than double the level of all developing countries combined. China, also, was able to maintain a relatively high growth rate, of over 6 percent yearly, during the last three years. Success has had its cost, however: In all East Asian countries except China, the real burden of external debt has grown substantially, although the burden is less than for most other countries at comparable stages of development. For these countries, much of the increase in
debt during the last three years can be attributed to a single factor: the steep rise of real interest rates. From negative levels during the 1970s, they rose to very high positive levels during 1981-83 as a result of high nominal rates, lowered rates of inflation, and a steep rise in the exchange rate of the dollar. The reduced capacity for additional borrowing by these countries will inevitably constrain the scope for future growth of imports, investment, and output.
Substantial efforts are continuing to be made to adjust to slower growth in world trade, the quantum jump of energy prices after 1979, and high real interest rates. In the countries most severely hit by adverse conditions—Korea, Thailand, and the Philippines—the World Bank continues to support those adjustment efforts through lending for structural adjustment and through its Special Action Program. The struc-
tural-adjustment programs of these countries go beyond measures aiming at stabilization, such as pass-throughs of energy prices, reductions in public-investment programs, and greater mobilization of fiscal resources. They extend to policies aimed at longer-term structural changes: reducing energy consumption in those industries that provide the engine for growth, eliminating implicit biases in the incentive system against exports, and improving the efficiency of capital markets. The two oil-exporting countries of the region, Malaysia and Indonesia, were affected by the impact of the recession on the levels of oil prices after 1981. While the emergence of their external and internal imbalances lagged behind that in the oil-importing countries, the directions their adjustment policies took were quite similar. With the exception of the Philippines, economic conditions improved during the past year in the five large market economies, and the outlook for 1984 brightened.
In comparison with the five large market economies, China—because it is a marginal net exporter of fuel, is not burdened with accumulated debts, and runs a trade surplus—remained initially unaffected by the recession. In contrast, Papua New Guinea and the small Pacific-island nations have all been severely affected by the drop of world commodity prices. Kampuchea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Vietnam have recently suffered from drought and continue to experience serious security and political problems.
Market Economies
The economy of the Philippines continued to be in severe difficulties during the past year. GNP growth slowed from its average rate of over 6 percent in the 1970s to less than 1 percent in 1983. This slump was caused mainly by weak demand for the country's major export products—such as copper, coconut products, sugar, and forest products—and by a severe deterioration in the terms of trade. The resulting adverse external conditi ons led to rising current-account deficits, which reached over 8 percent of GNP in 1983, and an increasing reliance on short-term credit. The debt-service burden (including interest on short-term debt) rose to 38 percent of export earnings by the end of 1982. At the same time, public revenues dropped precipitously, forcing a reduction in public spending, in particular, spending on public-investment programs. Spending cuts notwithstanding, the budget deficit grew to over 5 percent of GNP in 1983.
By the middle of 1983, the debt and the budget problems became severe; political uncertainties led to sharp limitations on access to private foreign capital and to substantial capital
flight. In response, the government undertook a number of measures, including a major devaluation, a moratorium on debt payments, a reduction in investment outlays, the introduction of new taxes, and a temporary increase in controls to limit nonessential imports.
Because of the difficulties in attracting private capital, the Philippines had to depend on increased support from bilateral and multilateral channels. In fiscal 1984, the Bank supported the design and continued implementation of a medium-term and long-term structural-adjustment strategy and, in an effort to relieve the country's pressing resource constraints, shifted its lending emphasis to quick-disbursing operations such as those involving structural-adjustment loans and its Special Action Program.
Despite its serious economic difficulties, the Philippines continued to make progress in implementing its program of structural adjustment. Appropriate adjustments have been made in the domestic prices of petroleum, and the development of domestic energy sources has been progressing. The first three phases of a five-year tariff- and import-liberalization program were implemented on schedule, and industrial-promotion policies were reviewed and policy changes introduced.
Guided by skillful management, the Korean economy successfully overcame its macro-economic and external-balance problems created by the second oil shock in 1979. By 1982, the growth rate of gross domestic product (GDP) had risen to 5.3 percent, investment had recovered, inflation had been reduced to an annual average rate of 7.3 percent, and the deficit on current account had been reduced from 6.9 percent of GDP (in 1981) to 3.7 percent. Led by public-sector investment in both housing and infrastructure, the economy continued to gather momentum in the first half of 1983. By the middle of the year, the manufacturing sector received a boost from a large increase in export orders, particularly in the electronics, shipbuilding, machinery, and footwear industries. For the year as a whole, the export volume grew by almost 17 percent, and GNP expanded by 9 percent. While growth accelerated, inflation declined further to under 3 percent. The current-account deficit also continued its downward trend, falling to 2.2 percent of GNP, helped in equal measure by strong export performance and an expansion in domestic savings, which, in 1983, was close to 24 percent of GNP. Because the narrowing of the current-account deficit lessened borrowing requirements, external debt rose by less than $3 billion, to $40.1 billion, at the year's end.
As a result of the successful containment of inflationary pressures, of a decline in import
prices of oil, and of increased competitiveness of Korea's industries, together with a gradual recovery in the industrial countries, the government is projecting for 1984 a continuation of rapid export growth which, in conjunction with a moderate increase in domestic demand, should permit GNP to expand between 7 percent and 8 percent.
After a significant slowdown in 1982, Thailand's economy rebounded vigorously in 1983. Real GNP rose by about 6 percent, driven mainly by a rapid recovery of domestic demand, particularly through private domestic investment and restocking, and assisted by a drop in nominal interest rates and high bank liquidity.
The rapid expansion of domestic demand spilled over into rising imports; at the same time, the volume of exports declined. The decline reflected, in part, increased domestic absorption, but, also, a poor harvest in 1983, an appreciating exchange rate, and the impact of international trade restrictions affecting selected major exports, including tapioca, sugar, tin, canned and frozen foods, and textiles. Given these trade developments, which were only partly offset by increased remittances from Thai workers abroad, the current-account deficit, which had dropped to 2.7 percent of GDP in the preceding year, rose again to over 5 percent. Higher imports, stable import prices, relatively unchanged public-service tariffs, nominal
reductions in domestic petroleum-product prices, and an effective appreciation of the real exchange rate all contributed to keep the inflation rate at about 3 percent. Although the central government deficit was reduced to under 4 percent of GDP, the savings gap in the public sector remained substantial.
By early 1984, the government moved to control the expansion of domestic demand through measures to increase tax revenues, to restrain public expenditures, and to limit bank liquidity. As a result, and because of a good harvest, and with continued strengthening of commodity prices, Thailand's trade balance is expected to improve. However, the resulting current-account deficit is likely to remain in 1984 at about 4 percent of GDP, a level that is not sustainable over the medium term. Continuation, therefore, of structural-adjustment policies designed to achieve a sustainable external balance remains important.
Since 1980, important steps towards structural reform have been taken in a number of areas. Domestic energy prices have been adjusted to the high international levels, agricultural export taxes and restrictions have been reduced to provide incentives for agricultural production and exports, and the structure of industrial tariffs and investment incentives has been rationalized to make industry more efficient, labor intensive, and export oriented. At
A farmer, resettled on the island of Vanua Levu in Fiji, bought his tractor with a loan from the Fiji Development Bank.
the same time, reforms have been initiated to increase the mobilization of public resources, to improve management of government institutions, and to ensure that public expenditures are efficiently allocated. Implementation of the government's structural-adjustment program, which is supported by the Bank, is expected to continue through 1984 and beyond, leading eventually to an improved medium-term external and internal balance, while permitting continued attention to the longer-term concerns of socioeconomic development, and, in particular, to the problem of absorbing productively a rapidly growing labor force in industrial and service activities, as the growth of employment in agricultural activities reaches its limits.
Two Oil Exporters
The Indonesian economy has been affected adversely by the protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export earnings, especially earnings derived from oil. The sharp decline in revenues from oil exports after their peak in 1981 led to a turnaround in the country's previously favorable external-resource position and to a fall in real per capita incomes. In response, the government has acted promptly and effectively to ensure that the balance-of-payments situation remains manage-
able over the short term, and to provide a basis for longer-term structural transformation.
Particular attention has been given to reducing the dependence on oil for export earnings and public revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past eighteen months include a devaluation of the rupiah, a major rephasing of large-scale and import-intensive public investments, a far-reaching financial reform, which includes the liberalization of interest rates, the reduction of subsidized rediscount credits from Bank Indonesia (the central bank) and the abandonment of credit ceilings, two increases in domestic prices of petroleum products, a comprehensive tax reform, and reduced regulation of the private sector.
The measures, aided by favorable trends in the world economy, are beginning to have their desired effect. Nonoil GDP rose by an estimated 4 percent during 1983, and the balance-of-payments situation is improving. In particular, the current-account deficit as a percent of GNP has been reduced from 8.4 percent in 1982-83 to about 6 percent in 1983-84; a further reduction is expected in 1984-85, in response to higher export earnings from products other than oil (such as rubber, palm oil, tin, plywood, and fertilizer), as well as reduced imports resulting from policies to curb aggregate
demand. Progress towards improving the internal balance is also evident in the government budget. Current expenditures have been held in check by a freeze on civil-service salaries, a sharp cut in budgetary transfers to public corporations, and reduced subsidies on food, fertilizer, and petroleum products. This fiscal discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 12 percent in 1983-84, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the recent devaluation and petroleum-price adjustments.
The improvement in the external and internal balance is evidence of the government's commitment and capacity to manage short-term economic shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to reduce the current-account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so, continued sizable resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the government's modest GDP growth target of 5 percent a year for the next five years is to be achieved. Traditionally, these transfers have come from a prudent mix of official development assistance, import-related credits, direct borrowings from the international market, and official financing; this strategy is expected to continue. Indonesia is well placed to arrange necessary financing on reasonable terms; its profile of existing debts is good; and a comfortable level of external reserves has been rebuilt over the past year.
In Malaysia, the recession in the industrial countries, combined with a countercyclical fiscal policy, led in 1982 to a current-account deficit of 12.4 percent of GNP and an overall public-sector deficit of 21 percent of GNP. In 1983, the government started to move resolutely to deal with these imbalances. Public-sector expenditures were restrained, public investment was reduced by 11 percent in real terms, and higher rates of sales taxes and service taxes increased government revenues; as a result, the public-sector deficit was reduced by approximately 0.2 percent of GNP. The more restrained stance of the government, a recovery in commodity prices, the initiation of gas exports to Japan, increased volumes of petroleum exports, and a continued reduction in import prices all acted in concert to reduce the current-account deficit to 10 percent of GNP, which grew by 8.4 percent in current prices in 1983. Substantial foreign borrowing was undertaken to support this deficit, and although the debt-service ratio on public and publicly guaranteed debt grew to about 10 percent of exports, it is still low by international standards.
Since these budget and current-account deficits are still too high to be sustainable, the federal government's budget for 1984 calls for a reduction in the public-sector deficit to about 13
percent of GNP through a 23 percent cut in development expenditures. In addition, the government abolished subsidies, equivalent to about 1.5 percent of GNP, for kerosene and diesel fuel. Further improvements in commodity prices and an expected growth in export volumes should result in a lower current-account deficit in 1984. The government has also tackled two major long-term constraints to growth. It has, first, formulated a National Agricultural Policy that aims at revitalizing the sector. And, second, it has initiated a series of studies to examine ways in which the industrial incentive system might promote more rapid growth in the sector.
Contrast in Nonmarket Economies
In China, vigorous growth continued in 1983; industry expanded at an annual rate of 10.5 percent, and growth in agriculture accelerated to 9.5 percent. These developments reflect the policies of structural adjustment initiated in 1979. Their objectives included an increase in the share of consumption in GDP, more rapid growth of agriculture, significant improvements in living standards, especially among the rural population, and increased and decreased shares of light and heavy industry, respectively. While these adjustment objectives were largely achieved, modification of the original measures was made in 1982 and 1983; the most obvious examples are an increase in the investment rate and higher growth of output in heavy industries.
In foreign trade, the impact of the world recession and other factors caused a slowdown in the growth of exports in both 1982 and 1983. The performance of manufactured exports, however, particularly machinery and equipment, has continued to be impressive. Reflecting earlier cutbacks in investment and tightened controls over imports of some products, imports declined sharply in 1982 before rising moderately in 1983, when China recorded a further trade surplus of $800 million, according to official estimates. Together with the trade surplus achieved in the previous year, China has been able to maintain a relatively low level of foreign debt, and its foreign-exchange reserves have increased.
The progress on meeting its macroeconomic objectives has shifted the focus of attention to some of the remaining systemic problems of the Chinese economy. Their solution will require great effort and would extend over a considerable period of time:
• While progress has been made in improving industrial efficiency, many industries face continuing problems of high material and energy consumption, excess capacity, and unsatisfactory product quality.
• Many problems remain with the efficiency of investment allocation.
• Results of price reforms have been mixed. The relative prices of many commodities have been changed significantly, and for certain goods, "floating" prices, determined within a certain range by market conditions, have been instituted. On the other hand, some prices remain out of line with domestic and international conditions, and major price adjustments, as well as the reform of the price system, remain important elements of the government's efforts to improve the efficiency of the economic system.
Over the next five to ten years, China's investment requirements for the expansion of its transport infrastructure, for an increase in energy and raw materials production, for modernization of industry, and for maintaining adequate growth in agriculture will be very large. A great need also exists for expanded and improved vocational and technical training. The World Bank's lending program will reflect these priorities; at the same time, the Bank will support the efficient utilization of resources both in the projects it finances and in the economy as a whole.
Laos experienced virtually no growth in either 1982 or 1983. This stagnation, which followed three years of growth, averaging about 7 percent a year when the country was recovering from war, was mainly the result of a fall in rice production below the 1981 level, brought about by less-favorable weather. In spite of improvements in the financial performance of state enterprises and a tax reform, which led to increases in tax collections, no further progress was made in increasing domestic financing of investment during 1983; approximately 85 percent of the investment budget was financed from external sources, mostly from socialist countries. Although the current-account deficit
fell in 1983—mostly through increased exports to the nonconvertible-currency area—it still amounted to about 15 percent of GNP. A relative stagnation of exports to the convertible-currency area is likely to cause some problems, as considerable debt-service payments in convertible currency are due in the three-year period, 1984-86.
Commodity Prices a Key
Papua New Guinea continues to be subject to fluctuating and depressed commodity prices, in particular copper, which accounts for more than half of total exports, and coffee, the other major export. Despite an improvement in terms of trade in 1983, overall export-price levels remained some 30 percent below the 1979 highs, and are not expected to improve much over the next few years. The improvement in the balance of trade in 1983 was the result of an approximate increase of 25 percent in export volume, mainly of copper. This expansion in output, and a major surge in investments associated with the OK Tedi mining project, led to real growth of around 7 percent in 1983. Gross domestic product exceeded its 1979 level—the previous high watermark—for the first time.
Much of this improvement in economic performance is due to economic activity in the "enclave" sector of Papua New Guinea's economy and does not reflect a departure from prudent economic management. The government, now pursuing a more activist policy, is in the process of instituting a five-year development plan, which integrates major sector strategies and which is supported by a consistent set of economic policies. The improved external and domestic environment suggests that Papua New Guinea's long-term growth, which, since 1970, has barely exceeded the rate of population growth, may become more buoyant than in the recent past.
South Asia
While the economies of several South Asian countries expanded but slowly in fiscal 1984, others displayed considerable buoyancy. Most economies of the region, which are heavily dependent on the performance of their large agricultural sectors, benefited from generally good growing conditions and from the gathering recovery in the major industrial countries. Along with substantial gains in domestic economic activity, the external accounts of most South Asian countries suffered less strain than in the previous year or two; this, in part, was the result of comparative stability or even improvement in their terms of trade, increased receipts from both merchandise exports and migrant remittances, and prudent economic management. (An example of the last-mentioned factor is the steady progress towards reduced dependence on imported energy.) In addition, the region has benefited from substantial amounts of con-
cessionary foreign assistance: Most countries received disbursements of aid in fiscal 1984 at a level roughly similar to that disbursed in the previous year.
While economic performance this past year reflected an increasing ability of governments to manage their economies in response to short-run changes in circumstances, it also gave testimony to their cumulative progress in recent years in strengthening their underlying development capacity through more effective planning and policy formulation, and through prudent public investments. As a result, South Asian economies were well positioned to respond to the improving world environment in fiscal 1984.
India: On the Rebound
Aided by a good monsoon, the Indian economy rebounded strongly in fiscal 1984 from its somewhat disappointing performance, due to
the drought, in the previous year. The econo-mywide rate of growth in gross domestic product (GDP) is likely to exceed 7 percent, as compared with 2.6 percent and 5.9 percent in the previous two years. Food-grain production, which had declined to 128 million tons in fiscal
1983, is expected to reach about 150 million tons; oilseed production may increase by one fifth. These production increases provided much needed relief to food-grain and edible-oil markets, characterized during the year by relatively tight supplies and sharply rising prices. In total, agricultural value added is expected to rise by as much as 9 percent and industrial production by 5.5 percent, both up from last year's growth rate. The growth in industrial production was constrained by a lag in the recovery of demand for industrial goods and persistent in-frastructural constraints, in particular, shortfalls in power generation.
Inflation, after decelerating during the past two years, began to pick up again, however. In terms of the wholesale price index, inflation was running at an annual rate of 8.8 percent at the end of the first quarter of 1984. About two thirds of the increase in wholesale prices is a result of rising prices for agricultural and agrobased commodities. The price increases for these commodities reflect largely the drought-related tight supply of many agricultural products. To stimulate crop production, the government raised the procurement prices for wheat and rice during the year.
The effects of the 1982 drought and the recovery of agriculture in 1983 are also reflected in the country's balance of payments. In fiscal year 1984, edible oil and fertilizer imports, which had declined sharply in recent years, both increased substantially in dollar value terms. Despite these increases, imports of edible oils and fertilizers are still well below those in 1980. India has made considerable progress in reducing dependence on imports of these and several other commodities through increases in domestic production. Imports (in value terms) of iron and steel and of crude oil and petroleum products declined by around one fourth in fiscal
1984. Considering their large share in total imports, the reduction of petroleum imports is of particular significance. This reduction allows India to increase imports of other items (there was an increase in the value of imports other than fuel in fiscal 1984), and reflects success in raising domestic crude production and in reducing the growth in energy consumption through the adoption of appropriate pricing policies. In value terms, total imports increased very little, while exports net of oil grew by about 11 percent. Exports of gems and jewelry account for more than half of this increase. Growth in ex-
ports of textiles, clothing, engineering goods, and handicrafts accounts for much of the remaining increase. Improvements have been registered in India's trade balance, and the current-account balance continues to reflect these trends.
India is currently in the final years of its Sixth Five-Year Plan. The results of the recently completed mid-term review suggest that the country has been quite successful in attaining the Plan's objectives. During the first four years of the Plan, the economy grew at an average yearly rate of 5.5 percent, against the target rate of growth of 5.2 percent. The value added in agriculture grew at an average rate of 5.1 percent and the index of industrial production by 5.5 percent. However, there have been considerable shortfalls in Plan outlays and physical achievements in several key sectors, especially in electric-power generation, irrigation, and rail transport.
Despite achievements in restructuring its economy, many difficult adjustments remain to be undertaken. Capacity expansion and better management of investments in power generation, coal mining, rail transport, and irrigation are urgently required. India's dependence on imported energy needs to be reduced further through continued improvements in energy efficiency and the development of its huge gas reserves. Substantial scope also exists for raising efficiency in the industrial sector and thereby accelerating the growth of the economy. A good start has been made through a loosening of some controls on industry, imports, and prices. Since it will be difficult to raise savings and investment rates—except through increased profits of public-sector enterprises—emphasis will have to be placed on a more effective use of existing resources. Moreover, although India continues to finance an overwhelming share of its investment program from its own resources—only 7.5 percent came from external capital flows in fiscal 1984—a substantial net transfer of external capital remains critical to India's development effort.
Strength in Agriculture, Industry
Pakistan's economy continued to expand in fiscal 1984, though at a less vigorous pace than in the previous year, when real GDP grew by nearly 6 percent. A favorable balance-of-payments situation permitted substantial accumulation of external reserves, and domestic price stability was maintained. A setback to the cotton and wheat crops during the year, the result of poor weather and severe pest infestation, limited GDP growth to slightly more than 5 percent. Despite these developments and sluggish migrants' remittances, the country's balance-of-
payments situation remained manageable. Even though exports of raw cotton, the country's predominant export crop, declined sharply, export proceeds from yarn and cloth were maintained as a result of higher prices. Other positive factors included a rapid expansion of nontraditional exports and but a modest growth of imports. As a result, government projections anticipated no significant drawdown of exchange reserves.
Pakistan's successful economic performance during the past five years has been based upon sustained strength in agriculture and industry. Government policies have contributed directly to the robustness of these sectors. In agriculture, steps have been taken to increase the supply of inputs and credit, and higher output prices are being substituted for input subsidies. Domestic prices of major crops are being aligned more closely with international prices to promote efficiency and enhance producer competitiveness. Public-investment and recurrent expenditures are now directed towards optimizing the use of existing facilities; thus, allocations have been increased to cover the costs of operation and maintenance of canal irrigation works and public tubewells, and greater cost recovery has been secured through increases in water charges. In industry, areas open to the private sector have been widened, and safeguards against arbitrary government acquisitions have
been put into place. Investment-sanctioning procedures and some bureaucratic regulations have been streamlined. Increased incentives have been granted to the private sector, and a program of import liberalization has been implemented. Efforts to improve the efficiency of the public manufacturing sector are also under way.
The Sixth Five-Year Plan, which began in June 1983, emphasizes growth with equity. Under the Plan, rapid growth will continue to be central to the country's development strategy, but considerable emphasis is also to be placed on improving the productivity of small farms and small-scale industries and in developing the nation's human capital so as to ensure that the majority of the population participates in the benefits of growth.
The Sixth Plan is based upon a new compact between the private and public sectors. Under terms of the compact, directly productive activities—in agriculture and industry—are reserved almost exclusively for the private sector. The public sector is to serve as a catalyst, providing the physical and human infrastructure needed for private initiatives to materialize. To encourage increased investment and efficiency by the private sector, the government is to embark upon a program of phased deregulation of investment activities and a rationalization of commercial and financial policies.
Construction of a spillway at the Victoria Dam, which is part of the Mahaweli Ganga multipurpose (electricity and irrigation) project in Sri Lanka, was completed in April 1984.
The Plan's public-sector development program concentrates on meeting critical in-frastructural needs—especially in energy, agriculture and irrigation, and transport—through new capital investment and increased rehabilitation and maintenance of existing assets. Particular importance is also attached to the equitable distribution of education, health, and other basic services, especially in rural areas. The size of the Plan is carefully tailored to estimates of expected domestic and foreign resources.
An acceleration in the formation of private capital, as well as the implementation of a substantial agenda of programs in energy, agriculture, and the social sectors, will require savings to increase considerably. Despite the recent growth in the level of aid commitments, net aid inflows have been declining in real terms. An increase in foreign assistance, particularly in the form of nonproject aid, will be necessary to meet the Plan's requirement for development assistance and to ensure that the growth of recent years is not lost.
Partial Recovery in Bangladesh
Following two very difficult years, the economy of Bangladesh has recovered somewhat during the past two fiscal years. Growth in GDP, which reached a low of 0.9 percent in fiscal 1982, was over 3 percent in fiscal 1983, and is estimated to be about 4.5 percent in the year just ended. Agricultural production recovered strongly from the winter of 1982-83 with the return of more normal weather conditions; production was also boosted by a continuing rapid increase in the use of fertilizers and irrigation. The private sector has been permitted to play a greater role in the distribution of agricultural inputs, and the availability of agricultural credit has been increased. Production of food grains was a record 15.1 million tons in fiscal 1983, and is expected to reach 15.5 million tons in fiscal 1984, despite the adverse impact of floods.
There has also been a significant turnaround in the balance of payments. Import demand has been relatively low, and the inflow of workers' remittances rose by almost 50 percent in fiscal 1983 before leveling off during the past year. The terms of trade, which had dropped by over 42 percent during fiscal 1981 and 1982 over the figure for the 1980 period, have recovered somewhat. In addition, the value of exports has rebounded as a result of relatively good world prices for jute, jute products, and tea. The substantial depreciation of the taka since 1981 has helped the growth of nontraditional exports, especially ready-made garments. There has also been an increase in aid disbursements, which had stagnated in the first two years of this de-
cade. These factors in combination have permitted the rebuilding of foreign-exchange reserves, which had been reduced to two weeks' coverage of imports.at the end of fiscal 1982. Short-term economic stabilization has also been assisted by the government's successful effort, in fiscal 1983, to mobilize substantial resources through tax measures, subsidy reductions, and pricing adjustments, while keeping expenditures in line with available resources. Cautious budgetary policies have been continued throughout the year just ended. The government's adjustment efforts have been supported by a series of import credits from IDA, as well as by a standby arrangement reached with the International Monetary Fund in 1983.
The government has recently given increasing recognition to the importance of improved public administration. Over the past two years, steps have been taken to rationalize the structure of central-government and public corporations, as well as to strengthen the annual development-planning process so as to promote more effective implementation of longer-term plans. The system of local government has also undergone a major reform, as substantial powers and responsibilities have been decentralized to the country's 460 upazilas (each of which has an average population of over 200,000).5 Recently, the government has increased the allowances of government and other public-sector employees and has established a national pay commission.
While recent short-term developments have been generally favorable, Bangladesh continues to face extremely serious problems stemming from the high and rising density of population, which is leading to a steady increase in the proportion of the landless. Although there has been welcome progress towards self-sufficiency in food-grain production, it will become increasingly difficult to ensure adequate nutritional standards for the landless if a rapid growth in productive employment opportunities outside agriculture is not generated. The related issues of employment and food production are crucial to the country's medium-term prospects.
Burma: Continued Growth
Burma's economy continued its strong growth: Real GDP growth is estimated at 5.5 percent to 6 percent in the past two fiscal years. Agriculture, led by paddy, continued to be the driving force behind this high rate of growth. However, the prices for Burma's principal ex-
5 Upazila is the new designation for the smallest administrative unit of the country. The equivalent of a subdistrict, it replaces, but does not differ from, the thana.
ports, especially for rice, remained weak, putting heavy pressures on the budget and the balance of payments. As a result mainly of the fall in earnings from rice exports, revenues declined in fiscal 1983 for the first time in at least a decade. Capital expenditures, particularly in the public corporations, continued to be large, however, resulting in budget deficits amounting to almost 13 percent of GDP in both fiscal 1983 and 1984. At the same time, the current-account deficit in the balance of payments widened to 9 percent in fiscal 1983, while the overall payments balance fell from a small surplus to a rather large deficit.
To help cope with the immediate foreign-exchange shortage, the government has started to curtail capital expenditures by rephasing its investment program and tightening foreign-exchange controls. A program of agricultural diversification into a variety of nonpaddy crops has been set in motion in an effort to improve the balance of payments over the longer run and reduce economic dependence on paddy. This program is being conceived along the same lines as the highly successful program for paddy, and involves a coordinated program of institutional support and inputs for specific crops in areas of high potential. Successful agricultural diversification would not only reduce the country's heavy dependence on rice, whose international price is notoriously variable, but would also offer significant new import-substitution possibilities and income-earning opportunities for farmers. Significant potential also exists for increasing the value of rice exports through improved milling and storage; because of its relatively poor quality, processed Burmese rice sells at a significant discount in world markets. Another potential source of foreign-exchange earnings—over the longer run—may be exports of products derived from natural gas recently discovered offshore.
Drought-induced Declines
The pace of economic growth in Sri Lanka slackened in 1983 compared with the previous year. Among the factors responsible were the world recession, a severe drought, and serious civil disturbances in July. Although production of paddy was moderately above 1982 levels, tree-crop production and growth of output in the manufacturing and services sectors declined. Moreover, the drought also resulted in shortages of electricity, which further depressed growth. As a result, GDP increased in 1983 by 5 percent, as compared with an average annual growth rate of 6 percent during the five-year period, 1978-82. At the same time, however, the country's immediate problem of financial stabilization abated somewhat, as both fiscal
and balance-of-payments deficits lessened. The current-account deficit in the balance of payments also lessened somewhat as a result of a slight decline in imports and a small increase in exports, which were more than sufficient to offset reduced tourism earnings and higher interest payments on foreign debt.
By early 1984, there were signs of a considerable improvement in the country's economy. Tea prices, in particular, remained very strong, with resulting improvements in public revenues and the foreign-exchange position. There were also indications that the government intends to address several persistent economic problems. An increased flexibility in the exchange rate was announced, effective energy-conservation measures were adopted, and policies to improve performance in the tree-crop sector were set in motion. A major boost to the economy should also come in mid 1984, when the country's five-year power crisis will be relieved by the commissioning of the first major dam under the accelerated Mahaweli program.
Nepal's economic performance continues to depend heavily upon the weather. Following two relatively good years, agriculture suffered a drought-induced decline of over 2.5 percent in fiscal 1983. The effects of the drought were felt throughout the economy. Higher food imports and reduced agricultural exports led to Nepal's first overall balance-of-payments deficit in many years, despite significantly higher aid receipts. With the assistance of foreign donors, however, the government was able to avert a major food crisis through the timely importation and distribution of food grains and the successful adoption of measures to increase the winter wheat crop. The winter wheat program, involving a package of shallow tubewells, fertilizers, improved seeds, and credit, was concentrated in thirty-four out of Nepal's seventy-five districts, and was mounted with intensive field supervision by senior officials. In fiscal 1984, the government made similar efforts to intensify agricultural production, particularly the main paddy crop. These efforts, aided by good weather, led to a strong recovery in agricultural output and exports. As a result, the economic situation in the past fiscal year improved considerably over the preceding year.
Over the longer term, Nepal's development efforts continue to face major structural problems, including those of rapid population growth, deforestation, and weak public administration. The government has focused increased attention to solving these problems in recent years. Thus, it has introduced a number of programs designed to reduce the rate of population growth. In the area of public administration, several significant steps have also been
taken. Civil-service salaries have been raised, and a public-service training college has been established. In addition, some budgetary procedures have been simplified to speed up project implementation. Nepal is blessed with vast water resources which, if properly harnessed, can not only provide adequate irrigation facilities, but also generate electricity and other benefits in large measure. In conjunction with direct efforts to increase production and reduce Nepal's dependence on rainfed agriculture, continued steps in these areas should enable Nepal to achieve development gains.
The economy of Bhutan is centered around the agriculture and livestock sectors, whose performance is heavily influenced by the weather. Following several years of favorable monsoons, precipitation in 1983 fell sharply, leading to major declines in food-grain production and to lower overall growth. Food prices, and with them the overall rate of inflation, rose sharply. Development expenditures continue to show strong growth, financed by increasing external assistance and rapidly improving public savings. Public revenues, in particular, increased rapidly in 1983, in response to financial reforms intro-
duced the year before. In planning for development, the government has identified three priority sectors: agriculture and livestock; exploitation of the country's natural-resource base, including forests, minerals, and hydropower; and human-resource development.
The economy of the Maldives has been adversely affected perhaps more than any other South Asian country as a result of the world recession. The main sources of the country's welfare, and the focus of its strategy of growth—fisheries, shipping, and tourism—experienced major declines in their markets. Tourism was severly affected by the civil disturbances in Sri Lanka, since travel to the Maldives is usually combined with visits to the neighboring island. The government adopted a number of macro and sector-specific measures aimed at reducing budget and balance-of-payments deficits and at placing the economy in a position to resume growth when external conditions improve. The achievement of these objectives within a reasonable period of time will require a substantial level of external support, amounting to around $25 million in both 1984 and 1985.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Economic growth in the countries of the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa region continued to be constrained during fiscal year 1984 by the necessity to maintain—or, in some countries, to begin—the difficult process of adjusting their economies to the changed global economic situation. This process has been made more difficult by the prolonged reduction in international capital flows, both official and private, and by the continued poor performance of the agricultural sector due to adverse weather conditions. Countries that began the adjustment process early, Turkey and Hungary, for example, have been able to benefit from the start of the world economic recovery. Most of the countries of the region, however, are only beginning to develop suitable adjustment policies that will cut back fiscal deficits, lower inflation rates, and improve the balance of trade;
they have not yet benefited, therefore, from an easing of external constraints.
While short-term economic adjustments have dominated the events of the year, there has been a growing awareness that many countries in the region require a fundamental restructuring of their economies if they are to expand at a rate that will satisfy the rising expectations of their rapidly growing populations. The short-term remedies—particularly cutting back on imports and public-sector investment — run contrary to long-term necessities: increased exports, greater domestic-resource mobilization, and above all, the creation of more job opportunities. Policy and institutional changes—investment planning focused on employment and exports, more efficient public-sector management, trade and price policies that provide incentives to genuinely economic activities and
discourage uneconomic ones—will be needed before most countries in the region can resume long-term, sustainable growth. Regional staff of the Bank, working with officials in a number of borrowing countries (Yugoslavia, Morocco, Portugal, and Turkey, for example), have been developing proposals to improve the efficiency of public-sector enterprises and analyzing the impact of alternative policy changes. The results of these studies will be used to formulate long-term adjustment policies and be a basis for future financial assistance from the Bank.
Middle-income Countries
The first country in the region to begin the process of fundamentally restructuring its economy was Turkey. The process, begun in 1980, showed impressive results through 1982. Results in 1983, however, were mixed. Worrisome factors included a combination of adverse economic developments on the external front, severe slippages in the monetary program, and government hesitancy to take action in the face of upcoming elections. On the positive side, the ratio of budgetary deficits to gross national product (GNP) continued to decline. From a peak of 4.6 percent in 1980, it fell to 0.5 percent in 1983. Offsetting this, GNP growth fell from an average of 4.4 percent in 1981 and 1982 to 3.2 percent, largely the result of a decrease in agricultural production caused by adverse
weather. Unemployment continued to grow, and now stands at about 18 percent. An excessive expansion of credit caused the rate of inflation, after falling from a peak of 107 percent in 1980 to around 25 percent in 1982, to rise to around 40 percent at the end of 1983. The value of exports, after a sharp increase in 1981 and 1982, remained unchanged, despite an increase of 13 percent in volume, because of a sharp downward movement in the prices of the country's major exports (agricultural products, textiles). As a result, the current-account deficit rose to 3.5 percent of GNP as against 2 percent in 1982.
The new government introduced further structural changes in December 1983. They included a substantial liberalization of imports and of the foreign-exchange regime, a rationalization of export incentives, and a new interest-rate policy. These and other measures are designed to bring inflation under control, establish a stable economic environment, increase reliance on market forces, and encourage exports. The current outlook for 1984 suggests a real GNP growth rate of 4.5 percent, an inflation rate of about 29 percent, a current-account deficit of around 2 percent of GNP, and a balanced budget. As a result of past debt rescheduling, however, debt-service obligations will remain high through the mid 1980s. They should be manageable—provided that current
Linesmen working on condensers on electric transmission lines, part of an expansion of power transmission and distribution facilities in the southern part of Cyprus.
policies are successfully implemented, the export drive is sustained, and the country continues to receive support from international sources of commercial and official capital. The Bank continues to provide substantial support. A fifth and final structural-adjustment loan, approved in fiscal 1984, brought total commitments for adjustment lending to SI ,556 million; project lending since fiscal 1980 has totaled $1,877 million. A series of sector loans, concentrating initially on the agricultural and industrial sectors, is planned in the coming years to support Turkey's adjustment process and
carry through to the sectoral and subsectoral levels the approaches that worked successfully at the macroeconomic level.
The structural-adjustment process that Hungary began in 1980 was made even more stringent in 1982, with drastic cuts in investment and temporary import restrictions, in the face of a liquidity crisis in early 1982. The stringency has brought encouraging results, albeit at a high cost in terms of growth. On the average during 1982 and 1983, GNP grew at less than 2 percent, compared with a growth rate of about 5 percent a year during the previous decade. For the fifth
consecutive year, gross domestic investment was reduced, and it is now less than three quarters of the 1978 level. The rate of inflation was 7.8 percent in 1983. The new stabilization program, however, has enabled Hungary to overcome its 1982 external-financing crisis: A convertible-currency current-account deficit of S63 million in 1982 was converted into a surplus of about $300 million in 1983; the run on short-term deposits, which reduced its convertible-currency debt from a 1980 peak of S9.1 billion to $7.5 billion in March 1982, has subsided; and the country has been able to obtain substantial fresh medium-term and long-term financing and so to begin the process of rebuilding its depleted reserves.
Despite the vigorous demand-management and trade-policy measures that have been in place since late 1981, Romania's GNP is reported to have grown by 3 percent in 1983, slightly lower than the 3.2 percent of 1982, but still high by international standards. The official forecast for 1984 is for a growth in GNP of 7 percent. On the other hand, significant changes in prices, especially for energy and basic foodstuffs, have resulted in an increase in consumer prices by about 12 percent in 1982 and 5 percent to 7 percent in 1983. (During the 1976— 80 period, prices inched ahead by less than 2 percent a year.) Drastic cuts in imports in both 1982 and 1983 led to a remarkable turnaround in the balance of payments. The current account in convertible currencies has gone from a deficit of $2.4 billion in 1980 to a surplus of $870 million in 1983. The government forecasts a surplus of about the same size in 1984 as a result of increased exports. Other structural changes introduced in the midst of the international recession are designed to ease the foreign-exchange constraint in the medium term. They include policies that place special emphasis on narrowing the energy gap, unifying the exchange-rate system for all commodity trade transactions, and raising the structure of interest rates to make it broadly positive in real terms. Despite these improvements, Romania again had to seek a rescheduling of its external debt in 1983.
A series of stabilization measures designed to reduce aggregate demand and to reorient production towards exports was also introduced in 1980 in Yugoslavia. The main elements of this program have been restrictive monetary and fiscal policies and the more active use of exchange-rate policies to encourage exports, particularly to the convertible-currency market. These measures have had a favorable impact on the balance of payments, which registered a small surplus of about $270 million in 1983, compared with an overall current-account deficit of around $600 million in 1982, down from a
peak of $2.3 billion in 1980. The improvement has come, however, as in the cases of Turkey and Hungary, at a high cost in terms of growth. Real investment has fallen for three years running. GNP, after rising by only 1.4 percent in 1981 and 0.8 percent in 1982, fell by 1.3 percent in 1983. Real personal incomes were particularly hard hit, falling almost 12 percent. Despite stringent demand-management measures, the government's efforts at controlling inflation in 1983 were unsuccessful, and retail-price increases registered an all-time high of 55 percent. The outlook for 1984 indicates that while domestic expenditures will remain curtailed, the continued improvement in the balance of payments should permit an expansion of import levels and a resumption of positive growth in GNP and private consumption. The Bank has been supporting these policies, in particular through a first structural-adjustment loan at the end of fiscal 1983 and Special Action Program financing in fiscal 1984.
A deterioration in the balance-of-payments and budget situation of Syria during the first part of the decade has been controlled by restrictions rather than by structural adjustments. Restrictions on imports were largely responsible for the reduction in the overall balance-of-payments deficit from $700 million in 1980 to $260 million in 1982. Control of government expenditures has reduced the budget deficit from 21 percent of GNP in 1980 to 16.5 percent in 1982. This has been accompanied by a reduction in inflation from 19 percent in 1980 to 14.5 percent in 1982. Nevertheless, as in the other countries, GNP growth has slackened, from 7 percent in 1981 and 1982 to 4 percent in 1983, with agricultural GNP falling as a result of drought. Large volumes of highly concessionary loans and of grants have enabled Syria to incur trade deficits without recourse to excessive external borrowings, and the country's debt-service burden has remained at about 13 percent over the last two years.
Two active borrowing member countries in the region, which, although having earlier introduced tentative stabilization measures, had not followed through with comprehensive adjustment programs, found themselves facing balance-of-payments and liquidity crises in 1983.
In Morocco, stabilization measures introduced in 1978 succeeded in reducing the imbalance between imports and exports of goods and services from 17 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in 1977 to about 11 percent in 1978. Little progress was achieved thereafter, and in 1982, the gap had widened again to 13 percent. The massive external borrowings that financed the deficit, however, raised the cost of debt servicing from 22 percent of the value of
exports of goods and services in 1979 to 41 percent in 1982. By 1983, as sources of financing in the international market began to dry up, as prices of phosphate (Morocco's main export) remained depressed, and expectations of further large increases in flows of concessional aid failed to materialize, Morocco embarked on a new program of stabilization and structural adjustment, with support from the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The Bank has been assisting the country in the formulation of policy reforms necessary for structural adjustment, both through its economic and sector work and through its lending. Studies have been or are being carried out on industrial and agricultural incentives, the public-sector investment program, public enterprises, and employment and labor markets. These measures included an adjustment of the exchange rate, containment of government current expenditures, and drastic reductions in public-investment expenditures. GNP growth stagnated in 1983 as a result of cuts in public expenditure, as well as drought conditions that depressed agricultural incomes. On the other hand, the current-account deficit is expected to drop to 6.5 percent of GDP by 1984. Morocco's stabilization program was accompanied by an agreement with both official and commercial lenders to reschedule some $1.8 billion of debt-service payments due in 1983 and 1984. Resumption of self-sustained growth in the medium term will require improving the efficiency of investment, encouraging increased domestic savings, and providing export incentives, since net external capital inflows are projected to continue to decline.
In Portugal, a similar series of events has taken place. A first round of stabilization measures, adopted in 1978, was extremely successful, reducing the external current-account deficit to zero in 1979. However, by 1982, the current-account deficit had again risen, to an unsustainable 13 percent of GDP, and the deficit of the general government budget reached 11 percent of GDP. In mid 1983, after a further deterioration in internal economic conditions and external creditworthiness, the government was forced to take emergency measures. The escudo was devalued, interest rates were raised, most agricultural subsidies were eliminated, many taxes and administered prices were raised, public investment was cut, and a standby agreement was negotiated with the IMF. These measures successfully reversed the deterioration. Imports fell and exports increased significantly, 16.7 percent in volume; the 1983 current-account deficit in the balance of payments fell to $1.7 billion, about half the 1982 level, and the government deficit virtually stagnated
in real terms, which represented a decline of two points as a percentage of GDP. At the same time, however, there was a significant drop in capital inflows, and about 50 percent of the capital-account deficit had to be financed by a reduction in foreign-exchange reserves. In common with other countries in the region, these improvements were not without cost: GDP growth fell to zero in 1983, and investment declined by about 9 percent in real terms. Portugal's stabilization program is expected to continue into 1984 as the country's external-financing needs remain high.
Despite recent declines in the prices of petroleum products, the region's net oil-exporting countries that are borrowers have continued to be able to attract enough external finance to support their development needs without undertaking comprehensive economic-adjustment programs.
A number of short-term incentive and stabilization measures introduced in Egypt have curbed imports, restored the flow of workers' remittances, and cut the budget deficit. In addition, some changes aimed at encouraging, in the long term, foreign investment, industrial exports, and additional workers' remittances have been made in the foreign-trade regime and exchange-rate system. The rapid economic growth of recent years has been principally based on exogenous earning sources that have weak linkages to agriculture, industry, and services, where most of the labor force is employed. Continued economic growth, particularly employment creation, depends on expanding and diversifying the productive base of the economy and developing the considerable potential that exists in these sectors. The government realizes that substantial domestic policy reforms are needed, and the Bank is assisting in formulating some of the required reforms. The first of what is expected to be a series of loans to develop the export potential of the industrial sector was approved in fiscal 1984.
In Algeria, major economic reforms have been carried out over the past two years. Regional and sectoral decentralization; physical restructuring (in which activities carried out by large firms were devolved to smaller and more manageable entities), followed by financial restructuring of industrial and agricultural enterprises in the public sector; and credit and fiscal incentives to the private agricultural and small-scale industries sectors have all taken place. The economy has remained strong despite the external shocks of recent years. The rate of growth in that part of the GDP that is not accounted for by hydrocarbons rose to 8 percent in 1983, up from the 7 percent rate of the previous three years. Hydrocarbons, which
account for 98 percent of all exports, also increased in 1983 as a result of a continued diversification of output towards refined products, condensate, and natural gas.
Tunisia, on the other hand, is in the process of adjusting its economy so that it can continue to grow in a posthydrocarbon era. Despite a second consecutive year of low agricultural output resulting from adverse weather, GDP grew by about 4.5 percent in 1983, up from a rate of less than 1 percent in 1982. This upsurge resulted from a strong rebound in the production of phosphate and manufactures and a continued high level of investment (30 percent of GDP). Additional demand created by renewed substantial wage increases and increases in food imports as a result of the drought have meant that, although exports recovered somewhat and import controls were tightened, the current-account deficit was only reduced from 10.6 percent of GDP in 1982 to just over 9 percent in 1983. The budget deficit grew from 5 percent of GDP in 1982 to 5.5 percent, and the government introduced new measures in 1984 to improve the budgetary situation; the balance-of-payments gap is likely to close only slowly, however. Over the long term, the basic economic issue in Tunisia remains how to generate more employment and distribute income more evenly in a period of tight domestic financial constraints without jeopardizing the country's creditworthiness. The Bank is actively supporting the government in implementing policies towards that end. Economic and sector work is aimed at deepening the analysis of issues in employment creation, oil and gas strategy, and in financial and industrial policy.
Jordan, although not a producer of oil, has also weathered the difficult past few years fairly well. Despite a 20 percent decline in foreign aid, stagnation in workers' remittances, and a drop in exports, the momentum generated by a decade of heavy investment and by a good year in agriculture sustained a GDP growth of about 5 percent in 1983. In addition, as a result of a reduction in imports, the current-account deficit has improved. Medium-term economic prospects remain satisfactory. Completion of a number of major export-oriented industrial projects should boost industrial production and exports. The country's trade deficit, however, is expected to rise unless workers' remittances and foreign grants increase. Given Jordan's relatively low foreign indebtedness, increased external borrowing should present no problems.
Low-income Countries
In the Yemen Arab Republic, GDP growth was less than 3 percent in 1983, the lowest performance in many years. The fall in the rate of
growth was primarily due to a reduction in the availability of foreign exchange; although there was an increase in workers' remittances, official grants declined about 63 percent. Agricultural production, which accounts for about one third of GDP, dropped about 18 percent, due to drought. Despite this, the balance-of-payments deficit was reduced by 41 percent in 1983, mainly as the result of a drop in imports. Although the budget deficit is still at a high level in relation to GDP, it has also been reduced as a result of a number of measures taken to reduce expenditures. These measures have been expanded in 1984. Taxes have been increased, and the capital budget has been cut by 22 percent. The maintenance of a large volume of concessional aid flows remains essential to sustaining long-term growth—particularly since the grace periods on loans are now expiring, and debt-service obligations, though still reasonable at about 10 percent of current-account receipts, are rising rapidly.
The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is also heavily dependent on external aid flows for financing its development program. Foreign loans and grants are expected to finance about 70 percent of the country's 1981-85 Development Plan that calls for expenditures of $1.5 billion. Workers' remittances and private transfers, the other main sources of external financing, have risen rapidly in recent years and by 1983 were equivalent to about two thirds of imports. Compared with an annual average growth of 4 percent in the previous five years, GDP fell in 1982 but recovered in 1983 to the 1981 level. The severe flooding of 1982 contributed to this decline, and performance in 1983 was further hurt by drought, which has continued into 1984. A resumption of growth will depend upon increases in external aid, since workers' remittances are unlikely to increase further. Increased aid will bring its own problems, however. Already by mid 1983, total external debt outstanding and disbursed was approximately equivalent to GNP and, although much of it was on concessional terms or in the form of grants, the country's debt-service obligations have started to rise and are projected to increase significantly in the next few years. Future assistance will have to remain on highly-concessionary terms.
Oil-exporting Countries
The capital-surplus, oil-exporting countries of the region have weathered the decline in oil prices and the production ceilings agreed to by the OPEC producers early in 1983. Most have adjusted to these developments, either by cutting back on their planned investment programs, stretching out the completion of already
initiated projects, or by pursuing a combination of both. The brunt of this lower level of activity has been borne, in particular, by the civil-works and contracting industries. The oil crisis has not affected greatly most citizens of the capital-surplus countries, because most socially oriented programs have not been severely affected by the reduction in oil revenues. In addition, all governments in these countries have continued to be the employer of last resort, thus preventing any significant increase in unemployment, especially among the young.
In the course of fiscal 1984, the political and economic integration among the Gulf countries made important progress within the framework of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC).6 In addition to lifting customs duties on most products originating in the GCC states, the GCC has made significant steps towards ensuring free circulation and residence for GCC citizens in the Gulf countries, coordinating the location of large downstream oil plants, establishing an investment corporation, and designing important schemes for transport coordination and food storage.
It is expected that, in the short run at least, oil prices and production quotas will not change significantly; as a result, a reduction in real terms of oil revenues accruing to the capital-surplus countries can be anticipated. Such expectations, combined with the sharp decline in
oil revenues during 1983, have .brought about a more cautious attitude by most governments towards their large investment programs and a greater scrutiny of the cost effectiveness of their current operations. As mentioned in last year's Annual Report, necessary retrenchment in terms of development expenditure might adversely affect the civil-works and contracting industries in several countries and could lower the demand for expatriate labor and, thus, the inflow of workers' remittances to a number of neighboring and Asian countries.
6 On May 25, 1981, the heads of state of six Gulf Arab countries, meeting in Abu Dhabi, signed an agreement establishing the Cooperation Council of the Arab States of the Gulf. The aim of the Council as stated in its charter is "to achieve coordination, integration, and harmony among member states leading toward unity." The six member states are Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Oatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates. The GCC involves integration at various social, economic, and security levels. Of particular importance is the unified economic agreement signed at the second GCC summit in Riyadh in November 1981, which became effective in its first phase on March 1, 1983. The detailed aspects of the agreement are being worked out by a wide range of ministerial committees. An important step toward the commitment to a shared economic future among the Gulf countries has been the decision, taken at the third GCC summit in Bahrain (November 1982), to establish a Gulf Investment Corporation, with a capital of $2.1 billion. The newly created institution, with capital contributions from the various Gulf countries, will finance industrial and regional infrastructure activities primarily, but not exclusively, in the Gulf region.
Latin America and the Caribbean
During the past year, the decline in the level of economic activity in Latin American countries became ever more acute: For the entire region, per capita gross domestic product (GDP) fell by about 6 percent. For a number of countries (Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Uruguay, most of Central America, and the Caribbean), and the region as a whole, 1983 was the third consecutive year of either stagnation or decline in per capita GDP.
The region's per capita output has now fallen to about the level of 1976. The largest declines in 1983 occured in Peru (14.3 percent), Bolivia (8.7 percent), Brazil (7.1 percent), Ecuador and
Uruguay (about 6.3 percent), and Mexico (4.7 percent). Adjusted for terms-of-trade losses (which, in 1983, fell an additional 7 percent for all of Latin America), per capita gross national income is now estimated to have declined in a number of countries to the level of the early to mid 1970s.
Since 1980, when the industrial nations first entered what was to become the longest recession of the postwar period, the countries of Latin America have experienced both economic contraction and financial crisis. Enormous pressure has been exerted on the external positions of countries throughout the region. There are
two overriding reasons for the existence of this pressure. One is the persistence of high real rates of interest applicable to the variable-rate debt of the region (which accounts for two thirds of the region's total external debt) and a rapid growth of total debt, which, in some countries, has increased by over 30 percent annually since the early 1970s. The second stems from a decline in export earnings in absolute terms.
Crisis Is Widespread
This combination of events has culminated in a widespread debt crisis throughout the region unlike anything experienced since the 1930s: Since 1981, sixteen of the twenty-eight countries in Latin America have entered into agreements with the International Monetary Fund (IMF); fourteen have had formal rescheduling agreements with their creditors, and others are expected to follow in the coming months; and adoption of domestic austerity programs aimed at restoring international liquidity, compounded by the decline in demand for the region's exports, has resulted in the sharpest decline in output and employment since the years of the Great Depression.
Confronted with a much tighter external-resource constraint stemming from adverse trade developments7 and a sharp, destabilizing reduction of capital flows,8 most Latin American countries cut imports and investment drastically. Investment in 1983 is believed to have been well below the level of 1981. Unemployment also reached unprecedented high levels. Despite these adjustments, almost all Latin American nations continue to experience severe financial problems and external-payments difficulties. Nutrition, education, housing, and health services, areas in which significant gains were made in the 1970s, all have suffered severe setbacks.
The adjustment in Latin America in 1983 was greater than that which took place in 1982 in terms of declines in investment, output, and employment and improvement in the region's external accounts. From a deficit in the trade balance of SI.6 billion in 1981, Latin America recorded an unprecedented $31.2 billion surplus in 1983 (4 percent of GDP), an amount more than three times the 1982 surplus. The massive surplus, achieved despite a decline in the value of exports, was the consequence of an enormous cut in imports, which, in just two years, have been reduced to half the level in 1981. Real devaluations in many Latin American countries appear to have enhanced the competitiveness of these countries' exports in 1983, but trade between Latin American countries, which grew rapidly in the 1970s, declined sharply as a result of reductions in imports.
While Latin American countries continued to be net capital importers in 1983, albeit at much reduced levels, net disbursement of new capital was less than interest payments. The current-account deficit of the region's external accounts was cut to an amount about one fourth that of 1982 ($8.5 billion, or 1 percent of GDP, as against $36.4 billion, or 5 percent of GDP). Despite the enormous adjustment which took place in 1983, the region's current-account deficit, caused largely by interest payments abroad, exceeded net financing received, with the result that net international reserves declined—for the third consecutive year—by about $4 billion. A number of countries accumulated arrears.
In 1983, the region's external debt continued to grow, albeit at a rate far less than in previous years: 7 percent in nominal terms, as compared with 12 percent in 1982, and an average of 23 percent during the decade of the 1970s. Net capital inflow was approximately S20 billion, down from $32 billion in 1982 and $38 billion in 1981. External debt (including short-term debt) now stands at about $350 billion. New resources provided to the countries of the region came mainly in the context of debt reschedulings. The conventional debt-service ratio, which relates debt service to exports, fell sharply in 1983 as a result of the rescheduling of amortization payments falling due. Interest payments as a share of exports were 23 percent. The ratio of total debt outstanding to GDP increased (from 35 percent in 1981 to 39 percent in 1983). however, as GDP declined and debt increased.
The challenge now facing the debtor countries is to shift to growth-oriented, export-expanding adjustment, compatible with rising investment, output, and employment, which is required in the context of continued population growth (2.2 percent) and even faster labor-force growth (3.0 percent). A strong recovery of the world economy is a precondition for such positive adjustment.
The World Bank has assisted in the adjustment process by increasing its lending in support of structural change, notably in Brazil, Jamaica, and Panama. Innovative sectoral loans to Brazil have been made to support efforts to accelerate manufactured and farm-product exports and to support the adoption of critical re-
7 The foreign-exchange loss caused by the deterioration in the terms of trade was $8 billion in 1981, $5.7 billion in 1982, and $7.1 billion in 1983 from an initial value of exports estimated at S96.8 billion. Growth of export volume declined from an average 8 percent in the 1976-80 period to an average 4 percent in 1982-83.
8 Gross disbursements fell sharply in 1983 with the result that the net flow of new capital was less than interest payments.
forms of trade policy and of agricultural-credit policy. A structural-adjustment loan to Jamaica, the second of its kind, aims at stimulating industrial and agricultural production for export. In Panama, the Bank's nonproject lending focuses on improving the efficiency of public-sector enterprises and on stimulating trade and agricultural output.
Adjustment in Three Major Countries
The extent of economic difficulties and the mode of adjustment adopted by individual countries have varied greatly.
Argentina was only moderately affected by the petroleum-price increases and slowdown of the world economy in the mid 1970s. The country continues to be largely self-sufficient in oil and, until 1982, its export earnings were relatively buoyant despite the world recession. Maintenance of an overvalued exchange rate and uncontrolled increases in the public-sector deficit, however, resulted in a deterioration of the country's external accounts and in an unsus-tainably rapid growth of external borrowing after 1978. Increasingly, this borrowing was on short term. Repeated devaluations during 1981 and piecemeal efforts at stabilization failed to restore public confidence or notably improve economic performance. The country's economic difficulties were further complicated by the April 1982 war in the South Atlantic. Growing political uncertainties made it difficult to
implement a coherent stabilization/adjustment program and to negotiate a rescheduling of payments on the country's external debt.
Automatic adjustment of the real economy in response to the weakening of the country's external position began in 1980; it continued in 1981 and 1982, as GDP first stagnated and then fell 6 percent in each of the succeeding two years. There are indications that the economy bottomed out during 1983, but a sustained recovery was jeopardized by rapidly accelerating inflation. The current-account deficit of the balance of payments was reduced from 7.7 percent of GDP in 1981 to 3.1 percent in 1983. The government is currently formulating a stabilization program aimed at stemming the country's deteriorating domestic economic situation, at shoring up its external position, and at reaching agreement with its external creditors.
Brazil was the most severely affected of any developing country in absolute terms by the external shocks that followed the oil-price increases of 1973-74. Despite a rapid growth in exports, Brazil began to borrow increasing amounts to cover its large and growing current-account deficits and amortization payments. Payments for imports of petroleum alone increased from 10 percent of exports in 1972 to 49 percent in 1980. Interest payments amounted to 31 percent of exports in the latter year.
The deterioration in Brazil's external position during this period was dealt with in two prin-
This textile plant in Fortaleza, Brazil, expanded production of women's and children's clothing with a suhloan under the Second Development Banking Project.
cipal ways: through import substitution and accelerated foreign borrowing. The latter grew by an average of 30 percent annually from 1972 to 1980. While Brazil was successful, until 1981, in achieving rapid growth with this strategy, success came at the cost of growing economic imbalances, including an expanding public-sector deficit and increased vulnerability to further external shocks.
The massive adjustment in the domestic economy resulted in major achievements in 1983: a turnaround in the resource balance from a deficit of $2.4 billion in 1982 to a surplus of $3.5 billion, a reduction in the current-ac-
count deficit of the balance of payments from 6.2 percent of GDP in 1982 to 3.1 percent, and a sharp deceleration in the rate of increase in external borrowing.
The costs of adjustment, now in its fourth year, in terms of output and employment forgone, have been considerable, however. The developmental impetus has been interrupted as a consequence of the deep cuts in imports and investment. Brazil was able to expand its export earnings in 1983, and available information suggests that the country's export performance will be outstanding in 1984. Future growth may be adversely affected, however, to the extent that
continued compression of imports proves necessary to achieve external balance and results in reduced allocative efficiency and a reduction of investment.
Mexico's foreign-exchange crisis of 1982 and current economic difficulties are the result of excessively rapid increases in government expenditures of petroleum revenues, excessive external borrowing, and adverse external conditions (whose effects were felt after 1980). In the period 1978-81, the Mexican economy grew by more than 8 percent annually. Import capacity increased rapidly as exports of petroleum expanded. This expansion encouraged a sharp increase in public spending, resulting in record fiscal deficits despite a fourfold increase in oil revenues. The combination of an overheated economy, a fixed exchange rate, rising inflation, and a drop in international oil prices and sales in 1981, as well as lesser demand for the country's nonoil exports, the result of recession in the US, put increasing pressure on the country's external position. Widening deficits in the current account of the balance of payments were covered with unsustainably large increases in external borrowing, much of it on short term, and at high and variable rates of interest.
The mode of adjustment adopted by Mexico following the financial crisis of 1982 was to compress imports and investments severely while accepting a sharp deceleration of growth. Output declined by 0.5 percent in 1982 and by 4.7 percent in 1983. Public spending (in particular, public investment) was reduced sharply, and private investment fell precipitously. Imports of goods were cut from $24 billion in 1981 to $14.5 billion in 1982, and to less than $8 billion in 1983. The relative decline in imports by the private sector was even greater. Major results of this adjustment were a strengthening of the country's external position and a slowing of the growth of external debt. In 1982, Mexico's current-account deficit was $3 billion; a surplus of $5 billion was achieved in 1983.This turnaround in the current account, together with the rescheduling of amortization payments that were to fall due in 1983 and 1984, and the availability of an IMF-supported external financing package amounting to about $8 billion, permitted the country to replenish its international reserves rapidly, while paying most of the arrears that had accumulated in 1982.
The drastic adjustments undertaken by Mexico have succeeded in strengthening the country's external position, in slowing the rate of domestic price inflation, and improving economic prospects generally. More remains to be done, however, to restore conditions needed for the resumption of rapid and sustainable growth, including private-sector confidence, a further
reduction in the fiscal deficit, and a favorable environment for nonoil exports. The government's stabilization program, targeted to continue through 1984, comprises additional cuts in the fiscal deficit, a reorientation of public-sector investment programs, financial-policy adjustments, and the maintenance of a competitive rate of exchange.
Recent Developments in Central America
During 1982-83, Central America's economy deteriorated as exports and investments remained sluggish; real per capita GDP declined by over 10 percent. Private investment was adversely affected by the declining demand for exports, particularly intraregional trade in the Central American Common Market (CACM), the adverse political climate in the region, and the stabilization policies followed by some countries. Exports (including CACM trade) decreased in nominal terms by about 12 percent, owing mostly to lower exported volumes of coffee, bananas, beef, and manufactures. The terms of trade showed only a minor deterioration with respect to 1981 and continued to be sharply down from the peak period, 1976-78.
The region's external position continued to deteriorate in 1982-83 as a result of the sluggish export performance. Although imports declined by more than 20 percent, the countries experienced serious foreign-exchange constraints. Net official foreign-exchange reserves declined substantially in spite of significant capital inflows and are now negative for all countries in the region. Access to new commercial foreign funds is very limited, and some countries had to reschedule external debts.
The Central American Common Market is confronting serious payments difficulties, which have resulted in a significant decline of intraregional trade. The scarcity of foreign exchange has prevented debtor countries from settling their balances in the CACM clearing house, and some countries have accumulated large balances in nonconvertible currencies owed by other CACM members. Since the import component of manufactured exports originates outside the area, creditor member countries are indirectly extending foreign-exchange loans to debtor member countries at a time when their balance-of-payments position is weak. Recent regional meetings have explored the possibility of obtaining a moderate increase in intraregional trade through an equitable distribution of the financing required by the debtor countries, including participation from external sources.
Through the coordination of the Inter-American Development Bank, the Central American region is seeking outside support for its devel-
opment efforts through the strengthening of regional institutions such as the Central American Bank for Economic Integration. Special meetings for this purpose have been held in Brussels, Belgium (September 1983), and Punta del Este, Uruguay (March 1984), with encouraging results.
At the same time, efforts are under way to reform the CACM system of incentives by reducing effective protection and tariff exonerations. Ongoing negotiations are expected to result in the approval of a new tariff in the last quarter of 1984. As part of the tariff-regime modification, member governments are expected to substitute the Brussels nomenclature for the present NAUCA nomenclature and transform the tariff system to an ad valorem basis. Agreement on tariff levels for specific commodities will take place as a result of the ongoing negotiations.
The Caribbean Countries
The international recession continued to generate serious problems for the economies of the countries of the Caribbean. Although world market prices of key exports, such as bauxite/ alumina, bananas, and sugar, appear to have stabilized and even to have risen slightly from the historically low levels of late 1982, demand for these commodities and, thus, export earnings, remain weak, with little prospect of a dynamic recovery. Sugar prices remain below the costs of production, often by a considerable margin, for virtually all countries of the Caribbean. Even the subsidized markets that exist in the United States and the countries of the European Economic Community are supplied at a loss by the exporting countries. Efforts are being made in a number of these countries to reduce the costs of production by improving efficiency, but given the depressed level of prices, adequate incentives for accelerating investment do not currently exist. Bauxite markets continue to be extremely bleak, and the volume of bauxite exports remains substantially below capacity despite stockpiling agreements with the United States. The strength of the US dollar, to which most of the Caribbean currencies are pegged, has seriously eroded real earnings in European markets for Caribbean products.
There is, however, one area in which these island economies have seen a significant improvement. Uniquely placed close to the country that is leading the world recovery, they have benefited from a sharp revival of tourism from the United States at a time when the strength of the US dollar during much of 1983 and 1984 has led to a weakening of tourism from Europe. In most destinations, 1982 and 1983 were record years for tourism, particularly in Jamaica,
where full capacity was reached and new investments are needed. While a large part of the increase in tourism has come from increased incomes in the US, some increases have also been generated by cost and price cutting in Caribbean destinations. In addition, because visitors from the US stay, on the average, fewer days per visit than their European counterparts, some countries—Barbados, in particular— have seen a decline in tourism earnings per visitor. In spite of increased tourism receipts, real per capita incomes in 1983 were lower in the larger countries—Barbados, Belize, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago—for the second straight year; in the smaller island nations, per capita income was at a level no higher than in 1982. The recovery of the world economy has not as yet been translated into an improvement in the economies of the Caribbean. Although the Caribbean Basin Initiative (CBI) of the United States could help improve the prospects for economic growth in the nations of the region, it is a relatively new program, and as its various mechanisms are still being implemented, it has yet to make a significant impact. In addition, because the initiative was constructed in such a way that its impact will be felt on future rather than traditional economic activities, it will take time for the Caribbean countries to take advantage of any increased opportunities that may arise under the CBI.
The smallest states9 of the Caribbean present special problems for development. Their small size makes broad institutional development more difficult, raises the unit costs of infrastructure, and significantly increases the costs of delivering external assistance. Special efforts and a very high degree of cooperation and coordination among donors are necessary; these attributes have been the hallmark of assistance to the Caribbean since the inception, in 1978, of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development. The sixth meeting of this group, which took place at the Bank in Washington in February 1984, placed particular emphasis on regional programs of cooperation, including transportation, export promotion, agriculture, and tourism; in addition, consultative meetings for some fourteen states and territories were conducted.
One particular adverse development of recent origin is the weakening of the regional trade-preference system, CARICOM (the Caribbean Community and Common Market), under the strains of the worldwide recession. Restrictions on imports in the larger countries.
9 Antigua and Barbuda. Bahamas, Dominica. Grenada, St. Christopher and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
particularly Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago, have resulted in significantly less trade inside CARICOM than was the case at the beginning of the decade. This circumstance, plus the need for a large proportion of assistance on concessional terms for these countries, emphasizes the importance to any future development of export expansion and diversification of the economic base. Work has proceeded for several years on shifting the focus of trade of these countries to extraregional markets. The CARICOM Council of Ministers, which rarely met during the first decade of the organization, but which has now agreed to meet annually to address the mutual problems of Community-states, will be considering proposals for a substantial reform of the regional trading system in the near future.
The Development Potential
Despite the severity of the current financial crisis in Latin America, the underlying strength of these economies endures. Considerable progress was achieved in the countries of the region during the three decades that followed World War II. Economic growth was rapid and followed an upward trend. Output in 1980 was
five times higher than in 1950. and per capita output rose threefold. While population has doubled since 1950, the rate of population growth has declined significantly in recent years. This trend has had favorable implications for future social expenditures and for job creation. Improvements in human welfare have been substantial. Life expectancy has risen from fifty-one to sixty-four years. Child mortality has declined from twenty-three per thousand to less than six per thousand. The literacy rate has increased from 57 percent to 80 percent. The region is also one that is richly endowed with natural resources, many of which still remain untapped.
Despite the fundamental strength of these economies, however, the heavy burden of debt facing the countries of the region is enormous and will operate to constrain growth for the foreseeable future. Countries that are not successful in expanding their exports will experience lower rates of economic growth. The strength and timing of the recovery in the Latin American countries depend heavily on future developments in the world economy, on these countries' access to external financing, and on their domestic economic policies.
Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1984, by Sector
Agriculture and Rural Development
BANGLADESH: IDA—$41.5 million. Almost a half million people are expected to benefit from a project that seeks to raise agricultural production by increasing the area under high-yielding rice and wheat (through improved drainage and/or irrigation and by reducing crop losses from flooding) and to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Bangladesh Water Development Board. Cofinancing ($2.3 million) is expected from the UNDP. Total cost: $58 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$24.5 million. A second agricultural-research project will help develop a strong research coordination, planning, and monitoring organization at the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council; bring livestock, fisheries, and forestry more effectively into the research system; strengthen the national research-station network; and help finance priority research areas. Training of scientists and technicians is included. Cofinancing ($2.1
million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $32.2 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$20 million. About 50,000 small farmers will benefit from a project designed to increase cane and sugar production and improve sugar-industry productivity by strengthening extension services to cane growers, developing mill farms, improving cane transport and handling, and rehabilitating three sugar mills. Total cost: $25.6 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$8.1 million. This second agricultural-training project will assist the government in upgrading the quality of extension and research services by improving the quality of middle-level training and higher-level in-service training of the Ministry of Agriculture, by developing a career-development
Data used in this section have been compiled from documentation provided at the time of project approval and year-end revisions.
strategy for extension agents, and by extending the ongoing Agriculture Management Development Program. Cofinancing ($400,000) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $9.9 million.
BENIN: IDA—$5.4 million. A forestry project will seek to reorganize and increase the technical capacity of the government's Forestry and Hunting Department and execute an industrial plantations program so as to reduce future dependence on imported sawn timber and generate revenues for further forestry development. Cofinancing is being provided by the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW—a $3.8 million loan; GTZ—a $1.2 million grant). Total cost: $12.96 million.
BHUTAN: IDA—$5.5 million. Merchandizable trees will be felled and extracted from degraded forests so as to establish 2,800 hectares of plantations in southern Bhutan. In addition, tree nurseries will be established, access roads constructed and maintained, and technical assistance provided. Cofinancing has been arranged with the UNDP ($400,000). Total cost: $6.8 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$303 million. The project will support the establishment of a general agricultural-investment credit line and help establish a revolving fund to rediscount prefinancing credits for exporters of agricultural and agroindus-trial products. A series of studies, aimed at strengthening agricultural policies, services, and institutions, will also be financed. Total cost: $990 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$65.2 million. About 15,000 small-scale farm families are expected to benefit from a project that forms part of a program to increase the productivity, incomes, and social welfare of those living in the northwest region of the country. The bulk of the funds will be for agricultural development (on-farm investments), rural roads, and urban infrastructure. Total cost: $182 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$22.8 million. This supplement will provide for increased financing for the Agricultural Development and Environmental Project, Northwest I—from $67 million to $89.8 million. The project was approved in 1981.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$7.7 million. This loan is a supplement to the S28 million loan, approved in 1979, that supports irrigation development in the Lower Sao Francisco valley, located in the Northeastern states of Alagoas and Sergipe.
BURMA: IDA—$25 million. A second wood-industries project will help improve further the efficiency and product quality of the country's export-oriented teak-processing industry through modernization and rehabilitation of existing capacity, improve the supply of hard-
wood sawn timber and panel products to the domestic market, and introduce the production of block board. Technical assistance and training are included. Cofinancing has been arranged from FINNIDA ($6 million). Total cost: $57.4 million.
CAMEROON: IBRD—$21.5 million. Through a focus on increased food-crop production and improvements in coffee yields and quality, operations ongoing under the Western Highlands Rural Development Project will be consolidated and extended to the whole of Western province. Cofinancing, in the amount of $14.5 million, has been agreed upon with I FAD. Total cost: $55.7 million.
CHINA: IDA—$100 million. Financial assistance will be extended to a project consisting of the new planting and replanting of40,000 hectares of rubber on state farms and communes in Guangdong province. In addition, windbreaks will be planted in typhoon-prone areas, transport and agricultural machinery modernized, timber-processing facilities upgraded or constructed, and technical assistance provided. Total cost: $301 million.
CHINA: IDA—-$50 million. Funds will be channeled through the Agricultural Bank of China to collective units, individual farmers and households, and state-owned enterprises for investments in citrus orchards and other tree crops, and for the development of aquaculture, livestock, and agroprocessing. Some 90,000 families are to benefit directly. Total cost: $142.4 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$50 million. Provision of credit and related support services are designed to help diversify agricultural production in the country's coffee areas through increased production, marketing, and processing of commodities other than coffee. Total cost: $253.5 million.
COMOROS: IDA—$5.04 million. The Federal Center for Support to Rural Development and its regional affiliates will be reorganized so that they might function effectively as the network for rural services. Cofinancing ($3.4 million) is being arranged with IFAD. Total cost: $9.3 million.
CYPRUS: IBRD—$27 million. Nearly 600,000 domestic water consumers and 10,000 persons in the irrigated farming community will benefit from the first phase of a two-phase development to harness the country's last substantial surface-water resources. Cofinancing is anticipated from the EIB ($28 million), the KFAED ($10 million), and export credits ($68 million). Total cost: $202.3 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$35 million. A second coffee-processing and marketing project has been designed to improve the quality of higher-value
washed coffee and increase its share of total coffee exports through construction of washing stations, assistance to cooperatives, training, research trials, improvements to institutional infrastructure and incentive mechanisms, and construction and improvement of rural access roads. Total cost: $55.2 million.
THE GAMBIA: IDA—$9.4 million. Production of groundnuts, cotton, and food crops will increase through a project that will consolidate progress made under an earlier project and address constraints that emerged during its implementation; assist the government with major structural reforms; and improve production of rainfed export and food crops. Cofinancing is expected from the DCD ($9.5 million) and IFAD ($5 million). Total cost: $29 million.
GHANA: IDA—$25 million. Through the provision of infrastructure and equipment; inputs, extension services, and credit to smallholders/ outgrowers; consultancy services; training; and the development of an oil-palm research program, the Phase 1 development of nucleus plantation and smallholder/outgrower plantings will be consolidated. Total cost: $35.9 million.
HAITI: IDA—$19.1 million. The project—including rehabilitation of two irrigation systems, strengthening of extension services, provision of credit to small farmers, rehabilitation and construction of 116 kilometers of rural roads, construction of twenty-one water-supply systems, technical assistance, and training—will increase crop production in the Northern region. Cofinancing is being provided by IFAD ($5 million), the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ) ($2.2 million), and the FAC ($1.2 million). Total cost: $29.2 million.
INDIA: IDA—$220 million. The development of the Indian cooperative movement will be supported by strengthening the capabilities of the National Cooperative Development Corporation. The scope of its activities will be expanded, and its involvement extended into new areas in nine participating states. Total cost: $468 million.
INDIA: IDA—$172 million. This follow-on to the Gujarat Irrigation Project, which helped the state government to start twenty-three new medium irrigation projects and modernize six others, would create about 241,000 hectares of additional irrigated area and provide a more reliable water supply for 133,000 hectares of existing irrigation. Total cost: $344.1 million.
INDIA: IDA—$125 million. Through the financing of a six-year timeslice of a program for rehabilitation and modernization of the Upper Ganga Canal System, risks to the existing irrigation area will be alleviated, and the standard of living of farmers in Uttar Pradesh state increased. Total cost: $231.3 million.
INDIA: IDA—$105 million. This project will continue the Government of Orissa's construction program of medium irrigation projects (MIPs). A total of fifteen MIPs will be completed and set into operation, three MIPs, just begun, will be brought to near completion, and six new MIPs will be appraised and partly constructed. Total cost: $140.6 million.
INDIA: IDA—$35 million. The Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project in Tamil Nadu state will be implemented, its irrigable area extended, and crop production and farmers' incomes maximized through better water utilization. Total cost: $58.8 million.
INDIA: IDA—$31 million. A pilot project will initiate a program to increase and stabilize crop and forage yields and production of fuelwood and timber in rainfed farming areas through widespread adoption of improved technology and better farming practices. The project is to be implemented in eight watersheds in four participating states—Andhra Pradesh, Karna-taka, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing in the amount of $800,000 is anticipated from the ODA. Total cost: $45.5 million.
INDIA: IDA—$27 million. Supplies of fuelwood will be increased and small timber provided for construction, livestock fodder, and minor forest andjagricultural products through the establishment of about 150,000 hectares of plantations. In addition, institutional capabilities will be strengthened, and a number of short-term studies carried out. Cofinancing is anticipated from the ODA ($23 million). Total cost: $56.6 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$89 million. Irrigation services of eight selected Other Island provinces will be strengthened, particularly in project preparation, implementation, and operation and maintenance capabilities. Total cost: $150.4 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$79.2 million. To help reduce sugar imports and inland transport costs and to develop an area in the outer islands, some 12,400 hectares of sugarcane will be established in South Kalimantan that will produce about 50,000 tons of sugar each year for domestic consumption. Total cost: $130.4 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$65 million. A second swamp-reclamation project focuses on strengthening institutions implementing the government's program of swamp development. The project will also help finance a six-year timeslice of an eight-year program of reclaiming and developing about 30,000 hectares of swamp lands in South Sumatra and settling about 11,500 families in the newly developed area. Total cost: $108.5 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—SI5.1 million. An export-crops project seeks to expand production and promote marketing of export crops (including sugarcane, bananas, coffee, coconuts, cigar tobacco, fruits, and vegetables) by providing credit, critical support services, and infrastructure. Total cost: $40.6 million.
LIBERIA: IDA—$6.7 million. About 7,500 farm families are to obtain higher incomes as a result of crop-improvement and credit programs under the second stage of the integrated agricultural-development project for Bong county. An even greater number will benefit from improvements in the road network and health services. Cofinancing is anticipated from IFAD ($5.8 million) and the ADF ($4 million). Total cost: $ 17.4 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$17.8 million. By increasing cotton yields on existing cultivated land and by expanding cultivation through the development of new lands, the country's cotton production is expected to increase from 26,000 tons to 45,000 tons over a four-year period. Cofinancing is anticipated from the CCCE ($11.3 million). Total cost: $34.4 million.
MALI: IDA—$25.9 million. Integrated development in southern Mali will be promoted through a variety of measures including cotton and cereals extension and research; groundnut, rice, and livestock development; provision of agricultural equipment, health-care facilities, and water supply; and upgrading rural tracks. In addition, the government will be supported in carrying out price, tax, and institutional reforms in the cotton sector. Cofinancing is anticipated from IFAD ($13 million), the CCCE ($11.3 million), the FAC ($6.4 million), the Netherlands ($4.1 million), and France ($2.2 million). Total cost: $84 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$300 million. About 105,000 farm families are expected to benefit from an eighth agricultural-credit project that seeks to increase agricultural productivity and production with a view to increasing exports, self-sufficiency in food, and real farm income. Institutional assistance to FIRA—the Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico—is included. Total cost: $764 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$115.4 million. A fifth agricultural-credit project will seek to improve the standard of living for about 580,000 farm families and create about 78,600 manyears of rural employment. Cofinancing is expected from the AFESD ($26 million), the AfDB ($32 million), and the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) ($24 million). Total cost: $602.2 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$18 million. Supplies of fuel-wood and other forest products will be increased in the eastern Terai through the establishment of community forestry on private
lands and new plantations, and the rehabilitation of degraded forest areas. Some 20,000 fuel-efficient stoves will also be distributed, and training facilities will be established to help meet the manpower needs of the forestry sector. Total cost: $24 million. NIGERIA: IBRD—$250 million. Nearly 60 percent of the foreign-exchange cost of importing about 2 million tons of fertilizer needed for the 1984 and 1985 crop years will be provided. The project is also designed to help ihnprove the fertilizer-procurement and marketing system through an agreed program of phased reductions in subsidies, commercialization of fertilizer-retail business, and changes in procurement and marketing methods. Total cost: $832.4 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$122 million. Some 430,000 smallholder farm families are to benefit from a project that seeks to apply statewide the successful experience of the Funtua Agricultural Development Project, located in the central part of Kaduna state. Major project components include a package of farm-support services and physical infrastructure. Total cost: $194 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$46.5 million. Some 50,000 farm families will benefit from a project that will provide for canal rehabilitation and remodeling, drainage, on-farm water management, project management, training, and technical assistance. Cofinancing is being arranged with USAID ($25 million). Total cost: $81.9 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$21 million. Some 28,000 farm households will directly benefit from a project designed to prevent further deterioration of the environment of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and to raise farmers' incomes through support for agriculture, forestry, livestock, construction and improvement of feeder roads, training, technical assistance, and support for project management. Total cost: $26.5 million.
PANAMA: IBRD—$9 million. Through provision of credit and training to farmers, training and support to the Technical Unit of Banco Nacional de Panama, and promotion of market conditions which would encourage investments in the livestock sector, beef exports are expected to increase, milk imports to be reduced, livestock-management methods improved, and rural employment generated. Total cost: $25.5 million.
PARAGUAY: IBRD—$25 million. Credit will be made available to large and medium-sized ranchers and to small-scale livestock producers for the purchase of feeder steers and on-farm investments. Cofinancing is anticipated from Fondo Financiero para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Plata ($15 million); in addition, the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (France)
has expressed interest in syndicating a loan of $15 million under a B-loan arrangement in which it would take a $5 million participation. Total cost: $121.1 million.
PERU: IBRD—$40 million. Through the provision of agricultural-support services; improvement of rural roads; provision of land titles; improvement of forestry management; assistance for native communities; and support for project management, studies, and technical assistance, the productivity, income, and living conditions of about 20,000 families, including 2,000 native Indian families, in the central Peruvian jungle highlands east of Lima will be improved. Total cost: $67.5 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$25.6 million. Some 90,000 people living in five watersheds of Central Visayas are expected to benefit from a project that, in its pilot stage, aims at offering security of land tenure through an innovative land-stewardship program and providing improved productive systems in agroforestry and nearshore fisheries. The project also reinforces the government's regionalization program as part of its long-term decentralization policy. Total cost: $44.4 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$5.1 million. Supplementary finance is to be made available to help finance the increased costs of the Magat River Multipurpose—Stage II Irrigation Project, approved in May 1978.
PORTUGAL: IBRD—$7.4 million. Action plans and investment programs, designed to strengthen agricultural-support services in the fields of agricultural research, extension, marketing, credit, irrigation, and seeds, will be prepared so as to help the government formulate an agricultural-development strategy in the context of the country's anticipated entry into the EEC. Total cost: $11.64 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$16.1 million. Over a five-year period, some 80,000 farm families will benefit from increases in the production of cotton, cereals, and livestock products through the improvement of crop-development activities, strengthening and support of rural-development institutions, improvements in research and training of extension workers, and by rehabilitating rural infrastructure. Cofinancing is expected from the CCCE ($16.7 million), the FAC ($3.6 million), and the SFD ($3.2 million). Total cost: $47.7 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA—521.5 million. To contribute to the government's objectives of increasing domestic food production and agricultural exports, institution-building assistance will be furnished the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, and foreign exchange will be provided to finance key imports for the agricultural sector. About 80,000 farmers are to
benefit directly from a tree-crop and swamp-development program. Cofinancing ($5.4 million) is being arranged with IFAD. Total cost: $28.9 million. SOLOMON ISLANDS: IDA—$3.5 million. Some 9,000 smallholder farmers are to benefit from a project that seeks to expand and improve the country's agricultural-support services in the areas of research, education, training, and extension services. The development of rural enterprises will also be fostered. Cofinancing is to come from the AsDB ($5.15 million) and IFAD ($1.5 million). Total cost: $11.65 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$13.5 million. Through the development of inshore and offshore fisheries and through technical assistance, critical assumptions for the development of the artisanal fisheries in the project area will be tested, the feasibility and financial viability of offshore commercial availability of a variety of pelagic species in the northern Somali waters will be determined, and an institutional framework developed for long-term public and private activities in the sector. Cofinancing is expected from the AFESD ($3.5 million). Total cost: $19 million.
SRI LANKA: IBRD—$12.1 million; IDA—$30 million. A fourth irrigated agricultural-development project under the Mahaweli Gan-ga Development Program will provide facilities for new irrigation, promote settlement of families, enhance irrigation on existing cultivated areas, establish fuelwood and cashew plantations, provide artisanal fisheries development and social infrastructure, and support for the country's environmental protection program. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing is being arranged with the SFD ($50.1 million) and CIDA ($40 million). Total cost: $ 160.13 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$60 million. A sugar-rehabilitation project is designed, over a five-year period, to raise crop yields and sugar production of four sugar companies through the rehabilitation of estates and their associated factories. Institutional support is included so as to strengthen the government's management of the sugar sector. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AFESD ($47.2 million), the SFD ($23.5 million), and the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) ($17.3 million). Total cost: $181.3 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$50 million. More than 2 million households living in 286 poverty-designated districts throughout the country are to benefit from a first phase of a project designed to strengthen and support key elements of the country's National Rural Development Program, introduced in 1982 and specifically
designed to ensure that funds go to those areas where they are most needed and to increase the level of local participation in the selection and implementation of project investments. Cofinancing is anticipated from USAID ($5 million), the JICA ($2.1 million), and the UNDP ($500,000). Total cost: $157.3 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$35 million. A cadastral survey, land registration, and valuation project, to be implemented by the Department of Lands, will be financed. The project will contribute to the greater security, productivity, and incomes of individual occupiers of land through the provision of proof of title. Cofinancing ($9.1 million) is being arranged with the ADAB. Total cost: $76.1 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$ 115.3 million. Efforts to accelerate the completion of four priority irrigation schemes will be supported. Finance will be made available for irrigation and drainage infrastructure, on-farm development works, strengthening of the extension system, operation and maintenance equipment, and staff training. Total cost: $292 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$72.2 million. Improved methods of agricultural extension and applied research will be introduced in sixteen provinces as a first step toward eventual adoption on a nationwide basis. Technical assistance and training will also be provided to the General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of the Ministry of Agriculture. IFAD is providing cofinancing in the amount of $10 million. Total cost: $205.9 million.
VANUATU: IDA—$2 million. The project will assist the government's efforts to accelerate and diversify smallholder agricultural development by improving and consolidating adaptive localized research, extension services, agricultural-information services, and veterinary services. Training is included. Cofinancing ($1.1 million) is being provided by the AsDB. Total cost: $3.9 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$8 million. Some 45,000 people will benefit from the implementation of the first phase of an agricultural-development program in the Central Highlands region. Extension services will be established, rural water-supply schemes constructed, and technical assistance provided. Cofinancing is anticipated from IFAD ($4 million) and the ODA ($1 million). Total cost: $20 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$90 million. Subloans will be financed to fertilizer producers for the import of raw materials and spare parts, and for the undertaking of technical and energy studies in order to assess their production and energy efficiency and to make proposals for improvements.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$22.4 million. Production of sawn timber and roundwood from exotic tree species will be increased by improving utilization of existing investments in plantations and handling and processing facilities. Technical assistance will be provided to the Zambia Forestry and Forest Industries Corporation, Limited. Cofinancing has been arranged with FIN-NIDA ($10 million). Total cost: $42.5 million.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD—$13.1 million. The national agricultural-extension and research programs will be supported through strengthening of institutions and the provision of necessary facilities and equipment. Cofinancing is anticipated from IFAD ($18 million). Total cost: $177.2 million.
Development Finance Companies
BANGLADESH: IDA—$45 million. A second textile-industry rehabilitation project seeks to increase the efficiency and capacity utilization of existing textile mills in both the public and private sectors through balancing, modernization, and replacement of existing facilities. Market and feasibility studies will be undertaken and training provided. Cofinancing ($1 million) is being arranged with the UNDP. Total cost: $61 million.
BOTSWANA: IBRD—$12,3 million. The Botswana Development Corporation and the National Development Bank will be provided lines of credit for financing productive enterprises in industry and agriculture. Technical assistance to the latter institution is included. Studies on the future of the mining community of Selebi-Phikwe will also be financed.
CHINA: IBRD—$105 million; IDA—$70 million. The China Investment Bank will be developed further through a second industrial-credit project that will help finance investment loans for small and medium-sized industrial projects in need of foreign exchange.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$170 million. The program for the development of small and medium-sized industries will be supported through a line of credit to the Development Industrial Bank and technical assistance to individual enterprises.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$125 million. This project, designed to support a program of policy and institutional reforms intended to expand manufactured exports, will help finance efficient export-oriented investments in the public and private sector through several participating banks, whose appraisal efforts in this area will be strengthened. Institutional assistance to the Export Development Bank and the Egyptian Export Promotion Center is included. Total cost: S315.6 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF:
IBRD—$100 million. This project, designed to help initiate policy reforms that can improve the performance of the construction industry by the provision of finance and technical assistance, will furnish a line of credit to participating banks for onlending for construction equipment and machinery for the manufacture of building materials and small items of construction equipment. Total cost: $132 million.
GUATEMALA: IBRD—$20 million. Through the provision of technical assistance, medium-and long-term credit, and foreign exchange to exporters, measures to promote nontraditional industrial exports outside the Central American Common Market will be supported. Institution-building assistance to the central bank and to participating financial intermediaries is included. Total cost: $32 million.
HUNGARY: IBRD—$110 million. The government's programs for industrial restructuring and export expansion will be supported and the development-banking role of the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) strengthened through a credit package to be onlent by NBH, two credit lines to the NBH (one for export promotion, the other for industrial restructuring), and provision of expert and advisory services. Total cost: $257.78 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$50 million; IDA—$50 million. The government's efforts to improve the efficiency of the delivery system for industrial finance will be supported by providing loans to medium and large industrial enterprises through five participating financial institutions. Technical assistance and training will also be made available to the participating financial institutions. Total cost: $250 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$70 million. Funds will be provided to the Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina and the Investiciona Banka Titograd to assist labor-intensive and export-oriented industries. Technical assistance, the preparation of studies, and institution building are included.
ZAIRE: IDA—$36 million. A seventh development finance company project will finance the foreign-exchange component of the capital-investment requirements of subprojects approved by the Societe Financiere de Developpe-ment in the agricultural, transportation, industrial, and agroindustrial sectors. It will also finance technical assistance and studies to improve industrial sector-policy formulation and project selection.
Education
BANGLADESH: IDA—$36 million. A technical-education project is designed to support the government's policy of developing an adequate supply of well-trained technical manpower to
meet the needs of the public and private sectors through improvements in the quality of training at engineering colleges and polytechnics and through improvement of the management of the technical-education program. Cofinancing is being arranged with the UNDP ($6.2 million) and the ODA ($4.7 million). Total cost: $62.2 million.
BARBADOS: IBRD—$3 million. Supplementary finance will be provided for the Barbados Education Project, approved in 1978, for which an IBRD loan of $9 million was extended.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$40 million. Help will be provided in financing the government's 1984-90 investment program for basic education in the North and Center-West of the country. Total cost: $80 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$20 million. Help in financing the government's 1984-87 investment program for the technician-training sector will be provided. Program objectives are to define a long-term development policy for technician training, to adapt the quality and quantity of technician training to national and local needs, and to provide needed specialized skills to the agricultural and industrial sectors. Total cost: $45.41 million.
CHINA: IDA—$85 million. Facilities and equipment will be furnished to seventeen polytechnic institutions (postsecondary level) and to the Television University system to increase the output and improve the quality of skilled technical manpower. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $206.2 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$45.3 million; IDA—$23.5 million. Through the provision of funds for equipment, furniture, civil works, technical assistance, and fellowships, the government's long-term strategy to improve the quality and supply of high- and middle-level agricultural manpower will be supported. Total cost: $202.6 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$63.3 million. This third phase of the government's long-term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle-level agricultural manpower includes preservice and inservice agricultural training, the provision of information materials for extension programs and training institutions, and better management and planning services. Total cost: $105.4 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$43 million. A second nonformal-education project is to benefit about 800,000 illiterates and school dropouts in seventeen provinces of the country by providing basic education and employment-oriented skill training. Assistance will also be furnished the Ministry of Education's Directorate of Community Education in improving program implementation. Total cost: $71.6 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$40 million. The objectives of this sixth education project are to replace inadequate facilities and to provide additional capacity in primary (grades 1-9) and secondary (grades 10-12) education; improve availability of laboratories, libraries, and workshops in secondary schools; and increase the vocational content of curricula. Total cost: $122 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$100 million. The quality of Korean education in science and technology will be upgraded through a project that will help finance improved graduate training and research in science and engineering, as well as college and secondary-school science education. Total cost: $695.3 million.
MALI: IDA—$9.5 million. A third education project seeks to develop the institutional capability of the Ministry of Education in the areas of educational planning and financing and the administration of technical education and vocational training, improve the quality of basic education, increase access to basic education for children and adults (especially women and young farmers), and improve the skills of agricultural-extension workers and livestock technicians. Cofinancing is anticipated from the ADF ($6.9 million). Total cost: $17.3 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$12.78 million. This pilot project seeks to develop means to achieve low-cost qualitative improvements in primary education and strengthen the administrative and technical capacity of the Ministry of Education and Culture in the education sector. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing ($1.7 million) is to be provided by UNICEF. Total cost: $16.67 million.
OMAN: IBRD—$15 million. Through a project that provides for construction, equipment, furniture, and technical assistance, the government's education and training objectives—to improve the quality and capacity of the education and training system to meet the high demand for educated and skilled manpower— will be supported. Total cost: $23.91 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD—$49.3 million. The number of secondary-school graduates will be increased through a project that includes implementation of strengthened expansion and cost-control policies and improved evaluation practices in secondary schools; provision of textbooks and other instructional materials; teacher upgrading; and expansion and upgrading of existing schools. Total cost: $78.5 million.
PARAGUAY: IBRD—$5 million. A pilot vocational-training project seeks to increase productivity, income, and employment in three agricultural frontier areas where rural-development projects are ongoing or being
planned. Some 16,000 farmers and rural workers will be provided with basic- and intermediate-skills courses in agricultural techniques and artisan occupations. Credit will also be forthcoming for equipment, tools, and working capital to graduates of the intermediate-skills program. Total cost: $7.8 million.
PORTUGAL: IBRD—$30.5 million. Training facilities for skilled workers, engineering and scientific personnel, tourism-related workers, and public administrators will be expanded. In addition, the quality of training will be upgraded and institutional development promoted. Total cost: $55 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$15.4 million. An increase in trained manpower should result from the rehabilitation of workshops and laboratories of the College of Engineering at the Khartoum Polytechnic and provision of equipment, textbooks, and curricula/programs development at six Vocational Training Centers. Technical assistance and a program of fellowships are included. Total cost: $18.6 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$36.8 million. Support will be given to the government's industrial-development objectives, which are linked to improving industrial productivity as well as to increasing the supply and quality of skilled manpower. Technical assistance and equipment will be provided to the Council for Higher Education and the Industrial Training and Development Center, and a training component is included for the State Institute of Statistics. Total cost: $44.4 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$10 million. A sixth education project aims at increasing the quality and quantity of basic educational services by strengthening the country's primary- and nonformal-education system. The supply of trained teachers will be increased and the quality of teacher training improved. In addition, about 8,000 persons a year will be provided with literacy and basic-skills training. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $19.3 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$10.4 million. The quality of human-resources development in the country will be improved through a fourth education project that focuses on the training of vocational instructors and rural-extension agents, the training of primary-school teachers and the production of textbooks, and the maintenance of school equipment and facilities. Total cost: $14 million.
Energy
BANGLADESH: IDA—$23 million. A project that comprises seismic surveys, a hydrocarbon-habitat study, and a program of assistance to
the Bangladesh Oil and Gas Corporation will support the government's efforts to stimulate interest among foreign investors to resume petroleum exploration in Bangladesh. Total cost: S25.5 million.
BENIN: IDA—$18 million. Through the optimization of the development of the Seme oil field, an incremental 5.2 million barrels of oil from the field will be produced, making the overall Seme project profitable. Cofinancing ($15 million) has been arranged with the EIB, and suppliers' credits ($7.5 million) are being sought. Total cost: $45.3 million.
BENIN: IDA—$15 million. Through hydroelectric development at Nangbeto (with associated transmission, together with related engineering and other services), feasibility studies for a future hydro project, and technical assistance and training, the long-term cost of electricity supply in Benin and Togo will be minimized, hydro-power and energy will be supplied to meet the increasing demand, and sector efficiency will be improved. Cofinancing is being arranged with the KFAED ($20 million), the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) ($16.6 million), the AfDB ($11 million), the CCCE ($10.7 million), BAD-EA ($10 million), CIDA ($9.2 million), the OPEC Special Fund ($4 million), the FAC ($1.5 million), and the UNDP ($800,000). Total cost: $139.6 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$250.6 million. Power-distribution systems in five less-developed states of the Northeast and Northwest, and in the low-income metropolitan areas of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, will be expanded and modernized. Total cost: $785.6 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$222.8 million. This project consists of the 1984-87 rural-electrification investment programs of Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais S. A. and Companhia Paranaense de Energia and a study of the problems and prospects of rural electrification; it also includes training components for both beneficiaries. Total cost: $585.2 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$15 million. The supply of electricity to the interconnected system serving Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire will be expanded through the construction of hydroelectric-generating facilities, including a dam, powerhouse, switching station, and transmission line. Consultant services and training will also be provided. Cofinancing is expected from the EDF ($20.5 million), the DCD ($8.5 million), and the Development Bank of the Great Lakes Region ($1.9 million). Total cost: $130.9 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$145.4 million. A (Lubuge) hydroelectric project will provide additional generating capacity and energy to the Yunnan power grid; introduce modern technology in the
construction of dams, tunnels, and underground powerhouses; provide technical assistance in international competitive bidding for civil works; address financial and auditing issues; introduce financial forecasting; promote cofinancing; and provide staff training. Cofinancing commitments (grant aid) have been secured from Norway ($11.6 million), the ADAB ($7.1 million), and CIDA ($200,000). Export credits of about $41 million are also expected to be utilized. Total cost: $811.7 million. CHINA: IBRD—$100.3 million. The project will assist the government in exploring and evaluating the potential of the Karamay oilfield, evolving the optimum method of recovering heavy oil, and undertaking a study on utilizing gas from the South China sea. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $753.5 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$170 million. Sub-projects, representing a two-year timeslice of priority, ongoing electricity-development investments, will be financed through the National Electricity Development Bank (FEN). In addition, institutional support will be provided to FEN. Cofinancing with private banks ($200 million, with the IBRD taking a participation of up to $30 million) is anticipated. Total cost: $1,602 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD-—$164.5 million. Facilities needed by 1990 to provide safe and reliable water supply to about 61,000 households now without water or poorly served, about 10,000 commercial establishments, and 8,700 manufacturing and industrial concerns in the Department of Antioquia will be constructed. Hydro-power infrastructure will also be financed so as to ensure the availability of energy in the Department and enable energy substitution in the national system. Suppliers' credits of $22.9 million are being arranged. Total cost: $418.1 million.
DJIBOUTI: IDA—$6 million. The country's only known source of mineral energy will be explored to determine if commercially exploitable geothermal reserves exist. In addition, technical assistance will be provided to the country's geothermal-research institute. Cofinancing is expected from the DCD ($4.4 million), the AfDB ($2.5 million), the OPEC Special Fund ($1 million), and the UNDP ($1 million). Total cost: $16.6 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$59 million. Supplementary finance will be made available to cover the shortfall in the foreign-cost financing of the Shoubrah El Kheima and Aswan II power stations, components of the Second and Third Power Projects (1979 and 1980, respectively). Cofinancing is anticipated from USAID ($18 million).
GUINEA: IDA—$8 million. Through a program of seismic surveys, geological field surveys, technical assistance, and training, the Ministry of Mines and Geology will be assisted in promoting available acreage in the country to international oil companies for exploration. Technical assistance will be provided to the National Electric Company to improve its performance and operations. Cofinancing is expected from Petro Canada International Assistance Corporation ($3.6 million). Total cost: $12 million.
HUNGARY: IBRD—$90 million. Help in arresting the decline in domestic oil and gas production will be provided through a series of priority investments in exploration, field development and rehabilitation, and enhanced oil recovery. Technical assistance will also be furnished to the National Oil and Gas Trust. Total cost: $519.7 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$300.8 million. Assistance will be provided in meeting the electricity demand in the Eastern region of the country through the addition of 1,000 mW of thermal power-generating capacity at the Farakka thermal power plant in West Bengal. Cofinancing ($50 million) is expected from bilateral agencies. Total cost: $1,340.5 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$242.5 million. Finance will be made available for the preparation and implementation of a program for increasing the production of oil and gas from the onshore Cam-bay petroleum basin, located in Gujarat state in western India. Total cost: $954.3 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$157.4 million; IDA—$143 million. Assistance in meeting the electricity demand in Madhya Pradesh state and in the Western region of India will be provided through the addition of 500 mW of hydropower capacity and the better use of existing thermal plants. Total cost: $937.5 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$151 million. The construction and start-up of a new open-pit mine in the central part of the country will assist in meeting the increasing demand for coal in the power sector. Equipment and infrastructural facilities will be provided, and institutional development of Coal India, Limited, will be supported. Total cost: $373.3 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$135.4 million. The country's long-term power-generation expansion program will be furthered through the provision of additional generating capacity in the Western region (at Trombay, near Bombay) and the replacement of old generators, resulting in substantial fuel savings and a reduction in power shortages. Total cost: $361.4 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$210 million. A fourteenth power project will support the twin objectives of the expansion of power-supply facili-
ties in the country so as to meet the demand for and to encourage the development of energy sources other than oil. Institutional-development assistance to the National Electricity Authority is included. Total cost: $726.2 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$30 million. A project to assist power-subsector development, as well as contribute to petroleum exploration and the improvement of energy efficiency and planning, has five components: power distribution, petroleum exploration, energy conservation, renewable energy, and energy planning. Cofinancing is anticipated from USAID ($1.2 million), the DCD ($800,000), the EEC ($500,000), and the UNDP ($300,000). Total cost: $68 million.
KENYA: IBRD—$95 million. The construction of a rock and earthfill dam on the Tana river, along with associated civil works and electrical/mechanical equipment, is expected to help ensure a firm source of reliable electricity-generating capacity, develop indigenous renewable-energy resources (thereby reducing the country's heavy dependence on imported oil), and create new job opportunities. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AfDB ($21.7 million), the SFD ($11.5 million), and the Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Cooperation ($11.4 million). Total cost: $353.8 million.
KENYA: IDA—$24.5 million. Geothermal exploration will be accelerated and the country's potential for continued geothermal development defined, specifically through exploration drilling in the Eburru region and exploration and appraisal/delineation drilling in the Olkaria region to define the areas with the best prospects for future steam production, primarily for electric power. Institutional assistance and energy studies are included. Total cost: $34.3 million.
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$70 million. An eleventh power project, which includes the extension of distribution facilities and the construction of a 275-kv line and a 132-kv line, will support the program of the National Electricity Board to extend the supply of electricity outside urban areas in six of the country's less-developed states. Private cofinancing, in the amount of $62.5 million, is being sought. Total cost: $219.2 million.
NEPAL: IDA—S107 million. Through the construction of a run-of-river hydroelectric power project, with an installed capacity of 69 mW, located on the Marsyangdi river, the forecast demand for electricity in Nepal for the medium term is expected to be met. Technical assistance and training will also be provided to the Nepal Electricity Corporation. Cofinancing is being arranged with the Federal Republic of
Germany (KfW) ($74.5 million), the SFD ($25 million), and the KFAED ($21 million). Total cost: $323.3 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$11 million. The economic justification and technical feasibility of the Karnali (Chisapani) Multipurpose Project on the Karnali river will be assessed, as will the prefeasibil-ity of a smaller hydropower project upstream of the area. Total cost: $14.6 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD-—$25 million. Technical assistance will be provided so as to help support the formulation and implementation of the country's national gas policy and development. In addition, assistance in the preparation of the first major infrastructure project in the gas sector will be furnished, and the country's institutional capacity to develop gas resources will be strengthened. Total cost: $33 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$51.5 million. A project, consisting of exploration drilling, a regional seismic program, and exploration promotion, will help support the government's efforts to increase petroleum exploration. Cofinancing ($8 million) is expected from bilateral agencies. Total cost: $107.1 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$30 million. In order to develop further the Toot oilfield, four additional development wells will be drilled, production and field-support facilities will be financed, infrastructure (including access roads, water-supply systems, and accommodations) put into place, and specialized oil-field services and consultants financed. Cofinancing, in the form of bilateral credits ($11.7 million), is being sought. Total cost: $63.8 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$15 million. See description for Burundi project.
RWANDA: IDA—$9 million. Through the rehabilitation of the Ntaruka generating station and of the transmission network, extension of the transmission network, and through a program of technical assistance, the country will be better able to take maximum advantage of the increased output of power from the new Ruzizi regional hydroelectric project. Cofinancing ($9.2 million) is being arranged with the CCCE. Total cost: $23.5 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$18 million. The first phase of a two-stage program, including appropriate institutional development and support, for the delineation of the gas reserves at Afgoy for use in the nearby Mogadishu area will be carried out. Cofinancing is anticipated from the EIB ($5.5 million). Total cost: $24.5 million.
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: IDA—$5 million. The project, which comprises St. Vincent Electricity Services Ltd.'s total 1985-89 investment program, would meet the estimated energy-generation requirements through 1994, reduce the imports of petroleum
products, improve the quality of service, reduce levels of distribution losses, and improve the utility's management and staff skills. Cofinancing is anticipated from CIDA ($7.8 million), USAID ($7.5 million), the CDB ($4.5 million), and the EIB ($2.8 million). Total cost: $33.9 million.
SWAZILAND: IBRD—$5.6 million. This supplemental loan will help meet cost increases in the Third Power Project, for which a $10 million loan was approved in September 1981. Cofinancing ($4 million) is being provided by the CDC.
TANZANIA: IDA—$35 million. Through the construction of a water intake at the Mtera reservoir, a system-control center at Dar es Salaam, the rehabilitation of the Ubungo diesel station and other power-system facilities, and the establishment of a four-year management-training program, the electricity-generating capacity will be increased to meet the growth in local demand through 1990. Cofinancing is being provided by SIDA ($30 million), Norway ($30 million), the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) ($20 million), the KFAED ($20 million), the DCD ($19 million), and the CCCE ($5 million). Total cost: $244.3 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$59.1 million. Finance will be provided for a second-stage expansion of the Mae Moh open-pit lignite mine in the northern part of the country, thus increasing production capacity from 2.8 million tons a year to 5 million tons. Cofinancing is expected in the form of a loan from the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) for $16.8 million and a $4.2 million grant from ADAB. Total cost: $249.8 million.
TOGO: IDA—$15 million. See project description for Benin.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$38.7 million. The three-year investment program of the Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company (1985-87) will be supported through provision of finance for rural electrification, rehabilitation of the urban network, equipment, vehicles, tools, and training. Total cost: $83 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$13 million. A geothermal-exploration program will be advanced through a project that includes drilling about four deep exploratory wells, technical assistance, consultancy services, training (both on-the-job and abroad), and the undertaking of a study for further exploration or development—if justified. Total cost: $15.35 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$120 million. This project is the first of a two-stage program to install a national electric-power management system, which consists of a computerized system to allow for the remote supervision of the inter-
connected power system at the national and regional levels and permit the coordination of appropriate actions at all times. Cofinancing is expected from the EIB ($64 million). Total cost: $321 million. YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$61 million. Supplementary finance will be provided for the Middle Neretva Hydro Project, approved in 1978, and for which a $73 million IBRD loan was extended.
ZAIRE: IDA—$ 15 million. See description for Burundi project.
ZAIRE: IDA—$4.5 million. Through technical assistance and an exploration-promotion component, the capacity of the Department of Mines and Energy to administer the hydrocarbon sector and promote the development of additional petroleum fields in the Coastal basin and exploration of other sedimentary basins will be strengthened. Total cost: $5.3 million.
Industry
BURMA: IDA—$29.7 million. The structural imbalance in Burma's fabric-finishing capacity will be addressed, and finishing facilities will be restructured through construction of a new and efficient plant and the phasing-out of inefficient finishing capacities. In addition, the Textile Industries Corporation will be reorganized, and management-information and control systems upgraded. Consultancy services are included. Total cost: $65 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$9.5 million. An evaluation and assessment of the development potential of thermal coal deposits in Colombia's most promising areas will be undertaken, and CAR-BOCOL—a state-owned corporation responsible for promoting coal development and exports—will be strengthened as an institution. Total cost: $19.7 million.
GHANA: IDA—$6.9 million. Technical assistance will be provided to conduct studies and prepare plans to rationalize the petroleum refinery to match production to demand, improve the refinery's energy and operating efficiency, reduce losses of crude oil at the harbor and in the refinery, and improve the product-distribution system in the country. Equipment and materials needed for rehabilitation works and energy-efficiency improvement will also be financed. Cofinancing ($6.3 million) is expected from the EIB. Total cost: $18.3 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$203.6 million. Domestic nitrogenous fertilizer capacity will be expanded through the construction of a fertilizer plant at Vijaipur in Madhya Pradesh state using natural gas as feedstock. Cofinancing is anticipated from the OECF ($63 million), Denmark ($9 million), and the DCD ($4 million). Total cost: $638.6 million.
MALI: IDA—$7.6 million. The project—including the production, storage, and handling of biomass alcohol, improvements in energy efficiency, gasohol blending and distribution, an energy study, and technical assistance and training—is aimed at reducing the country's dependence on petroleum imports and developing a coherent program of power reforms and investments to rehabilitate the Office du Niger, a parastatal enterprise operating the largest irrigation network in West Africa. Total cost: $8.3 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$150.4 million. The loan—the foreign exchange it provides will be used to finance imports—is in support of the first phase of implementation of the government's industrial and trade policy-adjustment program, whose principal aim is to introduce structural changes in the system of incentives so as to eliminate bias against export production, lower manufacturing costs, and hence lay the basis for a restoration of dynamism to the pattern of industrial growth.
PORTUGAL: IBRD—$34.7 million. Credit will be channeled through participating financial intermediaries to support investment and rehabilitation programs of textile enterprises for strengthening their productivity and competitiveness. Total cost: $68.9 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$13.4 million. Consultancy services will be supplied to improve the efficiency of operations in the phosphate industry and to study the feasibility of new production facilities. In addition, technical assistance will be furnished the National Mining Office to help it improve planning and implementation of a rational mining-exploration policy. Cofinancing is being provided by the consortium, Mines de Potasse d'Alsace/Spie Batignolles ($3.1 million) and the US Trade and Development Program ($200,000). Total cost: $24.6 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$7.6 million. Through the financing of technical consultancy services in the areas of management-information and control systems, productivity improvement, manpower planning, and training, selected State Economic Enterprises will be helped to improve their operational efficiency. In addition, necessary equipment will be procured, staff trained, and technical assistance provided to strengthen external-debt reporting. Total cost: $8.8 million.
UPPER VOLTA: IDA—$7.4 million. A technical and economic evaluation of the Perkoa zinc-silver deposit will be made; in addition, legal and promotional assistance will be provided to attract private foreign investors for the development of the deposit. Institutional assistance to the Bureau Voltaique de la Geologie et des Mines is included. Total cost: $8.2 million.
ZAMBIA: IBRD—S75 million. The first phase of Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Limit-ed's five-year rehabilitation and modernization program will be financed. Major components of the project include replacement and rehabilitation of high-priority equipment for existing mines and plant facilities; a program of skills training of mining engineers, technicians, and technologists; and provision of technical studies to rationalize the company's operations and operating methods. Cofinancing is anticipated from the Minerals System Facility of the EEC ($45.8 million) and the AfDB ($27.3 million). Total cost: $300 million.
Nonproject
BANGLADESH: IDA—$140 million. Foreign exchange will be provided to finance general imports.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$30 million. Supplemental finance will be provided for four ongoing projects—Muhuri Irrigation, Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation, Chittagong Port, and Rural Electrification—to help ensure their timely implementation.
GHANA: IDA—$76 million. Traditional export industries (cocoa, timber, and gold mining) will be rehabilitated through provision of spare parts, equipment, and materials. Port facilities will also be improved so as to remove the immediate bottleneck to the exportation of commodities. Cofinancing ($66 million) is being sought from official and private sources. Total cost: $285 million.
IVORY COAST: IBRD—$250.7 million. A second structural-adjustment loan will support the implementation of the government's comprehensive program of structural adjustment, which, among other things, seeks to promote sustainable growth and increase public savings in the medium term.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$300 million. A second structural-adjustment loan will support the implementation of the government's structural-adjustment program, which focuses on structural reforms in the areas of industry, energy, and public-sector efficiency.
MALAWI: IDA—$55 million. A second structural-adjustment credit is designed to diversify the country's export base, encourage efficient import substitution, adjust incentives,.improve the public sector's financial performance, and strengthen policymaking capability.
MAURITIUS: IBRD—$40 million. A second structural-adjustment loan will help finance essential imports and support the second phase of the government's structural-adjustment program that aims at improving the balance-of-payments position in the medium term, while accelerating output and employment.
PANAMA: IBRD—$60.2 million. A structural-adjustment loan will help support governmental strategies that aim at creating new growth opportunities by reorienting the economy toward accelerated production by the private sector of export goods.
TURKEY: IBRD—$376 million. The fifth in a series of loans in support of the government's structural-adjustment program—aimed at redirecting the economy towards a development path placing more reliance on market forces and outward orientation—will finance the purchase of needed imports.
UGANDA: IDA—$50 million. A third reconstruction credit will provide financing for high-priority imports, support urgent policy and institutional reforms, and generate counterpart resources for the government budget.
Population, Health, and Nutrition
BOTSWANA: IBRD—$11 million. A family-health project will support comprehensive reforms in the organization, management, and strategy of the health sector so that health and family-planning services can be more accessible, better focused on the country's needs, and more cost effective. Grant assistance is expected from Norway ($7.2 million), USAID ($900,000), and WHO ($500,000). Total cost: $26.7 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$57.5 million. A second health project is composed of two separate sub-projects: The first seeks to provide Sao Paulo with a basic health-care system that emphasizes preventive care; if successful, the Sao Paulo model will be duplicated elsewhere in the state and country. The second subproject supports a program of studies designed to help the federal government formulate and implement medium-term objectives and plans for the entire health sector. Total cost: $123.6 million.
CHINA: IDA—$85 million. A rural health- and medical-education project seeks to improve the health status in forty-six counties of three provinces and one autonomous region; enhance the quality of education, training, and related research in the country's thirteen core medical colleges; and develop two recently created national institutions—the National Center for Preventive Medicine and the Research Center for Health Planning and Statistics. Total cost: $322.8 million.
COMOROS: IDA—$2.85 million. The government will be assisted in developing a strategy and a program to slow population growth and to strengthen the management and delivery of basic health and family-planning services. Technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Public Health and Population. Total cost: $3.12 million.
INDIA: IDA—S70 million. The government will be assisted in the development of its integrated health and family-welfare program, targeted for implementation throughout India by the year 2000. The project, to be carried out in selected districts in the states of Karnataka and Kerala, will support the implementation of a service-delivery system, the generation of demand for services, and improvement of management, planning, monitoring, and evaluation systems. Total cost: $123.5 million.
MALI: IDA—S16.7 million. More than 200,000 people are expected to benefit from a project that aims at helping the government improve the effectiveness of primary health-care services in one of the poorest areas of the country. In addition, the project would strengthen major health-support systems at the national level. Total cost: $17.6 million.
Small-scale Enterprises
BRAZIL: IBRD—$352 million. The expansion of Brazil's manufactured exports will be supported by liberalizing imports and increasing the availability of foreign exchange.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$204.65 million. The government will be assisted in financing small-enterprise projects nationwide in nearly all economic sectors. Through the provision of credit, it is expected that additional employment will be created and the incomes of small entrepreneurs improved. Cofinancing ($7.8 million) is being provided by the EEC. Total cost: $804.16 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$41 million. A program to develop, in five states, a structure capable of providing technical advice and credit to small and medium-scale enterprises will be initiated. In addition to providing finance for onlending, the project provides for institution-building assistance to the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry. Training is also included. Total cost: $68.4 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$50 million. Credit will be provided to promote investments in promising small-scale industries (SSI) and to accelerate modernization and improve productivity of existing SSIs. Total cost: $119.28 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$25 million. Technical assistance and a line of credit to finance imported machinery and equipment will be provided to the National Development Bank and the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon to help increase output, efficiency, and employment of viable private and public industrial enterprises. Total cost: $44 million.
Technical Assistance
BANGLADESH: IDA—$25 million. Technical assistance for preinvestment planning, feasibili-
ty or engineering studies, strengthening institutions responsible for project preparation and implementation, or formulation of economic policies and plans, will be financed.
BHUTAN: IDA—$3 million. Technical assistance (preinvestment planning, feasibility and engineering studies, consulting and advisory services, training of personnel, and so forth) will be provided so that a pipeline of high-priority projects, suitable for financing by the government and external donors, can be prepared. Total cost: $3.5 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$5.1 million. A technical-assistance project will provide institution-building assistance to the Ministry of Planning and to the Directorate General for Agricultural Planning of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. Training is also included. Total cost: $5.7 million.
CHINA: IDA—$10 million. Technical assistance and training, primarily for the preparation of investment projects to be financed either by the IBRD or IDA, will be provided. Total cost: $12 million.
EQUATORIAL GUINEA: IDA—$6 million. A technical-assistance project aims at the elaboration of the key elements of a medium-term development strategy for the country, the main economic sectors, and the main social sector (education); the preparation of related investment proposals; and at an improved climate for public and private investment in key economic sectors and in education. Total cost: $6.34 million.
GHANA: IDA—$17.1 million. About 120 man-years of technical assistance will be provided to assist the government in implementing a number of export-sector policy- and institutional-reform measures, to carry out related sector studies, and to build local capability through staff training. The project also aims at ensuring adequate management capacity of the cocoa, timber, and gold mining organizations and of the ports authority to execute an export-rehabilitation project, also approved this year. Total cost: $18 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$4.5 million. Consultants, training, and equipment will be provided to support the Administrative Reform Program of the government, a part of its overall structural-adjustment program. Total cost: $6.82million.
MALAWI: IDA—$1.5 million. Consultant services, needed to carry out essential parts of the government's second structural-adjustment program (which IDA is supporting with a $55 million credit) will be financed.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$8.1 million. A three-year program of technical assistance, focusing on training and institution building, will be provided SONADER, the country's only rural-
development institution, and the Ministry of Rural Development. Cofinancing is anticipated from the FAC in the amount of SI.5 million. Total cost: $10.5 million. MAURITIUS: IBRD—$5 million. A technical-assistance project seeks to help the government implement and consolidate its structural-adjustment program that has been aided with Bank finance. Specifically, technical assistance will be directed towards agricultural-sector reform, export development and investment, the establishment of a coherent wage and income policy in the private sector, tourism promotion, and public-sector efficiency. Total cost: $7.58 million.
NIGER: IDA—$11.7 million. An economic and financial-management improvement project will support economic and financial studies to define a short-term consolidation program and a medium-term structural-reform program for the country and institutional development of the Ministries of Plan and Finance. Total cost: $12.6 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$7 million. A second technical-assistance project will provide continued assistance to the government in implementing its ongoing structural-adjustment measures in key sectors of the economy. Total cost: $8.5 million.
PANAMA: IBRD—$5 million. This technical-assistance project, which will support the IBRD structural-adjustment loan to the country, aims at assisting the government in implementing its own structural-adjustment program by providing studies, expert advice, and implementation assistance in key areas of the economy. Total cost: $6.8 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$11 million. The project is aimed at improving the efficiency of public enterprises in the country and helping reduce the public-sector deficit by providing technical assistance to key enterprises for development of three-year government/enterprise performance contracts, helping selected enterprises finance audit and accounting assistance, and developing and implementing training programs at local educational institutions geared to the needs of public-enterprise personnel. Total cost: $12 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$15 million. Technical expertise will be provided by expatriate advisers or consulting firms so as to help strengthen the government's decision-making, planning, project-preparation, and implementation capabilities and to help transfer skills to Ugandans through training. Total cost: SI7.1 million.
Telecommunications
ALGERIA: IBRD—$128 million. This telecommunications project consists of construction of
coaxial cable links and their linking to main trunk routes; automation of regional cable and transmission systems; construction and rehabilitation of local urban networks; establishing public call offices in isolated communities; provision of equipment, materials, tools, and machinery for regional centers, stores, and network construction; and technical assistance and training. Total cost: $312.4 million. GUATEMALA: IBRD—$30 million. Rural and international telecommunications services are to be improved, and more than 100,000 additional lines of local-exchange equipment in urban areas will be installed. Technical assistance in administration, planning, finance, and management is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the IDB ($18 million) and suppliers' credits ($40.8 million). Total cost: $175.1 million.
Transportation
BARBADOS: IBRD—$11 million. The government's efforts in improving the road network through needed maintenance/rehabilitation and highway-safety works and in strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Transport and Works to manage efficiently road-maintenance and rehabilitation projects will be assisted. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $19 million.
BENIN: IDA—$12 million. A third feeder-road project is designed to support rural development through the construction, improvement, and maintenance of feeder roads; improve local planning, coordinating, and work-execution capacity; and test the effectiveness of accompanying feeder-roads construction with upgrading of some contiguous footpaths to trafficable, low-standard tracks. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $13.2 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$210 million. The National Federal Roads Department will be assisted in implementing a series of programs— highway rehabilitation, road safety, training, and technical assistance —included in its 1984-87 investment plan. Total cost: $449.5 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$220 million. This project provides for railway infrastructure aimed at removing some existing capacity constraints in linking the mines of Shanxi province to major industrial centers and ports in eastern China. Some equipment, technical assistance, and training will also be provided to the Ministry of Railways to assist in expanding and improving electric locomotive production. Total cost: $793.1 million.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: IBRD—$3.8 million. The Dominican Electricity Corporation will be helped in preparing two high-priority projects in the energy sector for possi-
ble consideration by the Bank at a later date: a coal terminal at Haina port, with land-transport connections and related ash-handling installations, and a power project, comprising rehabilitation of existing thermal generating plants and reduction of power-system losses. Total cost: $4.3 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$70 million. This second road-sector project will support the government's efforts to promote agricultural and industrial production by improving and expanding access to productive areas. Efforts will also be made to improve social services to the rural population and provide better access to drought-prone areas. Cofinancing is being provided by the ADF ($31.8 million). Total cost: $372.6 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$28 million. A third highway project will continue to assist the government in the rehabilitation and maintenance of a priority network of roads essential for adequate functioning of the country's productive sectors, extend the ongoing institution-building effort for improving the country's civil-construction industry, and prepare a medium-term transport plan. Cofinancing is anticipated from the ADF ($14.6 million) and BADEA ($9 million). Total cost: $73.7 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA—$8 million. A second roads project will help reopen roads neglected since independence and reduce transport costs on 500 kilometers of roads that are to be rehabilitated. Management assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Public Works, Construction, and Urban Development, as well as to the Ministry of Transportation and Tourism. Cofinancing is anticipated from the KFAED in the amount of $5.1 million. Total cost: $13.8 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$280.7 million. Through a program composed mainly of electrification and workshop modernization, Indian Railways will be better able to increase capacity to meet growing traffic demand; improve utilization of motive power, rolling stock, and roadway; improve cost effectiveness; utilize energy-efficient traction; and improve technology of locally manufactured components used in the electrification of lines. Staff training is included. Total cost: $1,212.7 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$250 million. Through the construction of a new container and bulk-freight port, with associated dredging of access channels at a site about twenty kilometers from Bombay, it is expected that the Bombay area will be able to accommodate the forecast growth in marine freight through the year 1993. Training in port operations is included. Cofinancing ($80 million) is expected from bilateral sources. Total cost: $722 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$240 million. The existing national and provincial roads network and its bridges will be restored and upgraded; highway planning and management improved; and road-user contributions to highway construction and maintenance increased through this project. Total cost: $385 million.
KENYA: IBRD—$50 million; IDA—$40 million. A second highway-sector project will help finance the last four years of the government's Fifth Highway Sector Plan (fiscal 1984-88). Total cost: $152.4 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$230 million. The government will be assisted in improving investment-planning, regulation and . pricing, and energy-conservation programs in the highway sector. The funds will be used to help finance a three-year timeslice of the investment program for the years 1984-86 by improving and paving roads, improving highway maintenance, and reducing the traffic-accident rate. Total cost: $1,605 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$15.2 million. A fourth highway project includes rehabilitation of two paved road sections, regraveling of gravel roads, upgrading of earth roads to gravel standards, improved drainage on gravel roads, and technical assistance. Cofinancing ($8.6 million) is expected from the ADF. Total cost: $29.9 million.
LIBERIA: IDA—$11.4 million. A fifth highway project seeks to improve the condition of Liberia's public road network by strengthening the Ministry of Public Works' (MPW) capacity to carry out road maintenance. The project includes technical assistance to the MPW, a three-year routine maintenance program, and periodic maintenance on about 725 kilometers of primary and secondary roads. USAID is providing a $3.1 million grant to help finance the project. Total cost: $19.4 million. MALAWI: IBRD—$18 million; IDA—$26.9 million. Under this project, the District Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program will be extended nationwide, main and secondary roads will be improved, an important section of the North-South road upgraded, and a transport-systems study of the route linking Malawi and the Tanzania/Zambia corridor financed. Cofinancing is expected from the AfDB ($16 million). Total cost: $84.06 million. MAURITIUS: IBRD—$15.2 million. About seventy-five kilometers of main roads will be improved, a vehicle-inspection center will be built, road-patching equipment and portable weighbridges will be procured, and the Ministry of Works' main workshop improved in order to eliminate costly road repairs, reduce vehicle-operating costs, and save time on two principal roads. Total cost: $24.2 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$200 million. Help in financing the 1984-86 timeslice of the Secretariat of Communications and Transport's 1984-88 highway-infrastructure program, focusing on trunk-road modernization and reconstruction and the maintenance of rural roads, will be made available. Cofinancing ($45 million) is being provided by the IDB. Total cost: $1,601.5 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$76.3 million. The efficient operation of existing terminals in the industrial port of Lazaro Cardenas will be ensured, the administration and finances of the industrial port strengthened, access to and utilization of industrial port installations improved and increased, and pollution and flood-control measures provided. Institutional assistance is included. Total cost: $112.7 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$102 million. A fifth highway project seeks to improve the existing network of national highways and bridges, raise maintenance to adequate levels, remove the backlog of restoration works, and improve highway management. Provision of technical assistance and training is included. Total cost: $189.5 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$21.5 million. A fifth highway project in the country will help the government carry out badly needed maintenance operations on its road network so as to avoid a severe deterioration of the network. Total cost: $49.9 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$7.5 million. Through construction of new infrastructure for container handling, rehabilitation of several existing port facilities, and technical assistance and training to strengthen the management and operations of Dakar port, freight costs for Senegal's external trade will be reduced and Dakar's position as a port of transfer for neighboring countries will be enhanced. Cofinancing is expected from the CCCE ($6.65 million) and the KFAED ($4.09 million). Total cost: $27.55 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$16 million. Technical assistance and training will be provided to the Road and Bridges Public Corporation; equipment, spares, and limited supplies of fuel and bitumen will be financed; and consultancy services furnished in an effort to upgrade the country's capacity for road maintenance.
TURKEY: IBRD—$186.4 million. Some components of the 1985-88 investment program of the General Directorate of Highways will be financed: highway civil works, procurement of equipment for investment and maintenance works, consultancy services, and training. Total cost: $232.5 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$58 million. A third highway project is designed to help improve the maintenance of the rapidly deteriorating classified
road network, establish a subsequent routine road-maintenance program, train the Ministry of Works' (MOW) road-maintenance personnel, reestablish the MOW's capability for road maintenance, develop the local construction industry, and improve and enforce vehicle-weight and traffic-safety regulations. Total cost: $81 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$13 million. Designed to assist the government in improving communications in rural areas, especially those with dense population, and to strengthen the Highway Authority, this project includes components for upgrading and partial reconstruction of a priority secondary road, road-maintenance improvement, and training. Total cost: $35.5 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$110 million. This sixth railway project is aimed at continuing the modernization of railway facilities to further improve their efficiency and capacity, thus enhancing the role of railways in the transport market. Training and technical assistance are included. Cofinancing ($20 million) is being provided by the EIB. Total cost: $867.1 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$26 million. Components of an emergency rehabilitation program in the railways sector will be financed: equipment for track renewal and workshops; materials and spare parts for maintenance of track, locomotives, and wagons; consultancy services; training; and telecommunications and medical equipment. Cofinancing is being considered by the AfDB ($14.1 million), the CCCE ($6.25 million), and Belgium ($5.85 million). Total cost: $73.3 million.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD—$40 million. Funds will be provided for technical assistance, training, and spare parts to help the National Railways of Zimbabwe maintain its operational efficiency by filling critical staff positions and preventing deterioration of its equipment and fixed installations. Total cost: $121.3 million.
Urban Development
BRAZIL: IBRD— $52.7 million. A total of 287 market towns in the state of Parana of less than 50,000 inhabitants will be provided with infrastructure, public services, and social services, thus strengthening their economic role and fiscal position. Total cost $150.2 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$40 million. Assistance will be provided to the Department of Cauca in the reconstruction of its capital, Popayan, and fourteen other cities affected by an earthquake in March 1983. Institutional support will also be furnished to the Department of Cauca Reconstruction and Development Corporation and local executing entities. Total cost: $149.5 million.
THE GAMBIA: IDA—$11.5 million. The financial, operational, and managerial capacity of principal urban institutions in the Greater Banjul area will be strengthened through training, technical assistance, studies, and provision of essential equipment. In addition, essential infrastructure will be improved, and assistance will be provided in increasing the stock of developed land for use by the urban poor. Total cost: $12.4 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$10.7 million. Through a program of technical assistance and training, the operational capacity of central and local government institutions responsible for urban-development planning and urban-service management in Conakry will be strengthened. Total cost: $16.4 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$39.25 million. A fifth urban-development project will provide basic services to 1.2 million residents of four cities— Surabaya, Semarang, Surakarta, and Ujung Pandang. About 760,000 would benefit from a neighborhood-improvement program, and another 400,000 would share in the benefits of a solid-waste disposal and a drainage-improvement program. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $64.4 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$16 million. Development of an adequate and efficient urban-transport system in the Kingston area, following the divestment of the publicly owned Jamaica Omnibus Company to the private sector, will be supported. Technical assistance and training are included. Cofinancing ($2.6 million) is anticipated in the form of suppliers' credits. Total cost: $29.8 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$30 million. The long-term planning, investment programming, and management functions of the Amman Municipality will be strengthened. Transport infrastructure and traffic conditions on major arteries and in the central business district and low-income residential areas of Amman will also be upgraded. Total cost: $65.6 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$60 million. A third regional project—this one with urban and tourism development, transportation, and technical-assistance components—will support efforts to reduce interregional disparities by promoting economic development in Jeonju region, currently the poorest in the country. Total cost: $143.3 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$12.8 million. Assistance in tax collection, financial management, and institution building will be provided to the municipalities of Antananarivo and Toamasina to strengthen their ability to maintain critical municipal services at least at current levels. In addition, income-earning opportunities will be expanded through the production of local
building materials. The project also includes a neighborhood-upgrading program, designed to demonstrate that upgrading is an effective means of improving living conditions, while reducing the need for new housing investment. Total cost: $18 million.
PERU: IBRD—$82.5 million. The progressive transfer of urban administration from national to local government, and specifically, more efficient metropolitan management in Lima, will be supported. Improvements in high-priority infrastructure and services will also be made. Cofinancing from the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ) ($1 million) and suppliers' credits ($5 million) is being arranged. Total cost: $135.9 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$40 million. Local governments will be assisted in providing infrastructure and municipal services through the establishment of a revolving municipal-development fund that will give them direct access to long-term development finance. In addition, a national-level technical intermediary has been set up to help local governments identify investment priorities, evaluate project proposals for financing through the fund, and monitor project implementation. Through this project, basic infrastructural and municipal-services investments will be financed in approximately fifteen cities. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $68.8 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$10.5 million. Supplementary finance will be provided in support of the Manila Urban Development Project, approved in 1976 and for which an IBRD loan of $32 million was extended.
SENEGAL: IDA—$6 million. Urban growth will be managed more efficiently as a result of a strengthened policy and institutional framework. The project includes strengthening the programming of urban-rehabilitation projects, improving the design and delivery of shelter and urban services, and upgrading the managerial and technical capacity of the city of Dakar to rehabilitate and maintain municipal services, and to mobilize local resources for long-term maintenance. Total cost: $6.65 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$33 million. A second urban-transport project has been designed to improve the level of urban-transport services in Greater Tunis and Greater Sfax and increase efficiency in supplying these services; strengthen the capacity of sector institutions to manage and plan urban-transport systems effectively; and support the development and implementation of a comprehensive urban-transport policy. Cofinancing in the amount of $4.1 million is being sought from bilateral and multilateral agencies. Total cost: $82.5 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$12 million. A second urban-development project will provide affordable infrastructure services to the low-income population of the port city of Hodeidah, and through a program of technical assistance, will further strengthen the Ministry of Municipalities and Housing's capacity to plan, design, and execute key urban-development programs at the local level. Total cost: $17.89 million.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD—$43 million. Through provision of urban residential land and community facilities, as well as long-term housing finance from the private sector to lower-income beneficiaries, by strengthening urban institutions, and through improvements to urban transportation, structural change in the housing market will be introduced, and the supply of affordable, low-cost housing and related urban services increased. Cofinancing ($9.6 million) is being arranged with the CDC. Total cost: $112.6 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
ALGERIA: IBRD—$290 million. Water production and distribution in the Greater Algiers area will be expanded to the level needed to meet the unsatisfied current demand and future peak demand up to 1993. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $770.5 million.
BOTSWANA: IBRD—$22 million. A third water-supply project will help avert shortages in the drought-prone capital city of Gaborone during the mid 1980s and will enable the second phase of a plan for the industrial, commercial, and residential development of Gaborone to continue. Cofinancing is being provided by the CDC ($10.8 million). Total cost: $50 million.
CYPRUS: IBRD—$16.8 million. Part of a two-stage development program of the government to provide suitable sewerage and flood-drainage systems to the major urban and tourist center of Limassol and the contiguous area of Amathus will be financed. Training is included. Cofinancing ($7.8 million) is being provided by the Council of Europe. Total cost: $37.3 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$4 million. Feasibility studies and project-preparation work will be undertaken for water-supply and sewerage-system improvements in two delta governorates, and for sewerage-system improvements in a third. Studies aimed at institutional improvements will also be conducted, and design and engineering work for projects prepared under this project will be provided. Total cost: $5.27 million.
HONDURAS: IBRD—$19.6 million. More than a half million people will benefit from improve-
ments to the water-supply and drainage systems in San Pedro Sula. Technical assistance will be provided to the Municipal Water Division of San Pedro Sula and to the National Autonomous Water and Sewerage Service for improvement of their operational, financial-management, and planning capabilities. Cofinancing is anticipated from the CDC (SI 1 million); in addition, grants from Norway ($300,000) and the French Directorate for External Economic Relations ($500,000) are expected. Total cost: $42.3 million.
INDIA: IDA—$73 million. By 1988/89, about 3.3 million people in project cities and towns in Tamil Nadu state, and about 500,000 people in project villages will be served with safe drinking water; a further 200,000 people will benefit through better sanitation facilities as a result of this water-supply and sanitation project. Total cost: $153.3 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$9 million. Through a program of technical assistance, purchase of needed equipment, and modernization of workshops and stores, the National Water Commission's financial/commercial, institutional, and operational capabilities will be strengthened. The project also seeks to ensure that additional takeovers of parish council water-supply systems are accomplished in an orderly manner. Total cost: $12 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$30 million. Through a program of construction of infrastructure, supply of operating equipment, and provision of consultant services, water-supply service will be improved and new sewerage service provided in the cities of Ramtha, Mafraq, Anjara, Ajloun, Ein Janneh, Kufrinja, Madaba, and Ma'an. Total cost: $65.69 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$78.5 million. Additional water will be provided to thirteen cities and twenty-four towns, service will be improved for about 7.8 million people now using water from the Nagdong river, and water will be provided to about 4 million more people by 1992 as a result of a project that will make available about 25 cu m/s of water now released from upstream dams to prevent intrusion of sea water into the Nagdong. The project also includes pilot subprojects in leak detection and the use of microcomputers for water utilities. Total cost: $195.7 million.
MALI: IDA—$10.9 million. To assist the government in improving living and sanitary conditions in an area of Western Mali, 340 productive boreholes will be drilled, handpumps and spare parts will be financed, technical assistance, consultancy services, and a training program provided, and studies carried out in preparation for a follow-up project. Total cost: $11.9 million.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC: IBRD—$30 million. The sewerage subsector will be organized through the establishment of adequate institutional structures and the introduction of financial policies; water quality in the Assi river flowing through the cities of Horns and Hama will be improved with the sewage-treatment and disposal facilities that will be provided; and new housing developments will be connected to the main sewerage network in the two cities. Cofinancing has been organized with the AFESD ($17.1 million). Total cost: $150.89 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$50 million. About 350,000 rural villagers are to benefit from a seventh water-supply project that will extend public water-supply services to a larger share of the rural population, ensure adequate operation and
maintenance of these rural water systems, and build up the capacity of the national water authority to provide service in rural areas. Total cost: $104.4 million. YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: IDA—$7 million. The first construction stage of a long-term water-supply master plan seeks to increase the critically short supply of potable water and meet the peak demand up to 1995 in Seiyun, the country's third largest town, and in thirty-nine surrounding villages in the eastern part ofWadi Hadramawt. Water-supply studies (including one for Aden) will also be carried out, and management assistance and staff training provided. Cofinancing ($6.8 million) is anticipated from the AFESD. Total cost: $ 16.05 million.